 Mears Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2015
Mears Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
 H e l p in g cli e n ts
in new ways address the major challenges 
in housing, health and social care.
We are uniquely placed to
Mears is the leading social housing repairs and maintenance provider 
in the UK and a major presence in the homecare and support market.
Strategic report
01 Our year in brief
02 Our business
08 Chairman’s statement
10 Chief Executive’s statement
12 Business model
14 Our markets
16 Our strategic priorities
18 How have we performed?
22 Review of operations
32 Financial review
36 Viability statement
38  Risk management and 
principal risks
44 Sustainability
Corporate governance
48  I n t r o d uc ti on t o 
corporate governance
49 Your Board
50 Corporate governance report
56  Report of the Nomination Committee
58 Report of the Audit Committee
63  Report of the Remuneration 
Committee
64 Remuneration report
77 Report of the Directors
79  Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
80 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
Financial statements – Group 
86 Principal accounting policies 
98 Consolidated income statement
99  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
100 Consolidated balance sheet
101 Consolidated cash flow statement
102  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
103 Notes to the financial statements 
Financial statements – Company
138 Principal accounting policies 
141 Parent Company balance sheet
142  Parent Company cash flow statement
143  Parent Company statement of 
changes in equity
144 Notes to the financial statements 
Shareholder information
152 Five-year record (unaudited)
153  Shareholder and 
corporate information
mearsgroup.co.uk
@mearsgroup
Mears Group PLC Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 01
Our year in brief
Operational highlights
 > Our focus is on two growth markets and will remain that way. There 
are significant opportunities for the Group in both these sectors.
 > Service quality remains our key differentiator in both our core markets.
 > We have made excellent progress in extending our housing 
activities from our traditional blue collar social housing 
maintenance to a broader housing management offering.
 > The Housing Management business has performed particularly 
strongly in 2015.
 > The acquisition of the Care at Home division of Care UK (CAH) 
increased the scale of Mears within the domiciliary care market, 
making Mears the second largest provider in the UK. 
 > Mears has increased its carer pay rates significantly over the last 
two years, reducing margins but giving us greater protection against 
the introduction of the National Living Wage. 
 > Visibility of 96% of consensus forecast revenue for 2016 and in 
excess of 82% visibility for 2017 which leaves us well positioned 
for the coming year and beyond.
Financial highlights
 > Housing – revenues of £735.1m (2014: £714.7m), an increase 
of 3% with excellent visibility of growth for the coming year.
 > Housing – operating margin increased to 5.8% (2014: 4.9%) driven 
by improving contract margins on the previously acquired Morrison 
business together with a changing sales mix. 
 > Care – revenues of £146.0m (2014: £124.0m), including circa £38m 
in respect of CAH. The underlying organic revenues reflect 
a 9% decline.
 > Care – operating margin reduced to a negative 1.1% (2014: positive 
7.8%) as a result of the loss-making acquired CAH business. 
 > Normalised diluted earnings per share decreased by 13% to 27 .94p 
(2014: 32.20p), as a result of the loss-making acquired CAH business. 
 > New contract awards of £1 billion (2014: £300m) representing 
our most successful period of new contract bidding.
 > The order book at £3.5 billion (2014: £3.2 billion) has improved 
in terms of quality, longevity and quantum.
 > Strong balance sheet with cash generated from continuing 
operations as a proportion of EBITDA at 99% (2014: 96%). 
Net cash reported at the year end.
 > Progressive dividend policy; dividend increased to 11.00p 
(2014: 10.00p), a 10% increase, reflecting the Board’s confidence 
in future prospects.
Group revenue
£881.1m +5%
2013 £865.6m
2014 £838.7m
2015 £881.1m
Group operating profit*
£38.7m -11%
2013 £41.1m
2014 £43.3m
2015 £38.7m
Dividend per share
11.00p +10%
2013 8.80p
2014 10.00p
2015 11.00p
Normalised diluted earnings per share**
27.94p -13%
2013 28.06p
2014 32.20p
2015 27.94p
Read more about our social housing 
markets on page 14
*  Operating profit before exceptional costs 
and amortisation of acquisition intangibles 
(see note 1 to financial statements).
** See note 9 to financial statements. Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 02
Our business
We focus on long-term outcomes and positive 
social, economic and environmental impact.
In order for customers to 
recommend us, we must deliver 
excellent service. We randomly 
conduct around 80,000 Housing 
customer surveys each year.
We are delighted with our bidding 
success in 2015, with £1 billion 
of new orders secured. This is a 
record for Mears. This success 
has resulted in a high level of 
revenue visibility for 2016.
Differentiated service delivery Strategic relationships 
Customer 
excellence rating 
91%
(2014: 91%) 
New contract wins
£1bn
(2014: £300m)
Housing
We repair and maintain over 700,000 of the 5 million Social Homes in the UK.
Our clients are increasingly looking 
for partners who can operate 
strategically as well as operationally 
across a range of housing services. 
Mears has extended its core reactive 
and planned maintenance offering to 
include housing management which 
supports clients by delivering more 
integrated solutions, aligned to their 
strategic challenges.
Read more about our social housing 
markets on page 14
Read more online at 
mearsgroup.co.uk/social-housing
 > Local Authorities
 > Registered Social Landlords
 >
Private landlords
 > Tenants and service users
 > Community groups
Our customers
Revenue
£735m
Employee numbers
c.6,000
Office locations
178 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 03
Read about our strategic 
priorities on page 16
Read about our business 
model on page 12
The main limitation to growth in 
Care remains the sourcing of 
sufficient care workers of good 
quality. There is no shortage of 
care work. We are increasing our 
focus on improving the reward 
and recognition of our carers.
Our revenue visibility measures 
what proportion of revenue is 
secured for the following year. 
We target to have around 95% 
of the following year revenue 
secured at the start of a year.
Carer retention and recruitment churn Future prospects 
Care staff turnover
58% 
(2014: 54%) 
Consensus forecast 
revenue secured for 
2016 at the start 
of the year
94% 
(this has since increased to 96%) 
Care
We provide personal care to over 30,000 elderly and disabled people.
We have a comprehensive range of 
domiciliary care and complex care 
services enhanced by the ability to 
deliver a range of housing adaptations 
and assistive technology such as 
telecare. We deliver broad solutions to 
the independent living challenges 
faced by so many elderly people, as 
well as younger people with physical 
or mental disabilities.
Read more about our care 
markets on page 15
Read more online at 
mearsgroup.co.uk/care
 > Local Authorities
 > NHS
 > Charities
 > Community groups
 > Elderly people 
 > People with learning 
and physical disabilities
Our customers
Revenue
£146m
Employee numbers
c.12,000
Office locations
130 Housing
Our broader service offering, 
incorporating our new homes capability, 
alongside housing management and 
maintenance, supports our involvement 
in new partnering models as they 
emerge alongside traditional 
outsourcing contracts. Housing
Our breadth of services:
 > Repairs
 > Estate management
 > Planned and cyclical 
maintenance
 > Fuel poverty initiatives
 > Grounds maintenance
 > Capital projects
In focus
Milton Keynes regeneration page 25
Apprentice success page 26
The Housing division 
made excellent progress 
in 2015
We have broadened the services 
we offer across the sphere of social 
housing. In particular, our acquisition 
of Omega in 2014 has unlocked a large 
number of new housing management 
opportunities. We will look to make 
further acquisitions to reinforce 
our market-leading position.
Revenue
£735.1m +3%
Operating profit
£42.4m +22%
Operating margin*
5.8% +18%
2013 £742.5m
2014 £714.7m
2015 £735.1m
2013 £33.5m
2014 £34.4m
2015 £42.4m
2013 4.5%
2014 4.8%
2015 5.8%
* See note 1 to financial statements. Care
We are continuing to see the emergence 
of new commissioning models that are 
long-term partnering orientated, focused 
on improving quality and cost over time 
and combining services into an integrated 
approach to achieve better outcomes for 
users at less overall cost to the public purse. Care
Our breadth of services:
 > Independent living  
service
 > Aids and adaptations
 > Complex care
 > Assistive technology 
(telecare)
 > Live-in care
 > Extra care
In focus
Torbay Living Well@Home page 30
Lambeth page 29
The Care division made 
excellent progress in 2015
Whilst there has been no shortage 
of demand for care work, our barrier 
has been recruiting sufficient numbers 
of good quality carers. However, we 
believe the current funding pressure 
will be the catalyst for change as will 
the introduction of the National 
Living Wage.
Revenue
£146.0m +18%
Operating loss
£(1.6)m
Operating margin*
(1.1)%
2013 £123.1m
2014 £124.0m
2015 £146.0m
2013 £9.6m
2014 £9.6m
2015 £(1.6)m
2015 (1.1)%
2013 7.8%
2014 7.8%
* See note 1 to financial statements. Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 08
Chairman’s statement
Summary
 > Housing opportunities remain strong, as 
our clients seek broader solutions to their 
increasingly complex housing challenges; 
consequently, we will continue to invest in 
the depth and breadth of our differentiated 
offering in our Housing division. 
 > Short-term challenges in Care should 
not disguise the medium-term opportunity, 
driven by an undeniable trend in demographics 
and the economic logic of caring for the vulnerable 
in their homes rather than in residential 
environments; consequently, we will continue 
to work with stakeholders for more sensible 
and sustainable solutions. 
 > The increase in dividend ahead of earnings 
reflects the Board’s confidence in our two 
growth markets and our differentiated approach. 
I am delighted to report a year of excellent progress, particularly 
in broadening our Housing service offering. The recent changes 
to social housing finance, combined with the increasing disparity 
between the supply and demand of housing, has constrained the 
number of new bidding opportunities over the previous two years. 
We used this hiatus wisely to strengthen our competitive positioning 
and our recent success at Milton Keynes is an early reward. 
Importantly, I do not believe that any competitor can offer such 
a broad-based, one-stop, solution in affordable housing. 
Our market-leading Housing maintenance business continues 
to perform well. Since Mears extended its services to housing 
management, accelerated by the acquisition of Omega in 2014, 
the Group has successfully grown the business from around 2,000 
homes under management to a figure fast approaching 10,000. 
We are working with Local Authorities, Housing Associations and 
institutional investors who are seeking to provide good quality 
homes. This is an exciting opportunity given the urgency for our 
clients to find solutions to address the homelessness issue and 
the pipeline remains buoyant. We are delighted to have been 
awarded a long-term joint venture partnership with Milton Keynes 
Council. This joint venture partnership represents one of the single 
largest contracts ever awarded to Mears. 
The acquisition of the Care at Home division of Care UK (CAH) 
in May 2015 significantly increased the scale of Mears within 
the domiciliary care market and strengthened our position with 
several strategically important clients, who are more likely to 
adopt outcome-based contracts on retender. As the second largest 
provider in the market with a differentiated approach, we are 
well placed to benefit from both the emergence of new style 
partnerships in domiciliary care and the wider integration 
of local health and social care.
I am pleased to report a solid financial performance for the year 
to 31 December 2015. Group revenue amounted to £881.1m 
(2014: £838.7m), as a result of the full year impact of Omega, 
acquired in October 2014, and the acquisition of CAH, acquired in 
May 2015. Whilst our Housing division delivered only a small amount 
of organic growth, we have enjoyed our most successful period 
of new contract bidding, securing circa £1 billion of new work. 
The order book has increased to £3.5 billion (2014: £3.3 billion) 
providing 96% visibility of consensus forecast revenue for 2016 and 
in excess of 83% visibility for 2017 (2014: 92% and 82% respectively). 
Our Care division has endured a challenging market, reporting 
a like-for-like revenue reduction in the year. This is discussed 
in greater detail in the Operations Review.
Following the acquisition of the loss-making CAH, Group operating 
margins decreased to 4.6% (2014: 5.3%) with operating profit before 
acquired intangible amortisation decreasing by 10% to £38.7m 
(2014: £43.0m). We continue to drive margin improvements within 
our Housing division, which accounts for 83% of Group revenues, 
with margins increasing to 5.8% (2014: 4.8%). To see our Housing 
margins return to pre-Morrison acquisition levels, a year ahead 
of our original expectations, is a tremendous achievement. 
Bob Holt
Chairman Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 09
“ We have made excellent 
progress in strengthening our 
relative competitive position 
in our two growth markets.”
Our headline normalised diluted earnings per share decreased 
by 13% to 27 .94p (2014: 32.20p), due to the initial trading losses 
and integration costs associated with the acquisition of CAH which 
were anticipated at the time. The impact of the residual losses 
from the Group’s Mechanical and Electrical (M&E) business, which 
was subject to a disposal in 2013, are included within discontinued 
activities. We have continued to deliver solid cash flows with cash 
generated from continuing operations as a proportion of EBITDA at 
99% (2014: 96%) with net cash reported at the year end demonstrating 
our continued strong cash management. Average daily net debt 
for the year increased to £68.0m (2014: £59.0m), which reflects 
the outflow of cash to fund acquisitions.
Dividend
The Board remains confident in the future opportunities in our 
growth markets and consequently it expects to continue following 
a progressive dividend policy. The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 7 .90p per share which, when combined with the interim 
dividend, gives a total dividend for the year of 1 1.00p (2014: 10.00p), 
a 10% increase, reflecting the Board’s confidence in the underlying 
performance of the Group. The dividend is payable, subject to 
shareholder approval at the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
on 1 June 2016, on 7 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 
17 June 2016. The Board regularly reviews the Group’s distribution 
policy to maximise returns to shareholders whilst maintaining 
a prudent capital structure and the ability to invest for growth. 
Corporate governance and risk management
The Board continues to set itself high standards of corporate 
governance. Our Corporate Governance Report issued within our 
Annual Report will detail how we approach governance and the 
areas of focus for the Board in 2016 and into the future. 
We have reviewed and updated the Group’s risk register. The senior 
management teams play a central role in reviewing and challenging 
the Group’s risks. The Group risk team presented risk management 
training modules to all levels of management via the Group 
development programme, to further increase our strong risk 
management ethos. 
Over recent months, I was delighted to welcome two new 
Non-Executives to the Board. In October 2015, the Group appointed 
Geraint Davies who has a substantial breadth of commercial 
experience and has already made a significant contribution since 
his arrival. Geraint has also been appointed Audit Committee 
Chairman. In January 2016 we appointed Julia Unwin, who has 
significant experience within the housing sector and further 
improves the balance of the Board. 
Board evaluation and effectiveness
Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual 
Directors takes place on an annual basis. The Directors were asked 
for their views on a broad range of areas including Group strategy, 
independence, experience, effectiveness and the interaction 
between Board members. I am pleased with the structure of the 
Board and that it is working in an effective and efficient manner.
European referendum
I note with interest the impending European referendum. While 
uncertainty is never positive for business, Mears does not envisage 
any significant negative impact from an EU exit, especially given 
that any exit is likely to take place over a number of years. Notably, 
Mears has a very low level of reliance upon Eastern European 
migrant workers. What is perhaps more relevant in the short term 
is that the domestic policy agenda is likely to take a back seat 
and legislative plans may slow down.
Our people
I commend our employees for their commitment and energy 
throughout another significant year for the Group. I continue 
to be impressed by their quality, professionalism and loyalty.
Mears has a diverse workforce of over 18,000 staff including 
400 apprentices; the vast majority of our employees live in the 
areas in which they work. Diversity and respect for all is core to our 
induction, recruitment and customer care programmes.
We continue to invest in the future generation. During the year , Mears 
opened its new National T raining Academy in Rotherham which will 
oversee the delivery of the Group’s Learning and Development 
programme. The capability of Mears’ existing in-house training 
function has been further enhanced through developing external 
partnerships with training providers. The Group is committed to 
providing the best technical training for our people, as well as creating 
training and career development opportunities, particularly for young 
people and the unemployed, in the communities in which we serve.
Our corporate strategy includes the establishment of an internal 
talent scheme which recognises the potential of our existing 
workforce and maximises the likelihood of retaining our most 
talented people. We have broadened this management development 
programme to cover senior leadership, branch manager and 
supervisory levels. These bespoke programmes call on internal 
experts and external specialists in order to create an effective 
scheme, combining the best of Mears with the latest in leadership 
thinking and wider-industry best practice. We focus on enhancing 
and strengthening skills in order to improve performance, as well 
as stretching those delegates who have the potential to take on 
more senior roles in the future.
I look forward to reporting news of our further success during 
the coming year.
R Holt
Chairman
bob.holt@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016 Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 10
Chief Executive’s statement
Summary
 > Our strategy remains unchanged; we will 
continue to focus on two growth markets, 
where our differentiated service delivery 
quality will prevail.
 > Over the short to medium term, we expect our 
increasingly broad-based housing business to 
make a disproportionate contribution to our 
growth ambitions.
 > Despite short-term challenges in the care 
market, we remain confident that our Care 
business is well positioned and will prosper 
over the medium term.
Positive progress
I am delighted with the progress made by the Group, particularly 
within our Housing division, where we have successfully extended 
our services from our traditional maintenance base to a broader 
affordable housing offering. The Housing Management businesses 
acquired in 2014 will have increased four-fold by the end of 2016, 
which is a remarkable achievement.
Our strategy to broaden our service offering in Housing has 
created a significant and sustainable competitive advantage for 
Mears. A highlight in 2015 was our success in being selected by 
Milton Keynes Council to form a long-term joint venture partnership. 
The joint venture will provide total asset management to the Council’s 
social housing portfolio and deliver regeneration opportunities 
across its priority estates. This joint venture represents one of the 
largest single contracts ever awarded to Mears. Our ability to provide 
a one-stop, affordable housing solution was fundamental to our 
success in securing this important opportunity.
Our Care division has experienced a challenging market environment 
this year. The sector has been under severe funding pressure. 
Whilst there has been no shortage of demand for care work, a 
significant barrier to growth has been the sourcing of sufficient 
good quality care workers. We have focused on those strategically 
important clients, which we believe have potential to develop into 
partnerships where we are able to deliver a high quality service 
at sustainable margins. Our acquisition of the loss-making Care 
at Home business of Care UK (CAH) has now been integrated 
and will begin to deliver value. 
Positive outlook
We operate in robust and defensive markets where spend is 
largely non-discretionary. We continue to place great emphasis on 
winning high quality contracts that provide clear and sustainable 
margins with good cash flow dynamics. Our dedication to providing 
our clients with first class service and value remains undiminished. 
We expect our Housing business to continue to grow through 
further contract wins. Whilst we are the market leader, we deliver 
services to only 15% of the UK’s social housing market, which 
provides us with significant headroom for growth. Furthermore, 
our housing management capabilities offer material growth 
opportunities, as the demand for affordable housing requires 
that housing providers work harder and smarter to increase the 
supply of suitable housing through innovation and partnership. 
We believe the Housing division is well positioned to deliver strong 
organic growth. Where appropriate, we will make acquisitions 
to develop the breadth and depth of our services. 
Continued funding issues in the care market will create a catalyst 
for change, as will the consequences of implementing the National 
Living Wage. Whilst I do not see a strong prospect of immediate 
fundamental change, I am clear in my view that, increasingly, 
commissioners will look to re-balance their contract estate, focusing 
on working with fewer better-run service delivery partners. 
Moreover, further opportunities will result from localised health 
related outsourcing. Our market-leading approach to service 
quality and innovation puts us in a strong position, and, as 
the care market evolves, we will benefit disproportionately.
D J Miles
Chief Executive Officer
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016
David Miles
Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 11
How have you performed against 
your strategic priorities?
We have had a solid performance against all of our strategic priorities 
and are better placed than ever to meet growing client opportunities. 
Our key differentiator continues to be that we offer high quality 
services and are able to work in partnership across a wide variety 
of services. Our skilled workforce, advanced staff development 
and training mean that we not only attract and retain our people 
but that we also offer leadership and guidance to our partners. 
We are particularly pleased that 2016 was a record year for contract 
wins, with key strategic successes in Milton Keynes for Housing 
and the mobilisation of our Torbay contract in Care.
How has Mears evolved over the last year?
We never stand still and the business has grown organically due 
to our reputation for service excellence. We now have around 
18,000 people working across the Group and I firmly believe that 
every single one of them helps to make a real and tangible difference 
to the lives of the people we serve. While we have expanded, we retain 
a local approach to our services and ensure that we are using local 
people in local communities who are answerable to locally based 
managers. Our customers always come first and our approach to a 
consistent set of values means that Mears has become a watchword 
for quality and getting the job done. The increased use of technology 
along with acquisitions of other businesses have helped us 
become the class leader in housing and social care.
The development of our Housing Management business into one 
of the largest in the UK has been a particular success.
What do you see as the Group opportunities for 2016?
Our work and expertise in housing management are opening up 
many opportunities for us in the next twelve months. We are now 
able to offer clients a complete asset management service and we 
believe our new Milton Keynes model will create other opportunities 
for us. Our extensive experience in the repairs and maintenance 
sector gives us a unique perspective from which to ensure that 
where we build homes, they are high quality, low maintenance 
homes fit for a low carbon, low energy future. We see increasing 
opportunities for solutions that address homelessness, as the 
shortage of suitable social housing will continue for the 
foreseeable future.
From a Care perspective we have a real chance to influence 
outcome-based care commissioning. We take a responsible and 
ethical approach to paying our carers and have the opportunity 
to influence clients in this area, many of whom are being tempted 
into unworkable contracts with unrealistic, and in some cases 
legally questionable, tenders. Mears now has the ability to 
influence national thinking in these areas.
“ In the medium term, we 
continue to see significant 
opportunity in the care sector 
and we remain confident that 
we have the right strategy.”
Read about our strategic 
priorities on page 16
What do you see as the Group’s key challenges 
and risks in 2016?
We are fully supportive of the new National Living Wage legislation, 
which we believe is really important in attracting a workforce 
capable of delivering to growing demands of the care market. In the 
short term, we do see the risk that a number of Local Authorities 
will not be prepared to adequately reflect this cost pressure in 
the rates they are prepared to pay providers. Given our focus 
on quality, we will only bid for opportunities where we can pay 
our workforce at a level that will not only meet legal minimum 
requirements but will ensure we have the workforce to deliver 
the high quality service that is at the heart of our strategy.
Our second key challenge will be to meet the growing demands for 
our housing management services and to ensure that we enhance 
our operational structure to meet this significant opportunity. The 
Mears leadership structure is now stronger than ever and we are 
confident that we will not only secure new work but also mobilise 
and deliver it to our usual standards.
How do you believe Mears has delivered against 
its Sustainability Strategy?
Our Sustainability Strategy has five guiding principles: 
long-term customer relationships, excellent employee experience, 
awareness of the environment, responsible leaders and diversity 
in our business. Our customer service indicators remain consistently 
above target and our contract retention is excellent. Over 7 ,000 staff 
responded to our employee survey, with very positive comments about 
what it is to be a Mears employee. Our investment in development 
and training for staff has never been greater and can be seen in 
the increasing quality of our management. Our carbon footprint is 
becoming smaller as we increase our use of technology but more 
can be always be done. Likewise, we continue to send less waste 
to landfill year on year as we become smarter about using materials. 
We have some excellent strategies in place around diversity and 
notable work has taken place around the issue of encouraging and 
supporting more women into trade roles such as plumbers and 
carpenters. However, there is a lot more to do here. Most important 
of all, our health and safety record remains a source of pride for 
Mears, as measured by the low levels of accidents experienced 
versus the average in our sector. 
Q&A
David J Miles
Chief Executive Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 12
Business model
Key resources and relationships What we do
Outstanding partnerships
We work with Local Authority Housing 
Association and Care Commissioner 
clients. Our end service users are the 
recipients of housing services and 
care in the home.
Exceptional people
We recognise our staff as our greatest 
asset. Mears employees are skilled in 
delivering an excellent service whilst 
showing a strong customer service ethos 
and an empathy for our service users.
Market-leading technology
Our performance is built on a bedrock 
of first class, in-house IT platforms 
giving market-leading capability and 
driving innovation.
Supply chain partners 
We choose suppliers who share our values 
and meet our standards. We work closely 
with suppliers to develop innovative 
services and integrate them with our 
core systems.
Financial stability
We receive funding through 
shareholder capital, retained profits, 
debt and cash generation to run our 
business and fund its activities.
Mears’ revenue is generated from payments from 
its Local Authority, Housing Association and NHS 
Trust clients in respect of its Housing Maintenance, 
Housing Management and Care services. Whilst the 
end service users are at the centre of our business 
model, they do not pay for the service directly.
How we measure ourselves
We measure ourselves with a suite of KPIs focused 
upon financial and non-financial measures. Our KPIs 
are focused across multiple stakeholders.
Link to strategy
Our strategic goals sit at the heart of our business 
model and dictate how we respond to changes 
taking place in the markets we serve.
How we reward for our value creation
Our remuneration policy creates an alignment between 
the creation of value and the remuneration of our 
Executive Directors and employees.
Read about our revenue breakdown in more 
detail in the Review of operations on page 23
pages 
18 to 21
pages 
63 to 76
pages 
12 to 13
How we generate revenue How we are becoming a market leader
Care
Housing
1
Develop our people
Deepen our partnerships
Maintain our leadership
2
3
Valuing our 
customers Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 13
Why our clients and service users choose us How we create value
Service delivery 
Our service delivery is our key differentiator. We invest heavily 
in training our people and we are committed to providing them 
with the skills and equipment to deliver great service. We measure 
our performance to drive further improvements.
Innovation
The challenge of delivering service improvements at lower cost requires 
innovative thinking. We create, discuss, lead and roll out best practice 
in our markets.
Responsibility, transparency and accountability 
Operating our business safely, responsibly and in compliance with 
regulations is paramount. We have a number of open book arrangements 
and our clients rightly require a high level of financial visibility.
Sustainability
We work in some of the most socially deprived areas and we have 
a strong sense of responsibility towards finding ways to improve the 
long-term prospects of the people who live in these communities.
Shareholders
We generated a normalised EPS of 
27 .94p per share and the proposed 
dividend for the year increased 
by 10% to 1 1.0p per share.
Employees
We employ 18,000 people, 
resulting in a total payroll cost 
of £320m.
Customers
We have completed over 2 million 
repairs and delivered almost 
20 million Care visits.
Government
In 2015, we paid £5.9m in 
corporation tax, circa £55m 
in payroll taxes and circa £45m 
in indirect taxes.
Corporate governance
We are committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance, ensuring the safeguard 
of stakeholders’ interests and the long-term 
success and sustainability of our business.
Values
Our organisational values shape the way 
we do business with all stakeholders.
Risk management
Effective risk management is central to the 
continuing success of Mears. The Board of 
Directors has ultimate responsibility for ensuring 
that risk is effectively managed across the Group.
pages 
50 to 55
pages 
38 to 41
page 16
Read about our people and 
sustainability on pages 44 to 47
Mears is committed to training. We employ 
over 400 apprentices and provide a number 
of alternative training solutions for upskilling 
employees and the professional development 
of Mears’ managers. We are proud to have been 
appointed as one of only twelve Government 
Social Mobility Champions working in some of 
the most marginalised communities in the UK.
How we develop our people How we manage ourselves Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 14
Our markets
The housing market continues to develop strongly with demographic, 
supply-side and economic change drivers for growth.
Demographic and supply-side factors
 > There are in excess of 1.5 million households on housing lists and 
last year 100,000 households were found homeless across the UK.
 > Owner occupation has dropped from 69.3% to 63.3% over 
the past ten years.
 > A growing population – projected to increase at a rate 
of 450,000 per annum over the next decade.
 > The demand for housing continues to exceed supply. 
 > Private rents have risen by 2.5% (4.1% in London) in the past 
twelve months.
 > House prices across the UK have risen by 6.7% over the 
same period.
 > The Government affirms that England needs to build in excess 
of 240,000 new homes a year.
Economic
 > The financial strength of Housing Associations provides for 
a secure sector, which is well placed to cope with the policy 
and welfare reform requirements of Government. 
 > The changes to welfare arrangements, although in train to some 
degree, are still only partially implemented. 
 > Maintaining and enhancing property asset values is central 
to all providers’ business plans and supports the need for 
continuing maintenance and improvement programmes. 
 > Securing value for money is a strong business driver.
Our future growth
The pipeline of repairs, maintenance, improvement and 
refurbishment opportunities will continue to remain strong given 
the financial strength of almost all Social Landlords. Our broad 
service offering presents additional opportunities for our clients, 
from both the public and private sectors, to work with Mears in 
new and imaginative ways to respond to the housing demands 
that they are faced with.
Housing management is a £4.3 billion service marketplace that 
is almost entirely insourced. Through the acquisitions of Plexus 
and Omega and the continued development of our Mears 24/7 
call centre we have made real progress in this market.
Addressing homelessness
Keeping families together and in suitable accommodation costs 
the public finances £1.0 billion. This includes the cost of bed 
and breakfast of hostel accommodation. Our solutions for 
Local Authorities include:
 > bringing unoccupied Council homes back into short-term 
or long-term use without public investment;
 > taking on the management of privately rented accommodation 
and making it available to Local Authority nominees; and
 > providing “pop up” accommodation for fixed-term use as 
emergency self-contained and modern accommodation. 
The affordable housing market
Market size
>£20 billion
5 million 
social units
Funding sources
Change drivers
Read more in our review of operations 
on pages 22 to 27 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 15
Continued funding issues in Care will create a catalyst for change.  
We continue to see the trend towards joint commissioning of NHS and  
Local Authority services; financial pressures are accelerating this process.
Demographic and supply-side factors
 > The number of people over pensionable age is expected to grow 
by over 4m by 2037 .
 > Over the same period the number of people:
 > aged 80 and above is projected to more than double; and
 > aged 90 and above is projected to more than triple.
 > This increase in the number of older people means that 
by mid-2037 one in twelve of the population is projected 
to be aged 80 and over.
 > The NHS and Local Authorities will spend £5.3 billion for service 
integration in 2015/16.
 > Shift in commissioning practices to secure outcomes for 
users, which supports providers who can drive long-term 
quality improvements.
Economic
 > The drive to reduce pressures on public spending demands 
Local Authorities to work with the NHS to integrate care 
related services.
 > Flexibility for Local Authorities to introduce a supplementary 
Council tax to specifically spend on social care.
 > Greater involvement and funding from the NHS, with plans 
for far greater joint working.
Our future growth
We are continuing to see the emergence of new commissioning 
models that are long-term partnering orientated, focused on 
improving quality and cost over time and combining services, 
including health, care and even housing, into an integrated 
approach while seeking to achieve better outcomes for users 
at less overall cost to the public purse.
In many ways these are reflective of the way many of our Social 
Housing contracts are commissioned in that they are bringing a 
more strategic approach which at the same time puts the service 
user as the focal point. In Care this is facilitating the delivery 
of outcome-focused care. 
As we anticipated the Government is seeking the implementation 
of a policy supporting more thoughtful, joined-up health, care 
and housing services.
Community-based care
Funding sources
Change drivers
Additional funding from Better Care Fund 
circa £5.3 billion
Market size
£9.1 billion
*  Excludes private individuals, who purchase their care direct without recourse 
to public funds, an annual spend of a further £1 billion.
326 million hours
*
 
of public sector funded care delivered each year
Source: UKHCA Report June 2015.
Read more in our review of operations 
on pages 28 to 31 Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 16
Our strategic priorities
Deepen our client 
partnerships in both  
core markets
We believe there remains significant opportunity to continue to 
deliver strong growth in both our core markets of Social Housing 
and Care in the Home. As our clients’ needs have changed, they 
have increasingly encouraged and supported us to develop a 
broader service offering around these two areas.
We have fundamentally developed the depth of our client 
partnerships, through the expansion of our housing management 
services, and winning more care work that has been commissioned 
in a partnering style and is more akin to how we deliver our Social 
Housing contracts.
1
Performance in 2015
 > Significant growth delivered in Housing Management; Mears is 
now market leader in provision of temporary accommodation and 
homelessness prevention schemes
 > Record year for contract wins 
 > Awarded the first single provider partnering contract for Care in Torbay. 
Further progress in driving change in the way care is commissioned 
 > High number of community projects completed by our staff and with our 
supply partners
 > Mears is leading the way in changing the way care is commissioned to ensure 
front line staff are properly rewarded for their hard work, keeping us ahead 
of the curve on the introduction of the National Living Wage in 2016
 > We undertook hundreds of local community projects, with our staff 
and our supply partners often volunteering their time and resources 
for the benefit of local communities
Focus for 2016
 > Successful mobilisation of our Milton Keynes partnership creating 
improved housing and opportunities for the community
 > Successful mobilisation of the Key Worker Housing contract
 > Maximise growing opportunities for our Housing Management business
 > Focus on those Local Authorities adopting partnership-based 
and outcome-based commissioning in Care
 > Raise client awareness of Mears’ wide range of services across 
Housing and Care
KPIs
 > Social Housing new 
contract success
 > Order book growth 
 > Secured revenue
 > Revenue growth
Risks
 > Health and safety
 > Business continuity
 > People
 > Repetition
Our strategy is to be the market 
leader in transforming social 
housing and care environments.
Mears’ vision is to make a positive difference 
to the communities we serve. We do this by 
improving homes, improving communities 
and improving lives. Our approach is based 
on the development of outstanding partnerships 
with employees, clients, tenants, customers, 
their families and the wider community.
We value our customers and communities, 
putting the needs of our customers 
at the heart of everything we do.
We value personal responsibility, setting 
and achieving consistently high standards 
in our work and conduct, and not adopting 
a negative attitude.
We value teamwork, 
supporting each other, sharing ideas 
and never excluding others.
We value innovation, 
being inventive in our approach and 
not allowing conventional thinking 
or bureaucracy to get in the way.
Read more about our key performance 
indicators on pages 18 to 21
Read about our risk management and 
principal risks on pages 38 to 41
Our vision
Our values Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 17
Maintaining 
quality leadership
Developing our people
2 3
Performance in 2015
 > The professionalisation of our customer service, utilising our 
value-based philosophy, has improved the way we serve our 
customers and drive service improvement
 > Re-accreditation with the Customer Service Excellence (CSE) standard 
 > Contractor accreditation for the fourth time in a row for TPAS 
(the Tenant Participation Advisory Service) 
 > Increased commitment by Mears to deliver social value to clients
 > We have maintained very high levels of Care Quality Commission (CQC)
regulatory compliance
Performance in 2015
 > Establishment of Mears Learning in July 2015 as the Group Learning 
and Development vehicle
 > A total of 400 apprentices now employed across the whole Group
 > Development of the new Pre-Employment Assessment Workshop 
and merger of the Care UK and Mears Care training structures 
to ensure a robust future
 > Successful development and delivery of management workshops 
for the Level 5 Leadership and Management qualification
 > As one of only twelve Government Social Mobility Champions we have 
worked alongside our partners in both the social housing and social 
care sectors with some of the most marginalised communities in the UK
Focus for 2016
 > The development of the new Mears National Training Academy in Rotherham
 > The expansion of our apprenticeship programme on housing and care
 > The introduction of the National Living Wage 
 > Investment in people within our growing Housing Management business
KPIs
 > Carer retention and recruitment
 > Number of apprenticeships and job experience opportunities
 > Output from employee surveys
Risks
 > Health and safety
 > People
Focus for 2016
 > Increase use of technology to improve the way that services 
are delivered for our customers
 > Focus on care quality through better care worker recruitment 
and retention
 > Technological advances, particularly around mobile solutions, 
will continue to improve the way we deliver our services 
 > The building of the Mears National Training Academy in Rotherham 
will create a first class facility for our tradespeople and the leaders 
of the future
 > Continue to drive social value, addressing community issues around 
social mobility, social isolation and fuel poverty
KPIs
 > “Excellent” service rating
 > Customer complaints
 > Job completion
Risks
 > Health and safety
 > Business continuity
 > People
 > Reputation
The success of Mears is intrinsically linked to maintaining 
quality leadership in both our markets. For us, quality is a 
factor not only of direct customer satisfaction but also of 
the broader contribution we make to the markets we serve. 
Service quality remains our key differentiator and yields our 
competitive advantage. All our services are designed around 
the direct input of tenants and service users.
For us this essentially means three things. First, to have the 
right structure and leadership team to achieve our ambitions. 
Second, to deliver on our responsibilities to recruit and develop 
local people from the communities in which we work. Third, 
to continue to invest in care worker pay, ensuring we set our 
pay levels above minimum wage – this is vital to having the 
high quality and sustainable workforce that is needed to 
cope with the rapidly increasing demand for services. Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 18
How have we performed?
Great service delivery
“Excellent” service rating (Housing)
Definition Results from the year
In order for customers to 
recommend us, we must deliver 
excellent service. We randomly 
conduct around 80,000 
customer surveys per year.
We are delighted that our service delivery has remained at the 
high levels reached in 2014. Strong performance will ensure 
competitiveness as we continue to be ranked above our peers.
91%
How we performed
2015 target
<0.30%
2016 target
<0.30%
On track
How we performed
2015 target
>90%
2016 target
>91%
Out performance
How we performed
2015 target
>92%
2016 target
>92%
On track
2013 82%
2012 80%
2014 91%
2015 91%
Customer complaints (Housing)
Definition Results from the year
Incidents resulting from poor 
service result in a complaint. 
We are committed to dealing 
with all complaints on an 
individual basis.
We are committed to providing our colleagues with the skills and 
equipment to deliver great service. We seek to identify trends in 
order to improve our overall service quality.
0.30%
2013 0.31%
2012 0.29%
2014 0.30%
2015 0.30%
Job completion (Housing)
Definition Results from the year
Each of our contracts has 
specific targets around job 
completion time based on 
the nature of the work and all 
work is monitored. Emergency 
jobs are typically undertaken 
same day while routine work 
is scheduled.
Delivering on our promises is at the heart of Mears, which includes 
timeliness of job completion. We are pleased we have met our 
target for 2015 and seek opportunity to improve performance 
in order to improve competitiveness.
92%
2013 92%
2012 92%
2014 91%
2015 92%
Our KPIs are our most important measures to monitor our business to ensure 
that we are on target to deliver our strategic priorities. Service delivery remains 
our key differentiator. Our strong contract bidding and financial performance 
is a direct output for delivering great service. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 19
Strong contract bidding
New contract success (Housing)
Definition Results from the year
Contract success is measured 
by results of tender by contract 
value. We typically tender 
£1-2 billion of new opportunities 
each year. The average contract 
length is around six years in length. 
In order to achieve our organic 
growth forecasts, we monitor 
the proportion of new contracts 
secured as a proportion of total 
tendered works.
The strategy established two years ago was to provide a broader 
service offering which includes housing management. We are 
delighted with our bidding success in 2015, with over £900m of 
new orders secured. The contract opportunities in 2015, notably 
our Milton Keynes and Key Worker Housing awards, mirrored our 
broader service offering, being more complex contracts with 
bundled services. The two awards alone are valued at circa £500m 
and skew our bid conversion measure. Our target for 2016 of 33% 
success remains our long-term target.
49%
How we performed
2015 target
+10%
2016 target
+6%
Under performance
How we performed
2015 target
>33%
2016 target
>33%
Out performance
How we performed
2015 target
95%
2016 target
95%
Under performance
2013 32%
2012 32%
2014 35%
2015 49%
Order book growth (Group)
Definition Results from the year
Contracts with our clients are 
long term. Social Housing 
contracts average six years and 
Care contracts average around 
three years. We only account for 
contractually secured orders 
where delivery of the works 
is highly probable.
Following our excellent period of new contract success, our order 
book has increased by 10% to £3.5 billion. We seek to maintain 
this level of order book growth going forward.
+6%
 +31%
-13%
+6%
+2%
Secured revenue (Group)
Definition Results from the year
Secured revenue measures 
how much revenue is secured 
in respect of our revenue 
forecast for the following year. 
Government procurement 
policy means tenders takes 
around twelve months from 
advertisement to contract 
award. In addition, the 
average contract takes 
13 weeks from contract 
award to commencement.
We have fallen narrowly short at 94% visibility of 2016 revenues; 
however, this represents significant improvement on recent years. 
The time lag in securing and mobilising new works means that it is 
important that the Group secures the remaining 6% early in 2016. 
We are in a strong position to achieve forecast revenue. 
At the time of writing this annual report, our visibility has 
increased to 96%.
94%
2013 92%
2012 88%
2014 92%
2015 94%
2014
2013
2012
2015 Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 20
Financial Financial KPIs are critical to measuring and understanding our financial health
Revenue growth (Housing)
Definition Results from the year
Revenue represents the 
amounts due for services 
provided during the year. 
In order to measure organic 
growth, we deduct incremental 
revenue arising from acquisitions. 
We believe that organic growth 
gives a better indication of 
business performance, as 
it is a purer aggregation of 
market growth, success 
in new contract bidding 
and contract retention.
We are pleased with the progress made in 2015. The remaining 1% 
growth is organic. This is below the 6% target; however, the results 
of the strategic KPIs lay a good foundation for 2016. We continue 
to invest in our people and systems to provide capacity to achieve 
our target.
How we performed
2015 target
+6%
2016 target
+6%
Under performance
How we performed
2015 target
>5.2%
2016 target
>5.1%
Under performance
Operating margin (Group)
Definition Results from the year
Operating margin is the 
KPI used to measure and 
understand the profitability of 
our activities. This KPI is used to 
continuously monitor our costs 
to ensure services are being 
delivered efficiently.
The Group’s operating margin has reduced from 5.3% to 4.6%. 
The constituent parts saw an increase in Housing margin to 5.8% 
(4.8%) but a reduction in Care margin to a negative 1.1% 
(2014: positive 7 .8%). 
We are pleased with the excellent margin progression in our 
Housing division, which makes up 83% of Group revenues. Our 
margin was previously diluted following our 2012 acquisition of 
Morrison and we set a five-year target to see margins return to their 
historic level. We are delighted to have reached this target early. 
In addition, the increasing sales mix towards Housing Management 
provides opportunity to raise operating margin further. 
The margin performance in Care, however, has been significantly 
more challenging. At the time of acquisition of the Care at Home 
division of Care UK, it was anticipated that the Care at Home business 
would deliver trading losses, including costs of restructure and 
rebranding. In addition, our existing Care business has found 
trading conditions challenging; poor recruitment and retention has 
seen a leakage of revenues with the resulting negative impact to 
margin. The carer terms and conditions were increased to address 
the carer churn which brings short-term margin pressure. National 
Living Wage will provide a short-term challenge to the Care division; 
however, within the Housing division, a shift in the sales mix towards 
Housing Management provides opportunity to raise operating 
margin further.
4.6%
2013 5.0%
2012 5.4%
2014 5.3%
2015 4.6%
+1%
 +19%
 +10%
-4%
+1%
2014
2013
2012
2015
How have we performed? continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 21
 +15.0%
 
 + 1 0 . 0 %
-13%
+6.7%
2014
2013
2012
2015
Financial Financial KPIs are critical to measuring and understanding our financial health
Profit to cash conversion (Group)
Definition Results from the year
This is a working capital 
management KPI, which 
remains the cornerstone of our 
business. The key measure is 
cash inflow from operating 
activities as a proportion of 
EBITDA. Whilst we internally 
target 100%, our external 
target allows some leniency 
reflecting an increased working 
capital requirement to fund 
organic growth.
This is an excellent outcome. We have developed a cash culture 
within the Group where the importance of managing our working 
capital is well understood. Our business systems are developed 
to support this area. Whilst, in a year of low organic growth, one 
might expect cash generation to be easier, it requires constant 
focus to deliver solid cash conversion in a high volume, low 
value environment.
98%
How we performed
2015 target
>10%
2016 target
10-15%
Out performance
How we performed
2015 target
>90%
2016 target
>90%
Out performance
2013 103%
2012 108%
2014 96%
2015 98%
Normalised diluted EPS (Group)
Definition Results from the year
Normalised earnings are stated 
before exceptional costs 
and exclude the amortisation 
of acquisition intangibles 
together with an adjustment 
to reflect a full tax charge.
Our headline EPS for the year has reduced 13% to 27 .90p per 
share. At the time of acquisition of the Care at Home division 
of Care UK, it was anticipated that the Care at Home business 
would deliver trading losses, including costs of restructure and 
rebranding, with a loss of £8.0m anticipated in 2015 and a further 
£2.5m loss in 2016. 2015 losses are within trading results and 2016 
estimates have not changed. Costs of the Care at Home business 
are included within operating profit due to the nature of spend, 
for example integration costs, being classified as operating costs.
-13%
How we performed
2015 target
30%
2016 target
30%
Under performance
Carer churn (Care)
Definition Results from the year
The carer churn figure is 
calculated as the total number 
of leavers during the year as a 
proportion of the average carer 
headcount. Carer churn data 
is only available from 2014.
This is a new KPI which is a key measure in determining whether 
we are likely to meet our Care financial targets. This important metric 
replaces our organic growth measure given that we consider it is the 
retention of our well trained, good quality carers which is the main 
driver for growth. The overall carer numbers have been decreasing, 
which is as a result of the disappointing carer churn rates recorded. 
This reflects the mismatch between the challenging nature 
of the role compared to the terms and conditions.
We will continue to develop a culture where carers feel properly 
valued and recognised. We will continue to explore innovative 
strategies to improve carer retention which, when coupled with 
more sophisticated recruitment practices, will increase overall 
carer headcount.
58%
2014 54%
2015 58% Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 22
Review of operations
Social Housing Care Total
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 735.1 714.7 146.0 124.0 881.4 838.7
Operating 
profit* 42.4 34.4 (1.6) 9.6 40.8 44.0
Operating 
margin* 5.8% 4.8% (1.1%) 7.8% 4.6% 5.3%
*  Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles and long-term incentives.
David Miles
Chief Executive Officer
Summary
Housing
 > The Social Housing division made excellent 
progress in 2015. We have broadened our services 
across the sphere of affordable housing, reflecting 
increasing client demands from us. Our major 
contract win in Milton Keynes demonstrates 
this extended offering, in that it incorporates 
Housing Management, regeneration and our 
core maintenance services.
Care
 > The care sector will, in the short term, continue 
to be financially challenging, but we believe that 
our market-leading approach to service quality 
puts the Group in a strong position. We are 
focusing on those partnership opportunities 
that enable us to meet the key challenge of 
having sufficient numbers of good quality care 
workers, who can deliver a high quality service 
and deliver sustainable margins over the 
long term.
Housing
The Housing business has delivered a solid performance with 
revenues of £735.1m (2014: £714.7m). Whilst the performance at 
an aggregate level appears relatively flat, the movements within 
the individual components are important and detailed opposite.
We are delighted to report an increase in the operating margin 
to 5.8% (2014: 4.8%) driven by the improving contract margins 
generated from the Morrison business together with a changing 
sales mix towards higher margin housing management services. 
The turnaround of the Morrison business, which was heavily loss 
making when acquired in 2012, is now complete with contracts 
aligned with the rest of Mears in terms of both financials and 
service delivery. The margins in both 2015 and 2014 were also 
assisted by a reduced number of new contract mobilisations, 
which are typically loss making in the first six months.
Service quality remains our key differentiator. We are pleased 
that our Housing division continues to achieve high standards 
of service delivery. The proportion of customers rating our service 
as excellent was maintained at the record level of 91% (2014: 91%). 
Typically, competitors in the sector measure only satisfaction, 
whereas our drive has been for excellence.
Housing – business development
The Housing division has secured new contracts of £900m, 
with a new contract win rate on competitively tendered works at 
its highest reported level of 49% (by value) (2014: £170m and 35%). 
Whilst I am delighted to report such a ‘purple patch’ in new bidding 
success, the conversion rate has been skewed given our success 
in being awarded two particularly large contract opportunities 
with Milton Keynes and Key Worker Housing. We will endeavour to 
maintain this high win rate but I believe that a success rate of one 
in three (by value) is a better indication of our future bidding success 
and more aligned with our historical trend. 
Our clients are looking to consolidate and transform an array 
of housing management activities, such as planning and asset 
management, income optimisation, lettings and the operation 
of related call centre infrastructure. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 23
Maintenance
Revenue stream Commentary
Day-to-day, Housing 
Revenue Account 
(HRA) funded, 
non-discretionary 
maintenance spend 
2015 revenue £589m 
(2014: £587m)
The changes to Housing finance in 201 2 had a positive impact on the level of funding within the ring-fenced Housing 
Revenue Accounts of Registered Social Landlords (RSLs), providing additional opportunities to generate income. 
A large proportion of RSLs were reporting large surpluses. Whilst the recent announcement to reduce social rents by 
1% per annum for the next four years will have an impact on the income of RSLs, this change should be considered 
together with earlier changes that provide opportunities to increase income. Overall the changes to Housing finance 
over the last three years have been positive for RSLs. The recent change will inevitably require RSLs to review their 
business plans; however, we do not anticipate any overall negative impact to our revenues.
As previously reported, these changes to Housing finance resulted in a short-term delay in bidding opportunities 
with activity at a low level in both 2014 and the first half of 2015. This resulted in a reduced number of new 
contract mobilisations during this time. However, as predicted, opportunities began increasing in the second 
half of 2015 and we enjoyed a particularly successful period of new contract bidding. We expect the bidding 
opportunities over the long term to remain at historic levels and our organic growth aspiration is 5% per annum.
Capital works, 
predominantly 
HRA funded
2015 revenue £98m 
(2014: £113m)
Whilst our main focus remains maintenance, we look to augment this with selective capital works opportunities. 
Given there is a higher proportion of discretionary spend from within this category, this spend can be susceptible 
to budgetary pressures. Our organic growth aspiration in this area is 5% per annum. 
Housing Management
Housing and 
property 
management
2015 revenue £39m 
(2014: £8m)
Mears Housing Management Services is a logical extension of the services provided within our Housing division. 
It aims to add value to the existing client base and to enhance our service offering. These new services have been 
established to work with housing providers to improve the delivery of housing and property management 
services and to increase the supply and management of housing. 
There are currently over 64,000 households, the vast majority housing families, who are legally homeless and 
being supported by Local Authorities. It is predicted that these numbers will increase over the next few years as 
more people become homeless and the supply of suitable accommodation reduces. The shortage of safe and 
secure housing is a significant challenge faced by Mears’ clients today. We anticipate Local Authorities having 
increased responsibility to provide more social homes and remove the reliance upon those private landlords 
who provide properties which are not of a uniformly high standard. Mears provides a range of solutions for 
Local Authorities.
The Group has further extended its services in Housing Management with over 4,000 homes now under 
management across the country, the ongoing shortage of social housing being the prime driver for this growth. 
Our key offering focuses on work with Registered Providers, private landlords, investors and developers to 
create frameworks in which to provide and manage housing. Mears is not an asset holder and it focuses on 
managing assets for the benefit of owners, client public sector bodies and residents. Following the acquisition 
of Omega in 2014, our conservative growth target in this area was to double this part of the business over the 
following three years. This has already been achieved, having entered the market in 2014 with around 2,000 
homes under management and now with good visibility for 10,000 homes under management by the end 
of 2016. This area of the business is also extending its activities to cover student accommodation.
Mears’ in-sourcing 
solutions
2015 revenue £8m 
(2014: £7m)
Our in-sourcing offering was developed in anticipation of an increase in the level of outsourced work being 
taken back in house by Housing Associations following the VAT rate being increased to 20% and given the 
restriction they suffer upon the recovery of input VAT. Whilst the sector has seen a number of such transfers, 
they have typically been contracts of a smaller size. We see any further increase in the number of in sourced 
solutions as an opportunity to deliver higher margins with a low revenue and working capital requirement. 
In addition we provide a stand-alone 24/7 call centre service to a number of RSLs and we have recently 
extended this white collar offering to income management and planning application administration. Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 24
Review of operations continued
Housing – business development continued
The market for these types of white collar activities is significant 
at circa £4 billion per year and is largely untouched by the private 
sector. An evolving social housing market, following recent changes 
in the welfare system and tenancy arrangements, over and above 
the ongoing pressure on budgets generally, has increased the 
pressure on our clients to rethink how best to meet the needs of 
not only existing tenants but also the 3 million potential tenants on 
long social housing waiting lists. Recognising how Mears has worked 
in partnership with Local Authorities in the past to address more 
broad-based blue collar challenges, we have been encouraged to 
collaborate to tackle the sector’s housing management issues.
Since the Group extended its services to housing management, 
accelerated by the acquisition of Omega in 2014, Mears has 
successfully grown the business with some 4,000 homes now 
under management across the country. With a number of new 
opportunities secured, including the mobilisation of our new Key 
Worker Housing contract, we have good visibility of managing 
10,000 properties by the end of 2016 which significantly exceeds 
our original expectations. Our key Housing Management offering 
is to work with RSLs, private landlords, investors and developers to 
create structures to provide and manage housing. Our not-for-profit 
Registered Provider enables us to offer our partners a regulated 
body which provides security and good governance. 
Working with Local Authorities, Housing Associations and institutional 
investors, we are seeking to develop portfolios of good quality homes. 
In May 2015, working with a Local Government Pension Scheme, 
Mears coordinated the acquisition of 305 rented homes in the 
East Midlands. Rents will be kept below the full market level with 
any increases protecting this affordability gap. 
We have maintained a consistent strategy over the last  
20 years, which is summarised below: 
Mears is engaged to provide marketing, lettings and housing 
management services over a period of 20 years. This is typical 
of a large number of opportunities that we have secured or are 
in the process of negotiating. We anticipate strong organic growth 
in our portfolio over the next twelve months. This is an exciting, 
immature market, with a significant disparity between supply 
and demand. Given the urgency for our clients to find solutions to 
ease the homelessness issue, the current opportunity pipeline is 
particularly buoyant. In the short term our bid pipeline comprises 
a small number of strategically important bids.
Mears has been engaged by a London Borough to arrange 
the purchase and refurbishment of 400 homes, currently under 
private ownership. The key aim is to provide the Borough with an 
alternative, affordable housing supply to replace the significant 
bed and breakfast accommodation costs incurred by the Borough. 
Mears has engaged funding partners to finance the purchase of 
properties on behalf of the client, carry out refurbishment works 
and act as managing agent for the portfolio. The contract will be 
operated by the Borough and Mears for 40 years and is valued at 
circa £50m. The operation mobilised in February 2016 and the 
purchase and refurbishment phase will continue over a period 
of 24 months. This is, once again, typical of a number of 
opportunities within the pipeline.
The proportion of customers 
rating our service as excellent
91% (2014: 91%)
Maintained our record level of customer 
satisfaction achieved in 2015.
1
Differentiate on customer 
service leadership as the prime 
driver of sustainable growth
Provision of a full asset management 
capability to ensure appropriate investment 
in housing stock refurbishment and 
regeneration. The development of a number 
of innovative models to unlock the supply of 
homes from private ownership. 
2
Support our clients to obtain 
maximum benefit from the 
opportunities presented by 
Government and funding
Retention of key client relationships in  
2015, including Eastbourne and Leeds. 
Successful development and introduction  
of new partnership models such as our joint 
ventures with London Borough of Bromley  
and Milton Keynes.
3
Focus on building long-term 
partnerships
Our strategy Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 25
Investment in the development of housing 
management services and further 
enhancement to our Mears Direct model, 
which provides solutions for clients who wish 
to insource their maintenance services.
4
Creation of the first Mears National Training 
Academy in Rotherham.
5
The acquisition of Omega in 2014 significantly 
advanced the Group’s capability. We continue 
to consider bolt-on acquisitions to reinforce 
our leadership position but given our broad 
capabilities our increasing focus is upon 
organic growth.
6
Drive innovation to provide better 
outcomes for tenants
Develop a skilled and  
motivated workforce
Consider acquisitions 
to supplement our capabilities 
and support our increasing 
service breadth
Milton Keynes regeneration
Mears is creating a joint venture with Milton Keynes Council 
to form a new Regeneration Partnership called YourMK.
YourMK will deliver repairs and maintenance services for nearly 
11,500 Council homes and regenerate key areas in Milton Keynes 
that are in the greatest need over a 15-year period.
The partnership is an equal ownership between the Council and 
Mears, and will respond to the RegenerationMK Strategy, which 
states that regeneration in Milton Keynes must be focused on 
supporting positive change for people, place and prosperity. 
This community-led approach will mean the partnership will focus 
on delivering what matters to residents living in seven priority 
neighbourhoods as well as improving housing, employing locally 
and supporting local projects.
In focus
YourMK, joint venture Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 26
Review of operations continued
Apprentice success
Michaela Walsh, gas engineer from Manchester Working, 
was shortlisted for the Best Female Apprentice at the Women 
in Housing Awards 2015. 
Michaela trained as a gas apprentice for three years with Manchester 
Working and recently qualified as a gas engineer. She was nominated 
for the award for being ‘a remarkable apprentice with an excellent 
attitude demonstrating a strong passion for the trade’.
Jane Nelson, Executive Director, Mears Group, said: “Mears is 
committed to increasing the number of tradeswomen across the 
sector and we are pleased to have seen a rise in the recruitment 
of female operatives and apprentices. We will continue to support 
more women into the industry.”
In focus
The current contract will end in March 2016 and I would like to 
personally thank all our Birmingham employees who have provided 
loyal service over many years. Whilst we are disappointed to have lost 
a long-standing client relationship, I am encouraged by the overall 
quality of our order book, which has improved significantly over the 
last two years and has a better balance in terms of longevity and 
profitability. We have one further material re-bid in 2016 with our 
Sedgefield client, which currently delivers annual revenues of 
circa £15m, closely followed by two material re-bids in 2017 
which carry combined annual revenue of circa £55m. 
Mears has a strong track record of turning around, integrating and 
extracting substantial value from acquired businesses, along with 
an excellent reputation for service delivery. As we look to broaden 
the services we offer across the sphere of Social Housing, we will 
consider making further acquisitions where they reinforce our 
market-leading position. 
Housing – business development continued
In parallel with growing homelessness, there is a national need 
to build new homes for social, affordable rent. Mears, through its 
Registered Provider, is working with house builders and investors 
to bring forward stalled development sites where the affordable 
housing elements can be funded without grants to provide rented 
and shared ownership tenures. Mears has, over the last two years, 
started developing its own house building capability. Whilst we 
do not intend to compete with the larger construction companies, 
our broad capabilities give us a competitive advantage, with the 
recently awarded Milton Keynes contract being a perfect example 
of this.
We have a good track record for contract retention when existing 
relationships come up for re-bid. We were therefore disappointed 
that we failed to re-secure our contract with Birmingham City Council; 
our Birmingham contract delivered revenues of circa £25m 
per year and we have provided a good level of service since 2007 . 
Michaela Walsh, Manchester Working Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 27
Housing revenue
£735.1m +3%
Operating profit*
£42.5m +22%
Operating margin*
5.8% +18%
2014 £714.7m
2015 £735.1m
2014 £34.7m
2015 £42.5m
2014 4.9%
2015 5.8%
*  Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, 
exceptional items and long-term incentives.
The Group has increased its historical Housing new contract win rate to 49% (by value) (2014: 35%) and secured new work with a total 
value in excess of £900m (2014: £170m). The most significant awards are detailed below.
Contract Detail
Key Worker 
Housing
Throughout the UK and providing a full Housing Management service; this includes sourcing properties, 
managing the application and allocation process as well as the subsequent day-to-day administration. 
The contract, which is for an initial three-year term plus an opportunity for a two-year extension, is valued 
at circa £65m per annum.
Milton Keynes Mears has been selected to form a long-term joint venture partnership with Milton Keynes Council to deliver 
a total asset management service to the Council’s social housing portfolio, and deliver regeneration and 
development opportunities across the Council’s priority estates. This joint venture partnership, called YourMK, 
will represent one of the single largest contracts awarded to Mears.
London 
Borough of 
Greenwich
Mears has been awarded two lots in respect of the Asset Management Housing Repairs framework. 
This is a four-year contract worth approximately £12m.
Housing - new contract bidding Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 28
Review of operations continued
The Board is pleased with the performance of the Care division in 
terms of quality of service delivery; however, the year has been a 
challenging one in terms of its financial performance. I do believe 
that we enter 2016 in a stronger position than we entered 2015. 
Whilst 2016 will have its challenges, there is an increased 
commercial awareness throughout the Care division. 
The acquisition of the loss-making Care at Home division of Care 
UK (CAH) in May 2015 significantly increased the scale of Mears 
within the domiciliary care market, making Mears the second 
largest provider in the UK. The acquisition strengthens the Group’s 
position with a number of strategically important client relationships 
which we believe have potential to develop into output-based 
contracts on retender. Whilst initial investment in CAH was required, 
the combination of capability and scale has made Mears a more 
attractive partner for the emerging, larger partnering-orientated 
contracts such as those already secured in Torbay and Wiltshire. 
Whilst the acquisition of CAH was anticipated to be financially 
challenging in the short term, we remain confident in our ability 
to turn around struggling operations as our track record is good 
in this respect, as the Morrison business demonstrates.
The Care division reported revenues of £146.0m (2014: £124.0m), 
including circa £33m in respect of CAH in its seven months of 
trading. The underlying organic revenues reflect a 9% reduction 
compared to the comparable period. The main limitation to growth 
in Care remains the sourcing and retention of sufficient care workers 
of good quality; this challenge will only increase as we move forward 
and we are focused on finding sustainable solutions to address 
this. There is no shortage of care work. With the continued focus 
upon carer retention and recruitment, we have started to see 
some improvement in churn rates during the last quarter of 2015 
which is pleasing. This remains a key focus for 2016.
Following the acquisition of the loss-making CAH business, the 
Care operating margin reduced to a negative 1. 1 % (201 4: positive 7 .8%), 
delivering an operating loss of £1.6m (2014: profit £9.6m). The newly 
acquired CAH business contributed both a trading loss together 
with integration and rebranding costs. Notwithstanding the impact 
of the acquisition, however, which was in line with our original 
expectations, the underlying trading of the pre-existing Care 
business did fall short of our expectations. The reduction in the 
underlying Care operating margin reflects the negative impact of 
operating leverage following the reduction in revenue, a continued 
investment in the Care workforce and an intensive period of new 
contract mobilisation.
We are placing greater emphasis on maintaining a portfolio of 
good quality contracts that can provide clear and sustainable 
margins whilst at the same time delivering a first class experience 
to our service users and a value offering to our commissioners. 
We still have a long way to go to achieve this aim. We have carried 
out an intensive business planning process, with particular focus 
on carer retention and recruitment which continues to be the 
primary challenge. The business planning process also addressed 
the impact of the National Living Wage (NLW), identifying key 
actions on a contract-by-contract basis. The business planning 
process encouraged the business to be more selective and to 
place increased focus on those commissioners with a desire to 
also move towards more innovative, outcome-based solutions 
which better fit Mears’ long-term model. 
Care
Our Care strategy has evolved prudently over several years, adapting to changes in the sector. The positive moves we 
are seeing in the structure of tendered opportunities are in line with our predictions and the momentum of change is now 
building and is positive. Our strategy seeks to reinforce this momentum and to benefit from it: 
Our Wiltshire contract, which commenced in 2013, and our 
Torbay contract, which mobilised in 2015, are two flagships for this 
development. All care plans are written based upon achieving specific 
outcomes for individual service users. We agree a budget and a timeframe 
to achieve these outcomes and payments are linked to our success. 
We are focusing on those contracts that allow us to recruit a workforce 
delivering a high quality service. This has resulted in a further tightening 
of our bid/no bid decisions. We have been increasingly risk averse in 
new contract bidding to ensure we develop a portfolio of customer 
contracts with sustainable margins.
1 2
Focus on delivering high quality care through the 
development of outcome-based working, as opposed  
to the traditional care focus on task and time
Deliver sustainable pricing
Our strategy Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 29
We have agreed new minimum pay levels for our staff which are set 
ahead of the National Minimum Wage with a further significant 
enhancement for those working within the London area. With the 
introduction of the National Living Wage, we are committed to 
maintaining this differential. We are also investing further in training 
and a range of other benefits. We believe this investment is fundamental 
to help reduce the staff churn rate; as such, this investment should 
be self-funding over the long term.
Increasing integration of NHS and social services is growing the 
number of people with more complex conditions who need care at 
home. Complex care covers services such as spinal injuries, head 
injuries, end of life care, dementia care and learning disabilities. 
Given the potential of this area, we will continue to invest in our 
own Mears Nurseplus infrastructure.
3 4
Invest in the workforce to ensure both motivated 
and well trained
Evolve the breadth and depth of service offering
Lambeth
Mears now delivers repairs and maintenance to 47 ,000 properties 
in Lambeth. Our housing operations in the South London Borough 
have continued to grow since the first contract started in 2011.
In 2015, we took over the contract for the south of the borough, 
after already delivering responsive repairs, voids refurbishment 
services, disrepairs and planned works to the north and central 
areas Borough.
Gary Mitchell, Lambeth’s Head of Repairs, said: “The team has a 
“can do” attitude, with colleagues coming forward with ideas and 
innovations to improve service, improve satisfaction and improve 
the working relationships with each other and stakeholders.”
In focus
The proportion of customers 
rating our service as excellent
91% (2014: 91%)
Repairs and maintenance, Lambeth Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 30
Review of operations continued
Torbay Living Well@Home
Living Well@Home is a new approach to supporting and caring for 
people at home and is delivered through a partnership between 
Torbay Council, Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust 
and Mears Group. Uniquely, Mears is the single provider of 
homecare services to Torbay.
As well as providing domiciliary care, Living Well@Home also 
works to develop a more competent and multi-skilled workforce. 
This means carers provide a wider range of care and support, with 
training to expand their roles so that they can undertake more 
complex health and care tasks.
This reduces the number of visits and callers to people’s homes, and also 
increases the time carers spend with their customers, strengthening 
relationships. This way of working focuses more on the overall wellbeing 
of the person and helps them to have a more fulfilling life.
In November, the project won a prestigious LaingBuisson Award, 
which celebrates excellence and innovation in independent care 
and healthcare in the UK.
Dr Sonja Manton, Associate Director for Community Health and 
Social Care for Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust, said: 
‘Living Well@Home is a significant change in the way domiciliary 
care is provided for local people. By working this way, the potential 
benefits are important not just for the people receiving the care but 
for the staff providing more meaningful care as well. The staff will 
also be able to benefit from ongoing training and career development 
making it increasingly attractive and rewarding work.’
In focus
Prospects for the UK care market over the long term remain very 
strong given the underlying growth drivers of an ageing population 
and the need to look after people in their own homes rather than 
in hospital or other residential settings. Domiciliary care will also 
benefit from greater integration of health and social care. Social 
care has seen a significant reduction in funding over the last few 
years, but these pressures have in turn created a momentum for 
change which is starting to support Mears’ long-term vision for 
a more integrated and better commissioned range of services, 
delivered by a sustainable workforce. 
Within this framework of financial pressure we have seen some 
significant change:
 > Commissioners are now increasingly recognising the need to 
improve pay and conditions for staff. The introduction of the 
new National Living Wage (NLW) has acted as a further catalyst 
for change. Whilst there is still dialogue taking place with a 
number of customers as to how the NLW is to be incorporated 
into charge rates, Mears has already secured significant price 
increases from a number of commissioners; Mears is committed 
to passing these increases on to our carers who have for too 
long been under-rewarded for the vital role that they carry out. 
Mears had already taken a long-term approach to this by 
investing significantly in care worker pay rates ahead of the 
introduction of the NLW to develop more sustainable contracts 
and will look to continue to pay at the top end of the sector.
 > We have continued to win two out of three of the Care tenders 
for which we bid; however, these bids have predominantly been 
for a single lead provider for a particular zone, as opposed to a 
previous practice of multi-provider framework contracts. The 
most advanced example of this is at Torbay, where we are the 
single provider for the whole region, on a contract expected to 
grow to revenues of £10m per annum. We are extremely pleased 
with the positive start that we have had with this contract and 
see significant opportunity for future development. Following 
the positive start, we were almost immediately asked to take over 
a contract by the neighbouring Devon Council, giving us our first 
opportunity to work with this commissioner. The pipeline of 
opportunities is also characterised by significantly fewer providers, 
with longer-term contracts now typically three to five years in length. 
 > Provider consolidation continues, including our own recent 
acquisition of CAH. In an increasingly regulated environment 
and given the new requirements of the Care Act to more actively 
consider provider financial stability, scale and diversity of service 
are continuing to rise in importance. This is evidenced by the 
significant reduction in the number of providers per let contract.
Supporting people at home
Winner of LaingBuisson Award Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 31
 > Greater integration between the NHS and social care is now 
an absolute necessity and is gathering pace, although we would 
still prefer this to be faster. The £5.3 billion Better Care Fund, which 
is the leading Government initiative to support NHS investment 
in community services, is felt by many to have not yet reached 
front line service delivery in the way intended. However, a large 
proportion of new tenders now include a pooled NHS and Local 
Authority funding contribution.
Care – business development
We entered the care market in 2007 with a clear strategic vision 
that the market would develop in a similar way to Social Housing. 
Notably, we expected to see a shift towards outcome-based contracts, 
where vendor payments are based on the quality of the outcome 
for the recipient rather than simply based on the time spent in 
delivering the service. We also expected to see customers move 
toward awarding contracts for longer terms to fewer providers, who 
could provide broader services and also assist in driving efficiencies 
within clients’ cost bases. We have positioned ourselves as a high 
quality business focused upon service delivery in readiness for the 
market change. The speed of change has been slow but momentum 
has now built up, endorsing our strategy.
We are seeing a positive move in the structure of tendered 
opportunities, in line with our predictions at the time we entered 
the care market. The majority of new opportunities are now leading 
to a consolidation in the number of providers, with several Councils 
adopting strategic partnering arrangements. 
This change has been driven by the need to deliver new service 
models through greater integrated working with the NHS and by 
the need to address financial challenges. Contract lengths are 
also improving from an average of 2.5 years in 2012 to an average 
of over three years in 2015. Those looking at strategic partnerships 
typically have contract lengths of five to eight years. We anticipate 
this change will continue at a pace over the next few years. 
Social care continues to be a focus for society at large and, 
consequently, further evolution of the market is expected. 
Councils are striving to protect spending on adult care as their 
overall budgets come under pressure due to the prevailing 
environment of austerity. 
These financial pressures are being offset by a phased programme 
of budget transfer from the NHS, announced last year, to promote 
better joint working between the ‘free’ at the point of delivery NHS 
and ‘means tested’ local domiciliary and residential care services. 
The greater integration of the NHS can be seen in the proportion 
of opportunities involving complex services, having grown from 
one in four in 2012 to approaching half of all tenders in 2015.
D J Miles
Chief Executive Officer
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016
Care revenue
£146.0m +18%
Operating loss
£(1.6)m
Operating margin
(1.1)%
2014 £124.0m
2015 £146.0m
2014 £9.6m
2015 £(1.6)m
2014 7.8%
2015 (1.1)%
Care - new contract bidding
The Group has maintained its Care new contract win rate in line with its long-term average at 63% (by value) (2014: 73%) and secured 
new work with a total value in excess of £80m (2014: £130m). The most significant awards are detailed below.
Contract Detail
Midlothian 
Council
Mears was awarded a contract for personal care and support worth £5.7m over three years. Midlothian is a new 
customer relationship and provides increased scale around the Edinburgh region. 
North Tyneside 
Council and 
North Tyneside 
CCG
A three-year contract worth £4.8m to provide personal care. This is an increase in the level of work currently 
provided to this client.
Cumbria County 
Council
Mears was awarded a contract for homecare, extra care and night services over a four-year term. The contract is 
valued at £13.4m. Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 32
Financial review
Summary
Earnings
 > The normalised diluted EPS, which allows for 
the potential diluting impact of outstanding 
share options, reduced by 13% to 27.94p 
(2014: 32.20p). This reduction is in line with the 
reduction in profit following the acquisition of 
CAH delivering initial trading losses together 
with the costs of integration and rebranding.
Dividend
 > The Board has recommended a final dividend 
of 7.85p per share which, combined with the 
interim dividend, gives a total dividend for the 
year of 11.00p (2014: 10.00p), a 10% increase.
Cash
 > The efficiency with which the Group manages 
working capital remains a cornerstone of its 
business. The Group’s conversion of EBITDA 
to cash in the period was 99% (2014: 96%).
Group revenue
£881.1m
(2014: £838.7m)
Group operating profit*
£38.7m
(2014: £43.0m)
Dividend per share
11.0p
(2014: 10.0p)
Cash conversion 
99%
(2014: 96%)
Financial performance
This Financial Review provides further key information in respect 
of the financial performance and financial position of the Group, 
to the extent that this is not already covered within the Review 
of Operations. 
Acquisition of the Care at Home division of Care UK
During May 2015, Mears completed the acquisition of Care UK 
Homecare Limited and Care UK Community Care Agency Limited, 
the corporate entities comprising the Care at Home division of 
Care UK Limited (CAH). CAH provided community-based care 
services to over 10,000 service users in England, Wales and Scotland, 
and had contracts with around 90 Local Authorities and Clinical 
Commissioning Groups (CCGs), employing over 4,000 staff. The 
acquisition of CAH significantly increased the scale of Mears 
within the domiciliary care market, making Mears the second 
largest provider in the UK. CAH provided an excellent geographic 
fit with Mears’ existing Care business with limited cross over. 
The total consideration paid was £10.2m in cash comprising a base 
payment of £9.0m valuing the business on a debt-free basis and 
assuming a normal level of working capital together with a further 
payment of £1.2m made in respect of excess working capital acquired 
on completion. The total consideration of £10.2m represented a 
pound-for-pound payment against the reported book value of tangible 
net assets of the CAH business. Book adjustments, resulting in a 
reduction in the carrying value by £4.9m, were subsequently made 
to the balance sheet of the acquired business to ensure that the 
carrying values of the net assets acquired were both conservative 
and in line with Mears’ accounting policies.
The CAH business was loss making at the time of its acquisition. 
The company had reported particularly poor results in certain regions 
and had already commenced localised closure plans. There was 
also considerable staff instability, impacting upon service delivery. 
The Board was fully aware of the challenges to improve the operations 
and financial performance of CAH. At the time of the acquisition, 
it was anticipated that the CAH business would continue to deliver 
trading losses in both 201 5 and 2016 and to also suffer non-recurring 
costs in respect of restructuring and rebranding. The Board’s 
expectations remain in line with the original estimates. These 
trading losses and integration costs are reported within the 
normal trading results.
Andrew Smith
Finance Director
*  Before acquisition intangible amortisation. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 33
Acquisition of Omega Group
In October 2014, the Group acquired the Omega Group (‘Omega’), 
a leading private sector provider of residential lettings and 
management services to the Social Housing market. The initial 
consideration was £20.0m in cash. Additional contingent consideration 
is payable in instalments subject to future profitability, capped at 
£20.0m. The entity has performed strongly and the Directors believe 
it is highly probable that the full contingent consideration will be 
paid. The future instalments of £10m, £5m and £5m will fall due 
and be payable in 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively. 
The corporate structure of Omega, in addition to a number of wholly 
owned companies, also included an interest in 50% of the share 
capital of three jointly owned vehicles. Given the significant number 
of new opportunities being developed in this area, the Group increased 
its holding to 75% in the year for a cash consideration of £6.1m. 
Discontinued activities
In November 2013, the Group completed the disposal of the 
entire share capital of Haydon Mechanical and Electrical Limited 
(‘Haydon UK’). As part of that disposal, the Group retained the 
beneficial interest in 49% of the share capital of an investment in 
a company registered in the United Arab Emirates, Haydon Mechanical 
and Electrical Company LLC (‘Haydon LLC’). This beneficial interest 
was retained due to a number of performance guarantees in place 
at the time of the disposal which unravel as the underlying contracts 
are completed. During the period the Group agreed in principle to 
sell its interest in the company to the management. The transfer 
will happen in stages as the performance guarantees are cancelled. 
The formal sales and purchase agreement is expected to be 
signed imminently.
At 31 December 2014, a balance of £2.6m was due from Haydon LLC 
to the Group. During the period, the Group provided additional 
financial support to Haydon LLC of £4.5m to fund on going losses 
in the company so as to mitigate its risk in respect of the performance 
guarantees. The Group has fully provided for these losses and written 
the net carrying value of the company’s assets and liabilities down 
to nil which equates to the full outstanding loan balance of £7 .1m. 
This is reported as a loss from discontinued operations. A further 
loss of £0.9m was incurred during the year as a result of the Group 
making full provision against all remaining unsecured amounts 
due from Haydon UK.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
A charge for amortisation of acquisition intangibles of £10.8m 
(2014: £12.3m) arose in the period. This charge relates to a number 
of acquisitions in both Housing and Care over recent years. The 
amounts recognised as identifiable intangibles relate predominantly 
to customer relationships and are written off over their estimated lives.
Net finance charge
A net finance charge of £1.9m has been recognised in the year 
(2014: £1.3m). The finance cost in respect of bank borrowings was 
£2.7m (2014: £2.8m). The small decrease reflects the reduction 
in average debt. 
The Group has two interest rate swaps which have fixed LIBOR at 
a blended rate of 1.87% on the first £57 .5m of its borrowing. The 
remaining debt bears a variable LIBOR rate that has been in the 
region of 0.5% throughout the year. The Group pays a margin over 
and above the LIBOR which is subject to a ratchet mechanism and 
which, during the year, was typically in the region of 1.5% 
above LIBOR.
The finance costs also include other interest of £0. 1m (2014: £0.3m) 
relating to the discounting of trade receivables and provisions to 
properly reflect the time value of money. The net finance income in 
respect of the defined benefit pension scheme was £0.7m (201 4: £1.8m).
Tax expense
2015 2014
£m £m
Current tax recognised in Income Statement 5.1 4.7
Deferred tax recognised in Income Statement (1.3) (0.3)
Total tax expenses recognised 
in Income Statement* 3.8 4.4
Profit before tax and before amortisation 
of acquired intangibles 36.8 42.0
Profit before tax 25.9 29.7
Effective current tax rate 19.8% 15.8%
* Continuing activities.
The headline UK corporation tax rate for the year was 20.3% 
(2014: 21.5%). The total tax charge for the year on continuing 
operations was £3.8m (2014: £4.4m) resulting in an effective total 
tax rate of 14.8% (2014: 15.0%). The key reconciling items to the 
headline rate were tax credits recognised following the conclusion 
of discussions with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) on matters 
relating to prior years and an annual corporation tax deduction 
in respect of share options.
Total tax includes deferred tax, which is an estimate of the tax due 
on any differences between the carrying value and the tax base of 
assets or liabilities. The current tax charge excludes deferred tax and 
is therefore affected by both permanent and temporary differences 
in the recognition of items for tax and accounting purposes. 
The current tax charge for the year on continuing operations was 
£5.1m (2014: £4.7m) which represents an effective tax rate of 19.8% 
(2014: 15.8%). For both the years, the key reconciling items to the 
headline rate were permanent differences on the amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles and the utilisation of brought forward tax 
losses, primarily associated with the Morrison business. 
“  The efficiency with which 
the Group manages working 
capital remains a cornerstone 
of our business.”
Read the Report of the Audit Committee 
on pages 58 to 62
View the primary statements 
on pages 98 to 102 Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 34
Financial review continued
Tax expense continued
The Group complies with all relevant tax laws and regulations 
regarding the payment of tax and the provision of information 
to tax authorities. Mears does not undertake any aggressive tax 
planning or schemes that utilise low tax regimes in other jurisdictions 
for the purposes of tax avoidance. Mears seeks to maintain an 
open and honest relationship with the tax authorities and benefits 
from an HMRC ‘low risk’ status.
Earnings per share (EPS)
2015 2014 Change
p p %
Diluted earnings per share* 20.10 24.65 (18%)
Normalised diluted earnings 
per share** 27.94 32.20 (13%)
Dividend per share 11.00 10.00 +10%
*  C o nti n u i ng ac ti v i ti e s .
**  Continuing activities before acquired intangible amortisation with an adjustment 
to reflect a full tax charge.
The normalised diluted EPS, which allows for the potential dilutive 
impact of outstanding share options, reduced by 13% to 27 .94p 
(2014: 32.20p). This reduction is in line with the reduction in profit 
reflecting the initial trading losses of CAH delivering initial trading 
losses together with the costs of its integration and rebranding. 
Normalised earnings exclude the amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles together with an adjustment to reflect a full tax charge 
of 18.0% (2014: 21.5%). We believe that this normalised diluted 
EPS measure provides a more appropriate assessment of 
operational performance, the analysis of trends over time, 
the comparison of different businesses and the projection 
of future performance.
Cash performance
2015 2014
£m £m
Operating profit* 38.7 43.0
Depreciation and amortisation 6.3 5.5
Adjusted EBITDA 45.0 48.5
Cash inflow from operating activities 44.5 46.4
EBITDA to cash conversion 99% 96%
Net cash at balance sheet date 0.8 3.8
Average debt in the year** 68.0 59.0
Core debt at the year end** 80.0 75.0
* Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
**  Average debt represents a 365-day mean. Core debt provides a better indication 
of the Group’s working capital requirement given the timing of acquisitions 
which would not be fully reflected in daily average.
The efficiency with which the Group manages working capital 
remains a cornerstone of our business. The Group’s conversion of 
EBITDA to cash in the year was 99% (2014: 96%). The Group has 
consistently set high standards of working capital management 
and high levels of conversion of profit into cash. Despite a lack 
of growth related working capital expansion, cash conversion 
in a high volume, low value and public sector environment always 
represents a challenge and we are delighted at this continued 
strong performance.
Balance sheet
2015 2014
£m £m
Goodwill and intangible assets 224.9 227.4
Investment in joint ventures — 1.9
Property, plant and equipment 18.4 15.9
Inventories 9.1 8.5
Trade receivables 146.9 142.6
Trade payables (188.6) (187.1)
Net cash 0.8 3.8
Deferred consideration (20.9) (21.0)
Cash flow hedge (0.9) (1.4)
Pension 4.0 6.8
Taxation (2.1) (2.9)
Net assets 191.6 194.5
Goodwill and intangible assets 
The carrying value of identifiable acquisition intangibles at 
31 December 2015 was £26.8m (2014: £32.0m) which predominantly 
relates to order book and customer relationships valued on acquisition. 
The carrying value will be amortised over its useful economic life, 
with over half of this value being expensed over the next three 
years. The net movement in the year comprised an increase of 
£5.6m relating to the acquisitions completed in the year together 
with a reduction of £10.8m relating to amounts amortised and 
charged to the Income Statement during the year.
The carrying value of goodwill of £193.1m (2014: £192.0m) is not 
amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or 
more frequently where there is an indication of impairment. The 
headroom between the goodwill carrying value for the Housing 
division, when compared to the value in use, is significant. However, 
the headroom is in respect of the Care division is low, especially 
given the high level of sensitivity in the estimate of the value in use 
when the key assumptions are flexed. The Board has carried out a 
detailed business planning process which underpins its impairment 
review and supports the carrying value of the Care goodwill. 
The Board is confident that its strategy for Care will deliver 
long-term value for its stakeholders. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 35
In addition, development expenditure was incurred in developing 
the in-house IT platform of £3.0m (2014: £1.5m). The increase in 
development expenditure was in line with expectations and is a 
direct result of our partnership with the Department for Communities 
and Local Government (DCLG) for the commercialisation of its 
Planning Portal which commenced during the year. The Planning 
Portal is a web-based one-stop shop for advice and guidance on 
planning, building regulations and appeals. It is the sole electronic 
means to submit a planning application with links to all Local Authorities 
in England and Wales. The capital expenditure relating to this 
engagement will continue at this higher level until the end of 2017 .
Tangible fixed assets
The Group capital expenditure of £6.2m (2014: £4.5m) relates to IT 
hardware, other office equipment and the refurbishment of new 
office premises. The majority of plant utilised by our operational 
teams is subject to short-term hire and motor vehicles are subject 
to operating leases and hence neither are included within capital 
expenditure or recognised as an asset within the balance sheet. 
The level of capital expenditure in respect of property, plant and 
equipment has been consistent over several years and we would 
anticipate these low levels being maintained in 2016.
Working capital and net debt
Trade receivables and inventories increased to £155.9m 
(2014: £151.1m), which reflects the increased size of the business 
following the acquisitions. Trade payables were consistent at £1 88.6m 
(2014: £187 .1m) which reflects a shift in the sales mix in favour of 
Housing Management and Care, both of which carry lower levels 
of trade payables compared to the Housing maintenance activities.
Our net cash position at 31 December 2015 was £0.8m (2014: £3.8m). 
Whilst the year-end cash position was pleasing, typically the 
accounting period end has a low debt balance when compared 
to the rest of the year. A far more important metric is the Group’s 
daily net debt balances which provide a better indication of working 
capital management. The average net debt over the year was £68.0m; 
however , given the cash outflow of £1 7 .4m in respect of the acquisitions 
that occurred across the period, a truer indication of the Group’s 
core debt at the end of the year is £80.0m.
Since the year end, the Group finalised the ‘amend and extend’ to 
its revolving capital facility which extended the expiry date from 
July 2018 to July 2020 plus an extension option of a further one year. 
The total commitment under the facility increased from £120m to 
£140m. The revised facility results in a reduction to the interest cost 
with the margin payable over and above LIBOR, which is subject 
to a ratchet mechanism, reducing from a range of 150–250bps 
to 1 20–220bps. The Group continues to maintain a strong relationship 
with both of its bankers, Barclays and HSBC.
Pensions
2015 2014
£m £m
Pension asset 8.3 15.1
Pension liability (4.2) (8.3)
Net asset 4.1 6.8
The Group participates in two principal Group pension schemes 
(2014: two) together with a further 28 (2014: 28) individual defined 
benefit schemes where the Group has received Admitted Body status 
in the Local Government Pension Scheme. At the point of tendering 
for new contract opportunities, the Group seeks to minimise its 
exposure to future changes in the required pension contribution 
rates and to future liabilities resulting from scheme deficits. 
The Group’s largest single scheme is the Morrison Facilities 
Pension Scheme which is predominantly attached to our North 
Lanarkshire contract. This scheme currently enjoys a net asset 
position of £8.3m (2014: £15.1m), the reduction being the result of 
a reassessment of mortality rates. In respect of the Mears Group 
Scheme, the Group continues to comply with a repayment plan 
agreed with the trustees of the scheme whereby the Group will 
pay £1.0m per annum for a period of seven years with a view 
to that scheme being fully funded by 2020.
Guidance for 2016
The 96% visibility of consensus forecast revenues secured for 
2016 underpins the Board’s confidence that the Group will meet 
its revenue forecast. The Group targets annual revenue growth 
of 5–10% per annum although over the last two years it has fallen 
short of this target. The improved revenue visibility gives a higher 
level of confidence in respect of 2016.
The Housing margin returning to its historic normal level of 5.8% 
is pleasing and marks the completion of the Morrison turnaround. 
The shifting sales mix towards Housing Management, which 
typically generates a higher operating margin, provides an 
opportunity to see margins edging above the historic 5.8% level. 
However, to balance this, the significant new contract mobilisations 
in 2016, which would be expected to generate losses in their first 
year of trading, will provide short-term headwinds to profitability.
With the introduction of the National Living Wage, the Care margin is 
the hardest area to predict for 2016. This new legislation, which comes 
into force in April 2016, has further increased pressures on Councils, 
Trusts and care providers. We have completed a detailed review of all 
our Care contracts and agreed a clear plan on a client-by-client basis. 
Whilst our Care contracts rarely have an automatic contractual 
entitlement to a price increase, there is an increasing realisation from 
commissioners that care providers cannot absorb any further cost 
increases. The reaction from a number of commissioners has been 
reassuringly supportive. In the short term, ensuring that the timing 
of the charge rate increases match the increase in the cost base 
will be a fine balance. Beyond 2016, we see the National Living 
Wage as being strongly positive for our Care business in terms 
of both operational delivery and financial output.
The CAH acquisition will continue to deliver a trading loss in 2016 
in line with our original estimates. Our expectation in respect of 
the Care operating margin for 2016 is in the range of 2.5–3.5%.
We will continue to manage working capital to a high standard. 
Given the strong organic growth expected to be delivered in 2016, 
this will naturally utilise some additional working capital. We will 
continue to target EBITDA to cash conversion in excess of 90%.
A C M Smith
Finance Director
andrew.smith@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016 Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 36
Viability statement
Business planning and financial viability
In accordance with C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, 
the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a five-year 
period. A period of five years has been chosen as it reflects the 
average contract length, being a blend of an average contract length 
of seven years in Social Housing and around three years in Care. 
Whilst the Group holds contracts which extend beyond this time 
horizon, a period of greater than five years is considered too long, 
given the inherent uncertainties involved.
The Board considered its key risks. The principal risks are set out 
on pages 38 to 41 and the most relevant of these risks to viability 
were considered to be:
 > a service delivery failure, possibly resulting in the death or harm 
of a service user, with significant negative publicity and long-term 
reputation damage;
 > deterioration in carer churn rates and poor recruitment 
practices resulting in a reduction in carer numbers, sales 
volumes and profitability;
 > a health and safety failure resulting in serious personal injury 
or death of an employee or service user, leading to significant 
financial penalties and significant reputation of damage; and
 > a failure in our IT systems, impacting upon our ability to deliver 
our services. We provide services to vulnerable people and even 
a short period of downtime could cause severe reputation damage. 
A serious system failure could have significant impact to invoicing 
our customers and collecting cash.
A financial model has been built on a contract-by-contract basis 
for the next twelve months and extended on a business-by-business 
basis for the following four years. The five-year plan considers cash 
flows as well as financial covenants. Consideration was given to a 
number of key assumptions, namely future revenue growth, operating 
margins and working capital management. The assumptions set 
were considered conservative given the focus of the model is in 
respect of underperformance. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken 
to stress test the resilience of the Group and its business model 
to the potential impact of the Group’s principal risks, or a combination 
of those risks. The Board overlaid the potential impact of the 
principal risks which could affect solvency or liquidity in ‘severe 
but plausible’ scenarios.
Two scenarios were modelled. The first scenario assumed a 
significant business failure within the Social Housing division. The 
model assumed a 6% per annum compound reduction in revenues 
for each year within the five-year plan, a total reduction of 22%. 
This was combined with a 1% deterioration in the Housing gross 
margin which, when combined with an under-recovery in central 
support overhead, resulted in a reduction in operating margin from 
5.8% to 4.5% in year five of the model. The second scenario assumed 
a similar failure within the Care division. The model assumed a 
15% per annum compound reduction in revenues for each year 
within the five-year plan, a total reduction of 50%. This was combined 
with a 2% deterioration in the Care gross margin which resulted in 
an operating loss of £4.3m in year five of the model. Both scenarios 
showed that the Group would remain viable even in the event of a 
severe business failure over an extended period. No mitigating actions 
were included within either scenario, which was considered 
conservative albeit not entirely realistic.
Whilst the Group’s continuing operations are entirely based in the 
UK, the large network of branches does reduce the risk of serious 
business interruption. In addition, the Group has a broad spread of 
customers – our largest client constitutes less than 6% of Group 
revenues which, while significant, would, in the event of its loss, 
not impact on the Group’s wider viability. 
Whilst future viability reviews will consider the Group’s ability to renew 
its existing debt facilities, the Directors have recently completed 
an ‘amend and extend’ of the Group’s revolving credit facility which 
now runs to July 2020 with an option of a one-year extension.
The Board accepts that uncertainty of results increases as the 
projections cover a five-year period. However, the Board concluded 
that there was a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue 
in operation and would be able to continue to meet liabilities as 
they fall due over the five-year period of business planning. 
“ The Group has a broad spread 
of customers – our largest 
client constitutes less than 6% 
of Group revenues which, while 
significant, would, in the event 
of its loss, not impact on the 
Group’s wider viability.” Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 37
Service quality remains our key differentiator 
and underpins our future viability.
We have almost 18,000 employees; the majority 
of these are interacting with our customers on 
a daily basis. It is this day-to-day contact which 
is fundamental in delivering a differentiated 
service and high levels of satisfaction. It is 
imperative to Mears’ viability that the Group’s 
strategic goals are well communicated and 
understood by all employees.
Mears’ services and operations involve a 
series of high risk activities ranging from 
dealing with vulnerable customers in need  
of care, to our building related services such 
as working at height and working with gas  
and electricity.
Customer excellence rating
91%
Jobs completed on time
92%
Customer complaints
0.30%
Accident frequency rate
0.17%
(2014: 0.23%)
1
2
3
Effective risk management underpins 
the Group’s long-term viability. 
Key risks pages 38 to 41
The Board reviewed the Group’s viability 
in terms of both its financial viability and 
its ability to achieve its strategic goals. 
Strategic priorities pages 16 to 17
Reputation
People
Health and safety
Key risks impacting upon viability and delivery of our strategic priorities Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 38
Risk management and principal risks
Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery 
of the Group’s strategic objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder 
value and maintaining good standards of corporate governance.
The Board
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent 
of risk it is willing to take within the agreed strategy, and ensuring that 
risks are managed effectively across the Group.
Risk is a regular agenda item at Board meetings and is closely aligned to 
strategy review.
The Board also reviews reports on the effectiveness of the systems and 
processes of risk management and internal control.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee monitors the Group’s key risks identified by the risk 
assessment processes and reports findings to the Board bi-annually. It 
also has delegated responsibility for reviewing in detail the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal control policies, and procedures for the 
identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
The Senior Management Team
The Senior Management Team reviews and identifies the key risks which 
may impact upon the achievement of the Group’s strategic goals and will 
consider how these risks are developing with changes in the operations, 
markets and the regulatory environment.
The nature of the risk is reviewed including the possible triggering events 
and the aggregated impacts before setting appropriate mitigation strategies 
directed at the causes and consequences of each risk. The risk is assessed 
in relation to the likelihood of occurrence and the potential impact of the 
risk upon the business and assessed against a matrix scoring system 
which is then used to escalate risks within the Group as appropriate.  
The Senior Management Team has responsibility for managing the  
Group’s key risks.
Risk management function
The Group risk function supports the risk management process by 
providing guidance and support to management. Group Risk also acts as 
the central point for the coordination and initial review of risk assessment 
and risk monitoring procedures. To ensure our risk management process 
continues to drive improvement, the Group risk function monitors the 
ongoing status and progress of mitigation plans on a quarterly basis.
The Group outsources elements of internal audit to external advisers.
The control environment is underpinned by a detailed scheme of delegated 
responsibilities that defines processes and procedures for the approval 
process in respect of decision making. This ensures that decisions within 
the organisation are made by the appropriate level of management.
Risk management process
Details of financial risk management and exposure 
to price risk are given in note 19 on pages 123 to 128
Strategic governance
Operational and financial governance
First line of defence
Second line of defence
Third line of defence
Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Chief Executive 
Officer
Senior Management Team
Operational management
Central support functions
Risk management function (including internal audit and external advisers) Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 39
Risk management process
Low  
 
Moderate Serious Critical
Severity of impact
Likelihood of occurrence
Key  
Gross risk Net risk
People
Reputation
Health 
and safety
IT and data
People
Reputation
Health 
and safety
IT and data
The Group’s risk register rates risks on a matrix scoring system based 
on their likelihood and potential severity. This severity can be measured 
using financial, life and limb, customer service, growth, regulatory 
compliance and reputational criteria. Therefore, Mears measures more 
than simply the financial impact of the risk. These scores are used 
to escalate risks and to drive the mitigation plans.
Prioritising our risks
Read more about governance measures 
on pages 48 to 85
Read more about the Audit Committee 
on pages 58 to 62
Risk management approach
The Group’s approach to risk management is targeted at early 
identification of risks, mitigation of those risks before they occur and 
dealing with them effectively if they crystallise.
The Group is committed to protection of its assets through an effective 
risk management process, supported by insurance where appropriate. 
Examples of assets within scope include human, intellectual, physical 
property and financial resources.
Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues can be 
escalated rapidly through the management team to the Board where 
appropriate. Risks are continuously monitored, contingency plans are 
provided and this information is reported through established procedures.
The internal control approach is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure and thus can only provide a reasonable, rather than 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk management process
Business
The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation 
rests with the line management of the businesses. They are also responsible 
for reporting and monitoring key risks in accordance with established 
processes under the Group operational policies.
Identified risks are documented in risk registers showing: the risks that 
have been identified; characteristics of the risk; consequences of the risk; 
the basis for determining the mitigation strategy; and what reviews and 
monitoring is necessary. The person(s) accountable for assessment and 
monitoring each risk is noted.
We continue to drive improvements in our risk management process. 
We also review our business model, core markets and business processes 
to ensure that we have properly identified all risks. We continually review 
our mitigating actions to ensure that they are sufficient to minimise our 
residual risk.
Executive Committee
Key financial and non-financial risks identified by the business from the 
risk assessment processes are collated and reviewed by the Executive 
Committee. The financial and non-financial risk registers are reviewed 
by the Executive Committee to monitor the status and progression of 
mitigation plans; the key risks are reported to the Board on a regular basis. 
Principal risks
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group, including those that threaten the business model, 
strategy, future performance, solvency and liquidity. Risks have been 
identified as principal based on the likelihood of occurrence and the 
severity of the impact on the Group, and have been identified through 
the application of policies and processes outlined above.
During 2014, the Board committed to simplify the reporting of risks, to 
ensure the risks disclosed to shareholders are those that are considered 
as business critical or potentially catastrophic. Therefore no additional 
risks have been disclosed in this Annual Report. These business as usual 
risks are monitored by divisional management. However, the Board has 
added an additional principal risk: IT and data. Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 40
Risk management and principal risks continued
Key risk movements
Each principal risk is considered in the context of how it relates to achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives. The risk discussion 
includes assessment of gross risk and net risk. Gross risk reflects the exposure and risk landscape before considering the mitigations 
in place, with net risk being the residual risk after mitigations. The gross risk movement from prior year for each principal risk has been 
assessed and is presented below:
Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to a net risk position are also described for each principal risk.
Risks are identified as principal based on the likelihood of occurrence 
and the potential impact on the Group. The Group’s principal risks are 
identified below, together with how we mitigate those risks.
We recognise that significant commercial 
value is attributable to the Mears brand.
Poor service delivery would damage our 
reputation. Both our Social Housing and 
Care markets are close-knit communities 
where examples of poor performance are 
quickly communicated widely.
Furthermore, in Care we deliver services 
to people who are elderly and vulnerable. 
A service delivery failure within our Care 
division could result in the physical harm 
or, in the most extreme cases, death 
of a service user.
In the environment of caring for vulnerable 
people, there is a risk of isolated incidences 
of abuse and neglect which rightly receive 
significant press coverage with the 
inevitable reputational damage. 
KPIs associated with risk:
‘Excellent’ service rating
Customer complaints
Job completion
Net carer recruitment and retention
 > In-house IT system developed to 
provide operational management 
with a real-time dashboard of 
service delivery indicators.
 > Internal auditing of KPI reporting 
including ‘mystery shoppers’.
 > Joint venture with the Tenants’ 
& Residents’ Organisations 
of England (TAROE), which 
undertakes independent audits.
 > Strict process in place for vetting 
and approval of subcontractors.
 > We drive a culture of putting our 
customers first; this is continually 
reinforced within internal 
communications.
 > Well communicated policy for 
dealing with press enquiries 
and incident management.
 > Care risk plans for dealing 
with vulnerable customers.
 > Compliance management of 
bribery and corruption legislation 
and whistleblowing policy.
 > We induct and train all new starters. 
This induction ensures that all 
employees understand our values 
and it reinforces the Group’s culture.
 > We ensure that staff are properly 
trained for their roles. We ensure 
that we deliver relevant training 
and implement best practice.
No change
Reputation
Definition Mitigation Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 41
The Group employs over 18,000 employees 
who are critical to the success of our contract 
performance. Attracting and maintaining good 
relations with employees and the investment 
in their training and development is essential 
to the efficiency and sustainability of the 
Group’s operations. Delivery of strategic 
objectives increases our ability to attract, 
motivate and retain talent.
In addition, the Care division is facing 
a challenging environment where the 
ability to recruit and retain carers is 
restricting performance.
KPIs associated with risk:
‘Excellent’ service rating
Carer net recruitment and retention
Prevention of injury or loss of life for 
both employees and customers is of 
utmost importance. In addition, it is 
vital to maintaining the confidence 
our customers and clients have in 
our business.
KPIs associated with risk:
Accident frequency rates
Reportable incidents
Customer complaints
‘Excellent’ service rating
 > We induct and train all new starters. 
This induction ensures that all new 
employees understand our strategy, 
vision and values. All Care staff have 
access to NVQ qualification training.
 > We regularly review and benchmark 
our remuneration packages to ensure 
that they remain competitive.
 > In Care, we are investing in an innovative 
recruitment process to ensure an increase 
in the volume and quality of carers. Local 
Care branches are targeted on a monthly 
basis in the area of recruitment 
and retention.
 > At the senior end of the business we have 
increased our focus on succession planning 
and increased our investment in senior 
management development. Our Senior 
Leadership programme has identified a 
cross-section of the Group’s brightest 
talent that we would envisage will play 
central roles in our future business. 
 > An annual appraisal process is completed 
for all employees to ensure that all people 
receive feedback in respect of their 
performance and to identify future 
training and development requirements. 
We hold a national accreditation 
as an Investor in People.
 > We are continually looking to improve 
our position as an employer of choice 
by improving the level of engagement 
with our employees through formal 
communications, awards to recognise 
success, local events and family fun days.
 > We are continually monitoring our future 
skills requirements.
 > We regularly undertake employee 
surveys to gauge employee satisfaction, 
engagement and any barriers to 
high level performance.
 > Significant investment in centralised 
Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) 
function to maintain consistency 
and quality.
 > We have comprehensive safe systems 
of work which are well communicated 
through a robust and coordinated 
internal training regime.
 > We have robust processes for inducting 
new staff to ensure importance of health 
and safety is emphasised together 
with detailed method statements 
for working safely.
 > Regular HSE training and updates 
are held, predominantly delivered 
by internal function.
 > Independent review of health and 
safety cases by insurers where 
recommendations of change 
are implemented.
 > Internal SHE auditing takes place 
using third party validation.
 > Annual Group SHE strategy and plan 
are produced.
Increased gross risk exposure
People
Definition Mitigation
Health and safety
Definition Mitigation
A major incident or catastrophic event 
could impact on the Group’s ability to trade. 
In addition, it is essential that the security 
of customer, employee and company 
confidential data is maintained. A major 
breach of information security could have a 
major negative financial and reputational 
impact on the business. The risk landscape 
of IT and data is constantly increasing with 
deliberate acts of cyber crime becoming more 
sophisticated and frequent across all markets.
 > The Business Continuity Plan is 
constantly reviewed and frequently 
tested to ensure it is fit for purpose.
 > Business continuity and IT disaster 
recovery management resource is 
convened at short notice to manage 
the response and any associated risk 
to the Group.
 > Various information security policies 
and standards are in place with a focus 
on network security, access controls, 
encryption, system security, data 
protection and information handling.
 > Information security penetration 
is externally tested to identify 
improvement recommendations 
which are implemented.
 > Data Security Committee in place to 
monitor and review both physical data 
security and IT data security.
Increased gross risk exposure
IT and data
Definition Mitigation
No change Our
people
A major factor behind Mears’ success 
is the commitment to the training 
and development of our employees. 39 +61+z 77 +23+z Our
people
Our offering:
 > Repairs
 > Estate management
 > Planned and cyclical 
maintenance
 > Fuel poverty initiatives
 > Grounds maintenance
 > Capital projects
Putting people at the 
heart of our business
Mears has a diverse workforce of 
over 18,000 staff and 400 apprentices; 
the vast majority live in the areas 
that they work.
Diversity and respect for all are 
core to our induction programme 
and our training on recruitment 
and customer care.
Senior  
management* 
*  The Company’s Board includes nine Directors, 
eight of whom are male and one of whom is female.
510 
senior 
management
23%
77%
All staff
Board
18,000 
employees
39%
61%
90 +10+z 10 
Board 
members
1
9
Women
Women
Women
Men
Men
Men Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 44
Sustainability
TPAS Award
Mears won the Excellence in Contractor Engagement category 
at the Tenants Participation Advisory Service (TPAS) Awards 
for its work with the Livin Futures project.
The annual TPAS Awards recognise excellent service by social 
housing providers, tenants and contractors.
The Livin Futures project was set up to provide pathways into work 
for people living in deprived areas of County Durham. The project 
offers a choice of 18 pathways delivered in partnership with Mears, 
Sunderland Football Club’s charity the Foundation of Light 
and others.
The project also won the Inspiring Young Talent Award at the 
Business in the Community (BITC) Awards.
In focus
Winners at TPAS
For Mears sustainability means creating strong partnerships with 
customers, supply chain partners, staff and communities that 
create lasting value for all concerned.
Valuing customers
We continue to prioritise customer service and for the fourth year 
in a row our Housing business has been awarded the Government’s 
highly coveted Customer Service Excellence Award. We are particularly 
pleased that our Care business has now also been awarded this 
important accreditation. 
Along with CSE accreditation, we have also retained the TPAS 
accreditation for Quality. The accreditation assesses the quality 
of Resident Involvement and this year’s report shows that Mears’ 
performance in this area continues to improve; all residents 
interviewed reiterated that Mears tailors its services to specifically 
meet the needs of individual residents. 
Our tender success rate in 2015, demonstrates the strength 
of our reputation for service.
Supporting communities 
Mears has always believed that good customer service is 
more than just ensuring that we deliver an effective repairs 
and care service. Given the longevity of most of our contracts, 
we see it as our responsibility to make a long-term difference 
to the sustainability of the communities in which we operate. 
In 2015, once again, over 365 local community projects were 
carried out by Mears, from North Lanarkshire to Falmouth and 
many places in between. Our colleagues undertook 55,480 hours 
of voluntary activities across a range of events that included: 
re-painting nursery school playgrounds; creating patio and garden 
areas for sheltered housing schemes; fundraising to improve 
sporting facilities; organising community fun days; and holding 
music mentoring classes for school pupils. 
Loneliness is now known to be a bigger killer than smoking. 
The Mears Foundation (the independent, charitable arm of Mears, 
which has been set up to harness the goodwill, talents and skills 
within Mears) has created a fund to support grassroots activities 
which are tackling loneliness. Thousands of pounds have been 
raised due to the efforts of Mears’ employees. Funds are targeted 
to those projects that are enabling isolated people to establish 
social networks. 
Championing positive change for customers and staff
Mears provides a range of services that help address some of 
the major challenges faced by British policy makers. Our thought 
leader programme brings sector leaders together to design, 
create, discuss and roll-out best practice in the social housing 
and social care sectors. Our expertise means we are well placed 
to support and influence policy makers both at a national and 
local level. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 45
We are pleased to have established an externally led Social Value 
Group, whose work it is to challenge and support Mears in our 
drive to show real corporate leadership in the Social Value space. 
We have continued to champion the needs of care workers and we are 
pleased to see the introduction of the Living Wage in 2016. We have 
commissioned research to look at the benefits of outcome-based 
commissioning and moving away from task and time care approaches, 
which do little for customers or staff.
We have worked on developing suitable accommodation for homeless 
people that gives them a place to call their own and to help reduce 
the significant and rising number of people that have to live in bed 
and breakfast accommodation.
We are pleased to have retained our status as one of the Government’s 
Social Mobility Champions. Social mobility is about giving young 
people equal chances in life, regardless of where they are born, 
the school they go to, or the jobs their parents do.
The Government initiative began last year and we were one of 
just twelve UK companies selected. As a Social Mobility Champion, 
we have pledged to lead by example by encouraging behavioural 
change in our business to ensure jobs and opportunities are open 
to everyone and inspiring other businesses to follow.
Protecting the environment and working with the 
supply chain
Mears has a proud record of managing waste effectively. We have 
seen a more consistent trend on a national basis with in excess of 
95% diversion of waste from landfill. Our waste provider, Network 
Waste, is at present completing a further review of all the major 
Mears branches. The branch reviews will ensure each branch is 
recycling to its maximum potential and will also draw out more 
financial savings from an increased level of recycling through 
segregation. We have also been working to identify solutions for 
particularly challenging waste streams. Typically these are the 
products that produce either large volumes or specialist waste 
that cause issues for disposal. The objectives are to challenge 
manufacturers to review their packaging solutions to reduce the 
impact in one, or both, scenarios. Ironmongery, in particular, is 
now being purchased in plain boxes rather than the more ‘retail’ 
friendly blister packs. Progress has also been made in disposing 
of paint residue efficiently and in an environmentally friendly 
manner through simple, yet ingenious, storage vessels.
Mears recognises the importance of measuring and addressing 
our own carbon footprint which is why we operate an Environmental 
Policy accredited with ISO 14001. We work hard to minimise the 
negative impact of our operations on the environment. 
Mears’ commitment to the environment extends beyond our 
own operations, into the supply chain. 85% of our c. £70m annual 
spend is on materials directly purchased with merchants 
recognised for sustainable procurement. Mears buys 100% 
FSC-approved timber from their preferred suppliers. 
Mears’ procurement approach supports providing opportunity 
to local SMEs. We have a robust pre-qualification process that 
must be completed by all subcontractors before they are able 
to provide services to either ourselves or our clients. This can be 
a challenge for some SME businesses, so in these cases, Mears 
runs ‘training’ sessions to establish the standards for those that 
are struggling. This includes an introduction to the relevant 
processes to ensure consistency on delivery moving forward. 
As regards health and safety, a more intensive session is run, 
focusing on risk assessment and reporting.
Mears continues to operate a local employment strategy with 
approximately 90% of our workforce living within the postcode 
district of their branch, meaning staff spend less time on the 
roads getting to work. For staff who require a vehicle to carry 
out their roles, training in economical driving has been shown 
to reduce fuel consumption by up to 20%.
Mears works hard to keep carbon emissions low in all areas of 
our operation. The key components of this being to limit the travel 
time of our operatives and Care staff, using the latest mileage 
management systems and by having well maintained fuel 
efficient vehicles.
Waste diverted from landfill
94.7%
2013 91.4%
2011 88.5%
2014 94.1%
2012 90.3%
2015 94.7%
We work hard to minimise the negative impact of our 
operations on the environment. Our recycling rates 
have continued to improve.
Units 2015 2014 2013
Scope 1 Tonnes CO
2
e 22,010 21,039 16,787
Scope 2 Tonnes CO
2
e 1,792 1,467 1,715
Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 
intensity
Tonnes CO
2
e/ 
£m revenue 27.01 26.83 21.38 Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 46
Sustainability continued
Our people
At Mears, we firmly believe that our staff are our most important 
resource. Our staff numbers have grown significantly over the last 
decade and we now have more than 18,000 people working in the Group.
Our leadership team has been strengthened and the structure 
of the business simplified to ensure we continue to balance local 
delivery with the benefits of national expertise.
With the large numbers of staff we employ comes the great 
responsibility of ensuring that they are properly supported, trained 
and protected whilst at work. The creation of Mears Learning in 2015 
and the building of our National Training Academy in Rotherham 
are just two recent steps taken to ensure that we continue to be 
seen as one of the most responsible employers working in the UK 
with the public sector.
Mears has strengthened its commitment to training and development 
with the launch of Mears Learning in partnership with Rotherham 
United Football Club. Work is well underway to turn part of the 
club’s New York Stadium into a Mears National Training Academy. 
This new venture provides a vehicle for Mears to offer innovative 
and leading edge training solutions using the latest techniques 
and technologies.
Mears Learning offers apprenticeships and a range of upskilling 
and professional development for Mears managers and employees, 
together with programmes for young and/or unemployed people 
from our communities. Going forward Mears Learning will also 
offer training and development services to our clients and supply 
chain partners. 
In 2015 Mears achieved endorsement from the Institute of Leadership 
and Management (ILM) for its range of leadership development 
programmes. The programmes were expanded from 2014 to include 
care managers and those from the support functions and non-core 
for the first time. This progress is expected to continue in 2016 with 
the introduction of entry-level access to management programmes. 
We also plan to strengthen our national talent and succession 
planning strategy.
In 2015, Mears employed 400 apprentices across the Group in a 
number of areas. We see our apprenticeship programme as one 
of the most important ways to secure our workforce needs of the 
future and are increasingly broadening our approach to cover not 
only housing trades but also care and support services roles.
We were extremely proud in 2014 to be awarded Social Mobility 
Champion status by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister for our 
work in helping people from disadvantaged backgrounds to develop 
skills and careers. We continued to drive this agenda in 2015. As one 
of only twelve Government Social Mobility Champions we have worked 
alongside our partners in both the social housing and social care 
sectors with some of the most marginalised communities in the UK.
Celtic Horizons Award
United Welsh, Mears and Celtic Horizons took top honours in the 
Maintaining High Quality Homes category at the 2015 UK Housing 
Awards ceremony in London. The awards, jointly organised by the 
Chartered Institute of Housing (CIH) and Inside Housing, are regarded 
as the most prestigious in recognising excellence in the sector.
The judges said that the partnership ‘clearly demonstrated a strong 
commitment to developing customer service standards through 
embedding a strong leadership culture through investment in 
employee training and reinvestment back into the communities 
they serve’.
United Welsh entered into a partnership with Mears to deliver its 
maintenance services with Celtic Horizons, a subsidiary of United Welsh.
The contract was rolled out in April 2013 and has a total potential 
value of £145m over 15 years. Celtic Horizons is the first wholly 
owned subsidiary of its kind, delivering total asset management 
and maintaining properties located in eleven Local Authority 
areas in South Wales.
Commenting on the award Tony Whittaker, Chief Executive 
of United Welsh, said: “It is a testament to the strong relationship 
between United Welsh and Mears that Celtic Horizons has so 
quickly become an award-winning organisation.”
In focus
Top honours at 2015 UK Housing Awards Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 47
In 2015, we continued our highly successful range of communication 
meetings around the country. These regional cross-business 
networking sessions helped to identify common issues and 
the sharing of good practice.
We hold two family fun days for staff, one in Scotland and one 
in England. These free events are to say thank you not only to our 
employees but also to their families and 2015 saw our best attended 
fun days ever. Almost 10,000 people attended in 2015 across the 
two events with 7 ,900 at Drayton Manor in England and 2,100 at 
M&D’s in Scotland – a theme park venue we used for the first time. 
Feedback for these events is always enormously positive with 
many staff proactively writing to thank the Group for the day 
and praising the event organisation. In 2016 we will be returning 
to both Drayton Manor and M&D’s.
Football-loving staff were also able to take on their colleagues 
with five-a-side tournaments held at Sunderland AFC’s academy 
in the North and the Valley Stadium (Charlton Athletic) in the South.
In 2016, the tournaments will take place in the New York Stadium 
(Rotherham United) and St George’s Park (FA’s training academy). 
Celebrating performance, individual or team success, good news 
stories and best practice initiatives are shared with all staff 
through the quarterly staff magazine and the increasing number 
of branch newsletters that combine local news with Group news. 
Mears Smile awards are increasingly popular with an increase in 
nominations. All nominees are given a ‘you’ve been nominated’ 
card by their manager and go through to the quarterly regional 
finals. Many branches are extending the programme locally 
with a Branch Smile award and putting nominations together 
with compliments onto a dedicated display board.
Our Mears Advantage discount scheme enables our staff to save money 
on their weekly shop, while Mears Assist enables staff to get free and 
independent advice on a range of work and non-work related topics.
On the Care side of our business, our accredited training is designed 
not only to meet the needs of our service users and the requirements 
of the regulators, but also to promote industry best practice in 
mandatory subjects such as manual handing, safeguarding adults 
against abuse and helping with medicines management. This training 
supplements a series of more specialised training workshops that 
provide our staff with insight into the specific needs of service user 
groups including training on supporting people with dementia, 
learning disabilities and epilepsy. 
Training courses are continually reviewed to ensure that they are 
in line with Skills for Care standards and changes in legislation. 
We were delighted that in 2015 we developed a new Pre-Employment 
Assessment Workshop (PEAW) that meets both the Care Certificate 
and our own training structure, especially since our acquisition 
of Care UK. As planned we successfully developed and delivered 
management workshops to achieve Level 5 Leadership and 
Management qualification. 
Mears once again retained its Investors in People (IIP) accreditation 
which has been in place since 1994. 
Mears has an excellent record on health and safety and last year 
was no exception. We have reduced accident rates by more than 
10% and have fulfilled the RoSPA Gold Award standard for the 
13th consecutive year. In addition, we were highly commended for 
our exemplary health and safety performance by RoSPA. In 2015, 
we achieved full integration of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, 
showing our credentials have been verified by an independent 
third party. Achieving certified status brings tangible business 
benefits and can unlock doors to new business. On top of that, 
we attained a diversion to landfill of more than 93% and gained 
approval by the Construction Industry Training Board (CITB) as 
a training provider and this allows us to deliver the full suite 
of CITB Site Safety Schemes. 
Our Say What You See survey was very successful with more than 
7 ,000 employees responding to a series of questions about working 
with Mears. The return was our biggest response ever and, in another 
first, had responses across all areas of our business: Housing, Care, 
non-core and support services. The overall response was very 
positive with staff in particular commenting on the following:
 > that the business is a warm and friendly place to work;
 > that staff feel well supported in their roles and there is a 
good sense of team spirit;
 > that Mears puts the customers first, allowing colleagues 
to make a personal difference; and
 > Mears encourages everyone to work to high standards.
The survey confirmed that, despite the growth in Mears over the 
years, we have been successful in maintaining the culture that 
drove this success. The survey also provided a valuable insight 
into the areas where Mears could make improvements and 
managers across the Group have been given actions to ensure 
that 2016’s figures are even better.
Communication is incredibly important across our workforce and 
the Executive team gives this area significant focus. The CEO’s weekly 
senior management briefing keeps senior managers informed of 
current issues and news. Items of general interest go out as a 
Daily Mears Matters email to around 4,000 staff every morning 
with branches asked to pass on relevant items to field staff.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 18 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: 
D J Miles
Chief Executive Officer
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
Accident frequency rate
0.17%
2013 0.31%
2011 0.36%
2014 0.23%
2012 0.33%
2015 0.17%
Providing our employees with a safe working environment remains 
paramount. Our accident rates have reduced year on year. Corporate governance
Introduction to corporate governance
Dear shareholder,
We seek to create a working culture where honesty, openness 
and fairness are valued. 
This is created from the ‘tone at the top’, where your Board 
demonstrates these values. The Board has made good progress 
in 2015 in embedding these cultures within the Group.
We seek to maintain the highest standards of corporate 
governance as this will help to facilitate the success of the 
Company and sustain this over time. An important distinction 
between the management, led by David Miles, Chief Executive 
Officer, and the Board is that the management is responsible 
for running the business while the Board, acting under my 
leadership, provides constructive challenge to management 
which is necessary to create accountability and drive 
performance. This results in an environment that creates 
and preserves value for shareholders. 
It is vital that as a Board we have the right mix of skills, experience 
and diversity, ensuring that Board members have sufficient 
knowledge of the Company whilst maintaining their independence 
and objectivity. I am fortunate as Chairman to be able to call upon 
a Board with a broad range of expertise and specialisms.
During 2015, the Board successfully integrated the acquired Mears 
Home Care (Care at Home division of Care UK) within the Care 
segment of our business. The Board is planning further operational 
enhancements for the combined business during 2016.
Board performance
Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual 
Directors takes place on an annual basis. The 2015 Board performance 
evaluation was internally facilitated. I met with all Board members 
individually, and asked for their views on a broad range of areas 
including Group strategy, independence, experience, effectiveness, 
shareholders and the interaction between Board members. Some 
recommendations were proposed which have been implemented, 
but the overall conclusion is that the Board is working effectively.
Succession and diversity
We take succession at Board and senior management level 
very seriously. We believe we have a good record of resourcing 
the needs of our business along with developing our own people 
in line with our desired culture.
We announced in October that Geraint Davies will be joining 
the Board and taking the role of Audit Committee Chairman. 
I am delighted to welcome him to the Board. Geraint’s wide audit 
experience, breadth of commercial skills and experience will add 
considerably to Board discussions. His detailed and up-to-date 
financial experience will ensure strong leadership of our Audit 
Committee in the future.
In January 2016 we announced that Julia Unwin will be joining 
the Board which is another excellent appointment. Julia has 
significant skills and experience in the housing sector which 
will add value to our Board.
R Holt
Chairman
bob.holt@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016
We are committed to achieving high 
standards of corporate governance. 
Effective corporate governance is 
essential to facilitate the success 
of the Group.
Bob Holt
Chairman Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 49
Your Board
R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee S A A Audit Committee Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman Key:
Age: 61
Tenure: 19 years
Skills and experience: 
Bob had a controlling interest in Mears at 
the time of flotation in October 1996. He has  
a background in developing support service 
businesses. He has operated in the service 
sector since 1981, initially in a financial 
capacity then moving into general management.
Age: 43
Tenure: 16 years (9 years on the Board)
Skills and experience: 
Andrew joined Mears in 1999 and, prior to 
his appointment to the Board, was Finance 
Director covering all of the Mears Group’s 
subsidiaries. Andrew qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant in 1994 and worked in professional 
practice prior to joining Mears.
Age: 74
Tenure: 8 years
Skills and experience: 
Michael founded Careforce in 1999 and 
has over 30 years’ experience in healthcare 
services and care provision. In 1976 he joined 
Nestor Medical Group Limited as Managing 
Director and went on to become Chief Executive 
of Nestor Healthcare Group plc from 1986 
to 1996. From 1996 to 1999 he worked as 
a consultant to a number of healthcare 
related organisations.
Age: 52
Tenure: 8 years
Skills and experience: 
David has over 17 years’ consulting experience, 
the last five of which have been at OC&C 
Strategy Consultants Limited where David 
is a partner. David has worked extensively in the 
support services sector for corporate and private 
equity clients. Previously, he was a partner in 
Arthur Andersen. He joined Mears in 2008.
Age: 61
Tenure: Joined the Board in October 2015
Skills and experience: 
Geraint is a fellow member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales. He was previously a partner for a 
leading professional practice for over 25 
years. His commercial experience includes 
working with Registered Social Landlords 
and a number of organisations in the 
healthcare sector.
Age: 49
Tenure: 19 years (9 years on the Board)
Skills and experience: 
David joined Mears in 1996 and, prior to his 
appointment to the Board in January 2007, 
was Managing Director of the Mears Social 
Housing division. Prior to joining Mears, David 
held a senior position with the Mitie Group. 
His background is in electrical engineering.
Age: 53
Tenure: 10 years (6 years on the Board)
Skills and experience: 
Alan joined Mears in 2005 and, prior to his 
appointment to the Board in August 2009, 
was Managing Director of the Group’s Care 
division, having previously held the position 
of Group Sales and Marketing Director. 
Prior to joining Mears, Alan held senior 
roles at Britannia Building Society, Mars 
and Smith & Nephew.
Age: 73
Tenure::8 years
Skills and experience: 
Peter has been active in the venture capital 
and investment fields for a number of years. 
He is currently a Director of a number of 
companies. He joined Mears in 2008 and is 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Age: 61
Tenure: 5 years
Skills and experience: 
Rory is a Chartered Accountant with a wide range 
of corporate finance transaction experience. 
He was previously Vice Chairman and Head of 
Mergers and Acquisitions at Deutsche Morgan 
Grenfell and latterly a Managing Director at 
Lehman Brothers. He is currently a consultant 
to various companies and holds a number  
of directorships.
Age: 53
Tenure: 10 years (6 years on the Board)
Skills and experience: 
Julia is Chief Executive of the Joseph Rowntree 
Foundation and the Joseph Rowntree Housing 
Trust. She has significant experience in the 
social housing sector, having been a member 
of the Housing Corporation Board for ten years.
Bob Holt OBE
Chairman
Andrew C M Smith
Finance Director
Michael G Rogers
Non-Executive Director
David L Hosein
Non-Executive Director
Geraint Davies CBE
Non-Executive Director
David J Miles
Chief Executive Officer
Alan Long
Executive Director
Peter F Dicks
Non-Executive Deputy 
Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director
Rory Macnamara
Non-Executive Director
Julia Unwin CBE
Non-Executive Director
R
Skills and experience: 
Ben is a Chartered Accountant and, prior to his appointment as Company 
Secretary, was Group Financial Controller and Director of a number of the 
Group’s subsidiaries. Ben joined the Group in 2004 having previously 
worked in professional practice.
Ben Westran 
Company Secretary
Age: 39 
Tenure: 12 years
A N R S
N A N R
A Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 50
Length of tenure of Board
10+ years 4
7–9 years 3
4–6 years 1
0–3 years 2
Non-Executive/Executive Directors
Executive 4
Non-Executive 6
Read the Report of the Audit Committee 
on pages 58 to 62
Read the Report of the Nomination Committee 
on pages 56 to 57
Your Board has due regard for the benefits of diversity 
in its membership, including gender, and strives to maintain 
the right balance. It comprises individuals with deep knowledge 
and experience in core and diverse business sectors within 
local, international and global markets, bringing a wide range 
of perspectives to the business. This diversity ensures thorough 
challenge during discussions which results in effectiveness 
in all aspects of the Board.
The independence of Non-Executive Directors is considered 
annually. This includes the review of length of service of 
Non-Executive Directors which is delegated to the Nomination 
Committee. The Board has remained stable despite the recent 
appointment of Chairman of the Audit Committee. This has enabled 
the Board to perform effectively before and after the acquisition 
of Mears Home Care (Care at Home division of Care UK).
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board is committed to maintaining the Group’s operations in 
accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance 
as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) 
issued in 2014 and has complied with all Code principles and 
relevant provisions throughout the year.
Corporate governance report
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate governance and 
is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities, strategy and financial 
performance. The Board is dedicated to upholding and achieving high standards 
of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all activities.
Responsibility for good governance lies with your Board. There is a strong 
and effective governance system in place throughout the Group.
Overview
The Board leads and provides strategic direction to the Group 
and carries ultimate responsibility for management of the Group’s 
activities and financial performance. The Board acknowledges 
accountability to shareholders for proper conduct of the business, 
and responsibility for long-term success of the Group, having 
regard for the interests of all stakeholders. 
Our business model and strategic priorities can be found on pages 1 2 
to 13 and 16 to 17 . There is a formal schedule of matters reserved 
specifically to the Board for decision. An overview of these can be 
found on page 52.
Other matters are delegated specifically to four principal Board 
Committees. The Chairman of each Committee briefs the Board at 
each meeting on the principal items that were discussed, 
decisions made and key issues. 
The day-to-day running of the business is delegated to the 
Executive Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Financial Director and the Executive Director.
Corporate governance framework
Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board. There is a 
strong and effective governance system in place throughout the 
Group which ensures that integrity and good ethical conduct are 
the foundations of our decision making. The governance framework 
extends to operational activities, as outlined in the risk management 
process on pages 38 to 39.
Corporate governance framework
Board members
David L Hosein
Rory Macnamara
Geraint Davies (from 27 October 2015)
Julia Unwin (from 1 January 2016)
Ben Westran
Bob Holt
David J Miles
Andrew C M Smith
Alan Long
Michael G Rogers
Peter F Dicks Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 51
The Senior Management Team comprises Senior Executives across each of the Group’s operational divisions 
and support functions and is the principal forum for directing the operational and financial business of the 
Group and for delivering the strategy set by the Board.
Senior Management T eam
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of 
its role. The Chairman sets the Board’s agenda and ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of 
all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
Chairman, Bob Holt
The Board
The Audit Committee is 
responsible for effective 
corporate governance in respect 
of financial reporting, agreeing 
the scope of the external audit, 
the setting of their remuneration 
and reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal controls, 
risk management and internal 
audit processes.
Committee members
 > Geraint Davies (Chairman)
 > Peter F Dicks
 > Rory Macnamara
Audit Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
is responsible for setting, 
reviewing and recommending 
the remuneration policy and 
strategy in respect of 
Executive remuneration.
Committee members
 > Peter F Dicks (Chairman)
 > Rory Macnamara
 > Michael G Rogers
The Nomination Committee is 
responsible for ensuring that 
the Board comprises a high 
level and range of business 
experience, skills and diversity 
to enable the Group to be 
managed effectively.
Committee members
 > Rory Macnamara 
(Chairman)
 > Peter F Dicks
 > Julia Unwin
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
The Chief Executive Officer 
manages the day-to-day 
business operations of the 
Group and recommends key 
strategies and implements 
those agreed by the Board.
Chief Executive Officer
Read the Report of the 
Nomination Committee 
on pages 56 to 57
Read the Review of 
Operations on pages 22 to 31
Read the Report of the 
Audit Committee on 
pages 58 to 62
Read the Report of the 
Remuneration Committee 
on pages 63 to 76 Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 52
The Board of Directors
During the year, the Board had a total of ten Directors of whom 
eight served throughout the year. Davida Marston did not offer 
herself for re-election as a Non-Executive Director at the AGM on 
3 June 2015 and Geraint Davies was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director with effect from 28 October 2015. Julia Unwin was appointed 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2016. Following 
resignation from the Board, Davida Marston did not have any 
concerns over the running of the Company or any proposed 
actions at the time of resignation.
The Board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, 
the Group Finance Director, the Executive Director and six* 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. Peter Dicks is the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director. The Directors’ biographical 
details are set out on page 49. These indicate the respective 
backgrounds and range of business experiences which enable 
the Board to operate effectively. Their differing mix of skills 
and business experience is a major contribution to the proper 
functioning of the Board and its Committees, by ensuring that 
matters are challenged and there is constructive debate.
The Board’s prime objective is to ensure the ongoing commercial and 
financial success of the Group. The Board provides entrepreneurial 
leadership of the Group within a sound and prudent risk management 
framework using effective internal control systems which enable risk 
to be assessed and managed. The Board sets the Group’s strategic 
objectives, and the nature and extent of principal risks it is willing 
to take in achieving these strategic objectives, and ensures that the 
necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to 
meet its objectives and also reviews management performance. The 
Board sets the Group’s values and standards and ensures that the 
Group’s obligations to its shareholders and others are understood 
and met.
* Seven Independent Non-Executive Directors from 1 January 2016.
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board maintains and regularly reviews a full list of matters 
and decisions that are reserved to, and can only be approved by, 
the Board. These are reviewed annually and include but are not 
limited to:
 > Group strategy and operating plans; 
 > corporate governance and risk management;
 > compliance with laws, regulations and the Company’s code 
of business conduct; 
 > the approval of budgets; 
 > changes to the Group’s debt and equity funding;
 > appointment, termination and remuneration of Directors 
and the Company Secretary;
 > financial reporting and audit, including interim and full-year 
results announcements and dividends; 
 > approving significant acquisitions, disposals and new business 
start-ups;
 > values and ethics; and
 > employee benefits including pensions and share-based payments.
Whilst the Board has specific responsibility for those matters 
reserved for its consideration, in certain areas, specific responsibility 
is delegated to Committees of the Board within defined Terms of 
Reference. The activities of these Committees are discussed in more 
detail later in this report. Other decisions are delegated to the Senior 
Management Team, which have prescribed areas of responsibility. 
 > manages the day-to-day business 
operations of the Group; 
 > ensures that the appropriate standards 
of corporate governance permeate 
throughout the organisation;
 > recommends key strategies and is 
responsible for execution of those 
agreed by the Board;
 > takes a leading role in the relationship 
with all external agencies and in 
promoting Mears Group PLC; and
 > directs the risk profile of the Group 
in line with the risk appetite and 
categories of risk identified and 
accepted by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer
 > is responsible for the leadership of the 
Board and ensuring its effectiveness;
 > sets the Board’s agenda and ensures 
adequate time is available for 
discussion of all agenda items;
 > ensures all discussion is in the context 
of the long-term success of the Group;
 > promotes a culture of openness and 
debate by facilitating the effective 
contribution of Non-Executive Directors;
 > ensures that the Directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear 
information; and
 > is responsible for designing a rigorous 
annual evaluation of the performance 
of the Board and individual Directors.
The Chairman
Division of 
responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer 
are clearly established, 
set out in writing and 
agreed by the Board.
Corporate governance report continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 53
Independence of our Board
The balance and independence of our Board is kept under review 
by our Nomination Committee.
The Code suggests that the length of tenure is a factor to consider 
when determining independence. The Nomination Committee is 
responsible for the progressive refreshing of the Board’s membership. 
This process is underway and is evidenced by the appointment of 
Geraint Davies and Julia Unwin. The table below shows the length 
of tenure for each Non-Executive Director. 
The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors 
who served during the year is independent in terms of judgement 
and character and free from any relationship that might materially 
interfere with the exercise of independent judgement. Independence 
of long-serving Independent Non-Executive Directors has been 
determined as part of the Board appraisal, where conduct and 
communications recorded from meetings were assessed.
Notwithstanding this and for the sake of completeness, below is a 
summary of relationships of which shareholders should be aware:
 > Michael Rogers became a Director of the Group in April 2007 , 
on the acquisition of Careforce, where he continued as Chief 
Executive Officer in a purely transactional role, focused on 
Careforce and not involved in the Group business, until 2008 
when he became a Non-Executive Director of Mears; and
 > Geraint Davies was the audit partner responsible for the 
Mears Group PLC audit but stepped down from the role in 2012 
and therefore for this year end has been entirely unconnected 
to the Company for four years.
All Directors act in what they consider to be the best interests 
of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties.
The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and develop 
proposals on strategy and scrutinise the performance of management 
in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of 
performance. They satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial 
information and that financial controls and systems of risk 
management are robust and defensible. They determine appropriate 
levels of remuneration of Executive Directors and have a prime 
role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive 
Directors and in succession planning.
Terms of Reference of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed 
annually as part of Board performance evaluation and are held 
by the Company Secretary.
Board membership and Board and Committee 
meeting attendance
The table opposite shows the attendance of Directors at 
scheduled Board and Committee meetings. The Board scheduled 
six meetings during the year including two strategy days. Further 
information relating to the strategy days can be found on page 55. 
Additional ad hoc meetings or conference calls were also organised 
pertaining to specific matters which require Director involvement 
between the scheduled meetings.
Directors are required to provide sufficient time to discharge 
their duties in office effectively. Where possible, Directors should 
attend all meetings. The Chairman of the Board or respective 
Committee is informed of any issues with meeting attendance.
The Nomination Committee receives regular updates outside 
of scheduled meetings which relate to the search process for 
potential new Board members. The Report of the Nomination 
Committee can be found on page 56.
In addition to the meetings scheduled:
 > the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met without 
the presence of the Executive Directors; and
 > the Non-Executive Directors met without the presence 
of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Information
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring Directors are properly 
briefed on issues to be discussed at Board meetings and that they 
have full and timely access to relevant information, including 
minutes of previous Board and Committee meetings. Timely 
access to information is a priority in order for Directors to be able 
to consider and present their own challenges to each meeting. The 
quality and timeliness of information provided to Directors was 
included as part of the Board evaluation. The findings were that 
information provided to Directors was thorough and relevant, 
and in all instances provided suitably in advance. 
Length of tenure
Director
D L Hosein 8 years
M G Rogers 8 years
P F Dicks 8 years
R Macnamara 5 years
G Davies <1 year
J Unwin <1 year Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 54
Board appraisal
The Chairman conducts individual appraisals with all Non-Executive 
Directors on an annual basis. The performance of the Chairman was 
reviewed separately in a process led by the Senior Independent Director.
Following the performance evaluation of individual Directors, 
the Chairman has confirmed that the Directors standing for 
re-election at this year’s AGM continue to perform effectively 
and demonstrate commitment to their roles. Likewise the Senior 
Independent Director has given the same confirmation in respect 
of the Chairman. In line with current practice, all Directors will 
retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election annually.
In particular the Board is strongly of the opinion that by their actions 
and conduct they demonstrate their independence. It is the Board’s 
intention to continue to annually review its performance and that of 
its Committees and individual Directors. A decision is taken each 
year on the performance evaluation process to be used.
Investor relations
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications 
with investors. Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility 
of David Miles, Andrew Smith and Alan Long, who all respond on 
a daily basis to queries from institutional and private investors. 
The Chairman is generally available to shareholders and meets 
with investors on a regular basis; the Senior Independent Director 
is also available when required. The Directors regularly meet 
shareholders at operational locations which both parties find 
more rewarding as it provides greater insight into the business 
and its processes. All Directors are available at each AGM and 
shareholder participation is encouraged. The Group has more 
regular contact with its banking partners, Barclays and HSBC, 
and the Group values this close relationship.
The Board is committed to maintaining regular contact through 
the provision of the Annual Report, regular Interim Reports and 
regular trading updates. This information can be found on the 
Group’s website (www.mearsgroup.co.uk). 
The Board is updated on its major shareholders by Neville Registers Ltd, 
the provider of registrar services to the Group. There is more dialogue 
with institutional investors following the publication of interim and 
preliminary results, which is facilitated through a series of formal 
presentations. Site visits are arranged throughout the year for 
shareholders and City commentators in order for them to gain 
exposure to our operations and management. 
Feedback from communications with major shareholders and other 
investors, where necessary, is discussed at each Board meeting. In 
addition, analyst views are shared prior to Board meetings enabling 
an opportunity for discussion and challenge. The feedback received 
has improved due to the introduction of both divisional Chief Operating 
Officers being present at investor meetings, giving an insight into 
the strength of the Senior Management Team.
Corporate governance report continued
Board performance 
evaluation overview
The performance evaluation process included: 
 > a review of the areas of Board roles and responsibility;
 > an internally facilitated review by the Chairman, 
which included meeting with all Board members 
individually;
 > the structure and composition of the Board and its 
Committees and the performance of the Committees; 
 > the quantity, quality and scope of information 
provided to the Board; 
 > an assessment of the appropriateness 
of Directors’ Terms of Reference;
 > the content of Board meetings and presentations 
to meetings; and
 > the openness of communications between the 
Board members and Executive Management.
Recommendations were made and all were duly 
implemented, but overall the Board was found 
to be operating effectively.
Board membership and Board and Committee meeting attendance
Board Strategy days Audit Nomination Remuneration
Number of meetings Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual
R Holt 6 6 2 2 — — — — — —
D J Miles 6 6 2 2 5 5 — — — —
A C M Smith 6 6 2 2 5 5 — — — —
A Long 6 6 2 2 — — — — — —
M G Rogers 6 6 2 2 — — — — 2 2
P F Dicks 6 6 2 2 5 5 1 1 2 2
D L Hosein 6 6 2 2 — — 1 1 — —
R Macnamara 6 6 2 2 5 5 1 1 2 2
G Davies 1 1 — — 3 3 — — — —
D Marston 2 2 1 1 2 2 — — — — Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 55
Investor relations continued
Principal methods of communication with investors
 > Annual Report and Accounts
 > Interim statements
 > Trading updates
 > Quarterly newsletters
 > Group website (www.mearsgroup.co.uk)
Director induction and development
The Group’s policy is to provide appropriate training to its Directors. 
Training takes into account each individual’s qualifications and 
experience and includes environmental, social and governance 
training, tailored to individual requirements as appropriate. The 
Chairman regularly meets with each Director to review and agree 
any training and development needs.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is 
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable 
rules and regulations are observed. All Directors also have 
unfettered access to the Group’s operations and staff.
In accordance with Board policy, following the appointment of 
Geraint Davies and Julia Unwin as Independent Non-Executive 
Directors, both received a full, formal and tailored induction 
relating to all of the Group’s activities upon joining the Board.
Existing and new Directors are required to avail themselves 
of opportunities to meet with our major shareholders.
Strategy days
Keeping up to date with developments within the Group is essential 
for the Directors to maintain and enhance their effectiveness. 
This is achieved through two strategy days which were attended 
by all Directors. This achieved:
 > an update on the process of setting Group strategic objectives;
 > financial plans, including budgets and forecasts, were reviewed 
and discussed;
 > an update on external factors affecting Group strategy; and
 > open discussion relating to the Group’s medium-term  
and long-term strategy.
Indemnifications of Directors
In accordance with our Articles of Association and to the extent 
permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors are granted 
an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as 
a result of their position in office. However, our indemnity does not 
cover Directors or officers in the event of being proven of acting 
dishonestly or fraudulently. 
Board Committees
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal 
Committees. The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial 
information, the effectiveness of the financial controls and the 
internal control and risk management systems. The Nomination 
Committee recommends the appointment of Directors and conducts 
a review of succession planning at Board and Operating Board levels. 
The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy 
for Executive Directors and determines their individual 
remuneration arrangements.
The Chairperson of each Committee provides a report of any meeting 
of that Committee at the next Board meeting. Each Committee 
comprises Non-Executive Directors only, as required by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014.
The Chairperson of each Committee is present at the AGM 
to answer questions from shareholders.
P F Dicks
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
peter.dicks@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016 Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 56
Report of the Nomination Committee
Introduction
The Nomination Committee ensures there is an effective 
balance of skills and experience for Board discussions. 
Succession and diversity are key aspects of our agenda 
to ensure the Board is continually challenged.
The Committee’s priorities over the past year have been:
 > maintain a succession plan for the Executive Board 
members and Senior Management Team; 
 > manage the appointment process of Geraint Davies 
as Independent Non-Executive Director and Audit 
Committee Chair; and
 > manage the appointment process of Julia Unwin 
as Independent Non-Executive Director.
R Macnamara
Nomination Committee Chairman
rory.macnamara@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the 
appointment of new Directors to the Board. The search for Board 
candidates is conducted, and appointments are made, on merit, 
against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits 
of diversity on the Board, including gender. 
The appointment of members of this Committee is conditional 
upon them allocating sufficient time to the Company to discharge 
their duties.
Role of the Committee
The Nomination Committee’s responsibilities include:
 > keeping under review the composition of the Board 
and succession to it and succession planning for senior 
management positions within the Group;
 > making recommendations to the Board concerning appointments 
to the Board, whether of Executive or Non-Executive Directors, 
having regard to the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity of the Board;
 > making recommendations to the Board concerning the 
re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the 
conclusion of his/her specified term and the re-election 
of any Director by shareholders under the retirement 
provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association;
 > managing a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure 
for any appointments of new Directors to the Board;
 > prior to the appointment of a Director, requiring that the 
proposed appointee discloses any other business interests 
that may result in a conflict of interest and reports any future 
business interests that could result in a conflict of interest;
 > ensuring that, on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive 
Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out 
clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, 
Committee service and involvement outside Board meetings; and
 > reviewing the length of service of Non-Executive Directors 
to ensure a progressive refreshing of the Board.
Rory Macnamara
Nomination Committee Chairman Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 57
Committee meetings
The Committee formally met once during the year and all members 
of the Committee were present at the meeting. In addition to its 
formal meeting, there was regular contact between Committee 
members as well as ad hoc meetings with other Board members 
and management, when deemed necessary by the Committee 
Chairman, particularly relating to the search process for the new 
Non-Executive Directors.
Following the confirmation that Davida Marston would not 
offer herself for re-election at the AGM in 2015, the recruitment 
of a Non-Executive Director who would Chair the Audit Committee 
duly commenced. The Committee considered both the balance 
of skills, experience and diversity of the Board, with the specific 
skills required of an Audit Committee Chair, in determining the 
types of candidate who might best fit the specification of this 
role. The process ensued with a thorough search which included 
meetings with the Chairman and other Directors. The Board was 
delighted to be able to appoint Geraint Davies on 27 October 2015. 
Geraint has detailed and up-to-date financial knowledge with over 
25 years’ experience as a partner in a leading professional practice. 
This experience includes working with Registered Social Landlords 
and across a broad spectrum within the healthcare sector. 
During the year, the Committee considered the membership 
of each Board Committee and updated its succession plans for 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and senior management. 
As a result of this process, the Board was able to announce the 
appointment of Julia Unwin from 1 January 2016. This is an 
excellent appointment due to Julia’s significant experience 
within the social housing sector.
This year the Committee commissioned an internally facilitated 
evaluation of Board members from the Chairman, Bob Holt. Further 
information about the this process can be found on page 54 of the 
Corporate Governance Report. The evaluator interviewed each Board 
member and also contacted external advisers. No major issues were 
identified but a number of action points were noted and are now 
being addressed. The policy adopted is that an externally facilitated 
evaluation will be undertaken at least every three years. The last 
externally facilitated evaluation was in 2014.
The Board acknowledges that diversity extends beyond the 
boardroom and supports the management effort to build a diverse 
organisation. The Company believes in promoting diversity at all 
levels of the organisation; at present 23% of our senior managers 
are female. The Board is confident that this will increase over time. 
It is the aspiration of the Board for the diversity in membership to 
mirror the diversity in our Senior Management Team. Currently 9% 
of Board members are female (2014: 10%). When considering the 
optimum composition of the Board, the benefits of diversity are 
appropriately balanced with their skills, knowledge, experience 
and approach.
“ The Board acknowledges that 
diversity extends beyond the 
boardroom and supports the 
management effort to build 
a diverse organisation.” Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 58
Report of the Audit Committee
Introduction
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities regarding, in particular, 
the Company’s financial and corporate reporting, 
risk management and internal controls, and 
the independence and effectiveness of the 
external auditor.
G Davies 
Audit Committee Chairman
geraint.davies@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016
This report sets out how the Committee has discharged its 
responsibilities during the year, one in which I have succeeded 
Davida Marston as Audit Committee Chairman. The Board is required 
to ensure that the Annual Report is fair , balanced and understandable, 
and the Committee assists in considering this. This report will also 
set out, in relation to the financial statements, the significant 
issues considered and how these were addressed.
In the intervening period between Davida Marston leaving the 
Board and my joining, Rory Macnamara undertook the interim 
appointment. Whilst a period of change is never ideal, I have 
myself spent considerable time in meeting the divisional senior 
management and I had a number of detailed review meetings with 
the Group’s Chief Risk Officer (CRO) during which I have obtained 
a high degree of comfort around the risk management and control 
environment of the Group. Notwithstanding this, I believe that I have 
already added fresh challenge and value to what is already 
a robust process.
The work of the Committee is far-ranging. However, without 
attempting to summarise here, I would draw attention to 
the following:
In relation to financial reporting, three particular areas contain 
significant judgements: the carrying value of goodwill, defined 
benefit liabilities, and revenue recognition.
In relation to risk management and internal control, we focused 
on IT security and disaster recovery, financial controls and updating 
and reviewing the risk register which enables the review of the 
internal audit plan and the internal audit findings which are produced 
by our outsourced internal audit partner, KPMG, and our internal 
audit team led by the CRO. Principal risks are generated from our 
risk register; further information relating to principal risks can be 
found on pages 38 to 41. In relation to risk management, the Senior 
Management Team plays a central role in safeguarding against 
risk. The Group’s risk personnel present risk management training 
modules to ensure operations are conducted with a strong risk 
management ethos and I personally attended and presented 
at a recent senior management development event.
In relation to the independence and effectiveness of the external 
auditor, the Committee continues to review the external audit 
engagement on an annual basis having carried out a tender exercise 
in 2013. The review process includes reviewing reports produced 
by the external auditor, and Committee discussion around the 
sophistication and appropriateness of audit procedures and 
approach. The tender process resulted in the re-appointment 
of Grant Thornton UK LLP and I am delighted that, each year, 
new and challenging audit procedures are used by our 
external auditor.
Geraint Davies
Audit Committee Chairman Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 59
Role of the Committee
The Committee has access to the financial expertise of the Group 
and its auditor, if required, and can seek further professional 
advice at the expense of the Group, if required.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: 
 > consider the appointment of the external auditor, its reports 
to the Committee and its independence, including an assessment 
of its appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work;
 > review the financial statements and announcements relating 
to the financial performance of the Company;
 > review the internal audit programme and ensure that the 
internal audit function is adequately resourced and has 
appropriate standing within the Company;
 > discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope 
of the audit;
 > review, and challenge where necessary, the action and 
judgements of management, in relation to the interim and 
annual financial statements before submission to the Board;
 > formally review the effectiveness of the external and internal 
audit processes;
 > consider management’s response to any major external 
or internal audit recommendations;
 > review the Company’s plans for business continuity;
 > review the Company’s plans for prevention and detection 
of fraud, bribery and corruption;
 > review the effectiveness of the whistleblowing arrangements; and
 > report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are available on the 
Company’s website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is comprised of financially literate members 
with the requisite ability and experience to enable the Committee 
to discharge its responsibilities. Geraint Davies and Rory Macnamara 
are the current members who have recent and relevant financial 
experience. Davida Marston also served on the Committee as 
Chairman during the year and also had recent and relevant 
financial experience.
Committee meetings
The Committee met five times during the year with attendance 
by all members. These meetings were also attended by the Group 
Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director and the Chief 
Risk Officer as required by invitation from the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. The external auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, 
was invited to all meetings. There was also significant dialogue 
outside formal meetings between Committee members, Executive 
Directors and the external auditor particularly during the audit 
process and the preparation of the Annual Report. The Audit 
Committee Chairman meets with the external auditor regularly 
throughout the year.
Main activities of the Committee during the year
Financial reporting
The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting 
is to review, with both management and the external auditor, the 
appropriateness of the half-year and annual financial statements, 
concentrating upon the reasonableness of the accounting policies, 
adherence to accounting standards and sufficiency and clarity of 
the information disclosed.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in 
relation to the 2015 accounts, and how these were addressed, were:
Carrying value of goodwill 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped 
at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows; these are termed as cash-generating units (CGUs). Due to the 
Board successfully integrating the newly acquired Care business 
into the existing Care business, there have been two CGUs identified: 
Social Housing and Care. Determining whether goodwill is impaired 
requires an estimate of the value in use of each of the CGUs to 
which goodwill has been allocated. The value-in-use calculation 
involves an estimate of the future cash flows of the CGU and also 
the selection of an appropriate discount rate to calculate present 
values. Future cash flows are estimated using the current one-year 
budget, extrapolated for five years to December 2020 using specific 
rates with a general terminal growth rate being used thereafter. 
This has been derived from the extensive business planning process 
described in greater detail within note 10 on page 1 13 of the Annual 
Report. Estimated growth rates over each period are based on 
past experience and knowledge of the individual sector’s markets. 
The Directors consider that the estimates and judgements involved 
in determining the value in use of the Care CGU goodwill are the 
most significant to the Group and they have therefore utilised the 
services of an external consultant to assist with this impairment 
review. The value in use is most sensitive to changes in the terminal 
growth rate, the explicit growth rate during the forecast period and 
the discount rate. The sensitivity to changes in these estimations 
is detailed in note 10.
The Audit Committee addressed this area of judgement by reviewing 
the key assumptions proposed by management, notably forecast 
growth rate, discount rate, terminal growth rate and carer recruitment 
and retention rates. Given the importance of these two assumptions, 
the Committee also reviewed reports prepared by a third party 
valuation expert, PwC, which provided validation to the 
management proposals:
 > the Committee reviewed the asset valuation report prepared 
by PwC on behalf of management and met with PwC to discuss 
the report in detail. The Committee gave particular focus to the 
sensitivity analysis which showed the level of changes in key 
value-in-use calculation assumptions that would be required 
before triggering any impairment;
 > the Committee reviewed the disclosure in the notes to the 
financial statements; and
 > this area represented a prime area of audit focus and Grant 
Thornton UK LLP provided detailed feedback to the Committee. Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 60
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Main activities of the Committee during the year 
continued
Financial reporting continued
Defined benefit pension valuation 
A number of key estimates have been made, which are given below 
and which are largely dependent on factors outside the control of 
the Group:
 > inflation rates;
 > mortality;
 > discount rate; and
 > salary and pension increases.
Details of the particular estimates used are included in the 
pensions note on pages 132 to 136.
Where the Group has a contractual right to recover the costs of 
making good any deficit pension scheme, the fair value of that 
asset has been recognised and disclosed. The right to recover 
costs is limited to exclude situations where the Group causes 
the scheme to incur service costs in excess of those which would 
have been incurred were the members employed within Local 
Government. The Directors have made judgements in respect 
of whether any of the deficit is as a result of such situations.
The right to recover costs is also limited to situations where 
the cap on contributions payable by the Group is not set so as to 
contribute to reducing the deficit in the scheme. The Directors, in 
conjunction with the scheme actuaries, have made judgements in 
respect of the predicted future service cost and contributions to 
the scheme to reflect this in the fair value of the asset recognised.
The Audit Committee addressed this area of judgement in the 
following ways:
 > the Committee reviewed the key assumptions proposed by 
management, notably assumptions in respect of discount rate, 
RPI, CPI and future salary increases. Given the materiality of 
this area, the Committee reviewed a report prepared by 
Ernst & Young LLP which validated the assumptions set 
by management and provided a comparison with other 
quoted companies;
 > the Committee reviewed the accounting treatment of pension 
related transactions. Full disclosure has been provided within 
the pensions note on pages 132 to 136; and
 > given the technical nature of this area, the Committee placed 
reliance upon the actuarial reports prepared by the respective 
scheme actuaries in respect of each of the defined benefit 
pension schemes.
The completeness of provisions in respect of performance 
guarantees of discontinued activities 
As detailed within note 7 , in 2013 the Group completed the disposal 
of the entire share capital of Haydon Mechanical and Electrical 
Limited. As part of that disposal, the Group retained the beneficial 
interest in 49% of the share capital of an investment in a company 
registered in the United Arab Emirates, Haydon Mechanical and 
Electrical LLC (‘Haydon LLC’). This beneficial interest was retained 
due to a number of performance guarantees in place at the time of 
the disposal which would unravel as the underlying contracts are 
completed. During the period the Group agreed, in principle, to sell 
its interest in the company to the management. The transfer will 
happen in stages as the performance guarantees are cancelled. 
The formal sales and purchase agreement is expected to be 
signed imminently.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group has performance guarantees 
of £15.4m. These performance guarantees are disclosed as 
contingent liabilities in note 27 . 
At 31 December 2014, a balance of £2.6m was due from Haydon LLC 
to the Group. During the period, the Group provided additional 
financial support to Haydon LLC of £4.5m to mitigate risk in respect 
of its underlying performance guarantees. A number of the underlying 
contracts are now reaching completion and whilst there remains a 
range of possible outcomes, the Directors believe that the carrying 
values are appropriate. The extent to which performance guarantees 
will be called upon is judgemental and depends on the quality and 
timeliness of the work undertaken to which the guarantees relate 
and when it is likely that guarantees will be cancelled due to the 
performance criteria having been met. 
The Committee addressed this area of judgement in the following ways: 
 > the Committee reviewed with management the position on each 
of the relevant contracts with particular reference to the state 
of completion; 
 > the Committee looked at the cash flow and costs to complete 
forecasts with management to see whether they might indicate 
any likely impact on the performance guarantees; and 
 > the Committee saw the contract management work undertaken 
by the auditor , which provided detailed feedback to the Committee. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when the outcome of a job or contract can 
be estimated reliably; revenue associated with the transaction is 
recognised by reference to the stage of completion of work at the 
balance sheet date. The outcome of the transaction is deemed to 
be able to be estimated reliably when all the following conditions 
are satisfied:
 > the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
 > it is probable that the economic benefits associated 
with the transaction will flow to the entity;
 > the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet 
date can be measured reliably; and
 > the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete 
the transaction can be measured reliably.
Full provision is made for future losses on all contracts in the year 
in which the loss is first foreseen. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 61
Main activities of the Committee during the year 
continued
Financial reporting continued
Revenue recognition continued
The Audit Committee addressed this area of judgement 
in the following ways:
 > the Committee reviewed the key judgements report prepared 
by management which provided a detailed explanation in 
respect of the valuation of unbilled works and the recognition 
of revenues;
 > the Committee took comfort from the contract management 
system which is central in generating the valuation of works 
(both billed and unbilled) and the integrated process that 
follows to ensure an accurate cut-off to that revenue is 
appropriately matched to cost. Grant Thornton tested these 
systems during its audit fieldwork and provided feedback 
to the Committee on this crucial area; and
 > this area represented a prime area of external audit focus. 
Grant Thornton UK LLP carried out both controls-based and 
substantive testing of the amounts recoverable on contracts, 
adopting a blend of risk-based and random sampling approaches 
to testing and provided detailed feedback to the Committee 
in this area. Grant Thornton’s comments can be seen 
on pages 80 to 85.
Internal control and risk management
With respect to its oversight of risk management and internal 
controls, the Board reviewed and discussed a wide range of matters 
with management, internal audit and external audit, as appropriate. 
This extends to cover all material controls, including operational, 
compliance and financial controls and risk management systems. 
The Directors are satisfied that procedures are in place to ensure 
that the Group complies with the Turnbull Committee guidance 
published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales and that the procedures have been applied during the year.
The Board has delegated some of these responsibilities to the 
Audit Committee which has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control and ensured that any remedial action 
has been or is being taken on any identified weaknesses. The 
system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. It includes all controls including 
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management procedures.
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Group 
endeavours to ensure that the appropriate controls, systems and 
training are in place and has established procedures for all business 
units to operate appropriate and effective risk management. 
The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal 
control systems are ongoing, allowing a cumulative assessment 
to be made, and include the following:
 > delegation of day-to-day management to operational management 
within clearly defined systems of control, including:
 > the identification of levels of authority within clearly 
identified organisational reporting structures;
 > the identification and appraisal of financial risks both formally, 
within the annual process of preparing business plans and 
budgets, and informally, through close monitoring of operations;
 > a comprehensive financial reporting system within which 
actual results are compared with approved budgets, quarterly 
re-forecasts and previous years’ figures on a monthly basis 
and reviewed at both local and Group level; and
 > an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate 
level of approval for all capital and revenue expenditure;
 > discussion and approval by the Board of the Group’s strategic 
directions, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them, 
combined with regular reviews by management of the risks to 
achieving objectives and actions being taken to mitigate them;
 > review and approval by the Board of annual budgets, combined 
with regular operational and financial reviews of performance 
against budget, prior year results and regular forecasts by 
management and the Board;
 > regular reviews by the Board and Audit Committee of identified 
fraudulent activity and actions being taken to remedy any 
control weaknesses;
 > regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the 
scope and results of internal and external audit work across the 
Group and the implementation of recommendations;
 > consideration by the Board and by the Audit Committee of the 
major risks facing the Group and of the procedures in place to 
manage them and to ensure controls react to changes in the 
Group’s overall risk profile. These include health and safety, 
people, legal compliance, quality assurance, insurance and 
security and reputational, social, ethical and environmental risks;
 > discussion relating to a presentation from the IT Director 
on cyber security, including an assessment of vulnerabilities 
and the programmes being implemented to protect the Group 
against the evolving and potentially catastrophic risk;
 > following the requirement for the Group to provide additional 
funding to Haydon LLC, as detailed in note 7 to the financial 
statements, the Committee reviewed with management the 
additional controls put in place by the Chief Executive Officer 
to protect the Group’s position in relation to certain 
performance guarantees;
 > consideration and discussion relating to regular updates 
from the Finance Director regarding development within the 
finance function; and
 > review of the Group’s treasury policies with the Finance Director 
and Head of Treasury in order to ensure best practice is being 
adhered to. Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 62
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Main activities of the Committee during the year 
continued
Internal control and risk management continued
The Board has reviewed these procedures and considers 
them appropriate given the nature of the Group’s operations. 
The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and Finance Director presented a 
report on the robustness of the internal controls for the year and 
an internal audit plan for 2016. The Committee has concluded 
that the system of internal control and risk management is 
embedded into the operations of the Group and the actions 
taken to mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
The key controls in place are:
 > a defined organisational structure and an appropriate level 
of delegated responsibility to operational management;
 > authorisation limits for financial and non-financial transactions;
 > written operational procedures;
 > a robust system of financial budgeting and forecasting;
 > a robust system of financial reporting with actual results 
compared to budget and forecast results; and
 > regular reporting of operational performance and risks 
to the Board.
In 2014 a review of internal controls was performed by 
independent internal audit outsourced partners, KPMG. This 
work was commissioned on a risk-based approach and was 
performed to provide the Committee with independent assurance 
over the quality of risk management and strength of internal 
controls. The procedures performed by KPMG were undertaken 
within inherently risky areas that would affect KPI performance. 
This assignment was finalised during 2015 and the independent 
view of internal controls was that controls were generally 
adequate, though improvements were suggested. The 
improvements have been implemented. 
The Company has in place internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to the Company’s financial reporting process 
and the Group’s process for the preparation of consolidated accounts. 
The consolidated financial statements are produced by the Group 
finance function, which is responsible for the review and compilation 
of reports and financial results from each of the operating subsidiaries 
in accordance with the Group reporting procedures. The consolidated 
financial statements are supported by detailed working papers. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring 
these processes, which are designed to ensure that the Company 
complies with relevant regulatory reporting and filing requirements. 
As at the end of the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee, 
with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Finance 
Director, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of 
disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information 
required to be disclosed in financial reports is recorded, processed, 
summarised and reported within specified time periods.
The Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness with 
input from Committee and Board members, management and the 
external auditor. The review concluded that the Audit Committee 
members had sufficient expertise and committed time to 
discharge their responsibilities.
External audit related services
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring and reviewing the 
performance, independence and objectivity of Grant Thornton UK LLP , 
the external auditor. The external auditor has also confirmed that 
it has complied with relevant UK independence standards. The 
Company has a non-audit service policy for work carried out by 
Grant Thornton. This is split into the following three categories:
 > pre-approved work for the external auditor – this is 
predominantly the audit of subsidiary undertakings’ 
statutory accounts and is audit related in nature;
 > work for which Committee approval is specifically required – 
this includes transaction work and corporate tax services, 
and certain advisory services; and
 > work from which the external auditor is prohibited.
To safeguard audit objectivity and independence, the Committee is 
responsible for approval of all non-audit services provided by Grant 
Thornton. As part of the approval process, the Committee will consider 
whether it is in the interest of the Company that services are supplied 
by Grant Thornton. Where Grant Thornton is chosen, this is due to 
the detailed knowledge of the structure of the business and the 
understanding of the markets the Group operates in, which means 
it is the preferred provider of the service. 
The fees paid to Grant Thornton during the year in respect of 
non-audit services were £0.03m (2014: £0.05m). The total fees 
for non-audit services represented approximately 7% of the audit 
fees paid for the year (2014: 14%).
Read more in the financial statements 
in note 2 on page 104 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 63
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce the Mears 2015 
Remuneration Report. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy sets 
out the Company’s remuneration policy  
for Directors. 
This policy was subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 
2014 AGM and will remain unchanged for a period of at least 
three years. For completeness, the policy is detailed in full 
within this Annual Report. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out payments and 
awards made to the Directors and details the link between 
Company performance and remuneration for the 2015 financial 
year. This report, together with this letter, is subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
The Company’s remuneration structure has been designed to support 
the evolving business strategy and foster a pay for performance culture 
helping us achieve our corporate goals. The success of the Company 
is driven by a continued focus to drive shareholder value through: 
 > growing revenues and earnings in a sustainable 
and profitable manner; 
 > a progressive dividend policy closely tracking growth in earnings; 
 > generating a strong level of cash flow to deliver returns 
for shareholders and investment for future growth; and 
 > efficient and targeted investment of cash. 
These measures, together with shareholder returns, are captured 
in the cornerstone of our remuneration structure, namely the 
Management Incentive Plan (MIP). 
During the last twelve months, the Company has continued 
to make significant progress in a number of areas including: 
 > achieving a broader housing management offering;
 > an important step forward with the award of the long-term joint 
venture partnership with Milton Keynes Council;
 > the acquisition of Care at Home business of Care UK (‘CAH’) 
strengthened our position in the Domiciliary Care market; 
 > the order book has increased to £3.5 billion (2014: £3.3 billion) with 
excellent visibility of 96% of 2016 consensus revenues reflecting 
strong progress in positioning the business for the future; and
 > continued financial discipline evidenced by strong cash conversion.
Group profit before tax declined due to the acquisition of the 
loss-making CAH. The Directors have reported the results of CAH 
in normal trading. These results are reflected in the performance 
against MIP targets for 2015 as follows: 
Performance measures* Target Maximum Actual
EPS growth 10% 15% (10)%
T otal shareholder return (TSR) growth 10% 15% 23%
Cash conversion (underpin) 80% 121%
ROCE (underpin) 10% 18%
*  See page 72 for definitions of performance measures and actual 
remuneration outcomes. 
Peter Dicks
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Report of the Remuneration Committee Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 64
Remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration policy
Remuneration policy and philosophy
Remuneration policy How is this achieved?
Levels of remuneration should be appropriate to 
retain and motivate the Executive talent required 
to meet the Group’s objectives.
 > By providing a threshold level of remuneration which reflects the individual’s 
experience, role and contribution within the Group. 
 > Remuneration levels are reviewed annually with due consideration afforded to 
Mears’ remuneration policy, external benchmarks and market practices.
Incentive arrangements for key individuals should 
be capable of providing exceptional levels of total 
payment if outstanding performance is achieved.
 > The Executive Directors’ remuneration packages are designed to ensure that 
variable components of an Executive Director’s total remuneration package 
amounts to around one third for target performance and around two thirds 
for stretching performance.
A significant component of each Executive’s 
total compensation should be delivered through 
performance related pay.
 > At stretching performance, around two thirds of the Executive Directors’  
total remuneration package is based on performance related pay.
There should be a commitment to fostering a strong 
performance culture that aligns an individual’s 
rewards with the key corporate metrics that drive 
shareholder value creation.
 > Performance targets are set which are motivating and directly aligned 
to the Group’s strategic underlying performance.
 > The Committee also ensures that the remuneration package does not lead 
to irresponsible behaviour and that it takes appropriate account of risk.
 
“ The Company’s remuneration 
structure has been designed 
to support the evolving 
business strategy and foster 
a pay for performance culture 
helping us achieve our 
corporate goals.”
To strengthen the alignment with the Executive Directors and 
shareholders, the Committee has decided that, for the second year 
running, the MIP contribution for 2015 will be made entirely in 
shares with no cash contribution being released. This alignment 
should ensure management is focused on delivering strong 
performance in the coming year. 
Looking forward the Remuneration Committee, as noted in last year’s 
report, is aware that given the growth and size of the company, the 
Executive Director remuneration levels are well below market norms. 
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
To rectify this situation salary levels for the Executive Directors 
were increased by 10% for 2015 and we said we would consider 
similar increases for 2016 and 2017 but contingent on corporate 
and individual performance to ensure that Mears’ exceptional 
management team were paid fairly. Taking into account all relevant 
circumstances we have decided to increase base pay by 5% for 
current year. It is important to note that there will be no change to 
the actual remuneration structure. The Committee firmly believes 
that the increase in base pay, along with the MIP structure, will 
continue to motivate and retain the exceptional management team 
who are committed to the success of the Company, while helping 
to ensure the creation of long-term value for shareholders.
I hope you will find the information in this report informative and 
helpful. I am always happy to hear from shareholders and should 
you have any questions about this report or remuneration issues 
generally, please contact me directly or through the Company 
Secretary, Ben Westran.
P F Dicks
Remuneration Committee Chairman
peter.dicks@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 65
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Executive Directors
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for Executive Directors:
Objective and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance measures 
and assessment
Base salary
The purpose of the base 
salary is to:
 > help recruit and retain 
key individuals;
 > reflect the individual’s 
experience, role and 
contribution within 
the Group; and
 > ensure fair reward 
for ‘doing the job’.
The Committee reviews base salaries annually in April in order to ensure 
that Executive Directors remain competitively aligned with external 
market rates.
The Committee will retain the discretion to increase an individual’s salary 
where there is a significant difference between current levels and a 
market competitive rate. However, in determining whether to increase 
levels the Committee will take the following into consideration:
 > the performance of the individual Executive Director;
 > the individual Executive Director’s experience and responsibilities;
 > the impact on fixed costs of any increase; and
 > pay and conditions throughout the Group.
When setting the salary levels for the Executive Directors, in addition 
to the factors summarised above, salary levels paid by a number of 
comparator companies of a similar size to Mears are taken into account.
The Committee’s 
policy is to set 
base salary at an 
appropriate level 
taking into account 
the factors outlined 
in this table.
Not applicable.
Other benefits
To provide benefits that 
are valued by the recipient 
and are appropriately 
competitive. 
The Executive Directors receive additional benefits including a company 
provided car or an allowance in lieu, life assurance and private medical 
insurance. Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Benefit values vary 
year on year 
depending on 
premiums and the 
maximum potential 
value is the cost of 
these provisions.
Not applicable.
Management Incentive Plan (MIP)
The MIP provides a strong 
link between reward and 
corporate performance in 
order to appropriately 
retain and motivate the 
Executive Directors and 
senior management who 
are critical to executing 
the business strategy.
Align the interests of 
Executive Directors and 
senior management more 
closely with shareholders 
over the longer term and 
provide a greater exposure 
to share price movements 
over this period.
 > Participants have a plan account into which contributions 
by Mears are made.
 > Performance is measured by reference to targets over the financial year.
 > Contributions are made annually with payments made each year 
to ensure an overlap with the next plan year depending on the extent 
to which the performance conditions are met.
 > After contributions are made, 50% of the plan balance is paid in 
cash and 50% is deferred in shares. However, at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee, the element to be deferred can be increased 
from 50% but never decreased.
 > No contribution is made to a participant’s plan account unless the 
performance conditions and financial underpins set at the beginning 
of the relevant year are satisfied. Where only one of the financial 
underpins is met and the performance conditions are met then the 
annual contribution will be reduced by 50%.
 > 50% of the plan account is at risk of forfeiture each year if minimum 
level of performance is not met.
 > Further details of the operation of the MIP including the performance 
conditions for 2016 are set out on page 75.
Annual 
contributions 
made to Executive 
Directors will be 
capped at a 
maximum of 
250% of salary.
Target payments 
will be at 20%  
of an Executive 
Director’s 
maximum 
opportunity.
Contributions will  
be based on the 
satisfaction of 
performance 
conditions, for 
example EPS 
and TSR. The 
Remuneration 
Committee has 
discretion to set 
performance 
measures and 
weightings on an 
annual basis, with 
performance 
conditions for the 
next financial year 
set out in the 
statement of 
implementation 
on pages 75 to 76. Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 66
Remuneration report continued
Objective and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance measures 
and assessment
Pension
To provide a framework to 
save for retirement that is 
appropriately competitive.
All Executive Directors receive a contribution into their respective defined 
contribution plans, which are subject to periodic review to ensure that 
they remain in line with rates applicable in the market. Only the base 
salary is pensionable.
The Executive 
Directors receive a 
contribution of 
15% of salary. 
R Holt receives a 
contribution of 
30% of salary.
Not applicable.
All employee share plan
Encourages employees 
to own shares in order to 
increase alignment over 
the longer term.
Under the terms of the Sharesave Plan all employees can apply for three 
or five-year options to acquire the Company’s shares priced at a discount 
of up to 20%.
£500 per month 
over a three-year 
or five-year period.
Not applicable.
Shareholding requirement
Ensures a long-term 
locked-in alignment 
between the Executive 
Directors and shareholders, 
ensuring that they build 
up and maintain a minimum 
level of shareholding 
throughout their 
employment with 
the Company. 
The shareholding requirement will operate in the following manner: 
 > only shares unconditionally owned by the Executive Director will count 
against the requirement; and 
 > shares can be built up over a five-year period from implementation 
of the policy through the vesting and retention of share awards 
and/or MIP payments.
Minimum 
shareholding 
requirement is 
200% of salary. 
Not applicable.
Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply
Other Non-Executive 
appointments.
Executive Directors have an obligation to inform the Board, specifically 
the Remuneration Committee, of any Non-Executive positions held or 
being contemplated and of the associated remuneration package. 
The Remuneration Committee will consider the merits of each case and 
carefully consider the work and time commitment required to fulfil the 
Non-Executive duties and the potential benefit to the Group and then 
determine whether the remuneration should be retained by the Executive 
or passed over to the Group.
Not applicable. Not applicable.
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Executive Directors continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 67
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Notes to the future policy table
Reasons for selecting performance targets
The Committee believes that the EPS growth performance condition for 
the MIP is directly aligned to the Company’s strategic objectives over the 
long term and is also transparent, fully understood by participants 
and is an externally audited metric over which they have line of sight. 
T otal shareholder return has been selected as a performance condition 
for the MIP as it provides an unbiased indicator of value created for 
shareholders and creates a strong link with executive reward. T argets 
are set on a sliding scale based on internal growth expectations of the 
Company and market forecasts. Maximum targets are believed to 
incorporate an appropriate amount of stretch which would reflect 
excellent performance in current market conditions. Two financial 
underpins, based on threshold levels of cash conversion and return 
on capital employed, have also been set which impact the level of 
contribution under the EPS performance condition. Given that no 
contribution will be made in respect of the EPS condition unless these 
underpins are achieved, this ensures that the quality of earnings is 
protected and overall corporate performance is strong before a 
contribution to the plan accounts is made.
Where there are multiple underpins, failure to achieve one of the 
underpins will result in a reduction of the annual contribution by a 
relevant proportion. For example, if there are two underpins and one 
is not met then the annual contribution will be reduced by 50%. If 
both underpins are not met then there will be no annual contribution.
Changes to remuneration policy from previous policy 
There have been no changes to the operation and implementation 
of the remuneration policy from the previous year. 
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily 
weighted towards variable pay than for other employees with a 
large proportion of their overall package dependent on successful 
and sustained execution of the business strategy over the longer term. 
The objective of such a policy is to create a strong link between 
pay for Executive Directors and the value created for shareholders.
Committee discretions
The Committee will operate the MIP and Share Plan according to their 
respective rules. Awards under the Share Plan will not be granted to 
the existing Executive Directors. The Committee retains discretion, 
consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the 
operation and administration of these plans. These include, but are 
not limited to, the following in relation to the MIP and Share Plan:
 > the participants;
 > the timing of grant of an award;
 > the size of an award;
 > the determination of vesting;
 > discretion required when dealing with a change of control 
or restructuring of the Group;
 > determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules 
of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen;
 > adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, 
corporate restructuring events and special dividends); and
 > the annual review of performance measures and weighting 
for the MIP and exercise conditions (if any) for the Share Plan.
These discretions, which in certain circumstances can be operated 
in both an upward and downward manner, are consistent with 
market practice and are deemed necessary for the proper and 
fair operation of the schemes in order to achieve their original 
purpose. It is the Committee’s policy, however, that there should 
be no element of reward for failure and any upward discretion 
will only be applied in exceptional circumstances.
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set at a level 
sufficient to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge and 
experience. It is determined by the Board and is within the limits 
set by the Articles of Association. Assistance is also available from 
the Group’s remuneration advisers. No additional fees are paid for 
Committee membership or other normal duties and Non-Executive 
Directors do not participate in any incentive, pension or bonus 
arrangements. Current fee levels are set out in the statement 
of implementation of remuneration policy on page 75.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
In the event that the Company recruits a new Executive Director 
(either from within the organisation or externally), when determining 
appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee will take 
into consideration all relevant factors (including but not limited to 
quantum, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction 
the candidate was recruited from) to ensure that arrangements 
are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders 
without paying more than is necessary to recruit an Executive of 
the required calibre.
The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration 
of any new Executive Director following the same principles 
as for the current Executive Directors (set out in the table on 
pages 65 and 66).
The elements that would be considered by the Company for 
inclusion in the remuneration package for a new Director are 
in line with those offered to existing Directors (see policy table 
on pages 65 and 66 for more details):
 > salary and benefits including defined contribution pension 
participation or a salary supplement in lieu of pension provision;
 > participation in the MIP of up to 250% of salary;
 > in certain circumstances, participation in the Share Plan of up to 
200% of salary and all employee share plans operating at that 
time; and
 > costs relating to but not limited to relocation, legal, financial, 
tax and visa advice and pre-employment medical checks.
The Committee may make awards on appointing an Executive Director 
to ‘buy out’ remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a 
previous employer. The Committee would take into account both 
market practice and any relevant commercial factors in considering 
whether any enhanced and/or ‘one-off’ annual incentive or long-term 
incentive award was necessary. Awards made by way of compensation 
for forfeited awards would be made on a comparable basis, taking 
account of performance achieved (or likely to be achieved), the 
proportion of the performance period remaining and the form of 
the award. Compensation could be in cash or shares.  Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 68
Remuneration report continued
D J Miles
1,400
Minimum On-target Maximum
Remuneration (£’000)
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
100% 
£454
71% 
£454
32% 
£454
29% £185
68% 
£965
1,000
Minimum On-target Maximum
Remuneration (£’000)
800
600
400
200
0
100%
£297
70%
£297
32%
£297
30% £127
68%
£631
A C M Smith
R Holt
400
Remuneration (£’000)
300
200
100
0
100%
£345
100%
£345
100%
£345
Minimum On-target Maximum
A Long
800
Remuneration (£’000)
600
400
200
0
100%
£249
69%
£249
33%
£249
67%
£505
Minimum On-target Maximum
31% £112
 Fixed
 Annual variable
 Fixed
 Annual variable
 Fixed
 Annual variable
 Fixed
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Approach to recruitment remuneration continued
The Committee’s policy is for all Executive Directors to have rolling 
service contracts with a notice period of twelve months, unless on 
an exceptional basis to complete an external recruitment successfully, 
when a longer initial period reducing to twelve months may be used.
Service contracts and payment for loss of office
Director
Date of contract/
letter of appointment
Notice period
by Company or Director
Executive
R Holt June 2015 6 months
D J Miles June 2015 12 months
A C M Smith June 2015 12 months
A Long June 2015 12 months
Non-Executive
D L Hosein June 2015 Rolling 6-month appointment
M G Rogers June 2015 Rolling 6-month appointment
P F Dicks June 2015 Rolling 6-month appointment
R Macnamara June 2015 Rolling 6-month appointment
G Davies October 2015 Rolling 6-month appointment
J Unwin January 2016 Rolling 6-month appointment
All Executive Directors’ contracts are rolling and, therefore, will 
continue unless terminated by written notice. In the event of the 
termination of an Executive Director’s contract, salary and benefits 
will be payable during the notice period. There will, however, be 
no automatic entitlement to bonus payments or share incentive 
grants during the period of notice.
The rules of the MIP and Share Plan set out what happens to awards 
if a participant ceases to be an employee or Director of Mears before 
the end of the vesting period. Generally, any outstanding share 
awards will lapse on such cessation, except in certain circumstances.
If the Executive Director ceases to be an employee or Director 
as a result of death, injury, ill health, redundancy, retirement, the 
sale of the business or company that employs the individual or any 
other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be 
treated as a ‘good leaver’ under the plan rules.
Under the MIP, a good leaver’s accumulated plan account 
(as measured at the date of cessation of employment) will be paid 
to them. The Committee has discretion to determine the amount, 
if any, of any contribution to be made to their plan account in the 
year of cessation which will then be pro-rated by the time elapsed 
from the start of the year to the date of cessation. This amount 
would then be paid to the participant. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 69
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Service contracts and payment for loss of office continued
On a change of control, the accumulated plan accounts of all 
participants (as measured at the date of change of control) 
will be paid to them.
Under the Share Plan, a proportion of a good leaver’s award will 
vest on cessation of employment by reference to the time elapsed 
from grant to cessation. The Committee has discretion to determine 
the period during which the good leaver may exercise their award 
after cessation. 
On a change of control, all awards under the Share Plan will 
vest immediately.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
We estimate that the level of remuneration received by each 
Executive Director for the first full year in which the policy applies 
will be, indicatively, at three different levels of performance:
 > minimum performance is where only fixed pay (salary, benefits 
and pension) is payable and no performance related pay accrues;
 > on-target performance is the level of performance required to 
deliver 20% of the maximum annual contribution to the MIP; and
 > maximum performance would result in the maximum annual 
bonus contribution to the MIP.
Fixed salary is base salary for 2016 plus the value of pension 
and other benefits.
The charts on page 68 demonstrate the balance between fixed 
and variable pay for minimum, on-target and maximum performance 
for Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2016 in line with the 
relevant policy.
Consideration of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Company in developing policy
The Company sets terms and conditions for employees which 
reflect the different legislative and labour market conditions that 
operate in each of our jurisdictions. We will always meet or exceed 
national minimum standards for terms and conditions of employment 
in each of our business areas. Pay arrangements in our businesses 
also reflect local performance with personal increases based on 
achievement, individually assessed. Mears believes in the value of 
continuous improvement, both for the individual and for the Company. 
The Company did not consult with employees in drawing up the 
Directors’ remuneration policy.
When determining the remuneration of Executive Directors, 
the Remuneration Committee takes into account business unit 
performance, including both financial performance and safety 
improvements in the year. Due to the wide variety of labour market 
conditions and the markets in which we operate, pay rates are not 
normally considered when considering Executive Director base 
pay reviews.
The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries 
of Senior Executives within the Group. Share awards and bonus 
plans are cascaded down below Executive level to senior management, 
aligning the Senior Management Team to deliver value for the Group.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with 
shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant 
changes are being made to remuneration arrangements. 
We remain sensitive to the views of shareholders and sought 
to consult many of our largest shareholders during the changes 
we made to the remuneration structure in 2013, and in 2014 with 
regards to clarification as to the operation of certain aspects 
of our remuneration policy.
The Company will continue to monitor shareholder comments 
and retain an open dialogue as necessary.  Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 70
Remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration
This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of how the Company’s remuneration policy for Directors was implemented 
during the financial year.
Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
Executive Directors
The remuneration of Executive Directors showing the breakdown between elements and comparative figures is shown below. 
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the ‘Regulations’).
Executive Director (£’000) Year Salary
Taxable 
benefits
Annual 
incentives Pension Total
R Holt 2015 250 20 — 75 345
2014 250 20 — 75 345
D J Miles 2015 363 19 — 54 436
2014 330 32 — 50 412
A C M Smith 2015 242 7 — 36 285
2014 220 6 — 33 259
A Long 2015 198 11 — 30 239
2014 180 11 — 27 218
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors showing the breakdown between elements and comparative figures is shown below. 
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Non-Executive Director (£’000) Year
Basic
fees
Additional
fees Other
Total
fees
D L Hosein 2015 45 — — 45
2014 45 — — 45
M G Rogers 2015 45 — 3 48
2014 45 — 1 46
P F Dicks 2015 45 — — 45
2014 45 — — 45
R Macnamara 2015 45 — — 45
2014 45 — — 45
D Marston 2015 22 — — 22
2014 45 — — 45
G Davies 2015 11 — — 11
2014 — — — —
M G Rogers’ other benefits relate to private medical insurance. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 71
Start of year 1 Y ear 1 Y ear 2 Y ear 4 Y ear 5
Contribution 
Contribution  
or deduction
Contribution  
or deduction
50% of closing balance paid at the end of each plan year 
Unpaid balance deferred in shares
100% of 
closing balance 
in plan paid 
in shares
Participants’ plan account
Measurement date at the end of each plan year
Y ear 3
Contribution  
or deduction
Annual report on remuneration continued
Additional details in respect of single total figure table (audited)
The outcome of the MIP for the year ended 31 December 2015, being year three on the schematic, is set out on page 72. 
The following schematic illustrates the operation of one cycle of the MIP: Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 72
Remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Additional details in respect of single total figure table (audited) continued
The performance measures and targets for the MIP for the year ended 31 December 2015 are detailed below:
Description Weighting Calculation Targets
Earnings per 
share (EPS)
80% > Growth in diluted EPS. Diluted EPS 
is stated before exceptional costs, 
share-based payments and the costs 
relating to the MIP and amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles and is adjusted 
for a normalised tax charge from 
1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.
 > Base figure of 33.0p to be used.
 > Threshold: 
 8% EPS growth leads to 20% maximum contribution. 
 > Maximum: 
 13% EPS growth leads to 100% maximum contribution. 
 > Straight-line contribution between 8% and 13% growth. 
Absolute total 
shareholder 
return (TSR)
20% > Growth in absolute TSR from 1 January 201 5 
to 31 December 201 5 (using an averaging 
period of 30 days for both dates). 
 > Starting share price = £3.73.
 > Threshold: 
 10% TSR growth leads to 20% maximum contribution. 
 > Maximum: 
 15% TSR growth leads to 100% maximum contribution. 
 > Straight-line contribution between 10% and 15% growth. 
Cash  
conversion 
(underpin)
N/A 
 > Cash inflow from operating activities as 
a proportion of operating profit before 
acquisition intangible amortisation 
measured at 31 December 2015.
 > A threshold level of cash conversion of 80% must be achieved. 
 > If this threshold level is not achieved, 50% of any annual 
contribution in respect of EPS will be forfeited. 
Return on 
capital employed 
(ROCE) 
(underpin)
N/A
 > Operating profit before acquisition 
intangible amortisation and exceptional 
costs/(total assets – current liabilities less 
all balances relating to bank borrowing and 
overdraft classified within non-current 
liabilities) at 31 December 2015.
 > A threshold level of ROCE of 10% must be achieved. 
 > If this threshold level is not achieved, 50% of any annual 
contribution in respect of EPS will be forfeited.
The actual performance achievement is summarised below:
% of target
Performance measures Actual satisfied
EPS growth (10.4)% 0%
TSR growth 22.7% 100%
Cash conversion (underpin) 99% Achieved
ROCE (underpin) 18% Achieved
The Remuneration Committee was also satisfied that a minimum level of corporate performance had been exceeded and so no forfeiture 
of the accumulated plan accounts was necessary. 
The resulting payments and unpaid balance deferred in shares are summarised below:
D J Miles A C M Smith A Long
2014 closing balance brought forward (shares) 169,237 112,824 92,311
2014 closing balance brought forward (£)* 792,029 528,016 432,015
2015 contribution (£) 181,500 121,000 99,000
% of salary 50% 50% 50%
2015 cash element released — — —
2015 closing balance (deferred into shares) of participants’ plan account (£) 973,530 649,016 531,016
Number of shares represented by closing balance**  217,695  145,129  118,742 
* Using share price as at 31 December 2015 = 468p.
** Using the average 30-day share price to 31 December 2015 = 447.2p. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 73
Annual report on remuneration continued
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited) 
Directors’ share interests are set out below:
Share interests
Number of 
beneficially 
owned 
shares
Conditional 
unvested
Vested but 
unexercised
Total
interests
held at
year end Director
Share 
awards/
options Options
R Holt — — 150,000 150,000 
D J Miles 175,020 217,695 264,097 656,812 
A C M Smith 110,000 145,129 135,578 390,707 
A Long 36,230 118,742 110,927 265,899 
D L Hosein — — — — 
M G Rogers 40,000 — — 40,000 
P F Dicks 39,541 — — 39,541
R Macnamara 10,000 — — 10,000
G Davies 2,500 — — 2,500
J Unwin — — — —
There were no options exercised during the year.
Shareholder dilution 
In accordance with the Association of British Insurers’ guidelines, the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital 
in a rolling ten-year period to employees under all its share plans. In addition, of this 10% the Company can issue 5% to satisfy awards 
under discretionary or Executive plans. The Company operates all its share plans within these guidelines.
Performance graph and table
The graph below shows the Group’s performance, measured by TSR compared with the constituents of the FTSE All Share Support 
Service Sector over the last seven years. The 2009 TSR has been re-based to £100. The indices shown are considered to be the most 
relevant to compare the Group’s performance against its peers. 
Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Jan 16
320
270
220
170
120
70
Mears TSR FTSE TSR FTSE SS TSR Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 74
Remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Performance graph and table continued
The table below shows the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration package over the past seven years, together with incentive 
payout/vesting as compared to the maximum opportunity.
Long-term
Bonus incentive
Single figure pay out vesting
of total (as % rates (as %
remuneration maximum) maximum
Year Name (£’000) opportunity opportunity)
2015 D J Miles 436 — 20%
2014 D J Miles 412 — 35%
2013 D J Miles 825 — 100%
2012 D J Miles 409 0% —
2011 D J Miles 384 0% —
2010 D J Miles 270 0% —
R Holt 600 0% —
2009 R Holt 960 100% —
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration
The table below compares the percentage change in the main elements of remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer 
(between 2014 and 2015) with the wider employee population.
Salary
Salary Benefits Cash bonus
Chief Executive Officer +10% -41% 0%
Office salaries +2% 0% 0%
Under the MIP, an annual contribution for the year ended 31 December 2015 was delivered at 50% of salary. This will be delivered 
entirely in shares which will be released over a period of two years; no cash bonus is paid in respect of the 2015 financial year. 
This treatment is consistent with the prior year.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the financial year and previous financial year compared with other 
disbursements from profit.
Disbursements Disbursements
from profit from profit
in financial in previous
Significant year financial year %
distributions £’000 £’000 change
Total Directors’ pay 1,858 1,846 +1%
Profit distributed by way of dividend 10,445 9,252 +13%
Underlying profit before tax 36,757 42,005 -12% Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 75
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year
Executive Directors
Salary
The salaries for the forthcoming year are set out below:
%
Executive Director 2016 2015 change
R Holt £250,000 £250,000 —
D J Miles £364,500 £363,000 +5%
A C M Smith £254,100 £242,000 +5%
A Long £207,900 £198,000 +5%
MIP
Details of the maximum and target MIP opportunities potentials 
along with the performance measures and their respective 
weightings for the year ended 31 December 2015 for Executive 
Directors (excluding Bob Holt) are set out below:
Performance measure
MIP opportunity weighting (% award)
Target
(% of salary)
Maximum
(% of salary)
Earnings
per share
Total
shareholder
return
50% 250% 80% 20%
The 2016 MIP performance conditions are as follows:
Payout range
Condition Weighting (threshold to maximum contribution)
Earnings per share (EPS) 80% 10%–15% from baseline diluted normalised EPS of 29.58p 
(pre share-based payments and the costs relating to the MIP) 
Total shareholder return (TSR) 20% 10%–15% from baseline share price of £4.47
EBITA cash conversion (underpin) N/A Cash conversion target of 80%. If this measure underpin is not met 
(but the other is) then the annual contribution in respect of EPS, if any, 
will be reduced by 50%
ROCE (underpin) N/A ROCE target of 10%. If the underpin is not met (but the other is) then 
the annual contribution in respect of EPS, if any, will be reduced by 50%
EPS and TSR are considered key indicators of the Company’s 
performance and success – the former as it is directly aligned 
to the Company’s strategic objectives over the longer term and 
the latter as it provides a direct measure of the value created for 
shareholders. Financial underpins will also be implemented in 
order to ensure that overall corporate performance is satisfactory 
and the Company’s financial health is stable before contributions 
are made. A minimum level of performance will also be considered 
to ascertain whether any deductions in relation to the 
accumulated plan accounts is necessary.
In setting these targets, the Committee is taking under 
consideration (amongst other items):
 > the Company’s 2016 business plan;
 > consensus forecasts for the Company; and 
 > alignment with the Company’s business strategy.
Pension
Details of pension contributions for the year ended 31 December 201 5 
are set out below:
Executive Director Pension
R Holt 30%
D J Miles 15%
A C M Smith 15%
A Long 15%
Non-Executive Directors
The following table sets out the fee rates for the  
Non-Executive Directors:
%
2016 2015 change
D L Hosein £45,000 £45,000 —
M G Rogers £45,000 £45,000 —
P F Dicks £45,000 £45,000 —
R Macnamara £45,000 £45,000 —
G Davies £45,000 £11,000 N/A
J Unwin £45,000 — N/A
In respect of G Davies (appointed in October 2015) and J Unwin (appointed in 
January 2016), their respective figures are pro-rated. Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 76
Remuneration report continued
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy 
in the following financial year continued
Role of the Committee and activities 
The Committee determines the total individual remuneration packages 
of each Executive Director of the Group and certain other senior 
employees (and any exit terms) and recommends to the Board the 
framework and broad policies of the Group in relation to Senior 
Executive remuneration. The Committee determines the targets 
for all of the Group’s performance related remuneration and exercises 
the Board’s powers in relation to all of the Group’s share and 
incentive plans.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy 
on Executive remuneration and for determining the remuneration 
of individual Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for:
 > determining and agreeing with the Board the broad 
remuneration policy for: 
 > the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior 
management; and
 > the Executive Directors’ remuneration and other benefits 
and terms of employment, including performance related 
bonuses and share options; and
 > approving the service agreements of each Executive Director, 
including termination arrangements.
No Director is involved in determining his/her own remuneration.
Annual overview
The Committee has continued to work to build investor confidence 
with regard to its Executive remuneration policies and remains 
committed to the following actions:
 > improve the level of openness and transparency in 
remuneration reporting through a detailed annual 
Remuneration Report;
 > operate a structured bonus arrangement with clear financial 
performance targets for each year; 
 > undertake a regular review of the remuneration policies for 
Executive Directors and other Senior Executives within the 
Group to ensure that they remain appropriate to retain and 
motivate such individuals;
 > take into account the changes to principles proposed by the 
Walker Review and other pronouncements by regulatory bodies 
and institutional shareholders and their representative bodies;
 > consider pay policies within the Group as a whole when 
determining Executive Directors’ remuneration packages;
 > encourage Executive Directors and Senior Executives to build 
up a meaningful shareholding in the Company to more closely 
align the interests of shareholders and Executives; and
 > to be kept fully aware and informed of developments and best 
practice in the field of remuneration and corporate governance 
from external advisers, institutional shareholders and their 
representative bodies.
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee recognises that the 
success of the Group is dependent upon the efforts of key individuals 
and that they should be fairly rewarded for their efforts and 
contributions in making Mears the success it is.
Advisers to the Committee
In 2015, the Committee continued to engage PwC and received 
wholly independent advice on Executive compensation. PwC is 
a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and complies 
with its code of conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that 
its advice is independent and free of undue influence. Fees paid to 
PwC in respect of these services in the year ended 31 December 2015 
were £49,500 (2014: £19,000).
Statement of voting at general meeting
The table below shows the advisory vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Report:
Item
Votes 
for %
Votes 
against %
Votes 
withheld
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report 71,757,002 88 10,067,078 12 3,285,217
The total number of ordinary shares eligible to vote at the AGM was 101,896,321. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 77
Report of the Directors
The Directors present their report together with the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of a range 
of outsourced services to the public and private sectors. The 
principal activity of the Company is to act as a holding company.
Business review
The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of 
the Group during the reporting period. The information that fulfils 
this requirement can be found in the Strategic Report, Review of 
Operations and Financial Review. The results of the Group can be 
found within the Consolidated Income Statement. Information 
required to be disclosed in respect of emissions and future 
developments is included within the Strategic Report.
Dividend
The final dividend in respect of 2014 of 7 .15p per share was paid 
in July 2015. An interim dividend in respect of 2015 of 3.10p was 
paid to shareholders in November 2015. The Directors recommend 
a final dividend of 7 .90p per share for payment on 7 July 2016 
to shareholders on the Register of Members on 17 June 2016. 
This has not been included within the consolidated financial 
statements as no obligation existed at 31 December 2015.
Corporate governance
Details of the Group’s corporate governance are set out 
on pages 50 to 55.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
We focus on a range of key indicators to assess our performance. 
Our performance indicators are both financial and non-financial 
and ensure that the Group targets its resources around its customers, 
employees, operations and finance. Collectively they form an 
integral part of the way that we manage the business to deliver 
our strategic goals. Our primary performance indicators are 
detailed on pages 18 to 21.
Directors
The present membership of the Board is set out with the 
biographical detail on page 49.
In line with current practice, all of the Directors will retire 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the AGM 
in June 2016.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the 
Company at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are 
detailed within the Remuneration report on page 73.
The process governing the appointment and replacement 
of Directors is detailed within the report of the Nomination 
Committee on pages 56 to 57 .
Amendment to Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association can be amended only by 
a special resolution of the members, requiring a majority of not 
less than 75% of such members voting in person or by proxy.
Appointment of Directors
Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution, or the existing 
Directors may appoint a person as a Director to either fill a vacancy 
or as an additional Director provided that the number of Directors 
does not exceed the maximum permissible. Any person appointed 
by the Directors must retire at the next AGM but will be eligible 
for re-election at that meeting.
Share capital authorisations
The 2015 AGM held in June 2015 authorised:
 > the Directors to allot shares within defined limits. The Companies 
Act 2006 requires directors to seek this authority and, following 
changes to FSA rules and institutional guidelines, the authority 
was limited to one third of the issued share capital, a total of 
£338,997 plus an additional one third of issued share capital 
of £338,997 that can only be used for a rights issue or similar 
fund raising; and
 > the Directors to issue shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis. 
This authority was limited to 5% of the issued share capital of 
£50,847 and is required to facilitate technical matters such as 
dealing with fractional entitlements or possibly a small placing.
Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes 
to the 2015 Notice of AGM. Shareholders are also referred to the 
2016 Notice of AGM which contains similar provisions in respect 
of the Company’s equity share capital as detailed below.
AGM
The 2016 AGM will be held at the offices of Buchanan, 107 Cheapside, 
London EC2V 6DN on 1 June 2016 at 9.30am and a formal Notice of 
Meeting and Form of Proxy are enclosed. The ordinary business to 
be conducted will include the re-appointment of all Directors.
The special business will comprise the following resolutions:
 > to authorise the Directors to allot shares within defined limits. 
The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to seek this authority 
and, following changes to FSA rules and institutional guidelines, 
the authority, as in previous years, will be limited to one third of 
the issued share capital, plus an additional one third of issued 
share capital that can only be used for a rights issue or similar 
fund raising; 
 > to authorise the Directors to issue shares for cash on a non 
pre-emptive basis. This authority is limited to 10% of the issued 
share capital and is required to facilitate technical matters 
such as dealing with fractional entitlements or possibly 
a small placing; and Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 78
AGM continued
 > to authorise the convening of general meetings (other than an 
AGM) on 14 days’ notice. This results from a European Union 
Directive that became effective on 3 August 2010 and will 
override Section 307 of the Companies Act 2006 where the 
requirement to give 21 days’ notice for certain meetings has 
been amended.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk is an accepted part of doing business. The Group’s financial risk 
management is based upon sound economic objectives and good 
corporate practice. The Board has overall responsibility for risk 
management and internal control within the context of achieving 
the Group’s objectives. Our process for identifying and managing 
risks is set out in more detail within the Corporate Governance 
Statement. The key risks and mitigating factors are set out on 
pages 40 to 41. Details of financial risk management and exposure 
to price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are given in note 19 on 
pages 123 to 128.
Contracts of significance
The Group is party to significant contracts within each segment 
of its business. The Directors do not consider that any one of those 
contracts is essential in its own right to the continuation of the 
Group’s activities.
Payment policy
The Company acts purely as a holding company and as such is 
non-trading. Accordingly, no payment policy has been defined. 
However, the policy for Group trading companies is to set the 
terms of payment with suppliers when entering into a transaction 
and to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms. Group trade 
creditors during the year amounted to 57 days (2014: 57 days) 
of average supplies for the year.
Capital structure
The Group is financed through both equity share capital and debt. 
Details of changes to the Company’s share capital are given in note 22 
to the financial statements. The Company has a single class of shares 
– ordinary 1p shares – with no right to any fixed income and with 
each share carrying the right to one vote at the general meetings 
of the Company. Under the Company’s Articles of Association, 
holders of ordinary shares are entitled to participate in any dividends 
pro-rata to their holding. The Board may propose and pay interim 
dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the 
shareholders at the AGM. A final dividend may be declared by the 
shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution but such 
dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 1 March 2016 the Company has been notified of, or is aware of, 
the shareholders holding 2% or more of the issued share capital 
of the Company, as detailed in the table adjacent.
Fund manager City
Number 
(m) %
Neptune Investment Management London 13.3 13.1 
Majedie Asset Management London 10.1 9.9 
Heronbridge Investment Management Bath 7.6 7.5 
Legal & General Investment Management London 5.5 5.4 
Franklin Templeton Investments London 4.4 4.4 
Columbia Threadneedle Investments London 3.9 3.8 
Invesco Asset Management Henley-on-
Thames 3.8 3.8 
Schroder Investment Management London 3.3 3.2 
Fidelity Management & Research London 2.8 2.7 
Mawer Investment Management Calgary 2.5 2.4 
Sanlam Four Investments UK London 2.3 2.3 
Artemis Investment Management Edinburgh 2.3 2.3 
Montanaro Asset Management London 2.1 2.0 
64.0 62.7 
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully 
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned. 
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is 
made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and 
that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that 
the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons 
should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee information and consultation
The Group has received recognition under the ‘Investors in 
People’ award. The Group continues to involve its staff in the future 
development of the business. Information is provided to employees 
through a daily news email, a quarterly newsletter posted out to all 
staff, the Group website and the intranet to ensure that employees 
are kept well informed of the performance and objectives of the Group.
CREST
CREST is the computerised system for the settlement of share 
dealings on the London Stock Exchange. CREST reduces the amount 
of documentation required and also makes the trading of shares 
faster and more secure. CREST enables shares to be held in an 
electronic form instead of the traditional share certificates. CREST 
is voluntary and shareholders can keep their share certificates if 
they wish. This may be preferable for shareholders who do not 
trade in shares on a frequent basis.
Auditor
Grant Thornton UK LLP offers itself for re-appointment as auditor 
in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
B Westran
Company Secretary
ben.westran@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016 
Report of the Directors continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 79
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
In respect of the Directors’ Report and financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to 
prepare Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice including FRS 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard 
applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and Applicable Law). Under company law 
the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs and profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that 
period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
 > select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 > make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 > state whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
 > prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities. 
The Directors confirm that:
 > so far as each Director is aware there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 > the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor 
is aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of my knowledge:
 > the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 > the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. The Board 
considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
as fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Going concern
We principally operate in robust defensive markets, Social Housing 
and Care, where spend is largely non-discretionary and our 
contracts tend to be long-term partnerships.
The Group had net cash of £0.8m at 31 December 2015. The core 
debt required to satisfy the day-to-day requirements of the 
business is in the region of £80m. This represents significant 
headroom against the £140m unsecured revolving credit facility, 
with an additional accordion mechanism allowing the facility to 
be increased to a maximum of £200m, maturing in July 2020. 
After reviewing the Group’s and Company’s budget for the next 
financial year and longer-term plans, the Directors consider 
that, as at the date of approving the financial statements, it is 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
On behalf of the Board
A C M Smith 
Finance Director
andrew.smith@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016
  Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 80
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of Mears Group PLC
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
In our opinion:
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
 > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union; 
 > the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice) including FRS 102 ‘The Financial Reporting 
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’; and
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Who we are reporting to
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
What we have audited
Mears Group PLC’s financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2015 comprise the Group principal accounting 
policies, the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the related Group notes, 
the Company principal accounting policies, the Parent Company 
Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement, the 
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related 
Company notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable 
law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Parent Company financial statements is United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 102 
‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and 
Republic of Ireland’.
Overview of our audit approach
 > The key audit risks were identified as: revenue recognition and 
contract accounting, goodwill impairment; and defined benefit 
pension schemes.
 > Overall Group materiality was set at £1.7m, which represents 
4.75% of the Group’s earnings before interest, tax, amortisation 
and discontinued items.
 > We performed full scope audits at 17 companies and specific 
audit procedures over certain balances and transactions at four 
further companies to gain sufficient, appropriate audit evidence 
over all material balances at both divisional and Group levels. 
Our assessment of risk
At the outset of our audit we identified the risks and matters that 
would need to be considered in dispensing our duties and then 
updated them as the audit progressed. These were first presented 
to the Audit Committee on 2 December 2015 and then as part of 
our concluding procedures on 3 March 2016. The following graph 
illustrates the risks identified by us and our assessment of the 
impact of them on our audit approach.
Probability**
Impact*
* Impact that the identified risk would have on the Group’s financial statements.
**  Probability that the identified risk could occur during the year if not 
properly controlled.
Key  
 Significant risks
 Other risks
 Other areas of focus
Compliance 
with legislation
Fraud and 
whistleblowing
Going  
concern
Capitalisation 
of costs
Employee 
remuneration
Financial statements, 
disclosure and 
compliance
Valuation of goodwill 
and intangibles
Financial instruments 
and hedging
Taxation
JV accounting
Revenue recognition 
and contract accounting
Defined benefit 
pension schemes
Goodwill 
impairment Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 81
Our assessment of risk continued
In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the following risks that, in our judgement, had the greatest effect 
on our audit:
Audit risk How we responded to the risk
Revenue recognition and contract accounting Our audit work included, but was not restricted to:
Refer to pages 90 to 92 and pages 60 to 61.
Revenue is recognised throughout the Group as the 
fair value of consideration receivable in respect of 
the performance of contracts and the provision of 
services. Provision is made for expected contract 
losses as soon as they are foreseen.
Determining the amount of revenue to be recognised 
requires management to make significant judgements 
and estimates as to the stage of completion, the costs 
to complete, the impact of any changes in scope of 
work and the recoverability of work-in-progress 
and receivables balances.
We therefore identified revenue recognition 
and contract accounting as a significant risk.
 > an evaluation of the methodology by which the Directors determine 
the amount of revenue and profit to recognise based on each type 
of contract as disclosed in the accounting policies. This included 
assessing whether the accounting policies adopted by the Directors 
are in accordance with the requirements of International Accounting 
Standard (IAS) 11 ‘Construction contracts’ and IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ 
and whether management accounted for revenue in accordance 
with the accounting policies;
 > testing key controls, where applicable, over the recognition of revenue 
and the allocation of costs to the contracts, including invoicing, cost 
approval and cost allocation;
 > selecting a sample of contracts in progress at the year end by reference 
to materiality and other risk factors including those requiring significant 
estimates by management, those contracts that are currently loss 
making and contracts with significant aged work-in-progress and 
debtor balances; 
 > assessing, for the sample selected, whether the revenue and profit 
recognised are in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies 
by agreeing inputs to contract terms, re-performing management’s 
calculations and assessing management’s assumptions and assertions 
underpinning their forecasts for contracts’ future performance by 
reference to supporting documentation such as contract KPIs and 
discussions with key operations personnel;
 > reviewing contracts that are loss making and for which there is a risk of 
future losses through the life of the contract and challenging management’s 
assumptions and assertions relating to the future results of those contracts 
by reference to supporting evidence such as management’s plans to 
address the position, forecast models, previous history of turning around 
loss-making contracts, the opinions of key operational personnel and 
correspondence with clients where appropriate. We also physically visited 
a number of loss-making sites during the year in order to further 
understand the operations; and
 > investigating the recoverability of receivables and work-in-progress 
balances by reference to post balance sheet cash collection, certifications 
performed by the Group or external quantity surveyors, reviewing the 
quality of supporting evidence and correspondence with customers, 
and examining the Group’s historical experience of recovery. Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 82
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of Mears Group PLC
Audit risk How we responded to the risk
Goodwill impairment Our audit work included, but was not restricted to:
Refer to pages 88 to 89 and page 59.
The Directors are required to make an annual 
assessment to determine whether the carrying value 
of goodwill of £193.1m is impaired. Past experience 
has indicated that there is significant headroom in 
the goodwill relating to the Social Housing division 
cash-generating unit (CGU) but limited headroom 
in respect of the Care division CGU which accounts 
for £99.0m of the carried goodwill. 
The process for assessing whether an impairment 
exists under International Accounting Standard 
(IAS) 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ is complex. The process 
of determining the value in use, through forecasting 
cash flows related to CGUs and the determination of the 
appropriate discount rate and other assumptions to be 
applied can be highly judgemental and can significantly 
impact the results of the impairment review.
We therefore identified the impairment review of goodwill 
undertaken by management in relation to the Care 
division as a significant risk.
 > obtaining management’s discounted cash flow forecast for the 
Care division used in the impairment review and comparing it to our 
understanding of the division and recalculating the arithmetical 
accuracy of those calculations;
 > challenging the assumptions utilised in the impairment models, 
including the ability for the Group to recruit and retain the appropriate 
levels of carers, the rate at which the Group can pass National Living 
Wage increases on to customers and the rate at which the Group can 
increase its contracted hours; 
 > testing the assumptions utilised in the impairment models, including 
growth rates, discount rates and terminal values. We involved our 
specialist valuation team to consider whether the assumptions used 
were appropriate to the Care division circumstances and, where possible, 
benchmarked these assumptions against available industry data; and
 > testing the accuracy of management’s forecasting through a comparison 
of budget to actual data and historical variance trends and reviewing the 
cash flows for exceptional or unusual items or assumptions.
Defined benefit pensions schemes Our audit work included, but was not restricted to:
Refer to page 93 and page 60.
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension plans. 
At 31 December 201 5 the defined benefit pension schemes 
had a combined net surplus of £24.0m, of which £4.0m is 
recognised in the financial statements as recoverable. 
The gross value of the pension assets and obligations 
which form the net surplus amounted to £472.7m and 
£445.2m respectively.
The measurement of the obligations in accordance 
with IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee Benefits’ involves 
significant judgement and their valuation is subject 
to complex actuarial assumptions. Small variations in 
those actuarial assumptions can lead to a materially 
different value of pension liabilities being recognised 
within the Group financial statements.
We therefore identified the valuation of the defined 
benefit retirement scheme obligations as a 
significant risk.
 > utilising the expertise of our actuarial specialists in order to review the 
appropriateness of the assumptions used in the calculation of the obligation 
and testing the appropriateness of the valuation methodologies and their 
inherent actuarial assumptions by benchmarking key assumptions such 
as discount rates, wages and salary growth rates and mortality rates to 
available market data; 
 > testing the accuracy of underlying membership data utilised by the 
Group’s actuaries for the purpose of calculating the scheme liabilities by 
selecting a sample of employees and agreeing key standing data such as 
date of birth, gender and date of membership to underlying records; 
 > directly confirming the existence and valuation of pension scheme assets 
with asset managers; and
 > considering the appropriateness of the recognition of any scheme 
surpluses by reading scheme rules to assess whether the Group will 
benefit from any future refund or reduction in future contributions 
as a result of such surpluses.
Our assessment of risk continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 83
Our application of materiality and an overview 
of the scope of our audit
Materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed 
or influenced. We use materiality in determining the nature, timing 
and extent of our audit work and in evaluating the results of that work. 
We determined materiality for the audit of the Group financial 
statements as a whole to be £1.7m, which is 4.75% of earnings before 
interest, tax, amortisation and discontinued items. This benchmark 
is considered the most appropriate because it is the key financial 
measure by which management assesses the performance of the 
Group and is used to report to investors on the financial 
performance of the Group. 
Materiality for the current year is lower than the level that we 
determined for the year ended 31 December 2014 to reflect 
the lower earnings before, interest, tax, amortisation and 
discontinued items of the Group in the year.
We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, 
to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75% of 
financial statement materiality for the audit of the Group financial 
statements. We also determine a lower level of specific materiality 
for certain areas such as Directors’ remuneration and related 
party transactions.
We determined the threshold at which we will communicate 
misstatements to the Audit Committee to be £94,000. In addition 
we communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our 
view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overview of the scope of our audit
A description of the generic scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (ISAs) (UK and Ireland). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the ‘Responsibilities 
for the financial statements and the audit’ section of our report. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
those Ethical Standards.
Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the 
Group’s business and is risk based. In order to address the risks 
described above as identified during our planning procedures, 
we performed a full scope audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the Parent Company, Mears Group PLC, and of 
the Group’s operations throughout the United Kingdom. 
The companies of the Group were evaluated by the Group audit 
team based on a measure of materiality considered as a percentage 
of total Group assets, revenues and profit before taxes, to assess 
the significance of the component and to determine the planned 
audit response. For those components that we determined to 
be significant components, either a full scope approach or specific 
procedures in relation to specific balances and transactions were 
carried out. This approach was determined based on their relative 
materiality to the Group and our assessment of audit risk. 
The Group’s companies vary significantly in size. We performed 
full scope audits at 17 companies. Specific audit procedures over 
certain balances and transactions were performed on a further 
four companies, to give appropriate coverage of all material balances 
at both divisional and Group levels. Together, the reporting units 
subject to audit procedures were responsible for 95.8% of the 
Group’s revenues and 98.5% of the Group’s earnings before interest, 
tax, amortisation and discontinued operations. 
For significant components requiring a full scope approach 
an interim visit was conducted before the year end to undertake 
substantive procedures in advance of the final visit and to evaluate 
the Group’s internal control environment including its IT systems. 
We then evaluated and tested controls over the financial reporting 
systems identified as part of our risk assessment, reviewed the 
accounts production process and addressed critical accounting 
matters. We sought, wherever possible, to rely on the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal controls which allows us to reduce substantive 
testing. We then undertook substantive testing on significant 
transactions and material account balances, including the procedures 
outlined above in relation to the key risks. For the components where 
specific procedures were carried out a similar testing strategy was 
applied, focused on the significant transactions and material 
account balances.
The remaining non-significant components of the Group were 
subject to analytical procedures over their information packs after 
taking into account the risks identified above and the significance 
of the components to the Group. The charts on page 84 summarise 
the extent of our audit approach. Corporate governance
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 84
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of Mears Group PLC
Other reporting required by regulations
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
 > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the 
Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
 > the Parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 > certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
 > the Directors’ statements in relation to going concern 
and longer-term viability, set out on pages 79 and 36 
respectively; and
 > the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 > materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
 > apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
 > otherwise misleading.
Revenue* EBITA* Total assets
Comprehensive
Specific procedures
Analytical
Comprehensive
Specific procedures
Analytical
Comprehensive
Specific procedures
Analytical
87 +9+4+z 87%
9%
95 +3+2+z 95%
3%
2% 4%
80 +10+10+z 80%
10%
10%
* from continuing activities. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 85
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
continued
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
 > we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that 
they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable; or 
 > the Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those 
matters that were communicated to the Audit Committee which 
we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing to report in respect of any of the above matters.
We also confirm that we do not have anything material to add or 
to draw attention to in relation to:
 > the Directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing 
the Group including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 > the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks 
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 > the Directors’ statement in the financial statements about 
whether they have considered it appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability 
to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from 
the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 > the Directors’ explanation in the Annual Report as to how they 
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they 
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, 
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements 
and the audit
What the Directors are responsible for:
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 79, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
What we are responsible for:
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Simon Lowe
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
Bristol
18 March 2016 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 86
Principal accounting policies – Group
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore the Group financial 
statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards Regulations. The financial statements are prepared 
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments and share-based payments.
The accounting policies remain unchanged from the previous year except for the adoption of Improvements to IFRS 2011–2013 Cycle. 
The adoption of these amendments had no material effect of the Group’s financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts 
of revenue and expenses during the year. Although these estimates are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of the amounts, actual 
results may ultimately differ from those estimates. The most significant estimates made by the Directors in these financial statements 
are set out in Use of judgements and estimates on pages 96 and 97 .
Mears Group PLC is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales (registration number 3232863). Its registered office and principal 
place of business is 1390 Montpellier Court, Gloucester Business Park, Brockworth, Gloucester GL3 4AH. Mears Group PLC’s shares 
are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors consider that as at the date of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and 
Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The Directors have discussed the principal risks and uncertainties 
of the business in the Risk Management section on pages 38 to 41.
Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Balance Sheet includes the assets and liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries and is made up to 31 December 2015. 
Entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise control over financial and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries. 
Control is achieved where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the activities that affect the Company’s 
returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity. Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the effective date 
of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated up to the date of disposal.
All significant intercompany transactions and balances between Group enterprises, including unrealised profits arising from 
intra-group transactions, are eliminated on consolidation; no profit is taken on sales between Group companies.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. 
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling 
shareholders’ share of changes in equity since the date of the combination. Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling 
interests even if this results in the non-controlling interest having a deficit balance.
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the net assets of the arrangement. 
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under this method, the Group’s share of 
post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement; the cost of the investment in a given joint 
venture, together with the Group’s share of that entity’s post-acquisition changes to shareholders’ funds, is included in investments 
within the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The acquisition method involves the recognition at fair value of 
all identifiable assets and liabilities, including contingent liabilities of the subsidiary at the acquisition date, regardless of whether or 
not they were recorded in the financial statements of the subsidiary prior to acquisition. On initial recognition, the assets and liabilities 
of the subsidiary are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at their fair values, which are also used as the bases for subsequent 
measurement in accordance with the Group accounting policies. Goodwill is stated after separating out identifiable intangible assets. 
Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired 
subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Where applicable the consideration for an acquisition includes any assets or liabilities arising from a contingent consideration arrangement, 
measured at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where 
they result from additional information obtained up to one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at 
the acquisition date. All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are 
recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Costs relating to acquisitions in the year have been expensed. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 87
Business combinations continued
For transactions with non-controlling parties that do not result in a change of control, the difference between the fair value of the 
consideration paid and the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted is recognised in equity.
Any business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 were accounted for in accordance with the standards in place at the time, which 
differ in the following respects: transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs; contingent 
consideration was recognised if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a 
reliable estimate was determinable; and subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost, net of depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is 
directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a 
separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow into the Group 
and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the 
financial period in which they are incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value over 
their estimated useful economic lives. The rates generally applicable are:
Freehold buildings   – 2% p.a., straight line
Leasehold improvements  – over the period of the lease, straight line
Plant and machinery  – 25% p.a., reducing balance
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 25% p.a., reducing balance
Motor vehicles   – 25% p.a., reducing balance
Residual values are reviewed annually and updated if appropriate. The carrying value is reviewed for impairment in the period if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. An asset’s carrying value is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within 
administrative expenses in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets
In accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’, an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is deemed to 
have a cost to the Group of its fair value at the acquisition date. The fair value of the intangible asset reflects market expectations about 
the probability that the future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the Group. Where an intangible asset might be 
separable, but only together with a related tangible or intangible asset, the group of assets is recognised as a single asset separately 
from goodwill where the individual fair values of the assets in the Group are not reliably measurable. Where the individual fair value of 
the complementary assets are reliably measurable, the Group recognises them as a single asset provided the individual assets have 
similar useful lives. Intangible assets are amortised over the useful economic life of those assets.
Development costs incurred on software development are capitalised when all the following conditions are satisfied:
 > completion of the software module is technically feasible so that it will be available for use;
 > the Group intends to complete the development of the module and use it;
 > the software will be used in generating probable future economic benefits; 
 > there are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use the software; and
 > the expenditure attributable to the software during its development can be measured reliably. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 88
Principal accounting policies – Group continued
Intangible assets continued
Costs incurred making intellectual property available for use (including any associated borrowing costs) are capitalised when all of the 
following conditions are satisfied:
 > completion of the data set is technically feasible so that it will be available for use;
 > the Group intends to complete the preparation of the data and use it;
 > the data will be used in generating probable future economic benefits; 
 > there are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the data set and to use it; and
 > the expenditure attributable to the intellectual property during its development can be measured reliably.
Development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred. Careful judgement by management is applied 
when deciding whether the recognition requirements for development costs have been met. This is necessary as the economic success 
of any development is uncertain and may be subject to future technical problems at the time of recognition. Judgements are based on 
the information available at each balance sheet date. In addition, all internal activities related to the research and development of new 
software are continually monitored by management.
The cost of an internally generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce and prepare 
the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Directly attributable costs include employee costs 
incurred on software development.
Amortisation commences upon completion of the asset and is shown within other administrative expenses. Until the asset is available 
for use on completion of the project, the assets are subject to impairment testing only. Development expenditure is amortised over the 
period expected to benefit.
The identifiable intangible assets and associated periods of amortisation are as follows:
Order book   – over the period of the order book, typically three years
Client relationships  – over the period expected to benefit, typically five years
Development expenditure  – 25% p.a., straight line
Intellectual property  – over the period of usefulness of the intellectual property, typically five years
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the Group’s interest 
in the fair value of the entity’s identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and is capitalised as a separate item. Goodwill is recognised 
as an intangible asset.
Under the business combinations exemption of IFRS 1, goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled 
to the Income Statement on calculating a gain or loss on disposal.
Impairment
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows: cash-generating units (CGUs). As a result, some assets are tested individually for impairment and some are tested at CGU level. 
Goodwill is allocated to those CGUs that are expected to benefit from synergies of the related business combination and represent the 
lowest level within the Group at which management monitors the related cash flows.
Goodwill or CGUs that include goodwill and those intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually. 
All other individual assets or CGUs are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 89
Impairment continued
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement for the amount by which the asset or CGU’s carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value, reflecting market conditions less costs to sell, and value in use 
based on an internal discounted cash flow evaluation. Impairment losses recognised for CGUs, to which goodwill has been allocated, 
are credited initially to the carrying amount of goodwill. Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro-rata to the other assets in the 
CGU. With the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously 
recognised may no longer exist.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is the actual purchase price of materials.
Work in progress
Work in progress is included in inventories after deducting any foreseeable losses and payments on account not matched with revenue. 
Work in progress represents costs incurred on contracts that cannot be matched with contract work accounted for as revenue. Work in 
progress is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises materials, direct labour and any subcontracted work 
that has been incurred in bringing the inventories and work in progress to their present location and condition.
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade and other receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of payments 
on account.
Accounting for taxes
Income tax comprises current and deferred taxation.
Current tax assets and/or liabilities comprise those obligations to, or claims from, fiscal authorities that are unpaid at the balance 
sheet date. They are calculated according to the tax rates and tax laws applicable to the accounting periods to which they relate, based 
on the taxable profit for the year.
Where an item of income or expense is recognised in the Income Statement, any related tax generated is recognised as a component 
of tax expense in the Income Statement. Where an item is recognised directly to equity or presented within the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income, any related tax generated is treated similarly.
Deferred taxation is the tax expected to be repayable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for 
using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred taxation liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences in full with no discounting. Deferred taxation 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised. However, deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability, unless the related transaction is a business combination or affects tax or accounting profit.
Deferred taxation is calculated using the tax rates and laws that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the 
asset is realised, provided they are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. The carrying value of deferred taxation 
assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will 
be available against which taxable temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is charged or credited to either the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or equity to the extent that it relates to items charged or 
credited. Deferred tax relating to items charged or credited directly to equity such is also credited or charged equity. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 90
Principal accounting policies – Group continued
Revenue
Revenue is measured in accordance with IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of rebates and discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group.
Housing
Revenue is recognised when the outcome of a job or contract can be estimated reliably; revenue associated with the transaction 
is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of work at the balance sheet date. The outcome of the transaction is deemed 
to be able to be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
 > the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
 > it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity;
 > the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably; and
 > the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Whilst all Social Housing contracts can fit within the guidelines laid down for revenue recognition as detailed above, the alternative 
contractual pricing mechanisms do result in different methods of assessing the stage of completion. The Group has therefore 
recognised revenue dependent on the nature of transactions in line with IAS 18.
There are some contracts where we are entitled to a fee to reimburse the costs relating to a new contract start-up. This fee is sometimes 
paid on commencement or paid in instalments over an extended period. Where the contractual entitlement to this income crystallises upon 
commencement, the revenue is recognised. All costs relating to pre-commencement and mobilisation are written off as they are incurred.
There are numerous contractual pricing mechanisms but one can broadly divide these into three types.
Schedule of Rates (SOR) contracts
There is an element of SOR in the majority of contracts. At tender stage we enter a price for each of the numerous tasks carried out in 
respect of property maintenance. Typically we price for uplift or a discount against a pre-priced schedule. This price will, in some cases, 
be an all-encompassing price for the cost of direct works, the local site overhead, central overhead and profit contribution. In other 
instances, the SOR tendered may only recover direct works with an alternative mechanism to recover the other elements. Wherever 
possible, we seek to identify all works tickets received individually and capture costs and billing at the individual work ticket level. In so 
doing, this allows revenue to be recognised with a high degree of accuracy. Typically, reactive maintenance works are invoiced within a 
month of completion, hence the majority of revenue recognised has already been valued at the individual work ticket level and the significant 
majority has been subsequently settled. The only element of revenue or profit recognition that requires judgement is against those jobs 
that are part complete or those completed works that have not been subject to a final valuation.
For part completed works, consideration needs to be given as to whether the Group will recover the transaction costs incurred. Whether 
the outcome of the transaction can be estimated reliably needs to be considered contract by contract based on historic outcomes and 
knowledge of any events that may affect future job profitability. Where the outcome of the transaction cannot be estimated reliably, 
revenue is recognised only to the extent that the costs incurred are anticipated to be recovered. Where the outcome of the transaction 
can be estimated reliably, an element of anticipated profit is recognised within revenue to the extent that historic outcomes adjusted 
for knowledge of any events that may affect future job profitability support such recognition.
For completed but not yet priced works, the outcome of the individual valued work tickets is not reviewed individually for the purposes 
of profit and revenue recognition. However, given the high volume of historical data to provide an accurate indication of underlying 
contract margin at a particular site, the Group considers that the application of an anticipated profit margin on cost to all completed 
and unbilled works produces a reliable measure.
For completed and priced works, the likely outcome for the individual work ticket can be determined individually for the purposes of profit 
and revenue recognition. The Group considers that the recognition of the anticipated profit for the individual job within revenue is appropriate.
Full provision is made in respect of any job if a future loss is foreseen. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 91
Revenue continued
Housing continued
Open book contracts
Typically the open book element of contracts relates to the local site overhead. A priced overhead model is usually provided to a client 
at tender stage and the client pays the Group a fixed sum for maintaining this local site. This is typically an agreed fixed price. Revenue 
is recognised in line with cost incurred and similarly the attributable profit recognised against that cost.
Any over or underspends are typically at the risk of the Group. The actual overhead spend is often subject to an open book review which 
is then used as the basis for agreeing future pricing.
On the rare occasions that a contract does recover costs under a pure ‘cost plus’ arrangement, revenue is recognised in line with cost 
incurred and similarly the attributable profit recognised against that cost.
Full provision is made in respect of any contract if a future loss is foreseen.
Lump sum contracts
This type of contract is becoming more commonplace. To avoid the onerous burden of administering a high volume, low value activity, 
the pricing mechanism is reduced to either a price per ticket or a price per property. Historically, many gas servicing and breakdown 
contracts have been procured on a lump sum basis. However, it is now becoming increasingly common within the reactive maintenance 
environment. There is typically an exclusions list for works that are not considered repairs and not deemed to fall within the lump sum 
price. It is normal for this excluded element of the works to be billed under an SOR arrangement.
For practical purposes, in the majority of lump sum contracts, revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the contract term. 
There is not a material impact of seasonality in a client’s reactive maintenance spend (in terms of either volume or value of orders received). 
In terms of the lump sum element of the contract, the revenue is split evenly across the twelve monthly reporting periods. No element 
of revenue is either advanced or deferred.
There are a small number of lump sum contracts where recognising revenue on a straight-line basis would be inappropriate. These are 
contracts where the phasing of the works over the contract term varies materially over the period of the contract and there is a mismatch 
between the delivery of works and the timing of invoicing against those works. For these contracts, the Group has historically reverted 
to recognising revenue based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared with the estimated total costs of the contract.
Full provision is made in respect of any contract if a future loss is foreseen.
Rental income
Rental income relating to Housing Management activities is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease.
Construction contracts
Revenue reflects the contract activity during the year and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable. When 
the outcome can be assessed reliably, contract revenue and associated costs are recognised as revenue and expenses respectively by 
reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. The stage of completion of the contract at the 
balance sheet date is usually assessed by comparing the proportion of costs incurred to estimated total contract costs. Where this is 
not representative, contract milestones are used as a basis of assessing the stage of completion. Where the outcome of a construction 
contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that contract costs incurred will be 
recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 
In the case of a fixed price contract, the outcome of a construction contract is deemed to be estimated reliably when all the following 
conditions are satisfied:
 > it is probable that economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group;
 > both the contract costs to complete the contract and the stage of completion at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably; and
 > the contract costs attributable to the contract can be clearly identified and measured reliably so that actual contract costs incurred 
can be compared with prior estimates.
The gross amount due from customers for contract work is presented as an asset for all contracts in progress for which costs incurred, 
plus recognised profits (less recognised losses), exceed progress billings. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is 
presented as a liability for all contracts in progress for which progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits (less losses).
Full provision is made for losses on all contracts in the year in which the future loss is first foreseen. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 92
Revenue continued
Care
Revenue is recognised when the actual care has been delivered and is generally based on a price per time period of care delivered. 
Revenue relating to care delivered and not invoiced is accrued and disclosed under trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable 
on contracts. Certain ‘block’ contracts guarantee a certain level of revenue. Revenue attributable to any unused capacity under block 
contracts, where the Group is able to invoice for contracted services not provided, is recognised when the recovery of income is 
considered virtually certain. There is minimal scope for judgement based on the care process.
The Group utilises rostering systems to manage care. These systems allow for planning a rota for each staff member, together with the 
corresponding pay and bill rates for the particular service type, length of service and time of delivery. These results are very accurate in 
the calculation of billable time, income and corresponding employee pay for a particular contract, branch or region.
Accrued income is determined by applying an average historical billing rate to the number of unbilled hours delivered at the balance 
sheet date. Variances are reviewed in the following month once actual billing is known. The rostering systems allow unbilled hours to be 
calculated based on planned, rostered and actual visits along with the corresponding pay and bill rates for the particular service type, 
length of service and time of delivery. These results are very accurate in the calculation of billable time, income and corresponding 
employee pay for a particular contract, branch or region.
Segment reporting
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s operating segments based upon the format that the Group reports to its 
chief operating decision makers.
The Group considers that the chief operating decision makers are the Executive Directors and Senior Executives of the business.
Exceptional costs
Exceptional costs are disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement where these are material and considered necessary 
to explain the underlying financial performance of the Group. They are either one-off in nature or necessary elements of expenditure 
to derive future benefits for the Group which have not been capitalised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Costs of restructure are only considered to be exceptional where the restructure is transformational and the resultant cost is significant.
Acquisition costs are only considered to be exceptional where the acquisition and the resultant cost are significant.
Employee benefits
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes as follows:
i) Defined contribution pensions
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into an independent entity. The Group has 
no legal obligations to pay further contributions after payment of the fixed contribution.
The contributions recognised in respect of defined contribution plans are expensed as they fall due. Liabilities and assets may be recognised if 
underpayment or prepayment has occurred and are included in current liabilities or current assets as they are normally of a short-term nature.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
Principal accounting policies – Group continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 93
Employee benefits continued
Retirement benefit obligations continued
ii) Defined benefit pensions
The Group contributes to defined benefit schemes which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually 
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. The legal obligations for any benefits from this kind of pension 
plan remain with the Group, even if plan assets for funding the defined benefit plan have been set aside.
Scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit funding method, applying the principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet 
date. Assets are measured at market value. In accordance with IFRIC 1 4, the asset that is recognised is restricted to the amount by which the IAS 
19 (Revised) service cost is expected, over the lifetime of the scheme, to exceed funding contributions payable in respect of accruing benefits.
Where the Group has a contractual obligation to make good any deficit in its share of a Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) 
but also has the right to recover the costs of making good any deficit from the Group’s client, the fair value of that guarantee asset has 
been recognised and disclosed. The right to recover costs is limited to exclude situations where the Group causes the scheme to incur 
service costs in excess of those which would have been incurred were the members employed within Local Government. The right to recover 
costs is also limited to situations where the cap on employer contributions payable by the Group is not set so as to contribute to reducing 
the deficit in the scheme. Movements in the guarantee asset are taken to the Income Statement and to the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income to match the movement in pension assets and liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income as incurred. For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses 
comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between 
the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus of deficit are recognised in the Income Statement, including the current service cost, any past 
service cost and the effect of curtailments or settlements. The net interest cost is also charged to the Income Statement. The amount 
charged to the Income Statement in respect of these plans in included within operating costs.
The Group’s contributions to the scheme are paid in accordance with the rules of the schemes and the recommendations of the actuary.
Share-based employee remuneration
All share-based payment arrangements that were granted after 7 November 2002 and had not vested before 1 January 2005 are recognised 
in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 2.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based remuneration plans for its employees. All employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of any share-based remuneration are measured at their fair values. These are indirectly determined by reference 
to the fair value (excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions) of the share options awarded. Their value is determined 
at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified. The fair value 
at the date of the grant is calculated using the Black Scholes option pricing model and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period. For SAYE plans, 
employees are required to contribute towards the plan. This non-vesting condition is taken into account in calculating grant date fair value.
All share-based remuneration is ultimately recognised as an expense in the Income Statement. For equity-settled share-based 
payments there is a corresponding credit to the share-based payment reserve; for cash-settled share-based payments the Group 
recognises a liability at the balance sheet date.
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs up to the nominal value of the 
shares issued are allocated to share capital, with any excess being recorded as share premium. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 94
Leases
In accordance with IAS 17 ‘Leases’, the economic ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the lessee if they bear substantially all 
the risks and rewards related to the ownership of the leased asset. The related asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease 
at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the lease payments plus incidental payments, if any, to be borne by 
the lessee. A corresponding amount is recognised as a finance leasing liability, irrespective of whether some of these lease payments 
are payable up front at the date of inception of the lease.
Subsequent accounting for assets held under finance lease agreements, i.e. depreciation methods and useful lives, correspond to 
those applied to comparable acquired assets. The corresponding finance leasing liability is reduced by lease payments less finance 
charges, which are expensed to finance costs. Finance charges represent a constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding 
balance of the finance lease liability.
All other leases are treated as operating leases. Payment on operating lease agreements is recognised as an expense on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. Associated costs, such as maintenance and insurance, are expensed as incurred. 
The Group does not act as a lessor.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. The principal financial assets and liabilities of the Group are as follows:
Financial assets
When financial assets are recognised initially under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, they are measured 
at fair value, net of transaction costs other than for financial assets carried at fair value through the Income Statement.
The Group’s financial assets are included in the Balance Sheet as current assets, except for those maturing more than twelve months 
after the balance sheet date, whereupon they are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s financial assets comprise ‘Trade and 
other receivables’, ‘Amounts recoverable on contracts’ and ‘Cash at bank and in hand’ in the Balance Sheet.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, amounts recoverable on contracts and cash at bank and in hand are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts are initially 
recorded at fair value net of transaction costs, being invoiced value less any provisional estimate for impairment should this be necessary 
due to a loss event. Trade receivables are subsequently remeasured at invoiced value, less an updated provision for impairment. 
Any change in their value through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the Income Statement.
Provisions against trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts are made when objective evidence is received that the Group 
will not be able to collect all amounts due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write down 
is determined as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. Individually 
significant balances are reviewed separately for impairment based on the credit terms agreed with the customer. Other balances are 
grouped into credit risk categories and reviewed in aggregate.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and bank deposits available with no notice or less than three months’ 
notice from inception that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities 
to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. 
Following initial recognition, financial assets are subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Principal accounting policies – Group continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 95
Financial instruments continued
Financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities are overdrafts, trade and other payables including contingent consideration, and interest rate swaps. 
They are included in the Balance Sheet line items ‘Short-term borrowings and overdrafts’, ‘Trade and other payables’, ‘Financial 
liabilities’ and ‘Other liabilities’.
All interest related charges are recognised as an expense in ‘Finance cost’ in the Income Statement with the exception of those that 
are directly attributable to the construction of a qualifying asset which are capitalised as part of that asset.
Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, 
settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance costs. Borrowing costs are recognised 
as an expense in the period in which they are incurred with the exception of those which are directly attributable to the construction 
of a qualifying asset which are capitalised as part of that asset.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their fair value on initial recognition and subsequently 
at amortised cost.
Contingent consideration is initially recognised at fair value and is subsequently measured at fair value through the Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from operational and financing activities.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value, with mark-to-market movements recognised 
in the Income Statement except where cash flow hedge accounting is applied.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Hedge accounting for interest rate swaps
Where an interest rate swap is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of an existing or highly probable forecast loan 
interest payment, the effective part of any valuation gain or loss on the swap instrument is recognised in ‘Other comprehensive income’ 
in the hedging reserve. The cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement at the same time as 
the hedged transaction. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative 
gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the 
hedged transaction is no longer probable, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Income 
Statement immediately.
Nature and purpose of each reserve in equity
Share capital is determined using the nominal value of shares that have been issued. 
Share premium represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the total consideration received.
Equity-settled shared-based employee remuneration is credited to the share-based payment reserve until the related share options 
are exercised. Upon exercise the share-based payment reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
The hedging reserve represents the effective part of any gain or loss on a cash flow hedge which has not been removed from equity 
and recognised in the Income Statement. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 96
Nature and purpose of each reserve in equity continued
The merger reserve relates to the difference between the nominal value and total consideration in respect of the acquisition of 
Careforce Group plc, Supporta plc and Morrison Facilities Services Limited where the Company was entitled to the merger relief 
offered by the Companies Act.
Dividends
Dividend distributions payable to equity shareholders are included in ‘Current financial liabilities’ when the dividends are approved 
in a general meeting prior to the balance sheet date.
Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts 
of income and expenditure during the reported period. The estimates and associated judgements are based on historical experience 
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making 
judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and underlying judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, estimates and judgements have been made by management concerning 
the selection of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, provisions necessary for certain liabilities, when to recognise revenue on 
long-term contracts, actuarial judgements, discount rates used within impairment reviews, the underlying share price volatility for 
valuing equity-based payments and other similar evaluations. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion of job or contract activity. As described in the Revenue section on pages 90 to 92, 
certain types of Social Housing pricing mechanisms and Care revenue require minimal judgement; however, Social Housing lump sum 
contracts and construction contracts do require judgements and estimates to be made to determine the stage of completion and the 
expected outcome for the individual contract.
Joint arrangements
The Group participates in a number of joint arrangements where control of the arrangement is shared with another party. A joint 
arrangement is classified as a joint operation or as a joint venture, depending on management’s assessment of the legal form and 
substance of the arrangement.
The classification can have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s share of assets, liabilities, 
revenue, expenses and cash flows of joint operations would be included in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line 
basis, whereas the Group’s investment and share of results of joint ventures are shown within single line items in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet and Consolidated Income Statement respectively.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Impairment of goodwill 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimate of the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. 
The value-in-use calculation involves an estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount 
rates to calculate present values. Future cash flows are estimated using the current one-year budget forecast, extrapolated for a future 
growth rate. The estimated growth rates are based on past experience and knowledge of the individual sector’s markets. Changes in the 
estimated growth rate could result in variations to the carrying value of goodwill. The Directors consider that the estimates and judgements 
involved in determining the value in use of the Care CGU goodwill are the most significant and have therefore utilised the services of an 
external consultant to undertake this impairment review. The estimated cash flows and future growth rates are based on past experience 
and knowledge of the sector. The value in use is most sensitive to changes in the terminal growth rate, the explicit growth rate and the 
discount rate. The sensitivity to changes in these estimations is detailed in note 11.
Principal accounting policies – Group continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 97
Use of judgements and estimates continued
Key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Defined benefit liabilities 
A number of key estimates have been made, which are given below, which are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
 > inflation rates;
 > mortality;
 > discount rate; and
 > salary and pension increases.
Details of the particular estimates used are included in the pensions note. Sensitivity analysis for these key estimates is included in note 25.
Where the Group has a contractual obligation to make good any deficit in its share of a LGPS but also has the right to recover the costs 
of making good any deficit from the Group’s client, the fair value of that asset has been recognised and disclosed. The right to recover 
costs is limited to exclude situations where the Group causes the scheme to incur service costs in excess of those which would have 
been incurred were the members employed within Local Government. The Directors have made judgements in respect of whether any 
of the deficit is as a result of such situations.
The right to recover costs is also limited to situations where the cap on employer contributions to be suffered by the Group is not set so 
as to contribute to reducing the deficit in the scheme. The Directors, in conjunction with the scheme actuaries, have made judgements 
in respect of the predicted future service cost and contributions to the scheme to reflect this in the fair value of the asset recognised.
New standards and interpretations not yet applied
Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations, amendments to IFRS 11. The Group is expected to apply this amendment 
to the Group’s 31 December 2016 financial statements.
Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation, amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38. The Group is expected 
to apply these amendments to the Group’s 31 December 2016 financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements’ – Equity method in separate financial statements. The Group is expected 
to apply these amendments to the Group’s 31 December 2016 financial statements.
Disclosure initiative, amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’. The Group is expected to apply these amendments 
to the Group’s 31 December 2016 financial statements, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Disclosure initiative, amendments to IAS 7 ‘Cash flow statements’. The Group is expected to apply these amendments to the Group’s 
31 December 2017 financial statements, subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ specifies how an entity should classify and measure financial assets, including some hybrid contracts. 
The Group is expected to apply this standard for the Group’s 31 December 2018 financial statements, subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’. This standard introduces a new revenue recognition model that recognises revenue 
either at a point in time or over time. The model features a contract-based five-step analysis of transactions to determine whether, 
how much and when revenue is recognised. The Group is currently expected to apply this standard for the Group’s 31 December 2017 
financial statements, subject to endorsement by the EU. Management has started to assess the impact of this standard but is not yet 
in a position to provide quantified information.
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’. Under IFRS 16 lessees have to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a ‘right-of-use asset’ 
for almost all lease contracts. This is a significant change compared to IAS 17 under which lessees were required to make a distinction 
between a finance lease (on balance sheet) and an operating lease (off balance sheet). IFRS 16 contains an optional exemption for certain 
short-term leases and leases of low value assets. The Group is expected to apply this standard for the Group’s 31 December 2019 financial 
statements, subject to endorsement by the EU. Management has started to assess the impact of this standard but is not yet in a position 
to provide quantified information. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 98
2015 2014
Note £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Sales revenue 1 881,139 838,740
Cost of sales (649,007) (613,699)
Gross profit 232,132 225,041
Other administrative expenses (193,470) (182,046)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 11 (10,837) (12,328)
Total administrative costs (204,307) (194,374)
Operating profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles 38,662 42,995
Operating profit 1 27,825 30,667
Share of results of equity accounted joint ventures — 299
Finance income 3 1,171 2,315
Finance costs 3 (3,076) (3,604)
Profit for the year before tax and the amortisation of acquisition intangibles 36,757 42,005
Profit for the year before tax 25,920 29,677
Tax expense 6 (3,832) (4,442)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 22,088 25,235
Discontinued operations
Loss from discontinued operations 7 (7,964) —
Tax income from discontinued operations 7 165 —
Loss for the year after tax from discontinued operations (7,799) —
Profit for the year from continuing and discontinued operations 14,289 25,235
Attributable to:
Owners of the Parent 12,874 25,286
Non-controlling interest 1,415 (51)
Profit for the year 14,289 25,235
Earnings per share – from continuing operations
Basic 9 20.31p 25.03p
Diluted 9 20.10p 24.65p
Earnings per share – from continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 9 12.65p 25.03p
Diluted 9 12.52p 24.65p
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 99
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 2014
Note £’000 £’000
Profit for the year 14,289 25,235
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Which will be subsequently reclassified to the Income Statement:
Cash flow hedges:
– losses arising in the year 19 (72) (841)
– reclassification to the Income Statement 19 559 722
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax asset in respect of cash flow hedges 19 (97) 5
Which will not be subsequently reclassified to the Income Statement:
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme 24 (3,371) (3,290)
Increase in deferred tax asset in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 20 675 694
Other comprehensive expense for the year (2,306) (2,710)
Total comprehensive income for the year 11,983 22,525
Attributable to:
Owners of the Parent 10,568 24,302
Non-controlling interest 1,415 (1,777)
Total comprehensive income for the year 11,983 22,525
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 100
2015 2014
Note £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current
Goodwill 10 193,058 192,003
Intangible assets 11 31,851 35,375
Share of net asset of joint ventures 13 — 1,856
Property, plant and equipment 12 18,436 15,880
Pension and other employee benefits 24 8,272 15,131
Deferred tax asset 20 6,584 8,573
258,201 268,818
Current 
Assets included in disposal group classified as held for sale 7 13,255 —
Inventories 14 9,021 8,468
Trade and other receivables 15 146,879 142,616
Cash at bank and in hand 68,612 66,634
237,767 217,718
Total assets 495,968 486,536
Equity
Equity attributable to the shareholders of Mears Group PLC
Called up share capital 21 1,019 1,011
Share premium account 58,124 56,714
Share-based payment reserve 1,651 1,653
Hedging reserve 19 (572) (962)
Merger reserve 46,214 46,214
Retained earnings 86,438 92,179
Total equity attributable to the shareholders of Mears Group PLC 192,874 196,809
Non-controlling interest (1,246) (2,347)
Total equity 191,628 194,462
Liabilities
Non-current
Long-term borrowing and overdrafts 19 57,500 57,500
Pension and other employee benefits 24 4,224 8,372
Deferred tax liabilities 20 6,970 9,418
Financial liabilities 17 368 788
Other liabilities 18 15,396 25,956
84,458 102,034
Current
Liabilities included in disposal group classified as held for sale 7 13,255 —
Short-term borrowings and overdrafts 19 10,290 5,300
Trade and other payables 16 194,103 182,098
Financial liabilities 17 510 580
Current tax liabilities 1,724 2,062
Current liabilities 219,882 190,040
Total liabilities 304,340 292,074
Total equity and liabilities 495,968 486,536
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors and were signed on its behalf on 18 March 2016.
R Holt  A C M Smith
Director  Director
Company number: 03232863
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 101
2015 2014
Note £’000 £’000
Operating activities
Result for the year before tax 25,920 29,677
Adjustments 22 19,887 20,191
Change in inventories (553) 2,195
Change in trade and other receivables 6,668 11,967
Change in trade and other payables (7,458) (17,595)
Cash inflow from operating activities of continuing operations before taxation 44,464 46,435
Taxes paid (5,888) (2,285)
Net cash inflow from operating activities of continuing operations 38,576 44,150
Net cash outflow from operating activities of discontinued operations (4,503) —
Net cash inflow from operating activities 34,073 44,150
Investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment (4,297) (3,962)
Additions to other intangible assets (2,978) (1,484)
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 86 106
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, net of cash (17,590) (22,221)
Interest received 158 78
Net cash outflow from investing activities (24,621) (27,483)
Financing activities
Proceeds from share issue 1,418 636
Discharge of finance lease liability (545) (62)
Interest paid (2,764) (3,707)
Dividends paid – Mears Group shareholders (10,445) (9,252)
Dividends paid – non-controlling interests (128) —
Net cash outflow from financing activities (12,464) (12,385)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 3,834 (448)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (3,012) 4,282
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 822 3,834
Cash and cash equivalents comprises the following:
– cash at bank and in hand 68,612 66,634
– borrowings and overdrafts (67,790) (62,800)
Cash and cash equivalents 822 3,834
Cash conversion key performance indicator
Cash inflow from operating activities of continuing operations 44,464 46,435
EBITDA for continuing operations 44,940 48,509
Conversion 98.9% 95.7%
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 102
Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company
Share-
Share based Non-
Share premium payment Hedging Merger Retained controlling Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings interest equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2014 1,007 56,082 1,050 (848) 46,214 77,366 (570) 180,301
Net result for the year — — — — — 25,286 (51) 25,235
Other comprehensive expense — — — (114) — (870) (1,726) (2,710)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income 
for the year — — — (114) — 24,416 (1,777) 22,525
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — — — (418) — (418)
Issue of shares 4 632 — — — — — 636
Share option charges — — 670 — — — — 670
Exercise of share options — — (67) — — 67 — —
Dividends — — — — — (9,252) — (9,252)
At 1 January 2015 1,011 56,714 1,653 (962) 46,214 92,179 (2,347) 194,462
Net result for the year — — — — — 12,874 1,415 14,289
Other comprehensive income/(expense) — — — 390 — (2,696) — (2,306)
Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 390 — 10,178 1,415 11,983
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — — — (552) — (552)
Issue of shares 8 1,410 — — — — — 1,418
Share option charges — — 771 — — — — 771
Exercise of share options — — (773) — — 773 — —
On acquisition — — — — — — 282 282
Transactions with non-controlling interests — — — — — (5,695) (468) (6,163)
Dividends — — — — — (10,445) (128) (10,573)
At 31 December 2015 1,019 58,124 1,651 (572) 46,214 86,438 (1,246) 191,628
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 103
Notes to the financial statements – Group
For the year ended 31 December 2015
1. Segment reporting
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s operating segments. Segments are determined by reference to the internal 
reports reviewed by the Board.
The Group operated two operating segments during the year:
 > Housing – services within this sector comprise a full housing management service predominantly to Local Authorities and other 
Registered Social Landlords; and
 > Care – services within this sector comprise personal care services to people in their own homes.
All of the Group’s activities are carried out within the United Kingdom and the Group’s principal reporting to its chief operating decision 
maker is not segmented by geography.
The principal financial measures used by the chief operating decision maker and the Board to review the performance of the operating 
segments are that of revenue growth and operating margins in both the core divisions of Housing and Care. The operating result utilised 
within the key performance measures is stated before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional costs and costs relating to 
the long-term incentive plans.
2015 2014
Housing Care Total Housing Care Total
Operating segments £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 735,129 146,010 881,139 714,733 124,007 838,740
Operating result pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles, 
exceptional costs and long-term incentive plans 42,413 (1,601) 40,812 34,410 9,641 44,051
Operating margin pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles, 
exceptional costs and long-term incentive plans 5.77% (1.10%) 4.63% 4.81% 7.78% 5.25%
Long-term incentive plans (2,150) — (2,150) (1,056) — (1,056)
Operating result pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles and 
exceptional costs 40,263 (1,601) 38,662 33,354 9,641 42,995
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (10,837) (12,328)
Finance costs, net (1,905) (990)
Tax expense (3,832) (4,442)
Profit for the year from continuing activities 22,088 25,235
All revenue and all non-current assets arise within the United Kingdom. All of the revenue reported is external to the Group. No revenue 
in respect of a single customer comprises more than 10% of the total revenue reported. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 104
1. Segment reporting continued
In addition, the following disclosures have been provided in respect of segmental analysis required by IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’:
2015 2014
Housing Care Total Housing Care Total
Operating segments £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets 346,323 136,390 482,713 365,824 120,712 486,536
Segment liabilities (224,434) (66,651) (291,085) (237,474) (54,600) (292,074)
Property, plant and equipment additions 5,388 829 6,217 4,203 333 4,536
Depreciation 3,710 1,253 4,963 3,631 731 4,362
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 6,707 4,130 10,837 6,069 6,259 12,328
Amortisation of other intangibles 1,314 — 1,314 1,152 — 1,152
Share of result of joint venture — — — 299 — 299
2. Operating costs
Operating costs, relating to continuing activities, include:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Share-based payments 2,150 670
Long-term incentives 1,379 386
Depreciation 4,936 4,362
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 10,837 12,328
Amortisation of other intangibles 1,314 1,152
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (44) (3)
Hire of plant and machinery 5,727 5,916
Other operating lease rentals 25,188 24,705
Fees payable for audit and non-audit services during the year were as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Group’s financial statements 60 58
Other fees payable to the auditor in respect of:
– auditing of accounts of subsidiary undertakings pursuant to legislation 331 228
– taxation compliance fees — 45
– taxation advice fees 21 16
– audit related advisory fees 8 —
Total auditor’s remuneration 420 347
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 105
3. Finance income and finance costs
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Interest charge on overdrafts and short-term loans (2,136) (1,975)
Interest charge on hedged items (effective hedges) (559) (722)
Interest charge on hedged items (ineffective hedges) — (70)
Other interest (4) (80)
Finance costs on bank loans, overdrafts and finance leases (2,699) (2,847)
Interest charge on defined benefit asset (252) (426)
Unwinding of discounting (125) (331)
Total finance costs (3,076) (3,604)
Interest income resulting from short-term bank deposits 16 10
Interest income resulting from defined benefit asset 964 2,238
Unwinding of discounting 49 —
Other interest income 142 67
Finance income 1,171 2,315
Net finance charge (1,905) (1,289)
Gains and losses on hedged items recognised in other comprehensive income
Losses arising in the year (72) (841)
Reclassification to the Income Statement 559 722
Changes in mark-to-market of interest rate swaps (effective hedges) 487 (119)
4. Employees
Staff costs during the year were as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 291,542 262,730
Social security costs 22,310 22,061
Other pension costs 9,859 11,387
323,711 296,178 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 106
4. Employees continued
The average number of employees of the Group during the year was:
2015 2014
Number Number
Site workers 3,900 4,133
Carers 7,318 5,944
Office and management 3,110 2,888
14,328 12,965
Remuneration in respect of Directors was as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Emoluments 1,323 2,189
Gains made on the exercise of share options — 536
Pension contributions to personal pension schemes 195 185
1,518 2,910
During the year contributions were paid to personal pension schemes for four Directors (2014: four).
During the year no Director (2014: two) exercised share options.
Following a number of acquisitions during the period, the number of employees at 31 December 2015 was 18,064 (2014: 13,000).
5. Share-based employee remuneration
As at 31 December 2015 the Group maintained seven share-based payment schemes for employee remuneration.
Details of the share options outstanding are as follows:
2015 2014
 Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise exercise
Number price Number price
’000 p ’000 p
Outstanding at 1 January 2,994 223 2,420 40
Granted 1,462 330 1,205 414
Forfeited/lapsed (550) 394 (159) 260
Exercised (804) 176 (472) 135
Outstanding at 31 December 3,102 2,554 2,994 223
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £1.76. At 31 December 2015, 
0.5 million options had vested and were still exercisable at prices between 1p and 300p. These options had a weighted average exercise 
price of 88p and a weighted average remaining contractual life of two years.
The fair values of options granted were determined using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Significant inputs into the calculation 
include the market price at the date of grant and exercise prices. Furthermore, the calculation takes into account the future dividend 
yield, the share price volatility rate and the risk-free interest rate.
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 107
5. Share-based employee remuneration continued
The underlying expected share price volatility was determined by reference to historical data. The Company expects the volatility of its 
share price to reduce as it matures. The risk-free interest rate was determined by the implied yield available on a zero-coupon Government 
bond at the date of grant. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy 
service conditions. In the case of the SAYE scheme the expected forfeitures take account of the requirement to save throughout the 
life of the scheme. There were 1.5 million options granted during the year and 0.6 million options lapsed during the year. The market price at 
31 December 2015 was 468p and the range during 2015 was 376p to 475p.
All share-based employee remuneration will be settled in equity. The Group has no legal obligation to repurchase or settle the options.
The Group recognised the following expenses related to share-based payments:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Giving rise to share-based payment reserve:
– LTIP — (134)
– SAYE 113 146
– Share Plan 658 658
Giving rise to liabilities:
– MIP 1,379 —
2,150 670
In total, £0.8m of employee remuneration expense has been included in the Consolidated Income Statement for 2015 (2014: £0.7m), 
which gave rise to additional share-based payment reserves. In total, £1.4m (2014: £nil) of liabilities were recognised due to cash-settled 
share-based payment transactions.
The Mears Group PLC Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced in October 2008 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key 
senior management. The principal terms of the LTIP are detailed below:
Principal terms of LTIP
Number of options Maximum award limit under the plan will be 200% of salary p.a.
Exercise price 1p
Performance period 3 years
Performance conditions There are two performance targets attaching to the LTIP Award.
75% of the LTIP Award will relate to an EPS growth target. The other 25% of the LTIP Award relates 
to the Company’s TSR against the return of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector.
Expiry conditions Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options have vested.
Performance conditions of LTIP (2010 issue)
EPS growth target TSR target
Performance levels Level of vesting Performance levels Level of vesting
8.0% 10% Below index return 0%
10.0% 30% Equal to index 30%
12.5% 100%
10% outperformance  
of the index p.a. 100%
All options issued under this plan have vested or were forfeited. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 108
5. Share-based employee remuneration continued
Approved share option plan
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to 
the date of grant. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, 
the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves Mears before the options vest.
All options issued under this plan have vested or were forfeited.
Unapproved share option plan
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to 
the date of grant. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, 
the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves Mears before the options vest. With the introduction of the LTIP in 2008, 
the Remuneration Committee has decided that no further awards will be made under the unapproved share option plan.
All options issued under this plan have vested or were forfeited.
Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme
Options are available to all employees. Options are granted for a period of three years. Options are exercisable at a price based on the 
quoted market price of the Company’s shares at the time of invitation, discounted by up to 20%. Options are forfeited if the employee 
leaves Mears Group before the options vest which impacts on the number of options expected to vest. If an employee stops saving but 
continues in employment, this is treated as a cancellation which results in an acceleration of the share-based payment charge.
Special Incentive Plan 2007 (SIP)
The SIP was introduced in 2007 to reward the then Chief Executive Officer, Rob Holt, with premium priced options linked to long-term 
performance. The terms and conditions were subsequently amended on 3 July 2009. If the options remain unexercised after a period 
of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. There was a single award and no further awards will be made under this plan.
All options issued under this plan have vested.
The Mears Group PLC Share Plan 2013
The Share Plan was introduced in June 2013 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key 
senior management. The principal terms of the LTIP are detailed below:
Principal terms of LTIP
Number of options Maximum award limit under the plan will be 200% of salary p.a.
Exercise price 1p
Vesting period Three-year (future awards under this plan will be subject to a five-year vesting period).
Performance conditions None
Expiry conditions Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options have been vested.
Management Incentive Plan (MIP)
The MIP was introduced in June 2013 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key 
senior management. The MIP is a cash-settled share-based payment plan. Further details are provided on pages 71 to 72 of the 
Remuneration Report.
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 109
6. Tax expense
Tax recognised in the Income Statement
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
United Kingdom corporation tax 5,783 5,410
Adjustment in respect of previous periods (642) (721)
Total current tax recognised in Income Statement 5,141 4,689
Deferred taxation charge:
– on defined benefit pension obligations 133 285
– on share-based payments (151) (130)
– on accelerated capital allowances (232) 293
– on amortisation of acquisition intangibles (2,130) (2,127)
– on short-term temporary timing differences (276) 2,285
– on corporate tax losses 1,609 (674)
– impact of change in statutory tax rates — (179)
Adjustment in respect of previous periods (262) —
Total deferred taxation recognised in Income Statement (1,309) (247)
Total tax expense recognised in Income Statement on continuing operations 3,832 4,442
Total tax credit recognised in Income Statement on discontinued operations (165) —
Total tax expense recognised in Income Statement 3,667 4,442
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the result for the year as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Results for the year before tax 17,956 29,677
Result for the year multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom for the period of 20.25% 
(2014: 21.50%) 3,636 6,381
Effect of:
– expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,412 775
– tax relief on exercise of share options (397) (275)
– statutory tax rate changes — (179)
– small company tax rate — (6)
– temporary timing differences not previously recognised in deferred tax (20) (773)
– tax losses not previously recognised in deferred tax (60) (760)
– adjustment in respect of prior periods (904) (721)
Actual tax expense 3,667 4,442 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 110
6. Tax expense continued
Tax recognised in the Income Statement continued
Deferred tax is recognised on both temporary and permanent differences between the treatment of items for tax and accounting 
purposes. Deferred tax on the amortisation of acquisition intangibles is a permanent difference and arises because no tax relief is due 
on this kind of amortisation.
Tax losses generated in previous years which are expected to be utilised against future profits are recognised as a deferred tax asset 
and a subsequent charge arises as those losses are utilised. The majority of the charge of £1.6m (2014: credit of £0.7m) represents 
losses associated with Morrison which were utilised in the year.
No deferred tax asset is recognised in respect of losses of £32.9m (2014: £28.9m) across several entities in the Group as it is not 
expected that they will be eligible to be utilised against profits in the future.
Deferred tax is also recognised on short-term temporary timing differences, primarily relating to provisions. These differences are 
expected to reverse in the following year and arise because tax relief is only available when the costs are incurred.
Capital allowances represent tax relief on the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and are spread over several years at rates set by 
legislation. These differ from depreciation which is an estimate of the use of an item of property, plant and equipment over its useful life. 
Deferred tax is recognised on the difference between the remaining value of such an asset for tax purposes and its carrying value in the accounts.
The following tax has been charged to other comprehensive income or equity during the year:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income
– on defined benefit pension obligations (675) (658)
– on cash flow hedges 97 (38)
– impact of change in statutory tax rates — (3)
Total deferred taxation recognised in other comprehensive income (578) (699)
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
Deferred taxation charge:
– on share-based payments (552) (359)
– impact of change in statutory tax rates — (59)
Total deferred taxation recognised in equity (552) (418)
Total tax
Total current tax 4,976 4,689
Total deferred tax (2,439) (1,364)
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 111
7. Discontinued activities
On 21 November 2013, the Group completed the disposal of the entire share capital of Haydon Mechanical and Electrical Limited (‘Haydon UK’). 
As part of that disposal, the Group retained the beneficial interest in 49% of the share capital of an investment in a company registered 
in the United Arab Emirates, Haydon Mechanical and Electrical Company LLC (‘Haydon LLC’). These beneficial interest was retained due 
to a number of performance guarantees in place at the time of the disposal which unravel as underlying contracts complete. During the 
period the Group agreed in principle to sell its interest in the company to the management. The transfer will happen in stages as the 
performance guarantees are cancelled. The formal sales and purchase agreement is expected to be signed imminently. 
As at 31 December 2015, the Group has performance guarantees of £15.4m outstanding and these are anticipated to reduce to £12.0m, 
£9.0m and £nil by December 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively. These performance guarantees are disclosed as contingent liabilities 
in note 27 . 
At 31 December 2014, a balance of £2.6m was due from Haydon LLC to the Group. During the period, the Group provided additional 
financial support to Haydon LLC of £4.5m to fund on going losses in the company so as to mitigate its risk in respect of the performance 
guarantees. The Group has fully provided for these losses and written the net carrying value of the company’s assets and liabilities down 
to nil which equates to the full outstanding loan balance of £7 .1m. This is reported as a loss from discontinued operations. A further loss 
of £0.9m was incurred during the year as a result of the Group making full provision against all unsecured amounts due from Haydon UK.
The results of Haydon LLC, which have been aggregated into a single line within the consolidated income statement, comprise sales 
revenue of £38.5m, costs of sales of £44. 1m, administrative expenses of £3.3m and a tax credit of £0.2m, equating to a loss on discontinued 
activities of £6.9m. A number of the underlying contracts are now reaching completion and whilst there remains a range of possible 
outcomes, the Directors believe that the carrying values are appropriate. A further loss of £0.9m was incurred during the year as a 
result of the Group making full provision against all remaining unsecured amounts due from Haydon UK.
The Group accounted for its beneficial interest in Haydon LLC as an investment within its 2014 financial statements. Given the increased 
level of influence exerted by the Group on Haydon LLC in order to manage and mitigate this risk, the Directors have reassessed the facts 
and circumstances in respect of its relationship. The Directors consider that the actions taken during the period were sufficient to determine 
the operating and financing policies of Haydon LLC, and as such, the activities require consolidation. Given the Group has agreed the sale 
of its interest to management, with the final transfer being completed upon the cancellation of its performance guarantees, the Group 
has disclosed the assets and liabilities separately as assets and liabilities held for sale. The Directors will keep under review the extent 
to which the Group continues to apply a level of influence in respect of this investment.
The loss on disposal in respect of discontinued activities is all attributable to the equity holders of the Parent.
8. Dividends
The following dividends were paid on ordinary shares in the year:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Final 2014 dividend of 7.15p (2014: final 2013 dividend of 6.30p) per share 7,286 6,370
Interim 2015 dividend of 3.10p (2014: interim 2014 dividend of 2.85p) per share 3,159 2,882
10,445 9,252
The proposed final 2015 dividend of 7 .90p per share has not been included within the consolidated financial statements as no obligation 
existed at 31 December 2015. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 112
9. Earnings per share
Basic (continuing) Basic (discontinued)
Basic (continuing 
and discontinued)
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
p p p p p p
Earnings per share 20.31 25.03 (7.66) — 12.65 25.03
Effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles 10.65 12.20 — — 10.65 12.20
Effect of full tax adjustment (2.73) (4.54) — — (2.73) (4.54)
Normalised earnings per share 28.23 32.69 (7.66) — 20.57 32.69
Diluted (continuing) Diluted (discontinued)
Diluted (continuing 
and discontinued)
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
p p p p p p
Earnings per share 20.10 24.65 (7.58) — 12.52 24.65
Effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles 10.54 12.02 — — 10.54 12.02
Effect of full tax adjustment (2.70) (4.47) — — (2.70) (4.47)
Normalised earnings per share 27.94 32.20 (7.58) — 20.36 32.20
A normalised EPS is disclosed in order to show performance undistorted by amortisation of intangibles. The Group defines normalised 
earnings as excluding the amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional costs and adjusted to reflect a full tax charge. The profit 
attributable to shareholders before and after adjustments for both basic and diluted EPS is:
Normalised (continuing) Normalised (discontinued)
Normalised (continuing 
and discontinued)
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders: 20,673 25,286 (7,799) — 12,874 25,286
– amortisation of acquisition intangibles 10,837 12,328 — — 10,837 12,328
– full tax adjustment (2,784) (4,588) — — (2,784) (4,588)
Normalised earnings 28,726 33,026 (7,799) — 20,927 33,026
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 113
9. Earnings per share continued
The calculation of EPS is based on a weighted average of ordinary shares in issue during the year. The diluted EPS is based on a weighted 
average of ordinary shares calculated in accordance with IAS 33 ‘Earnings Per Share’, which assumes that all dilutive options will be exercised. 
The additional normalised basic and diluted EPS use the same weighted average number of shares as the basic and diluted EPS.
2015 2014
Million Million
Weighted average number of shares in issue: 101.77 101.02
– dilutive effect of share options 1.06 1.54
Weighted average number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 102.83 102.56
10. Goodwill
Goodwill
arising on Purchased
consolidation goodwill Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Gross carrying amount
At 1 January 2014 157,539 406 157,945
Additions on acquisition 33,438 — 33,438
Revisions 620 — 620
At 1 January 2015 191,597 406 192,003
Additions on acquisition 1,055 — 1,055
At 31 December 2015 192,652 406 193,058
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2014, at 1 January 2015 and at 31 December 2015 — — —
Carrying amount 
At 31 December 2015 192,652 406 193,058
At 31 December 2014 191,597 406 192,003
Goodwill on consolidation arises on the excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired on purchase of a company.
Purchased goodwill arises on the excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired on the purchase of the trade 
and assets of a business by the Group.
Additions to goodwill arising on consolidation are detailed within note 23.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are any indications that goodwill 
may be impaired. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of cash-generating units (CGUs) according to the level 
at which management monitors that goodwill. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 114
10. Goodwill continued
The carrying value of goodwill is allocated to the following CGUs:
Goodwill
arising on Purchased
consolidation goodwill Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Social Housing 93,656 406 94,062
Care 98,996 — 98,996
192,652 406 193,058
An asset is impaired if its carrying value exceeds the unit’s recoverable amount which is based upon value in use. At 31 December 2015 
impairment reviews were performed by comparing the carrying value of the CGU with the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has 
been allocated. 
The CGU’s value in use is calculated from the Board approved one-year budgeted cash flows and extrapolated cash flows for the next 
four years discounted at a post-tax discount rate of 8.5% over a five-year period with a terminal value. The impairment reviews have always 
taken a particularly prudent stance and incorporated a terminal growth assumption of 2.5%, which, whilst marginally higher than the UK 
long-term growth rate of 2.0%, is supported by historic organic growth.
The estimated growth rates are based on knowledge of the individual CGU’s sector and market and represent management’s base level 
expectations for future growth, dependent on the CGU. Changes to revenue and direct costs are based on past experience and expectation 
of future changes within the markets of the CGUs. All CGUs have the same access to the Group’s T reasury functions and borrowing arrangements 
to finance their operations.
The rates used were as follows:
Post-tax Pre tax Growth Growth Growth Terminal
discount discount rates rates rates growth
rate rate (year 1) (years 2–3) (years 4–5) rate
Social Housing 8.5% 10.2% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 2.5%
Care 8.5% 10.2% (3.8%) 7.6% 12.1% 2.5%
Social Housing
The contracts awarded within the Social Housing area are significant in size and the contract terms are typically three to ten years 
in duration. The record of Mears in retaining contracts on expiry is typically over 90%.
Budgeted operating profits during the budget period are estimated by reference to the run-rate operating margin achieved in the period 
leading up to the start of the budget period, flexed for known changes in either the pricing mechanism or the cost base at a contract level. 
There is no inclusion for any anticipated efficiency improvements.
The Directors consider that reasonably possible changes in these key assumptions would not cause a unit’s carrying amount to exceed 
its recoverable amount.
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 115
10. Goodwill continued
Care
Management recognises that the profitability within the care-at-home market has regressed during the year. The decline is principally 
due to pressures on Local Authority spending, and recruitment and retention of quality care workers. In response to reducing carer numbers, 
Mears has increased carer pay rates significantly over the last two years which has, in the short term, reduced margin but improved Mears’ 
operating capability at a local level. There is no shortage of care work. The acquisition of the Care at Home division of Care UK has, in the 
short term, also reduced profitability. As part of the annual impairment testing, management undertook an extensive business planning 
process which involved a detailed review, on a contract-by-contract basis, of charge rates and carer pay rates. The process generated a 
better understanding of the main drivers behind poor carer retention and recruitment rates; one of these factors was carer pay, but there are 
a number of factors around culture, working practices and recognition which impact upon maintaining a stable workforce. Recruitment plans 
were prepared locally for every contract. Consideration was also given to the organic growth opportunity available and discussions took 
place with every client and key actions were agreed with local care management.
The business plan identified a number of key factors which are built in to the value-in-use calculation:
 > Mears has a good track record for winning new contracts. Management included a conservative assumption around contract wins 
based upon our historical performance and our appetite for winning new care work. The Group will be increasingly selective and will 
only tender work with good visibility of both sales volumes and margin. The Group has assumed an annual increase of 7 ,000 hours 
per week which is a small increase on a business currently delivering 220,000 hours of care per week.
 > Recruitment and retention of quality care workers is a challenge which has been experienced during the year and is expected to continue 
during the short term. The business plan reflects improvements in carer retention and recruitment flowing from the business planning 
process. Mears has also entered into a national recruitment partnership with a leading labour recruitment company which is also 
anticipated to professionalise the process from identification of candidates through to the start of their employment. The plan 
includes modest growth during the medium and long term which, on average, equates to four additional carers per year per branch; this 
represents an increase of 450 carers per year on an existing workforce of 10,000 carers which is considered realistic.
 > Mears is committed to leading the way with carer pay rates; the introduction of the National Living Wage in April 2016 will further 
increase direct costs from 1 April 2016. Mears will look to maintain a significant differential between the Mears pay rates and 
the National Living Wage to ensure it remains employer of choice in the homecare sector. We have commenced dialogue with all 
Care clients to ensure that the full increase from the introduction of the National Living Wage is properly incorporated into our 
charge rates. Initial progress in this area has been good; pleasingly a large number of our clients have run their own cost of care 
assessments and there is an increased realisation that providers are not in a position to fund further increases in the cost base 
without significant increases in charge rates.
Management has prepared two alternative scenarios in support of its value-in-use calculation.
Scenario 1: The business plan identified that the financial and operational success of delivering care was dependent upon paying 
carers a fair rate of pay that reflects the vital and challenging role that they deliver. The introduction of the National Living Wage will 
bring an immediate increase in our cost base but is proving to be a catalyst for change; the charge rates with Local Authorities will need 
to be increased to reflect this. Management has made good progress in agreeing price increases with clients and scenario 1 assumes 
that the full increase in costs flowing from the National Living Wage will be reflected in higher fee rates. Given that all care providers are 
impacted by this change, the Directors believe that its current contracts will be retained and the revenues will increase over time from 
their current level. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 116
10. Goodwill continued
Care continued
Scenario 2 (base case): The second scenario takes a more conservative outlook, reflecting that the Care division’s existing portfolio 
of contracts enjoys charge rates predominantly within the range of £11.50 to £15.00 per hour. Following the introduction of the National 
Living Wage, combined with the overall shortage of carers driving increasing pay rates, the Directors expect the majority of charge rates 
to increase to a new range of £14.00 to £16.00. There will be some regional variances to this, especially within London and rural areas. 
For those clients already paying at the top end of the range, the anticipated increase in charge rates is reasonable. For those clients 
currently paying at rates which fall at the bottom end of the range, the required increases are likely to be in excess of 25%. The 
Directors have reviewed the current charge rates for each customer, with around 19% of revenue currently receiving charge rates of 
below £12.50 per hour of care delivered. Under scenario 2, it has been assumed that the increase will be unaffordable for these 
customers. Whilst these customers will still have a requirement for homecare, the Directors have assumed this work will be procured 
from providers who are willing to maintain a lower cost base. Under scenario 2, the revenue was reduced in 2016 to reflect this 19% lost 
revenue with subsequent years reduced in line with this. 
The value-in-use calculation has been tested for sensitivity under both scenarios. Scenario 1 forms the basis of the Group’s internal 
business plan. Scenario 2, whilst representing a negative outcome and whilst it would fall short of the Directors’ targets, is considered 
to be the base case for testing the sensitivity to impairment. Management considers that the Care value-in-use calculation is most sensitive 
to changes in the terminal growth rate, discount rate and EBITA margin.
The table below shows the sensitivity of the headroom (£m) to simultaneous changes in the discount rate and the long-term growth rate 
under both scenario 1 and scenario 2.
Scenario 1
Discount rate
Long-term growth rate 7.0% 7.5% 8.0% 8.5% 9.0% 9.5% 10.0%
0.5% 62.7 47.6 34.6 23.2 13.2 4.4 (3.5)
1.0% 75.9 58.7 44.0 31.3 20.2 10.4 1.8
1.5% 91.5 71.6 54.8 40.4 28.0 17.2 7.7
2.0% 110.2 86.9 67.4 51.0 37.0 24.9 14.3
2.5% 133.2 105.2 82.3 63.3 47.3 33.6 21.8
3.0% 161.8 127.6 100.2 77.9 59.4 43.7 30.3
3.5% 198.6 155.6 122.1 95.4 73.6 55.5 40.2
4.0% 247.7 191.5 149.5 116.8 90.8 69.5 51.8
4.5% 316.4 239.5 184.7 143.6 111.7 86.2 65.4
Scenario 2
Discount rate
Long-term growth rate 7.0% 7.5% 8.0% 8.5% 9.0% 9.5% 10.0%
0.5% 4.1 (5.9) (14.6) (22.1) (28.8) (34.6) (39.9)
1.0% 12.6 1.2 (8.5) (17.0) (24.3) (30.8) (36.5)
1.5% 22.8 9.6 (1.5) (11.0) (19.3) (26.4) (32.7)
2.0% 34.9 19.5 6.6 (4.2) (13.5) (21.5) (28.5)
2.5% 49.8 31.3 16.3 3.8 (6.8) (15.9) (23.7)
3.0% 68.4 45.8 27.9 13.2 0.9 (9.4) (18.2)
3.5% 92.3 64.0 42.0 24.5 10.1 (1.8) (11.8)
4.0% 124.1 87.3 59.7 38.3 21.2 7.2 (4.4)
4.5% 168.7 118.3 82.4 55.5 34.6 17.9 4.3
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 117
11. Other intangible assets
Acquisition intangibles Other intangibles
Total Total
Client Order acquisition Development Intellectual other Total
relationships book intangibles expenditure property intangibles intangibles
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Gross carrying amount
At 1 January 2014 61,296 18,100 79,396 6,186 224 6,410 85,806
Acquired on acquisition 10,465 1,260 11,725 — — — 11,725
Additions — — — 1,484 — 1,484 1,484
Disposals — — — (315) — (315) (315)
At 1 January 2015 71,761 19,360 91,121 7,355 224 7,579 98,700
Acquired on acquisition 377 5,272 5,649 — — — 5,649
Additions — — — 2,978 — 2,978 2,978
At 31 December 2015 72,138 24,632 96,770 10,333 224 10,557 107,327
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 35,426 11,410 46,836 3,100 224 3,324 50,160
Amortisation charge for period 5,926 6,402 12,328 1,152 — 1,152 13,480
Disposals — — — (315) — (315) (315)
At 1 January 2015 41,352 17,812 59,164 3,937 224 4,161 63,325
Amortisation charge for period 7,679 3,158 10,837 1,314 — 1,314 12,151
At 31 December 2015 49,031 20,970 70,001 5,251 224 5,475 75,476
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 23,107 3,662 26,769 5,082 — 5,082 31,851
At 31 December 2014 30,409 1,548 31,957 3,418 — 3,418 35,375
Development expenditure is an internally developed intangible asset and relates largely to the development of the Group’s Social Housing 
job management system, the Group’s Care management system and the UK Planning Portal website. Development expenditure is amortised 
over its useful economic life of 4.0 years. The weighted average remaining economic life of the asset is 3.5 years (2014: 3.4 years).
Intellectual property is amortised over its useful economic life of 5.0 years.
Amortisation of development expenditure is included within other administrative expenses. Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 
is presented separately.
The value placed on the order book is based upon the cash flow projections over the contracts in place when a business is acquired. 
Due to uncertainties with trying to forecast revenues beyond the contract term, the Directors have taken a measure of conservatism 
and value contracts over the contractual term only. The value of the order book is amortised over its remaining life.
The value placed on the customer relationships is based upon the non-contractual expected cash inflows. These cash flow projections 
assume a customer attrition rate of 5% based upon three-year historic trends.
Additions to intangible assets arising on acquisition are detailed within note 23. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 118
12. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures,
Freehold Leasehold Plant and fittings and Motor 
property improvements machinery equipment vehicles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Gross carrying amount
At 1 January 2014 110 9,613 4,093 30,709 1,326 45,851
Acquired on acquisition 581 52 — 386 217 1,236
Additions — 484 899 3,140 13 4,536
Disposals — (142) (1,703) (708) (195) (2,748)
At 1 January 2015 691 10,007 3,289 33,527 1,361 48,875
Acquired on acquisition — — — 7,299 39 7,338
Additions 97 2,319 136 3,665 — 6,217
Disposals — (68) (444) (40) (11) (563)
At 31 December 2015 788 12,258 2,981 44,451 1,389 61,867
Depreciation
At 1 January 2014 — 5,967 3,055 20,540 1,221 30,783
Acquired on acquisition — 45 — 282 163 490
Provided in the year — 917 355 3,033 57 4,362
Eliminated on disposals — (143) (1,603) (708) (186) (2,640)
At 1 January 2015 — 6,786 1,807 23,147 1,255 32,995
Acquired on acquisition — — — 5,894 11 5,905
Provided in the year — 996 372 3,538 57 4,963
Eliminated on disposals — (25) (360) (38) (9) (432)
At 31 December 2015 — 7,757 1,819 32,541 1,314 43,431
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 788 4,501 1,162 11,910 75 18,436
At 31 December 2014 691 3,221 1,482 10,380 106 15,880
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 119
13. Investments
Joint ventures
£’000
At 1 January 2014 —
Acquired on acquisition 1,617
Share of results of equity accounted joint ventures 239
At 1 January 2015 1,856
Elimination on acquisition accounting (1,856)
At 31 December 2015 —
The subsidiary undertakings within the Group at 31 December 2015 are shown below:
Proportion
held Country of registration Nature of business
3c Asset Management Limited 100% England and Wales Maintenance services
Ardmore Home Care Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Careforce Group Plc 100% England and Wales Dormant
Careforce Services Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Coutler Estates Limited 100% Scotland Provision of care
Electrical Contracting Services (UK) Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Energy Insurance Services Limited 100% England and Wales Insurance Services
Evolve Housing Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Haydon Mechanical & Electrical Company LLC 49% United Arab Emirates Mechanical and electrical services
Heather Housing Limited 100% England and Wales Housing management services
Heatherpark Community Services Limited 100% Scotland Provision of care
Helcim Group Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Helcim Homes Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
ILS Group Limited 100% Scotland Dormant
ILS Trustees Limited 100% Scotland Dormant
Independent Living Services (ILS) Limited 100% Scotland Provision of care
Insitu Care Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Jackson Lloyd Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Laidlaw Scott Limited 100% Scotland Dormant
Let to Birmingham Limited 100% England and Wales Housing management services
Manchester Working Limited 80% England and Wales Maintenance services
Mears Building Contractors Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Building Services Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Care (Holdings) Limited 100% England and Wales Intermediate holding company
Mears Care (Northern Ireland) Limited 100% Northern Ireland Provision of care
Mears Care (Scotland) Limited 100% Scotland Provision of care
Mears Care Limited 100% England and Wales Provision of care
Mears Community Care Agency Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Decorating Services Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Energy Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Estates Limited 100% England and Wales Grounds maintenance Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 120
13. Investments continued
Proportion
held Country of registration Nature of business
Mears Housing Management Limited 100% England and Wales Intermediate holding company
Mears Home Improvements Limited 100% England and Wales Maintenance services
Mears Homecare Limited 100% England and Wales Provision of care
Mears Insurance Company Limited 99.99% Guernsey Insurance services
Mears Learning Limited 100% England and Wales Training provider
Mears Lifetime Homes Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Limited 100% England and Wales Maintenance services
Mears Mechanical & Electrical Services Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Modular Homes Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears New Homes Limited 100% England and Wales House building 
Mears Scotland (Housing) Limited 100% Scotland Dormant
Mears Scotland (Services) Limited 66.67% Scotland Maintenance services
Mears Scotland LLP 66.67% Scotland Maintenance services
Mears Social Housing Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Wales Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Mears Window and Door Maintenance Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Morrison Facilities Services Limited 100% Scotland Maintenance services
Nurseplus Limited 100% Scotland Provision of care
O&T Developments Limited 75% England and Wales Housing management services
Omega Housing Limited 100% England and Wales Housing registered provider
Omega Lettings Limited 100% England and Wales Housing management services 
Planning Portal Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Plexus UK (First Project) Limited 100% England and Wales Housing registered provider
Plexus UK (Systems) Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
PortalPlanQuest Limited 100% England and Wales Professional services
Powersave Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
PS Business Services Limited 100% Scotland Dormant
PS Payroll Services Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
R Carter and Son (Painting Contractors) Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Robert Hawkins (Contractors) Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Scion Group Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Scion Property Services Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Scion Technical Services Limited 100% England and Wales Maintenance services
Supporta Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Supporta Services Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Tando Homes Limited 75% England and Wales Housing management services
Tando Property Services 75% England and Wales Housing management services
Terraquest Group Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Terraquest Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
Terraquest Solutions Limited 100% England and Wales Professional services
Zenon Property Services Limited 100% England and Wales Maintenance services
All subsidiary undertakings with the exception of Manchester Working Limited and Omega Housing Limited prepare accounts to 
31 December. Manchester Working Limited prepares accounts to 31 March in line with the minority shareholder. Omega Housing 
Limited prepares accounts to 31 March in line with its historic accounting reference date.
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 121
13. Investments continued
The Group includes two subsidiaries, Mears Scotland LLP and Manchester Working Limited, with material non-controlling interests. 
The table below sets out selected financial information in respect of those subsidiaries:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Revenue and profits
Revenue 84,452 86,541
Expenses and taxation (83,473) (86,897)
Profit/(loss) for the year 979 (356)
Other comprehensive expense — (5,181)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 979 (5,537)
Loss for the year allocated to non-controlling interests (273) (51)
Total comprehensive expense allocated to non-controlling interests — (1,777)
Net assets
Non-current assets 295 400
Current assets 24,187 18,890
Current liabilities (29,394) (25,182)
Total assets less total liabilities (4,912) (5,892)
Equity shareholders’ funds (2,717) (3,545)
Non-controlling interests (2,195) (2,347)
Total equity (4,912) (5,892)
The financial and operating activities of the Group’s joint ventures are jointly controlled by the participating shareholders. The participating 
shareholders have rights to the net assets of the joint ventures through their equity holdings. The Group held investments in the following 
joint ventures at 31 December 2015:
Proportion
held Country of registration Nature of business
Mears 24/7 LLP 50% England and Wales Call centre services
Asert LLP 50% England and Wales Customer service training
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Share of revenue and profits
Revenue 2,728 2,930
Expenses and taxation (2,728) (2,691)
Profit for the year — 239
Share of net assets
Non-current assets 14 30
Current assets 388 2,613
Current liabilities (402) (787)
— 1,856 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 122
13. Investments continued
The following UK subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 
for the year ending 31 December 2015:
Registration number
Coulter Estates Limited SC148145
Heatherpark Community Services Limited SC314108
ILS Group Limited SC285635
Let to Birmingham Limited 08757503
Mears Care (Holdings) Limited 03689426
Mears Estates Limited 03720903
Mears Housing Management Limited 04726480
Nurseplus Limited SC200513
Scion Group Limited 03905442
Scion Technical Services Limited 03671450
Zenon Property Services Limited 07448134
14. Inventories 
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Materials and consumables 4,979 5,065
Work in progress 4,042 3,403
9,021 8,468
The Group consumed inventories totalling £649.0m during the year (2014: £613.7m). No items are being carried at fair value less costs 
to sell (2014: £nil).
15. Trade and other receivables
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Current assets:
– trade receivables 47,364 44,023
– amounts recoverable on non-construction contracts 90,627 90,154
– prepayments and accrued income 8,888 8,439
Total trade and other receivables 146,879 142,616
Trade receivables are normally due within 30 to 60 days and do not bear any effective interest rate. All trade receivables and accrued 
income are subject to credit risk exposure. Social Housing customers are typically Local Authorities and Housing Associations where 
credit risk is minimal. Care customers are typically County Councils where credit risk is minimal.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Neither impaired nor past due 40,869 38,852
Less than three months past due but not impaired 4,008 2,844
More than three months past due but not impaired 2,487 2,327
Total trade and other receivables 47,364 44,023
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 123
16. Trade and other payables
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Trade payables 100,385 103,943
Accruals and deferred income 54,945 43,494
Social security and other taxes 23,669 22,291
Payments on account for non-construction contract work 140 5,435
Finance lease liabilities 386 514
Other creditors 14,578 6,421
194,103 182,098
The fair value of trade payables has not been disclosed as, due to their short duration, management considers the carrying amounts 
recognised in the Balance Sheet to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
Included in other creditors is £10.5m (2014: £0.3m) relating to contingent consideration on acquisitions.
17. Financing liabilities
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Current liabilities:
– interest rate swaps 510 580
Non-current liabilities:
– interest rate swaps 368 788
Total financing liabilities 878 1,368
18. Long-term other liabilities
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Other creditors 15,396 25,956
Included in other creditors is £10.4m (2014: £20.7m) relating to contingent consideration on acquisitions.
19. Financial instruments
The Group uses a limited number of financial instruments comprising cash and liquid resources, borrowings, interest rate swaps and 
various items such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these financial 
instruments is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group seeks to finance its operations through a combination of retained earnings 
and borrowings and investing surplus cash on deposit. The Group uses financial instruments to manage the interest rate risks arising 
from its operations and sources of finance but has no interests in the trade of financial instruments. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 124
19. Financial instruments continued
Categories of financial instruments
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables 47,364 44,023
Amounts recoverable on contracts 90,627 90,154
Cash at bank and in hand 68,612 66,634
206,603 200,811
Financial liabilities
Fair value (level 2)
Interest rate swaps – effective (878) —
Interest rate swaps – ineffective — (1,368)
Fair value (level 3)
Deferred and contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions (20,861) (21,045)
Amortised cost
Bank borrowings and overdrafts (67,790) (62,800)
Trade payables (100,385) (103,943)
Accruals and deferred income (54,945) (43,494)
Other creditors (9,113) (11,332)
(253,972) (243,982)
(47,369) (43,171)
The IFRS 7 hierarchy level categorisation relates to the extent the fair value can be determined by reference to comparable market values. 
The classifications range from level 1, where instruments are quoted on an active market, through to level 3, where the assumptions 
used to arrive at fair value do not have comparable market data. 
The fair values of interest rate swaps have been calculated by a third party expert discounting estimated future cash flows on the basis 
of market expectations of future interest rates (level 2). 
The amount of contingent consideration payable is generally determined by future expected profits of the acquired businesses. The fair 
values of contingent consideration have been calculated by the Directors by reference to expected future income and expenditure in 
respect of the acquired businesses.
There have been no transfers between levels during the year.
Fair value information
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is as disclosed above and approximates to the book value.
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including interest rate risk and price risk); credit risk; and 
liquidity risk. The main risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs and the risk of credit default 
by customers. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks 
to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
Risk management is carried out under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. 
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 125
19. Financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities
The Group’s borrowing facilities are drawn on as required to manage its cash needs. Banking facilities are reviewed regularly 
and extended and replaced in advance of their expiry.
The Group had total borrowing facilities of £120.0m with Barclays Bank PLC and HSBC Bank plc, of which £67 .5m was utilised at 
31 December 2015. Since the balance sheet date, the Group has agreed an increased borrowing facility of £140.0m with an expiry date 
of July 2020.
The facilities comprise a committed five-year £1 10.0m revolving credit facility and an unsecured overdraft facility of £10.0m. The undrawn 
amounts at 31 December 2015 were a £42.5m revolving credit facility and an overdraft facility of £10.0m.
Interest rate risk management
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings from major banking institutions at floating 
rates of interest based on LIBOR. The Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations on borrowings is managed through the use of interest 
rate swaps; hence the fixed rate borrowings relate to floating rate loans where the interest rate has been fixed by a hedging arrangement. 
The fair value of interest rate exposure on financial liabilities of the Group as at 31 December 2015 was:
Interest rate
Fixed Floating Zero Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial liabilities – 2015 57,500 10,290 20,861 88,651
Financial liabilities – 2014 57,500 5,300 21,045 83,845
The Group’s policy is to accept a degree of interest rate risk, provided the effects of the various potential changes in rates remain within 
certain prescribed parameters.
Accordingly, the Group has hedged the first £57 .5m of the £1 20.0m total borrowing facilities by entering into interest rate swap arrangements 
with Barclays Bank PLC and HSBC Bank plc. This consists of one £27 .5m swap contract expiring in August 2016 and one £30.0m swap 
contract expiring in August 2018, both with quarterly maturity, matching the underlying facility.
The maturity of the interest rate swap contracts is as follows:
2015 2014
Average Average
Nominal applicable Nominal applicable
amount interest amount interest
hedged rates hedged rates
£’000 % £’000 %
Within one year 27,500 1.92% — —
One to two years — — 27,500 1.92%
Two to five years 30,000 1.85% 30,000 1.85%
More than five years — — — —
Effective interest rates
Interest rate swaps with fair value liabilities of £0.9m (2014: £1.4m) and average remaining lives of one year and nine months have been 
accounted for in financing liabilities.
The Group’s overall average cost of debt, including effective and ineffective interest rate swaps, is 3.0% as at 31 December 2015 (2014: 
3.2%). Excluding these swaps the average is 2.1% (2014: 2.2%).
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises all gains and losses arising from the valuation of interest swap contracts which are effective 
hedges and mature after the year end. These are valued on a mark-to-market basis, are accounted for through the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and are recycled through the Consolidated Income Statement when the hedged item affects the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
The interest rate swap contracts have quarterly maturity and expire in August 2016 and August 2018. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 126
19. Financial instruments continued
Cash flow hedging reserve continued
Movements during the year were:
£’000
At 1 January 2014 (848)
Amounts transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement 722
Revaluations during the year (841)
Deferred tax movement 5
At 1 January 2015 (962)
Amounts transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement 559
Revaluations during the year (72)
Deferred tax movement (97)
At 31 December 2015 (572)
At 31 December 2015 the Group had minimal exposure to movement in interest rates as the remaining interest rate risk was offset by 
the Group’s cash and short-term deposits.
If the interest rates had been 0.5% higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit before taxation for the 
year ended 31 December 2015 and reserves would decrease or increase, respectively, by £0.1m (2014: £0.1m).
Liquidity risk management
The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash 
assets safely and profitably.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and cash 
equivalents) on the basis of expected cash flows. This is generally carried out at a local level in the operating companies of the Group in 
accordance with practice and limits set by the Group. These limits vary by location and take into account the liquidity and nature of the 
market in which the entity operates.
The quantum of committed borrowing facilities of the Group is regularly reviewed and is designed to exceed forecasted peak gross debt 
levels. For short-term working capital purposes, the Group utilises bank overdrafts as required. These facilities are regularly reviewed 
and are renegotiated ahead of their expiry date.
The table below shows the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities:
Within 1–2 2–5 Over 5
1 year years years years Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2015
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank borrowings 10,290 — 57,500 — 67,790
Trade and other payables 159,465 4,978 — — 164,443
Deferred and contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions 10,443 10,418 — — 20,861
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps – effective 510 210 158 — 878
2014
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank borrowings 5,300 — 57,500 — 62,800
Trade and other payables 153,538 5,231 — — 158,769
Deferred and contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions 320 20,725 — — 21,045
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps – ineffective 580 428 360 — 1,368
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 127
19. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk management continued
The Group has disclosed core bank borrowings of £57 .5m as due in two to five years. Whilst the amounts borrowed could be repaid each 
quarter, the Group’s intention is to align core bank borrowings with its interest rate swaps.
Credit risk management
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables, amounts recoverable on contracts and work in progress.
Trade receivables are normally due within 30 to 60 days. Trade and other receivables included in the Balance Sheet are stated net of a bad 
debt provision which has been estimated by management following a review of individual receivable accounts. There is no Group-wide 
rate of provision and provision made for debts that are overdue is based on prior default experience and known factors at the balance 
sheet date. Receivables are written off against the bad debt provision when management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
Social Housing customers are typically Local Authorities and Housing Associations. Care customers are typically Local Authorities and 
the NHS. The nature of both of these customers means that credit risk is minimal. Other trade receivables contain no specific concentration 
of credit risk as the amounts recognised represent a large number of receivables from various customers.
The Group continually monitors the position of major customers and incorporates this information into its credit risk controls. External 
credit ratings are obtained where appropriate.
Details of the ageing of trade receivables are shown in note 15.
Deferred and contingent consideration
The table below shows the movements in deferred and contingent consideration:
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 1,836
Increase due to new acquisitions in the year 20,000
Paid in respect of acquisitions (387)
Released on reassessment (424)
Unwinding of discounting 20
At 1 January 2015 21,045
Increase due to new acquisitions in the year 123
Paid in respect of acquisitions (7)
Released on reassessment (425)
Unwinding of discounting 125
At 31 December 2015 20,861
Contingent consideration represents an estimate of future consideration likely to be payable in respect of acquisitions. Contingent 
consideration is discounted for the likelihood of payment and for the time value of money. Contingent consideration becomes payable 
based upon the profitability of acquired businesses or, in the case of one specific acquisition, the utilisation of certain timing differences 
in respect of corporation tax. The fair value of contingent consideration is estimated by forecasting future profits and utilising the 
forecast to determine the likely contingent consideration payable. 
Information as to the likely timing of payments in respect of these provisions’ financial liabilities is provided earlier within this note. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 128
19. Financial instruments continued
Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
 > to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders; 
 > to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk; and 
 > to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in 
light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell 
assets to reduce debt.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt as disclosed below and equity as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity. 
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents is comprised as follows:
– cash at bank and in hand 68,612 66,634
– bank borrowings and overdrafts (67,790) (62,800)
Cash and cash equivalents 822 3,834
20. Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences under the liability method.
Deferred tax asset
The following deferred tax assets were recognised by the Group as at 31 December 2015:
Short-term
Pension Share-based Cash flow Tax temporary
scheme payments hedges losses differences Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2014 1,283 1,608 252 3,858 3,569 10,570
Acquired on acquisition — — — — (4) (4)
(Debit)/credit to Consolidated Income Statement (252) 121 — 500 (2,593) (2,224)
Debit to Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity — (418) — — — (418)
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 644 — 5 — — 649
At 1 January 2015 1,675 1,311 257 4,358 972 8,573
Acquired on acquisition — — — — 178 178
(Debit)/credit to Consolidated Income Statement (9) 151 — (1,598) 759 (696)
Debit to Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity — (552) — — — (552)
Debit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (821) — (97) — — (919)
At 31 December 2015 845 910 160 2,760 1,909 6,584
In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’, the Group has recognised an expense for the consumption of employee services 
received as consideration for share options granted. A tax deduction will not arise until the options are exercised. The tax deduction in 
future periods is dependent upon the Company’s share price at the date of exercise. The estimated future tax deduction is based on the 
options’ intrinsic value at the balance sheet date.
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 129
20. Deferred taxation continued
Deferred tax asset continued
The cumulative amount credited to the Consolidated Income Statement is limited to the tax effect of the associated cumulative 
share-based payment expense. The excess has been credited directly to equity. This is presented in the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income.
In addition to those recognised on the previous page, unused tax losses totalling £32.9m (2014: £28.9m) have not been recognised 
as the Directors do not consider that it is probable that they will be recovered.
The following deferred tax liabilities were recognised by the Group as at 31 December 2015:
Deferred tax liabilities
Pension Acquisition
scheme intangibles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2014 3,093 6,671 9,764
Acquired on acquisition — 2,173 2,173
Credit to Consolidated Income Statement (17) (2,452) (2,469)
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (50) — (50)
At 1 January 2015 3,026 6,392 9,418
Acquired on acquisition — 1,054 1,054
Debit/(credit) to Consolidated Income Statement 124 (2,130) (2,006)
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (1,496) — (1,496)
At 31 December 2015 1,654 5,316 6,970
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of the acquisition and amortised 
over their useful economic lives. The UK tax regime calculates tax using the individual financial statements of the members of the 
Group and not the consolidated accounts. Hence, the tax base of acquisition intangible assets is £nil. The estimated tax effect of this 
£nil tax base is accounted for as a deferred tax liability which is released over the period of amortisation of the associated acquisition 
intangible asset.
21. Share capital and reserves
Classes of reserves
Share capital represents the nominal value of shares that have been issued.
Share premium represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the total consideration received.
Share-based payment reserve represents employee remuneration which is credited to the share-based payment reserve until the 
related share options are exercised. Upon exercise the share-based payment reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises all gains and losses arising from the valuation of interest swap contracts which are effective 
hedges and mature after the year end. These are valued on a mark-to-market basis, are accounted for through the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and are recycled through the Consolidated Income Statement when the hedged item affects the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
The merger reserve relates to the difference between the nominal value and total consideration in respect of acquisitions, where the 
Company was entitled to the merger relief offered by the Companies Act. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 130
21. Share capital and reserves continued
Share capital
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At 1 January 101,134,142 (2014: 100,661,649) ordinary shares of 1p each 1,011 1,007
Issue of 804,193 (2014: 472,493) shares on exercise of share options 8 4
At 31 December 101,938,335 (2014: 101,134,142) ordinary shares of 1p each 1,019 1,011
During the year 804,193 (2014: 472,493) ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of share options exercised. The difference between 
the nominal value of £0.008m and the total consideration of £1.4m has been credited to the share premium account.
22. Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
The following non-operating cash flow adjustments have been made to the result for the year before tax:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Depreciation 4,963 4,362
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 45 3
Amortisation 12,151 13,480
Share-based payments 771 670
IAS 19 pension movement (660) (1,425)
Finance income (158) (77)
Finance cost 2,775 3,178
Total 19,887 20,191
23. Acquisitions
On 11 March 2015 the Group acquired certain trade and assets relating to the UK Planning Portal from the Secretary of State for 
Communities and Local Government in exchange for 25% of the share capital of PortalPlanQuest Limited, the subsidiary company 
established to undertake this activity. This acquisition was completed as part of the award of a contract for the commercialisation 
of the Planning Portal.
On 30 April 2015 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Energy Insurance Services Limited for a total consideration 
of £0.3m, which was satisfied in cash. This acquisition was completed to expand the Group’s offering within gas services and maintenance. 
The effect of this acquisition on the Group’s assets is detailed below.
On 29 May 2015 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Care UK Homecare Limited and Care UK Community Care Agency 
Limited for a total consideration of £10.2m, which was satisfied in cash. The acquisition of Care UK’s Homecare business expands the 
Group’s Care offering across the United Kingdom.
On 1 July 2015 the Group acquired certain trade and assets of Full Circle Learning Limited for contingent consideration of £0.1m 
payable based on future contract profitability. The Directors’ best estimate of contingent consideration payable is the full £0.1m. 
The acquisition was completed to enhance the Group’s training offering for employees and clients.
On 1 January 2015 the Group reassessed the level of influence it held over O&T Developments Limited, Tando Property Services Limited 
and Tando Homes Limited and concluded that the threshold for control had been met and therefore, in accordance with IFRS 10, the 
Group has accounted for these entities as subsidiaries from that date. On 19 October 2015 the Group acquired an additional 25% of the 
issued share capital of O&T Developments Limited, Tando Property Services Limited and Tando Homes Limited for a total consideration 
of £6.2m satisfied in cash. The acquisition of an additional holding in these subsidiaries brings the Group’s shareholding to 75% and 
allows the Group to better integrate its offering with its services.
The effect of the acquisition of Care UK’s Homecare business is disclosed below individually and the effect of the remaining 
acquisitions is disclosed in aggregate.
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 131
23. Acquisitions continued
Fair value
Care UK
Homecare * Other Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current
Property, plant and equipment 1,395 38 1,433
Deferred tax asset 150 28 178
Current
Trade receivables 12,152 765 12,917
Other receivables 748 729 1,477
Cash at bank and in hand — 384 384
Total assets 14,445 1,944 16,389
Liabilities
Current
Bank overdraft 1,262 — 1,262
Trade and other payables 7,907 1,069 8,976
Current tax liabilities — 571 571
Total liabilities 9,169 1,640 10,809
Net assets acquired 5,276 304 5,580
Intangibles capitalised 4,922 726 5,648
Deferred tax liability recognised in respect of intangibles capitalised (985) (69) (1,054)
Net assets acquired 9,213 961 10,174
Goodwill capitalised 985 70 1,055
10,198 1,031 11,229
Satisfied by:
– cash 10,198 344 10,542
– contingent consideration — 123 123
– transfer from investments — 282 282
Non-controlling interest — 282 282
10,198 1,031 11,229
* Provisional.
The Care UK Homecare intangible asset is recognised and valued at £4.9m. This represents the expected value to be derived from 
the acquired order book and customer relationships. The value placed on the order book and customer relationships is based on the 
expected cash inflows over the estimated remaining life of each existing contract. The value placed on the customer relationships 
is based on the expected cash inflows relating to other contracts obtained by virtue of the customer relationship. The cash flows are 
discounted using a rate of 10.2%, which the Directors consider is commensurate with the risks associated with capturing returns 
from the order book and customer relationships. The estimated life for the order book and customer relationships is three years.
The Directors consider that the value assigned to goodwill represents the workforce acquired and the access to new markets 
and additional geographical areas in the UK as a result of this acquisition.
The intangible asset in respect of other acquisitions is recognised and valued at £0.7m. This represents the expected value to be 
derived from the acquired order book.
The amounts receivable detailed above are not materially different from the gross contractual amounts receivable. The effect of the 
Care UK Homecare acquisition on the Group’s assets and liabilities is disclosed as provisional due to its size and complexity and the 
proximity to the balance sheet date. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 132
23. Acquisitions continued
In the period ended 31 December 2015, the acquisitions contributed revenue of £35.0m. It is not possible to isolate the operating loss 
before amortisation of acquisition intangibles from the wider Care business due to the level of integration into the existing business.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, had the acquisitions taken place on 1 January 2014, the combined Group full-year revenue 
for the year is estimated at £907 .8m and the combined Group profit for the year before taxation from continuing operations is 
estimated at £23.1m.
Analysis of net outflow in respect of the purchase of the subsidiary undertakings:
Total
£’000
Cash consideration (10,542)
Cash at bank and in hand acquired 384
Bank overdraft acquired (1,262)
Transactions with non-controlling interests (6,163)
Cash payments in respect of prior year acquisitions (7)
(17,590)
24. Pensions
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a defined contribution Group personal pension scheme for the benefit of certain employees. The Group contributes 
to personal pension schemes of certain Directors and senior employees. The Group operates a stakeholder pension plan available to all 
employees. During the year, the Group contributed £2.3m (2014: £2.3m) to these schemes.
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ 
The Group contributes to 32 (2014: 30) principal defined benefit schemes on behalf of a number of employees which require 
contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
These pension schemes are operated on behalf of Mears Limited, Mears Care Limited, Morrison Facilities Services Limited and their 
subsidiary undertakings. The assets of the schemes are administered by trustees in funds independent from the assets of the Group.
In certain cases, the Group will participate under Admitted Body status in the Local Government Pension Scheme. The Group will contribute 
for a finite period up until the end of the particular contract. The Group is required to pay regular contributions as detailed in the scheme’s 
schedule of contributions. In some cases these contributions are capped and any excess can be recovered from the body from which the 
employees originally transferred. Where the Group has a contractual right to recover the costs of making good any deficit in the scheme 
from the Group’s client, the fair value of that asset has been recognised within the Group’s share of the scheme assets and disclosed 
on page 133. Certain judgements around the value of this asset have been made and are discussed in the judgements and estimates 
disclosure within the accounting policies.
The disclosures in respect of the two (2014: two) Group defined benefit schemes and the 30 (2014: 28) other defined benefit schemes 
in this note have been aggregated.
Costs and liabilities of the schemes are based on actuarial valuations. The latest full actuarial valuations for the schemes were 
updated to 31 December 2015 by qualified independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 133
24. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ continued
The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date are as follows:
2015 2014
Rate of increase of salaries – first year 1.00% 1.00%
Rate of increase of salaries – second year 1.00% 2.20%
Rate of increase of salaries – long term 3.30% 3.25%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment – based on CPI with a cap of 5% 2.40% 2.35%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment – based on RPI with a cap of 5% 3.20% 3.15%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment – based on CPI with a cap of 3% 2.10% 2.05%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment – based on RPI with a cap of 3% 2.55% 2.50%
Discount rate 3.95% 4.00%
Retail prices inflation 3.30% 3.25%
Consumer prices inflation 2.40% 2.35%
Life expectancy for a 65-year-old male 22.4 years 22.2 years
Life expectancy for a 65-year-old female 24.7 years 24.5 years
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and major categories of plan assets are:
2015 2014
Group Other Group Other
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Equities – quoted 39,997 184,989 224,986 40,426 179,433 219,859
Equities – unquoted — 24,047 24,047 — 28,696 28,696
Bonds – quoted 64,989 62,591 127,580 60,961 66,875 127,836
Bonds – unquoted — 7,663 7,663 — 5,046 5,046
Guarantee — 11,223 11,223 — 17,740 17,740
Property – quoted — 6,010 6,010 — 3,522 3,522
Property – unquoted 122 16,671 16,793 408 17,570 17,978
Cash 11,404 39,496 50,900 14,023 28,152 42,175
Group’s estimated asset share 116,512 352,690 469,202 115,818 347,034 462,852
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (111,327) (333,839) (445,166) (106,710) (331,666) (438,376)
Funded status 5,185 18,851 24,036 9,108 15,368 24,476
Scheme surpluses not recognised as assets — (19,988) (19,988) — (17,717) (17,717)
Pension asset/(liability) 5,185 (1,137) 4,048 9,108 (2,349) 6,759
The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows:
2015 2014
Group Other Group Other
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current service cost 2,143 5,521 7,664 2,009 6,785 8,794
Past service cost — 39 39 — 101 101
Administration costs 197 119 316 224 109 333
Total operating charge 2,340 5,679 8,019 2,233 6,995 9,228
Net interest (421) (291) (712) (561) (1,249) (1,810)
Total charged to the result for the year 1,919 5,388 7,307 1,672 5,746 7,418 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 134
24. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ continued
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity are as follows:
2015 2014
Group Other Group Other
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
On TUPE transfer of employees — (223) (223) — 121 121
Return on plan assets below that recorded in net interest (4,984) (7,406) (12,390) 10,624 22,125 32,749
Actuarial (loss)/gain arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions (9,311) (155) (9,466) — 2,283 2,283
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from changes  
in financial assumptions 3,800 11,167 14,967 (14,832) (47,805) (62,637)
Actuarial gain arising from liability experience 5,193 819 6,012 910 9,828 10,738
Effects of limitation of recognisable surplus — (2,271) (2,271) — 13,456 13,456
Total gains and losses recognised in equity (5,302) 1,931 (3,371) (3,298) 8 (3,290)
At 1 January (5,436) (7,533) (12,969) (2,138) (7,541) (9,679)
Total at 31 December (10,738) (5,602) (16,340) (5,436) (7,533) (12,969)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2015 2014
Group Other Group Other
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of obligations at 1 January 106,710 331,666 438,376 88,195 295,641 383,836
Current service cost 2,143 5,521 7,664 2,009 6,785 8,794
Past service cost — 39 39 — 101 101
Scheme administration costs — 55 55 — 46 46
Interest on obligations 4,027 12,703 16,730 4,028 13,408 17,436
Plan participants’ contributions 426 2,007 2,433 453 2,134 2,587
Benefits paid (2,297) (6,663) (8,960) (1,897) (6,061) (7,958)
Contract transfer — 342 342 — (16,082) (16,082)
Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions 9,311 155 9,466 — (2,283) (2,283)
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  
in financial assumptions (3,800) (11,167) (14,967) 14,832 47,805 62,637
Actuarial gain arising from liability experience (5,193) (819) (6,012) (910) (9,828) (10,738)
Present value of obligations at 31 December 111,327 333,839 445,166 106,710 331,666 438,376
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 135
24. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ continued
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
2015 2014
Group Other Group Other
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 115,818 347,034 462,852 98,910 324,723 423,633
Expected return on plan assets 4,448 12,994 17,442 4,589 14,657 19,246
Employers’ contributions 3,298 4,669 7,967 3,363 5,480 8,843
Plan participants’ contributions 426 2,007 2,433 453 2,134 2,587
Benefits paid (2,297) (6,663) (8,960) (1,897) (6,061) (7,958)
Scheme administration costs (197) (64) (261) (224) (63) (287)
Contract transfer — 119 119 — (15,961) (15,961)
Return on plan assets (below)/above that recorded in net interest (4,984) (7,406) (12,390) 10,624 22,125 32,749
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 116,512 352,690 469,202 115,818 347,034 462,852
History of experience gains and losses is as follows:
Group schemes
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fair value of scheme assets 116,512 115,818 98,910 89,737 8,305
Net present value of defined benefit obligations (111,327) (106,710) (88,195) (79,336) (13,097)
Net surplus/(deficit) 5,185 9,108 10,715 10,401 (4,792)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets
Amount (4,984) 10,624 3,796 695 (711)
Percentage of scheme assets (4.3%) 9.2% 3.8% 0.8% (8.6%)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities
Amount (5,193) (910) (932) — (21)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (4.7%) (0.9%) (1.1%) — (0.2%)
Other schemes
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fair value of scheme assets 352,690 347,034 324,723 286,328 74,310
Net present value of defined benefit obligations (333,839) (331,666) (295,641) (260,689) (68,828)
Net surplus 18,851 15,368 29,082 25,639 5,482
Asset value not recognised as surplus (19,988) (17,717) (31,172) (27,758) (6,530)
Net deficit (1,137) (2,349) (2,091) (2,119) (1,048)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets
Amount (7,406) 22,125 25,805 3,991 (11,759)
Percentage of scheme assets (2.1%) 6.4% 7.9% 1.4% (15.8%)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities
Amount (819) (9,828) (518) 143 8,521
Percentage of scheme liabilities (0.2%) (3.0%) (0.2%) 0.1% 12.4% Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 136
24. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ continued
Funding arrangements are agreed for each of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes with their respective trustees. The employers’ 
contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2016 amount to £7 .5m.
Each of the schemes manage risks through a variety of methods and strategies to limit downside in falls in equity markets, movement 
in inflation and movement in interest rates.
The Group’s defined benefit obligation is sensitive to changes in certain key assumptions. The sensitivity analysis below shows how 
a reasonably possible increase or decrease in a particular assumption, in isolation, results in an increase or decrease in the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2015.
Decrease Increase
£’000 £’000
Rate of inflation – decrease/increase by 0.1% (2,480) 1,674
Rate of increase in salaries – decrease/increase by 0.1% (523) 523
Discount rate – decrease/increase by 0.1% 2,844 (2,680)
Life expectancy – decrease/increase by 1 year (5,995) 6,203
The sensitivity analysis may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes 
in assumptions would occur in isolation of each other. In presenting this sensitivity analysis, the value of the defined benefit obligation 
has been calculated on the same basis that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation recognised at the balance sheet date.
25. Operating lease commitments
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals payable were as follows:
Land and buildings Other
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Payable
Within one year 2,641 2,554 11,557 13,447
Between two and five years 6,864 5,403 17,136 11,875
After more than five years 3,090 2,365 — —
12,595 10,322 28,693 25,322
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, the hire of vehicles and the hire 
of other equipment. These leases have durations ranging from three to 15 years. No arrangements have been entered into in respect 
of contingent rental payments.
26. Capital commitments
The Group had no capital commitments at 31 December 2015 or at 31 December 2014.
27. Contingent liabilities
The Group has guaranteed that it will complete certain Group contracts that it has commenced. At 31 December 2015 these guarantees 
amounted to £22.4m (2014: £26.3m).
As detailed in note 7 , the Group has a facility in place guaranteeing the performance of a number of M&E projects in Haydon Mechanical 
and Electrical Company LLC. The guarantees will fall away as the underlying contracts are completed and the associated guarantees 
released. As at 31 December 2015, guarantees amounted to £15.4m (2014: (£8.7m)).
The Group had no other contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 or at 31 December 2014.
Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 137
28. Related party transactions
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its pension schemes, its subsidiaries and its Directors.
Pension schemes
Details of contributions to pension schemes are set out in note 24 to the financial statements.
Subsidiaries
The Group has a central treasury arrangement in which all subsidiaries participate. The Directors do not consider it meaningful to set 
out details of transfers made in respect of this treasury arrangement between companies, nor do they consider it meaningful to set out 
details of interest or dividend payments made within the Group.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Group has identified key management personnel as the Directors of Mears Group PLC.
Key management personnel held the following percentage of voting shares in Mears Group PLC:
2015 2014
% %
Directors 0.4 0.4
Key management personnel’s compensation is as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Salaries including social security costs 1,513 1,561
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 195 185
Share-based payments 150 100
1,858 1,846
Further details of Directors’ remuneration are disclosed within the Remuneration Report.
Transactions with other related parties
During the year the Group purchased call centre related services from Mears 24/7 LLP , a company in which Mears Limited is a 50% partner, 
totalling £2.3m (2014: £1.9m). The Group also recharged costs totalling £0.8m (2014: £0.8m) to Mears 24/7 LLP at cost. At 31 December 2015 
the Group was owed £0.5m by (2014: owed £0.1m to) Mears 24/7 LLP.
During the year the Group purchased training related services from Mears Learning Limited, a company in which the Group is a 90% 
shareholder, totalling £0.4m (2014: £nil). At 31 December 2015, the Group was owed £0.2m (2014: £nil) by Mears Learning Limited. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 138
Statement of compliance
Mears Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales. Its registered office is 1390 Montpellier Court, 
Gloucester Business Park, Brockworth Gloucester GL3 4AH.
The Company transitioned from previously extant UK GAAP to Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard 
applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland’ (FRS 102) with effect from 1 January 2014. An explanation of how the transition 
to FRS 102 has affected the reported financial position and financial performance is given in the notes to the accounts.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS 102 
and the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the modification to a fair 
value basis for certain financial instruments specified in the accounting policies below. The financial statements are presented in Sterling.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act from disclosing its individual profit and loss account.
The principal accounting policies of the Company are set out below. These policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented, 
unless otherwise stated.
Goodwill
Goodwill representing the reallocation of amounts previously classed as investments upon the hive-across of trade and assets 
is capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life.
Share-based employee remuneration
All share-based payment arrangements that were granted after 7 November 2002 are recognised in the financial statements. 
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based remuneration plans for its employees. All employee services received 
in exchange for the grant of any share-based remuneration are measured at their fair values. These are indirectly determined by reference 
to the fair value of the share options awarded. Their value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless 
the conditions on which the award was granted are modified. The fair value at the date of the grant is calculated using the Black Scholes 
option pricing models and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected 
and actual forfeitures during the vesting period. 
Share-based remuneration in respect of employees of the Company is ultimately recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account. 
For equity-settled share-based payments there is a corresponding credit to the share-based payment reserve; for cash-settled share-based 
payments the Company recognises a liability at the balance sheet date. The Company operates share-based remuneration plans for 
employees of subsidiaries using the Company’s equity instruments. The fair value of the compensation given in respect of these share-based 
compensation plans less payments received from subsidiaries in respect of those share-based payments is recognised as a capital contribution.
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs up to the nominal value 
of the shares issued are allocated to share capital with any excess being recorded as share premium.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more 
tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised 
where it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax and laws that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Principal accounting policies – Company Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 139
Retirement benefits
i) Defined contribution pension scheme
The pension costs charged against profits are the contributions payable to individual policies in respect of the accounting period.
ii) Defined benefit pensions
The Company contributes to defined benefit schemes which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually 
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. The legal obligations for any benefits from this kind of pension 
plan remain with the Group, even if plan assets for funding the defined benefit plan have been set aside.
Scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit funding method, applying the principal actuarial assumptions at the balance 
sheet date. Assets are measured at market value. The asset that is recognised is restricted to the amount by which the service cost 
is expected, over the lifetime of the scheme, to exceed funding contributions payable in respect of accruing benefits.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to the statement of comprehensive income as incurred. For this purpose, actuarial gains and 
losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences 
between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus of deficit are recognised in the profit and loss account, including the current service cost, any past 
service cost and the effect of curtailments or settlements. The interest costs less the expected return on assets is also charged to the 
Income Statement. The amount charged to the Income Statement in respect of these plans is included within operating costs.
The Company’s contributions to the scheme are paid in accordance with the rules of the schemes and the recommendations of the actuary.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. The principal financial assets and liabilities of the Company are as follows:
Financial assets
Basic financial assets, including trade and other receivables, amounts due to Group companies and cash and cash equivalents, 
are initially recognised at transaction price, unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction 
is measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest.
Such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
At the end of each reporting period financial assets measured at amortised cost are assessed for objective evidence of impairment. 
If an asset is impaired the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash 
flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. The impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when (a) the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are settled, or (b) 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred to another party, or (c) despite having retained 
some significant risks and rewards of ownership, control of the asset has been transferred to another party which has the practical 
ability to unilaterally sell the asset to an unrelated third party without imposing additional restrictions.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and bank deposits available with no notice or less than three months’ 
notice from inception that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities 
to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 140
Financial instruments continued
Financial liabilities
Basic financial liabilities, including trade and other payables, and amounts payable to Group companies that are classified as debt, 
are initially recognised at transaction price, unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt instrument 
is measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest.
Bank borrowings are non-basic financial liabilities and are initially recognised at fair value, being the present value of future payments 
discounted at a market rate of interest. Bank borrowings are remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives, including interest rate swaps, are not basic financial instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at 
their fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in profit or loss in finance costs or finance income as appropriate, 
unless they are included in a hedging arrangement.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is when the contractual obligation is discharged or 
cancelled or expires.
Offsetting
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amounts presented in the financial statements when there is a legally 
enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously.
Hedge accounting for interest rate swaps
The Company applies hedge accounting for transactions entered into to manage the cash flow exposures of borrowings. Interest rate 
swaps are held to manage the interest rate exposures and are designated as cash flow hedges of floating rate borrowings.
Changes in the fair values of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, and which are effective, are recognised directly in equity. 
Any ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship (being the excess of the cumulative change in fair value of the hedging instrument since 
inception of the hedge over the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged item since inception of the hedge) is recognised in the 
income statement.
The gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement when the hedge relationship ends. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, no longer meets the hedging criteria, the forecast transaction 
is no longer highly probable, the hedged debt instrument is derecognised or the hedging instrument is terminated.
Principal accounting policies – Company continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 141
2015 2014
Note £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets: goodwill 5 — 969
Investments 6 58,467 58,123
58,467 59,092
Current assets
Debtors 7 135,827 104,308
Cash at bank and in hand — 694
135,827 105,002
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (32,879) (5,754)
Net current assets 102,948 99,248
Total assets less current liabilities 161,415 158,340
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 (57,961) (58,688)
Provisions for liabilities
Pension liability 15 (3,087) (6,023)
100,367 93,629
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 11 1,019 1,011
Share premium account 58,124 56,714
Share-based payment reserve 1,651 1,653
Hedging reserve (572) (962)
Profit and loss account 40,145 35,213
Shareholders’ funds 100,367 93,629
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2016.
R Holt  A C M Smith
Director  Director
Company number: 03232863
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Parent Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 142
2015 2014
Note £’000 £’000
Operating activities
Result for the year before tax 12,208 16,264
Adjustments 12 3,762 3,558
Change in trade and other payables 2,394 (60)
Cash inflow from operating activities of continuing operations before taxation 18,364 19,762
Taxes paid 1,257 —
Net cash inflow from operating activities 19,621 19,762
Investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, net of cash (351) (54)
Interest received 7 —
Net cash outflow from investing activities (344) (54)
Financing activities
Proceeds from share issue 1,418 636
Loans to subsidiaries (advanced)/repaid (33,967) 13,553
Interest paid (2,778) (2,778)
Dividends paid (10,445) (9,252)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (45,772) 2,159
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (61,806) (83,673)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (26,495) 21,867
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year (88,301) (61,806)
Cash and cash equivalents comprises the following:
– cash at bank and in hand — 694
– borrowings and overdrafts (88,301) (62,500)
Cash and cash equivalents (88,301) (61,806)
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Parent Company cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 143
Share-
Share based
Share premium payment Hedging Retained
capital account reserve reserve earnings Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2014 1,007 56,082 1,050 (848) 29,871 87,162
Net result for the year — — — — 16,862 16,862
Other comprehensive expense — — — (114) (2,335) (2,449)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year — — — (114) 14,527 14,413
Issue of shares 4 632 — — — 636
Share option charges — — 670 — — 670
Exercise of share options — — (67) — 67 —
Dividends — — — — (9,252) (9,252)
At 1 January 2015 1,011 56,714 1,653 (962) 35,213 93,629
Net result for the year — — — — 12,862 12,862
Other comprehensive income — — — 390 1,742 2,132
Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 390 14,604 14,994
Issue of shares 8 1,410 — — — 1,418
Share option charges — — 771 — — 771
Exercise of share options — — (773) — 773 —
Dividends — — — — (10,445) (10,445)
At 31 December 2015 1,019 58,124 1,651 (572) 40,145 100,367
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Parent Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 144
Notes to the financial statements – Company
1. Profit for the financial year
The Parent Company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its own profit and loss 
account in these financial statements. The Group profit for the year includes a profit of £12.9m (2014: £16.9m) which is dealt with in the 
financial statements of the Company. This result is stated after charging auditor’s remuneration of £60,000 relating to audit services 
and £4,000 relating to taxation services.
2. Directors and employees
Employee benefits expense
All staff costs relate to Directors. Staff costs during the year were as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 1,323 1,276
Social security costs 190 285
Other pension costs 195 185
1,708 1,746
The average number of employees of the Company during the year was:
2015 2014
Number Number
Management 8 9
3. Share-based employee remuneration
As at 31 December 2015 the Group maintained seven share-based payment schemes for employee remuneration. The details of each 
scheme are included within note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
All share-based employee remuneration will be settled in equity. The Group has no legal obligation to repurchase or settle the options.
In total, £0.2m of employee remuneration expense has been included in the Company’s profit and loss account for 2015 (2014: £0.1m), 
which gave rise to additional paid-in capital. No liabilities were recognised due to share-based payment transactions.
4. Dividends
The following dividends were paid on ordinary shares in the year:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Final 2014 dividend of 7 .15p (2014: final 2013 dividend of 6.30p) per share 7,286 6,370
Interim 2015 dividend of 3.10p (2014: interim 2014 dividend of 2.85p) per share 3,159 2,882
10,445 9,252
The proposed final 2015 dividend of 7 .90p per share has not been included within the financial statements as no obligation existed at 
31 December 2015. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 145
5. Goodwill
Goodwill
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 and at 31 December 2015 6,196
Amortisation
At 1 January 2015 5,227
Charge for the year 969
At 31 December 2015 6,196
Net book value 
At 31 December 2015 —
At 31 December 2014 969
Details of the impairment review undertaken at 31 December 2015 are included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
6. Fixed asset investments
Investment
in subsidiary
undertakings
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 58,123
Additions 344
At 31 December 2015 58,467
Details of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company are shown in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
7. Debtors
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 131,951 97,983
Prepayments and accrued income 810 1,124
Other receivables 2,000 3,000
Corporation tax asset 12 738
Deferred tax asset 1,054 1,463
135,827 104,308
The deferred tax asset above of £1.1m (2014: £1.5m) is due after more than one year. The recoverability of the deferred tax asset is 
dependent on future taxable profits. The Company expects to realise sufficient profits to enable the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
8. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Bank loan 10,000 5,000
Bank overdraft 20,801 —
Interest rate swaps 510 580
Accruals 1,548 155
Other payables 20 19
32,879 5,754 Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 146
9. Creditors: amounts falling due in more than one year
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Bank borrowings 57,500 57,500
Contingent consideration 93 400
Interest rate swaps 368 788
57,961 58,688
The Company has disclosed core bank borrowings of £57 .5m as due in two to five years. Whilst the amounts borrowed could be repaid 
each quarter, the Company’s intention is to align core bank borrowings with its interest rate swaps.
Included in other creditors is £0.1m (2014: £0.4m) relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions.
10. Financial instruments
The Company has the following financial instruments:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised cost:
– other receivables 2,000 3,000
Financial liabilities that are measured at fair value through profit and loss:
– bank borrowings (67,500) (62,500)
Financial liabilities that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income:
– interest rate swaps (878) (1,368)
Financial liabilities that are measured at amortised cost:
– accruals (2,426) (1,523)
– other payables (8) (19)
(2,434) (1,542)
Other financial liabilities that are measured at fair value:
– contingent consideration (100) (400)
There have been no changes during the period or cumulatively in the fair value of bank borrowings attributable to changes in the credit 
risk of the instrument. The change attributable to changes in own credit risk is not material due to the short life of individual drawdowns 
within bank borrowings. The difference between the carrying amount and the amount expected to be paid at maturity is not material due 
to the short life of individual drawdowns within bank borrowings.
The Company pays a margin over and above LIBOR on bank borrowings. The margin is based the ratio of Group consolidated net 
borrowings to Group consolidated adjusted EBITDA and could have varied between 1.5% and 2.5% during the year. Following the year 
end, the range of possible margins was reduced to 1.2% to 2.2%.
The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to receive interest at LIBOR and pay interest at fixed rates. The swaps consist of one 
£27 .5m swap contract expiring in August 2016 with a fixed interest rate of 1.92% and one £30.0m swap contract expiring in August 2018 
with a fixed interest rate of 1.85%. Both swaps have quarterly maturity matching the underlying debt.
These instruments are used to mitigate the Company’s exposure to any interest rate movements in respect of the first £57 .5m of the 
£120m revolving credit facility. The fair value of the interest rate swaps is £0.9m (2014: £1.4m).
During 2015, a hedging loss of £0.07m (2014: £0.8m) was recognised in other comprehensive income for changes in the fair value 
of the interest rate swap and £0.6m (2014: £0.7m) was reclassified from the hedge reserve to profit and loss.
The Company seeks to manage liquidity risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash 
assets safely and profitably. 
Notes to the financial statements – Company continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 147
10. Financial instruments continued
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group and Company’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash 
and cash equivalents) on the basis of expected cash flows. The quantum of committed borrowing facilities of the Group and Company is 
regularly reviewed and is designed to exceed forecasted peak gross debt levels. For short-term working capital purposes, the Group and 
Company utilises bank overdrafts as required. These facilities are regularly reviewed and are renegotiated ahead of their expiry date.
11. Share capital and reserves
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At 1 January 101,134,142 (2014: 100,661,649) ordinary shares of 1p each 1,011 1,007
Issue of 804,193 (2014: 472,493) shares on exercise of share options 8 4
At 31 December 101,938,335 (2014: 101,134,142) ordinary shares of 1p each 1,019 1,011
During the year, 804,193 (2014: 472,493) ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of share options exercised. The difference between 
the nominal value of £0.008m and the total consideration of £1.4m has been credited to the share premium account.
Classes of reserves
Share capital represents the nominal value of shares that have been issued.
Share premium represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the total consideration received.
Share-based payment reserve represents employee remuneration which is credited to the share-based payment reserve until the 
related share options are exercised. Upon exercise the share-based payment reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises all gains and losses arising from the valuation of interest swap contracts which are effective 
hedges and mature after the year end. These are valued on a mark-to-market basis, are accounted for through the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income and are recycled through the Income Statement when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.
12. Notes to the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement
The following non-operating cash flow adjustments have been made to the result for the year before tax:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Amortisation 969 969
Share-based payments 771 670
IAS 19 pension movement (759) (829)
Finance income (7) —
Finance cost 2,788 2,748
Total 3,762 3,558
13. Capital commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2015 or at 31 December 2014.
14. Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed that it will complete certain Group contracts that its subsidiaries have commenced. At 31 December 2015 
these guarantees amounted to £22.4m (2014: £26.3m).
As detailed in note 7 of the Group financial statements, the Company has a facility in place guaranteeing the performance of a number 
of M&E projects in Haydon Mechanical and Electrical Company LLC. The guarantees will fall away as the underlying contracts are 
completed and the associated guarantees released. As at 31 December 2015, guarantees amounted to £15.4m (2014: (£8.7m)).
The Company had no other contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 or at 31 December 2014. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 148
15. Pensions
Defined contribution schemes
The Company contributes to personal pension schemes of the Directors.
Defined benefit scheme
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme for the benefit of certain employees of its subsidiary companies. The assets 
of the schemes are administered by trustees in a fund independent from the assets of the Company.
Costs and liabilities of the scheme are based on actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuations were reviewed and updated to 31 December 201 5 
by a qualified independent actuary using the projected unit method.
The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date are as follows:
2015 2014
Rate of increase of salaries – first year 1.00% 1.00%
Rate of increase of salaries – second year 1.00% 2.20%
Rate of increase of salaries – long term 3.30% 3.25%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment – based on RPI with a cap of 5% 3.20% 3.15%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment – based on RPI with a cap of 3% 2.55% 2.50%
Discount rate 3.95% 4.00%
Retail prices inflation 3.30% 3.25%
Consumer prices inflation 2.40% 2.35%
Life expectancy for a 65-year-old male 22.6 years 22.9 years
Life expectancy for a 65-year-old female 24.7 years 25.1 years
The amounts recognised in the Parent Company Balance Sheet and major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan 
assets are:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Equities 11,341 10,723
Bonds 2,790 2,475
Cash 705 550
Group’s estimated asset share 14,836 13,748
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (17,923) (19,771)
Funded status (3,087) (6,023)
Related deferred tax asset 617 1,205
Pension liability (2,470) (4,818)
The amounts recognised in the profit and loss account are as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Current service cost 140 164
Past service cost — —
Total operating charge 140 164
Net interest 225 162
Total charged to the result for the year 365 326
Notes to the financial statements – Company continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 149
15. Pensions continued
Defined benefit scheme continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Present value of obligations at 1 January 19,771 16,283
Current service cost 140 164
Past service cost — —
Interest on obligations 747 744
Plan participants’ contributions 27 42
Benefits paid (451) (437)
Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographic assumptions (389) —
Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions (656) 2,975
Actuarial loss arising from liability experience (1,266) —
Present value of obligations at 31 December 17,923 19,771
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 13,748 12,267
Expected return on plan assets 522 582
Employers’ contributions 1,124 1,155
Plan participants’ contributions 27 42
Benefits paid (451) (437)
Return on plan assets above that recorded in net interest (134) 139
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 14,836 13,748
The movements in the net pension liability and the amount recognised in the Balance Sheet are as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Deficit in schemes at 1 January (6,023) (4,016)
Current service cost (140) (164)
Past service cost — —
Contributions 1,124 1,155
Other finance income (225) (162)
Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographic assumptions 389 —
Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 656 (2,975)
Actuarial loss arising from liability experience 1,266 —
Return on plan assets above that recorded in net interest (134) 139
Deficit in schemes at 31 December (3,087) (6,023)
The employer’s contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2016 amount to £1.0m. Financial statements
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 150
Notes to the financial statements – Company continued
16. Related party transactions
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its pension schemes, its subsidiaries and its Directors.
Pension schemes
Details of contributions to pension schemes are set out in note 15 to the financial statements.
Subsidiaries
The Group has a central treasury arrangement in which all subsidiaries participate. The Directors do not consider it meaningful to set 
out details of transfers made in respect of this treasury arrangement between companies, nor do they consider it meaningful to set out 
details of interest or dividend payments made within the Group.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Group has identified key management personnel as the Directors of Mears Group PLC. Details of transactions are disclosed in note 28 
to the consolidated financial statements.
17. Transition to FRS 102
The Company transitioned to FRS 102 from previously extant UK GAAP as at 1 January 2014.
The impact of the transition to FRS 102 is as follows:
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014
1 January 31 December
2014 2014
£’000 £’000
UK GAAP – as previously reported 89,904 93,629
Discounting of interest-free intra group financing transactions (2,742) (2,742)
Unwinding of discounting of interest-free intra group financing transactions — 2,742
Increase in net defined benefit pension scheme liability due to no longer presenting net of deferred tax (843) (1,205)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension scheme 843 1,205
Reduction in Fixed Asset Investment due to classification of intra group financing transactions (22,000) (22,000)
Increase in Current Asset Amounts owed by Group undertakings due to classification of intra group 
financing transactions 22,000 22,000
FRS 102 87,162 93,629
Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2014
31 December
2014
£’000
UK GAAP – as previously reported 14,120
Unwinding of discounting of interest-free intra group loans 2,742
FRS 102 16,862
There was no change to items reported in other comprehensive income. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 151
17. Transition to FRS 102 continued
Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued
The following were changes in accounting policies arising from the transition to FRS 102:
Defined benefit pension scheme
Under previous UK GAAP the Company recognised an expected return on defined benefit plan assets in the profit and loss account. 
Under FRS 102 a net interest expense, based on the net defined benefit liability, is recognised in the profit and loss account. There has 
been no change in the defined benefit liability at either 1 January 2014 or 31 December 2014. There has been no effect on the results 
presented as the previously reported expected return on investments approximated the discount rate used.
Under previous UK GAAP, the Company presented the defined benefit pension liability net of deferred tax. Under FRS 102 the defined 
benefit pension liability and deferred tax asset are presented separately in the Balance Sheet.
Interest-free intragroup loans
Historically the Company made intragroup loans on an interest-free basis. Under previous UK GAAP these were carried at the amount of 
the proceeds of the loan. Under FRS 102 intragroup financing transactions are recognised initially at fair value, being the present value of 
future payments discounted at a market rate of interest for a similar debt instrument. The effect of this change has been to reduce the 
brought forward profit and loss reserve at 1 January 2014 by £2.7m and to credit profit and loss in the year to 31 December 2014 by £2.7m. 
The Group has elected to charge interest at market rate on intragroup financing transactions with effect from 1 January 2015.
In addition under previous UK GAAP, the Company had presented a core portion of its intra group loans as a Fixed asset Investment. 
Given the Group elected to charge interest on intra group financing transactions, the Company considers it more appropriate to present 
this balance under Current assets.
Cash Flow Statement
The Company’s Cash Flow Statement reflects the presentation requirements of FRS 102. Under FRS 1 the Company was able to take 
advantage of the exemption from presenting a cash flow statement. In addition the Cash Flow Statement reconciles to cash and cash 
equivalents whereas under previous UK GAAP the Cash Flow Statement reconciled to cash. Cash and cash equivalents are defined in 
FRS 102 as ‘cash on hand and demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value’ whereas cash is defined in FRS 1 as ‘cash in hand and deposits 
repayable on demand with any qualifying institution, less overdrafts from any qualifying institution repayable on demand’. Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 152
Income Statement
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue by business segment
Housing 735,129 714,733 742,479 504,686 415,000
Care 146,010 124,007 123,095 112,550 108,518
Continuing activities 881,139 838,740 865,574 617,236 523,518
Discontinued activities — — 32,632 62,289 65,453
Total sales revenue 881,139 834,740 898,206 679,525 588,971
Gross profit 232,132 225,041 227,960 184,305 174,764
Operating profit before acquisition intangible amortisation and exceptional costs 38,662 42,995 38,392 31,161 33,608
Exceptional items — — (25,493) (2,877) (3,094)
Operating profit 27,825 30,667 2,039 20,323 22,731
Profit for the year before tax 25,920 29,677 277 18,199 20,582
PBT before acquisition intangible amortisation and exceptional costs 36,757 42,005 36,630 29,037 31,459
Earnings per share
Basic 20.31p 25.03p (1.21)p 19.61p 19.87p
Diluted 20.10p 24.65p (1.17)p 18.85p 19.03p
Normalised 27.94p 32.20p 28.06p 25.60p 26.01p
Dividends per share 11.00p 10.00p 8.80p 8.00p 7.50p
Balance Sheet
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets 258,201 268,818 233,960 225,964 149,923
Current assets 237,767 217,718 241,697 249,719 184,207
Current liabilities (219,882) (190,040) (222,506) (231,934) (169,004)
Non-current liabilities (84,458) (102,034) (72,850) (74,931) (13,341)
Total equity 191,628 194,462 180,301 168,818 151,785
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 822 3,834 (448) (12,384) (13,429)
Five-year record (unaudited) Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 153
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting
1 June 2016
Record date for final dividend
17 June 2016
Dividend warrants posted  
to shareholders
7 July 2016
Interim results announced
16 August 2016
Registered office
1390 Montpellier Court 
Gloucester Business Park 
Brockworth 
Gloucester GL3 4AH
Tel: 01452 634600 
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Company registration number
3232863
Company Secretary
Ben Westran
1390 Montpellier Court 
Gloucester Business Park 
Brockworth 
Gloucester GL3 4AH
Tel: 01452 634600
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Wales and South West  
Corporate Banking 
4th Floor, Bridgewater House 
Counterslip 
Finzels Reach 
Bristol BS1 6BX
Tel: 0800 285 1152
HSBC Bank plc
West & Wales  
Corporate Banking Centre 
3 Rivergate 
Temple Quay 
Bristol BS1 6ER
Tel: 0845 583 9796
Solicitors
BPE
St James’ House 
St James’ Square 
Cheltenham GL50 3PR
Tel: 01242 224433
Auditor
Grant Thornton UK LLP
Registered Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
Hartwell House 
55–61 Victoria Street 
Bristol BS1 6FT
Tel: 0117 305 7600
Financial adviser
Investec Bank PLC
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP
Tel: 020 7597 2000
Joint corporate brokers
Liberum Capital Limited
Ropemaker Place, Level 12 
25 Ropemaker Street 
London EC2Y 9LY
Tel: 020 7418 8900
Peel Hunt
Moor House 
20 London Wall 
London EC2Y 5ET
Tel: 020 7418 8900
Registrar
Neville Registrars Ltd
Neville House 
18 Laurel Lane 
Halesowen 
West Midlands B63 3DA
Tel: 0121 585 1131
Investor relations
Buchanan
107 Cheapside 
London EC2V 6DN
Tel: 020 7466 5000
Internet
The Group operates a website which can be 
found at www.mearsgroup.co.uk. This site 
is regularly updated to provide information 
about the Group. In particular all of the Group’s 
press releases and announcements can 
be found on the site.
Registrar
Any enquiries concerning your shareholding 
should be addressed to the Company’s 
registrar. The registrar should be notified 
promptly of any change in a shareholder’s 
address or other details. 
Investor relations
Requests for further copies of the Annual 
Report and Accounts, or other investor 
relations enquiries, should be addressed 
to the registered office.
The Group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this 
Annual Report which has been printed on Cocoon Offset which is made from 
100% post-consumer fibres, FSC
®
 certified and PCF (Process Chlorine Free). 
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using their  and  environmental 
printing technology, and vegetable inks were used throughout. Pureprint is a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered 
to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest 
Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and 
delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified 
carbon offsetting project.
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Shareholder and corporate information Mears Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2015
Mears Group PLC
1390 Montpellier Court
Gloucester Business Park
Brockworth
Gloucester GL3 4AH
Tel: 01452 634 600
www.mearsgroup.co.uk Mears Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2015
