 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS
Financial highlights and key performance indicators
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS IS EUROPE’S LEADING AND THE WORLD’S SECOND-LARGEST VISITOR 
ATTRACTION OPERATOR. OUR AIM IS TO DELIVER MEMORABLE EXPERIENCES TO MILLIONS OF VISITORS 
ACROSS OUR GROWING PORTFOLIO OF MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS AND THEME PARKS. WE ARE DRIVEN BY SIX 
GROWTH DRIVERS AND OUR UNIQUE CREATIVE AND PRODUCTION RESOURCE ‘MERLIN MAGIC MAKING’ 
WHICH SITS AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO.
 Footnotes (see page 3 for further footnotes to this Annual Report and Accounts):
(1)
 The KPIs shown above are Merlin’s key financial and non-financial performance indicators.
(2)
 Figures presented for 2011 are based on underlying trading figures compiled on a 52 week basis for ease of comparison. Statutory numbers for 2011 were prepared on a 53 week basis.
(3)
 Group profit before tax for 2015 was £237 million (2014: £226 million).
(4)
 Return on capital employed is based on underlying operating profit after tax divided by average net operating assets.
(5)
 Source - customer satisfaction surveys: measure is based on 90%+ rating as ‘satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’.
(6)
 Source - annual employee surveys: measure is based on 80%+ rating for ‘staff engagement’ (see page 37 for further details).
(7)
 The accident at Alton Towers overshadowed all other Health and Safety measures and accordingly we did not achieve the measure we set ourselves.
At the end of 2015 
Merlin operated:
Non-­ financial­KPIs­
(1), (5), (6), (7)
2014 2015
Customer satisfaction 
(5)
✔ ✔
Staff engagement 
(6)
✔ ✔
Health and safety 
(7)
✔ ✘
Financial­highlights­and­KPIs­
(1), (2), (3)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Like for like revenue growth  
+0.4%    
Return on capital employed 
(4) 
 
9.7% (2014:10.6%)
Basic EPS 
16.8p (2014:16.0p)
Adjusted EPS 
17.8p (2014:17.7p)
Visitors  
62.9m +0.3%
 62.8 62.9 1,249 1,278 59.8 1,192 54.0 1,074 46.5 933
Revenue 
£1,278m +2.3%
 411 402 311 291 390 290 346 258 296 222
Underlying EBITDA 
£402m -2.1%
Underlying operating profit 
£291m -6.2%
2
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Footnotes to this Annual Report and Accounts:
• Unless otherwise stated, the terms ‘Merlin’, ‘Merlin Entertainments’, ‘the Group’, ‘We’ and ‘Us’ refer to the Company (Merlin Entertainments plc) and, as applicable, its subsidiaries and/or  
 interests in joint ventures.
• Unless otherwise stated, references to ‘year’ or ‘2015’ mean the 52 week period ended 26 December 2015 and references to ‘previous year’ or ‘2014’ mean the 52 week period ended  
 27 December 2014.
• References to visitors mean all individual visits to Merlin owned or operated attractions.
• The terms ‘financial statements’, ‘consolidated financial statements’ and ‘accounts’ are used interchangeably.
• Like for like growth refers to the growth between 2014 and 2015 on a constant currency basis using 2015 exchange rates and includes all businesses owned and opened before the start of 2014.
• EBITDA is defined as profit before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and is after taking account of attributable profit after tax of joint ventures.
• In order to show the underlying business performance of the Group; enhance comparability from period to period and with other companies; and to provide information consistent with how  
 it is measured internally, underlying information presented excludes exceptional items that are classified separately within the financial statements (see note 2.2 to the financial   
 statements on page 118 for further details).
• Percentages are calculated based on figures before rounding and are then rounded to one decimal place.
STRATEGIC­REPORT
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS AND KEY  
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
 
2
CONTENTS 3
OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL 4
Merlin at a glance 4
Merlin’s brands 6
Strategy and global presence 8
Merlin’s growth drivers 10
2015 strategic developments 12
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT      14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT 16
OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS 20
OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND PARKS 24
OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT THEME PARKS 28
MERLIN MAGIC MAKING 32
TEAM MERLIN                             36
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 40
GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW 46
‘BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD’ - CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY THE MERLIN WAY
 
51
CORPORATE­GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 58
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 59
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT                                      62
HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY  
COMMITTEE REPORT
 
66
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 70
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 76
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT 97
DIRECTORS’ REPORT                                               98
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT 101
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 102
FINANCIAL­STATEMENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS 107
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 108
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT 
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 109
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT 
OF FINANCIAL POSITION 110
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT 
OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 111
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 112
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 113
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 155
NOTES TO THE MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 157
ADDITIONAL­INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 162
FINANCIAL RECORD 163
GLOSSARY 164
CONTENTS
3
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 The theme parks are managed in two Operating Groups: 
LEGOLAND Parks and Resort Theme Parks. 
Merlin has two core products:
OUR VISION IS TO BECOME THE 
W ORLD WIDE­ LEADER IN BRANDED, 
LOCATION BASED ENTERTAINMENT.
OUR STRATEGY
and business model
Midway attractions, which  
are typically smaller, indoor 
attractions located in city 
centres or resorts.
Theme parks, which  
are larger multi-day 
destination venues,  
with on-site themed 
accommodation. 
Merlin’s 
unique creative 
and production 
resource
Sitting at the heart 
of everything 
we do
Find out more on 
pages 32 to 35
4
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Footnotes:
(1)
 Based on 2015 revenue.
Indoor attractions located in  
city centres or resorts
Outdoor attractions with rides and  
shows, complemented with themed 
accommodation
LEGOLAND 
PARKS
6 ATTRACTIONS
5 COUNTRIES
3 CONTINENTS
1-3 DAY EXPERIENCE
LEGO THEMED ACCOMMODA TION, RIDES, 
SHOWS AND INTERACTIVE EXPERIENCES
3 NEW PARKS IN DUBAI, JAPAN AND  
SOUTH KOREA UNDER DEVELOPMENT
6 ATTRACTIONS 
UK, GERMANY, ITALY
1-3 DAY EXPERIENCE
ACCOMMODATION, RIDES, SHOWS AND 
INTERACTIVE EXPERIENCES AROUND  
A CENTRAL THEME
RESORT 
THEME
PARKS
99 ATTRACTIONS
21 COUNTRIES
4 CONTINENTS
1-2 HOUR EXPERIENCE
6 GLOBAL CHAINABLE BRANDS. NEW BRAND  
‘DREAMWORKS TOURS - SHREK’S ADVENTURE!’ 
LAUNCHED THIS YEAR
MIDWAY
MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS THEME PARKS
34%
(1)
22%
(1)
44%
(1)
5
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 MERLIN’S BRANDS 
MIDWAY
OUR STRATEGY
and business model
At ‘DreamWorks T ours -  
Shrek‘s Adventure!’ guests  
play their part in a unique  
and interactive DreamWorks 
experience, where the choices 
they make decide the outcome. 
At the heart of this are the 
Hilarious ­ Misadventur es  
you experience in the  
company of your favourite  
DreamWorks characters.
The nine Dungeons are a 
unique mix of dark, historical 
horror and irreverent 
humour delivered through 
set piece shows performed 
by live actors, rides and 
spine chillingly themed sets. 
Scary Fun is the goal, 
delivered daily to families, 
teenagers and young adults. 
13 LEGOLAND Discovery 
Centres are the ultimate 
LEGO indoor playground, 
with over two million bricks 
under one roof.  With Playful 
Learning at the heart of the 
experience, they create a  
fun filled and interactive 
environment where children 
and parents are inspired  
to be creative.
Each of our four Eye 
observation attractions  
offers the ultimate viewing 
experience, unparalleled and 
different every time, giving a 
R evealing­P erspective of 
the location’s landscape  
and iconic landmarks.
Madame Tussauds’ heritage 
and the breathtaking artistry 
of the figures at our 19 sites 
differentiate it from other 
wax attractions. Famous Fun 
is the heart of the 
experience, where visitors 
are encouraged to interact 
with all the historical and 
celebrity figures from 
Napoleon to One Direction.
With 47 sites, SEA LIFE is the 
world’s biggest aquarium brand, 
built around the notion of Amazing 
Discoveries, and home to a variety 
of creatures from shrimps and 
starfish to seahorses, rays, sharks 
and seals. SEA LIFE campaigns 
actively on a variety of conservation 
issues prioritised around breeding, 
rescue and protection of the 
marine environment.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
6 Wild Adventure is at the 
heart of Chessington World 
of Adventures Resort, with 
exotic themed lands and 
rides mixed with amazing 
creatures from around the 
world. Guests can stay in  
the heart of the adventure 
at our Safari and Azteca 
resort hotels.
With Playful Learning at the heart of the 
experience, our six LEGOLAND resorts 
across Europe, North America and Asia 
offer a unique LEGO themed experience 
for families with children aged two to 
twelve years, including highly themed 
accommodation and based on 
interactivity, imagination and family fun. 
Insane fun is on offer at 
THORPE PARK, the UK’s  
third biggest theme park and 
acknowledged thrill capital  
for teenagers, young adults 
and older families. The  
resort now includes the 
unique THORPE SHARK 
Hotel, offering bite-sized 
rooms in a stunning 
waterfront location.
Heide Park is Germany’s 
third biggest theme park 
with rides and attractions 
appealing to all ages, set in 
four lands of Extraordinary 
Adventure. The resor t 
attracts visitors from all over 
Germany and beyond, who 
can stay in the Heide Park 
Adventure Hotel or adjacent 
Holiday Village.
Gardaland Resort is Italy’s 
leading theme park. Located 
on the edge of Lake Garda, 
it boasts rides for all ages set 
in a beautifully landscaped 
and themed world. Big 
Fantasy Adventure is  
all around, including  
at the Gardaland Hotel  
and adjacent SEA LIFE.
Alton T owers Resort is the 
UK’s number one theme  
park resort, set in 500 acres  
of beautiful Staffordshire 
countryside. Boasting two 
themed hotels, ‘The Enchanted 
Village’ lodges and an indoor 
waterpark, it invites families, 
teenagers and young adults 
alike into a world of 
Fantastical Escapism.
Jousting, knights, princesses, 
falconry, staged scenes by 
Madame Tussauds and the 
Castle Dungeon all make 
Warwick the Ultimate 
Castle experience.
THEME PARKS
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
7 OUR STRATEGY
and business model
UK ATTRACTIONS
Chertsey London New
Chessington Birmingham
Blackpool
Brighton
Great Y armouth
Hunstanton
Loch Lomond
London
Manchester
Scarborough
Weymouth
  and Skyline tower
London
Blackpool
Blackpool
Edinburgh
London
Warwick
York
Alton
Manchester
Blackpool
London
Windsor Warwick
Gweek
Oban
NORTH AMERICA ATTRACTIONS
Arizona
California
Charlotte
Dallas 
Kansas City
Michigan New
Minnesota
Orlando New
Hollywood
Las V egas
New Y ork
Orlando New
San Francisco
Washington D.C.
Atlanta
Boston
Chicago
Dallas
Kansas City
T oronto
Westchester
California
Florida
San Francisco
Revenue by indoor 
and outdoor attactions 
(1)
(1)
 Based on 2015 revenue. 
(2)
 Based on a sample of visitors answering the question ‘What is your home country?’.
Revenue by geography 
(1)
UK 37%
Continental Europe 23%
North America 26%
Asia Pacific 14%
Outdoor 58%
Indoor 42%
Visitors by 
domestic / tourist 
(2)
Domestic 66%
T ourist 34%
Orlando New
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 OUR­STRA TEGY IS­ T O­ CREA TE­ A­ HIGH­ GR O WTH,­ HIGH­ RETURN,­
F AMIL Y­ENTER T AINMENT­C OMP ANY­BASED­ON­S TR ONG­BRANDS­
AND­A­GL OBAL­POR TFOLIO­THA T­IS­NA TURALL Y­BALANCED­
A GAINS T­THE­IMP A CT­OF­EX TERNAL­F A CT OR S.
Key
Existing Merlin attractions 
2015 new openings
CONTINENTAL EUROPE ATTRACTIONS
Benalmadena
Berlin
Blankenberge
Bray
Gardaland
Hannover
Helsinki 
Istanbul
Jesolo
Königswinter
Konstanz 
München
Oberhausen
Paris
Porto
Scheveningen
Speyer
T immen dorf er   
  Strand
Amsterdam
Berlin
Vienna
Lake Garda
Berlin 
Istanbul New
Oberhausen
Soltau
Billund
Günzburg
Amsterdam
Berlin
Hamburg
Mount Hotham
ASIA PACIFIC ATTRACTIONS
Hamilton Island  
Sydney
Osaka New
T okyo
Malaysia
Illawarra  
Otway
Sydney
Bangkok
Beijing
Hong Kong 
Singapore
Shanghai 
Sydney
T okyo
Wuhan
Auckland 
Bangkok
Busan  
Melbourne
Mooloolaba 
Shanghai
Sydney
Manly
Falls Creek
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin has six highly complementary growth drivers
EXISTING ESTATE GROWTH
MERLIN’S GROWTH DRIVERS 
PLANNED CAPITAL 
INVESTMENT CYCLES
RESORT 
POSITIONING
Adding new rides and features to  
our attractions to drive customer 
satisfaction, increase capacity and 
provide a compelling new  
proposition to guests.
STRATEGIC
SYNERGIES
Leveraging the scale of the Group in  
key markets to exploit enhanced 
operational, marketing and  
buying power.
Developing our theme parks into  
short break destinations: extending  
the catchment area, creating new 
revenue streams and improving
guest satisfaction.
OUR STRATEGY
and business model
10
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
MIDWAY ROLL OUT
Opening new Midway attractions 
under one of our chainable global 
brands. Merlin has opened 20
(1)
  
new sites in the last three years.
(1) 
Includes Turkuazoo Aquarium which was a standalone  
   acquisition that has since been relaunched as a SEA LIFE.
NEW LEGOLAND 
PARK DEVELOPMENTS
Opening new full scale LEGOLAND 
parks. New parks are under 
development in Dubai (2016),
Japan (2017) and South Korea (2018). 
Merlin is exploring further potential 
sites in North America and Asia.
OUR STRATEGY and business model
STRATEGIC 
ACQUISITIONS
Pursuing acquisition opportunities that 
complement our strategic objectives.
11
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 2015 STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS
OUR STRATEGY
and business model
JANUARY 
SEA LIFE Michigan 
SEA LIFE Michigan opens, marking Merlin’s 46th  
SEA LIFE around the world, and its seventh in  
North America.
MARCH
Oblivion 
Italy’s first dive-coaster - ‘Oblivion’ - opens at  
the beginning of the season at Gardaland.
APRIL 
Enchanted Village 
125 lodge ‘Enchanted Village’ opens at Alton T owers, 
complementing the resort’s existing two hotels.
LDC Osaka 
Not to be confused with the full sized park opening in 
Japan in 2017, the LEGOLAND Discovery Centre opens  
in Osaka, marking Merlin’s third attraction in the country 
and its second LDC.
LEGOLAND Japan 
Ceremony held to celebrate the ground-breaking  
of LEGOLAND Japan, to open in 2017.
MAY
LEGOLAND Florida Hotel 
152 bedroom LEGOLAND Florida Hotel opens. Each 
Merlin theme park now has on-site accommodation.
LEGO Friends 
‘LEGO Friends’ themed area opens at LEGOLAND Windsor.
Orlando openings 
A Merlin first, as we open a cluster of three attractions in 
Orlando - Madame Tussauds, SEA LIFE and the Orlando 
Eye - on the same day! 
New Openings group 
Announcement of the creation of the New Openings 
group to support the acceleration of new openings.
12
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 OUR STRATEGY and business model
JULY
LDC Istanbul 
LDC Istanbul opens in the Forum shopping mall  
alongside the aquarium acquired in 2013  
(relaunched as a SEA LIFE in January 2015). 
accesso
®
 
Agreement signed with the accesso Technology Group 
(accesso
®
) to roll out new ticketing systems across the 
Merlin estate over three years.
Shrek’s Adventure! 
Our new ‘DreamWorks T ours - Shrek’s Adventure!’ 
attraction - the first under this new brand - opens on 
London’s South Bank in the heart of the existing  
London cluster.
OCTOBER
China Media Capital Joint Venture  
Announcement of agreement to set up joint venture with 
China Media Capital to develop a LEGOLAND park in the 
Shanghai area and other attractions in China.
NOVEMBER
Madame Tussauds New Delhi 
Announcement of the planned opening of Merlin’s first 
attraction in India - Madame Tussauds New Delhi - in 2017.
13
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 CHAIRMAN’S
Statement
After a very successful first year following Merlin’s IPO in 
November 2013, 2015 was a more difficult year for your 
Company. The dominant event was the traumatic accident at 
Alton T owers on 2 June. Up to that moment our customers 
had enjoyed hundreds of millions of rides in complete safety. 
Nevertheless on that day our procedures and training did not 
prove adequate to the task of preventing this particular accident. 
We immediately accepted responsibility and are of course 
profoundly sorry for the trauma to those who were injured. 
We have already announced the direct cause and have 
introduced a series of enhanced and rigorous new protocols  
to ensure there can be no repetition of this accident.
Safety and customer service have always been the foundation 
upon which Merlin bases its appeal to our worldwide market.  
This will continue to be the case, and ensuring the safety of  
our customers will remain at the forefront of the Board’s 
oversight agenda.
Since June visitor numbers at Alton T owers were well below  
our original targets for the year. We announced to the market  
in July the expected impact this would have on the Company’s 
financial performance for the year, and these predictions have 
been borne out.
Despite the great shadow cast by this incident, I am able to report 
that business elsewhere in the Merlin empire performed satisfactorily. 
There were the usual swings and roundabouts but overall our 
performance delivered in line with the revised consensus.
Health,­safety­and­security
Merlin has a strong safety culture that underpins the delivery  
of millions of memorable experiences to our guests each year. 
On 2 June the serious accident at Alton T owers was a reminder 
of this imperative for the safety and security of our visitors to be 
at the centre of everything we do. Our thoughts remain with 
those injured and we will continue to support them in the  
future in whatever way we can. 
Our absolute focus is to make sure that, through continuous 
improvement, such an accident cannot happen again. Merlin  
has made specific improvements with regard to processes and 
procedures on rides like ‘The Smiler’. We also continue to invest  
in our Health and Safety teams and infrastructure around the 
Group and will ensure this investment continues as the Group 
grows. We have never been, nor will we ever be, complacent in 
this area. Our Health, Safety and Security Committee report on 
pages 66 to 69 provides more specific details on how we 
approach this most important area.
Sir­John­Sunderland
Chairman
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 CHAIRMAN’S Statement
T rading­performance­and­strategy
Our LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group had another strong 
year after the record performance in 2014. The parks broadened 
their demographic appeal with major investments in the ‘LEGO 
Friends’ product, and expanded their themed accommodation 
offering with the opening of a hotel at LEGOLAND Florida. 
Midway Attractions delivered a solid performance overall,  
albeit with specific regional challenges. Visitation to our London 
attractions was impacted by the relative weakness of the Euro, 
while travel restrictions affected trading in Hong Kong. Trading  
in the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group was materially 
impacted by the accident at Alton T owers, but we are  
particularly pleased with the performance of Gardaland,  
boosted by the opening of the ‘Oblivion’ dive-coaster,  
and our accommodation offering across the parks.
Merlin’s strategic development has continued. We launched a  
new ‘DreamWorks T ours’ brand, with the first attraction, based  
on the ‘Shrek’ film franchise, opening in July in London. We also 
announced a joint venture with China Media Capital to develop 
Midway attractions and a LEGOLAND park in China, further 
evidence of the opportunities we see in that growing market.
These specific developments add to our existing programme  
of rolling out Midway attractions, developing new LEGOLAND 
parks and creating destination resorts at our theme parks 
through the provision of themed accommodation.
Governance­and­the­Boar d
In January 2016 Andrew Carr, Merlin’s Chief Financial Officer, 
announced his intention to retire. On behalf of the Board I  
would like to thank him for the dedication he has shown  
to the Group during the last 16 years. He has been a major 
contributor to Merlin’s phenomenal growth during this period 
and its successful transition to a public company. We have 
recently announced that Anne-Francoise Nesmes will join in 
August as Andrew’s successor. We look forward to working  
with her as Merlin continues to grow. 
At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in May 2015, Dr. Gerry 
Murphy and Rob Lucas (the representatives of our two pre-IPO 
private equity shareholders Blackstone and CVC), stood down, as did 
Miguel Ko who left us due to other full time executive commitments. 
We thank them all for their valuable input. Following the 2015 AGM 
we were fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
I am very pleased that we have since appointed two new 
Non-executive Directors. Trudy Rautio and Yun (Rachel) Chiang 
bring with them wide experience in the major markets of the  
USA and China across leisure and other industries.
Dividends
The Board will be recommending to the AGM in May that  
we pay a final dividend of 4.4 pence per share in June. Taken 
together with the interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share  
paid last September, this will equate to a full year dividend  
of 6.5 pence per share, up 4.8% on 2014.
Corporate­social­r esponsibility­(CSR )
In 2015 Merlin’s CSR activities were brought together under  
one central theme of ‘Being a Force for Good’ to reinforce a 
consistent global approach that reflects Merlin’s values.
Within sustainability and the environment all our businesses are 
required to develop carbon reduction targets and sustainability 
plans. Under marine and wildlife conservation we focus our 
activities on protecting wildlife globally through rescue, breeding, 
conservation and education, most notably though the activities  
of our charity the SEA LIFE Trust. Merlin’s Magic Wand is our 
own children’s charity that delivers magical experiences around 
the world to children who are disadvantaged through sickness  
or disability. It does this by arranging visits to our attractions;  
by installing ‘magical spaces’ - themed areas at children’s homes  
and hospitals; and through community outreach activities where 
attraction teams ‘take the magic’ to local children’s organisations. 
Finally, we have the long term aspiration of becoming industry 
leaders for visitors affected by disability. Our accessibility  
initiatives are therefore aimed at raising awareness and  
delivering environments that provide access for everyone.  
More details can be found on pages 51 to 57.
Our­people
In this most challenging of years, I have yet again been impressed 
by the leadership and dedication of Merlin’s management team 
and our many thousands of employees around the world.  
I would like to thank all of them for their contribution. 
As we move into 2016, I am confident that with their  
continued commitment and our proven business model, we  
are well placed to continue to deliver further growth in the  
years ahead.
Sir­John­Sunderland
Chairman
24 February 2016
 I have yet again been 
impressed by the leadership 
and dedication of Merlin’s 
management team and  
our many thousands  
of employees
15
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
Report
Nick­ V arney
Chief Executive Officer
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 2015­TRADING­SUMMAR Y 2015 2014 Gr owth
Constant­ 
Curr ency­Gr owth
Visitors (m) 62.9 62.8 0.3%
Revenue (£m) 1,278 1,249 2.3% 3.9%
EBITDA (£m) 402 411 (2.1)% (1.1)%
Operating profit (£m) 291 311 (6.2)% (5.6)%
Like for like revenue growth  0.4%
Like for like EBITDA growth (4.3)%
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Report
Despite specific challenges in 2015, revenue grew by 3.9% on a constant currency basis reflecting the strength in the underlying 
brands and strategic growth drivers. The Group benefited from the continued strong performance in the LEGOLAND Parks 
Operating Group and the positive contribution from new attractions and accommodation. This was offset to a degree by more 
challenging market conditions in London and Hong Kong and the impact of the accident at Alton Towers on trading within the 
Resort Theme Parks Operating Group.
These challenges, particularly the lower visitation at Alton Towers following the accident, created a drag on profitability, resulting  
in Group EBITDA declining by 1.1% on a constant currency basis.
Whilst there will always be macro-economic or geo-political factors outside of our control, we remain confident in the strength  
of the underlying business and the natural diversification that the growing portfolio creates.
2015 has without doubt been the most difficult year in  
Merlin’s history. The accident at Alton T owers in June and  
the media coverage around it, led to a significant reversal of  
the strong momentum we had seen in our UK Resort Theme 
Parks business and consequent impact on overall Company 
performance. More importantly, people we had a responsibility  
to safeguard sustained serious injuries and ride safety processes 
we believed robust on this occasion proved inadequate. 
Our focus since June has therefore necessarily been on ensuring 
we support those injured in every way we can while putting in 
place extensive measures to ensure such an accident cannot 
happen again. These measures are covered in more detail in  
the Health, Safety and Security (HSS) Committee Report. In 
addition, we continue to invest in further improvements to  
both engineering and health and safety across the estate,  
including additional compliance managers in all our theme  
parks and a new Group engineering function.
The new ‘DreamWorks T ours - Shrek’s Adventure!’ attraction in London
This represents a substantial additional investment on top  
of our already extensive HSS and engineering infrastructure  
which we must remember has delivered hundreds of 
millions of safe ride experiences over many years.
 Merlin remains well placed to deliver 
exciting growth in one of the most dynamic 
markets globally
17
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Looking­ahead
We continue to be confident in our strategy and the long term 
growth trajectory of the business, focused around the core six 
growth drivers. As we look to quicken the pace of expansion, 
against the backdrop of the macro trends identified above, 
we have set new strategic milestones out to 2020:
• 2,000 new accommodation rooms by the end of 2020
• 40 new Midway attractions by the end of 2020
•  Four new LEGOLAND parks by the end of 2020  
(including the three already announced)
The main geographic focus of this expansion will be North 
America and Asia. Within the latter we regard China, Japan 
and South Korea as priority markets. 
LEGOLAND Water Park in Florida
With regard to our existing estate the planned capex cycles  
are working well with a pipeline of innovative and compelling 
propositions coming out of Merlin Magic Making. ‘Derren Brown’s 
Ghost Train’ at THORPE PARK and ‘Galactica’, the fusion of 
Virtual Reality into an existing roller coaster at Alton T owers, 
are good examples which will be launching this year. 
We also continue to develop new ways of exploiting the  
synergies which arise from the Group’s scale. Over the next  
few years the biggest focus of this will be on the ways in which 
we can enhance the customer journey via imaginative use  
of technology. The central aspect of this will be the accesso
®
 
admissions/ticketing system, which started to roll out in 2015 after 
successful pilots, augmented by on-site downloadable apps and 
ibeacons to send visitors targeted messages. These new systems 
are also facilitating the data capture which will enable us to 
expand our CRM activities considerably in key markets meaning 
we can communicate with our customers on an ongoing basis.
 We hold global 
exclusivity for the LEGOLAND 
brand; the only attraction 
based representation of  
the LEGO toy brand
Merlin­today
While never forgetting the incident at Alton T owers and 
those affected by it we must nonetheless move forward. Merlin 
Entertainments remains well placed to deliver exciting growth in 
one of the most dynamic markets globally. In the world around 
us macro trends are increasingly evident:
•  The rapid growth of the middle classes in emerging  
countries, notably China, who have an appetite to consume 
high quality, branded, entertainment options and to travel; a 
phenomenon contributing to high growth in international 
tourism to ‘gateway cities’.
•  An increasing focus on Intellectual Property (IP) as the key 
ingredient to delivering compelling propositions and attractive 
financial returns. This is fuelling ever greater partnerships 
between brand/IP owners and delivery platforms such  
as location based entertainment.
•  The increasing trend in developed markets towards multiple 
short breaks at home or abroad.
•  The rapid and progressive move to an online and mobile 
transaction model in most countries. 
Within this evolving global environment it is worth restating  
the competitive advantages which Merlin possesses:
•  We hold global exclusivity for the LEGOLAND brand; the 
only attraction based representation of the LEGO toy brand 
which is now No. 1 internationally and one of the world’s 
strongest IP’s in its own right.
•  We are the only company to successfully operate the limited 
dwell time, indoor, Midway format across multiple brands  
and countries.
•  We have the most extensive geographic footprint of any 
company in our industry with the proven international roll  
out potential of our LEGOLAND resorts and Midway brands.
•  The addition of themed accommodation continues to deliver 
the double benefit of positioning our theme parks as short 
break resorts while yielding attractive returns in its own right.
•  In Merlin Magic Making we have a unique  
development resource which enables  
value enhancing growth from both  
the existing estate and new attractions.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Report
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
18 ‘Star Wars’ at Madame Tussauds London
Finally we are able to contemplate acquisitions and investments 
which strengthen our strategic position. We have just announced 
that Merlin is acquiring a minority stake in BIG BUS, the leading 
global owner-operator of Hop On Hop Off City T ours. We see 
significant synergies from this business with our own city centre 
attractions and there is already a clear overlap in cities such 
as London, New Y ork, Hong Kong and San Francisco. This 
investment will facilitate a closer working relationship on 
the ground while enabling us to learn about a highly  
complementary business.
The­Sparkle
With the increasing importance of IP in all areas of  
entertainment we have been working hard to establish a  
network of core partnerships which have value to both our 
existing estate and new developments business.
The relationship with the LEGO Group is well established and 
2016/2017 will see major co-operation around the relaunched 
LEGO NINJAGO brand with new rides and attractions at all parks 
and LEGOLAND Discovery Centres. This will be supported by 
the NINJAGO movie, scheduled for release by Warner Bros. in 2017.
Our partnership with DreamWorks Animation (DWA) is  
also developing with new themed lands in 2016 in Gardaland  
(Kung Fu Panda) and Heide Park (How to Train Y our Dragon)  
in addition to the new Midway brand ‘DreamWorks T ours - 
Shrek’s Adventure!’ being piloted in London. 
Beyond this, brand partnerships with specific IP’s such as  
‘Star Wars’ (Madame Tussauds), ‘CBeebies’ (Alton T owers) and 
‘Derren Brown’ (THORPE PARK) clearly demonstrate both 
the direction of travel and Merlin’s favourable position.
Merlin­people
After a challenging year we saw staff engagement at an all  
time high and Merlin voted one of the best 25 big companies  
to work for (for a second year in a row). We have a team that is 
passionate about the business and able to produce consistently 
high performances. This has yet again translated into increased 
visitor satisfaction. Our people section covers this in much more 
detail but suffice to say I am proud of and grateful to, in equal 
measure, the fantastic people who work for Merlin. 
And­finally …
In the first half of 2015 I had the opportunity to visit five of  
the ‘Merlin’s Magical Spaces’ installed at hospices and hospitals by  
the Merlin’s Magic Wand Charity. These multisensory experiences 
use Merlin’s brands and creativity to bring enjoyment to children 
whose lives are often tragically affected by illness and who, for this 
reason, cannot visit our attractions. The money for these projects 
is raised by the Merlin team, our guests and our partners and of 
all the things we do, this is the one of which we are most proud. 
Merlin is first and foremost an entertainment company. We exist 
to deliver memorable experiences to our millions of visitors and 
are doing so on an increasingly diverse, international, stage. Our 
market too is dynamic with an ever increasing interface between 
screen based and location based content and rapidly growing 
international tourism. With a clear strategy, a strong development 
pipeline and the brands and people to deliver them, Merlin is 
well placed to continue the magic well into the future.
Nick­ V arney
Chief­Executive­Officer
24 February 2016
 With a clear strategy,  
a strong development pipeline 
and the brands and people  
to deliver them, Merlin is well 
placed to continue the magic 
well into the future
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Report
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
19 MIDWAY
Attractions
THE MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS OPERATING GROUP SAW FURTHER GROWTH  
IN 2015 IN THE EXISTING ESTATE. THERE WERE STRONG PERFORMANCES  
IN ASIA, PARTICULARLY IN MAINLAND CHINA, AND EUROPE, ALTHOUGH 
LOWER VOLUMES IN OUR LONDON DIVISION AND TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS 
INTO HONG KONG SUPPRESSED THE OVERALL RESULT. IN ADDITION, OUR 
STRATEGIC MIDWAY ROLL OUT PROGRAMME CONTINUES APACE, WITH 
SEVEN NEW ATTRACTIONS OPENED IN 2015 ACROSS FOUR COUNTRIES, 
INCLUDING THE LAUNCH OF THE NEW ‘DREAMWORKS TOURS - SHREK’S 
ADVENTURE!’ BRAND. WE TARGET OPENING 40 NEW ATTRACTIONS BY  
THE END OF 2020.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions
2015 2014 Gr owth
Constant­ 
Curr ency­Gr owth
Visitors (m) 40.0 38.1 4.9%
Revenue (£m) 561 529 6.0% 7.5%
EBITDA (£m) 221 214 1.2%
(1)
 2.0%
(1)
Operating profit (£m) 167 167 (2.4)%
(1)
 (1.9)%
(1)
Like for like revenue growth  2.3%
T rading­performance
The Midway Attractions Operating Group trading was robust  
in 2015, with continued growth in visitor numbers and revenue. 
Revenues grew by 7.5% on a constant currency basis, driving 
EBITDA growth of 2.0% and a decline in operating profit of  
1.9%. Movements in foreign exchange rates adversely impacted 
reported results, resulting in revenue growth of 6.0% and 
operating profit 2.4% down against last year.
Overall, the Operating Group continues to benefit from both  
the consumers’ desire for high quality, branded, location based 
entertainment, and the continuing growth in visitation to large 
gateway cities, particularly from the burgeoning middle class in 
emerging markets. However, the attractions are exposed to 
fluctuations in inbound and domestic tourist flows which  
have created some specific challenges in 2015.
Existing­estate 
2015 revenue grew by 2.3% on a like for like basis, reflecting a 
strong performance in Midway Asia, particularly in mainland 
China, and Midway Europe. This was offset by specific  
challenges in London and Hong Kong. 
Our attractions in Shanghai continue to benefit from ongoing 
market growth in the country, and were further boosted this year 
by excellent new product, in particular at MT Shanghai where  
we launched a new ‘Ice Age 4D’ experience (see ‘Focus on 
China’ on page 23). 
Our attraction in Hong Kong was however adversely impacted by 
travel restrictions imposed on visitors from the neighbouring city 
of Shenzhen. We continue to expect volumes to remain subdued 
whilst this policy continues.
Midway Europe benefited from good new product and relatively 
favourable weather over the summer season.
This was however offset by lower volumes in London, primarily 
due to the persistent weakness of the Euro against Sterling 
impacting both domestic city breaks and inbound tourism from 
the key Eurozone region, with inbound tourist volumes flat in 
January to November (source: VisitBritain). 
Margins declined by 1.8%, excluding the effect of changes in the 
allocation of costs across the Group, as a result of the dilutive 
effect of new openings, and the investment in regional structures 
and support functions across our developing markets as we 
expand the estate in both North America and Asia. This was 
compounded by the lower like for like revenue growth and  
the relatively fixed cost nature of the Midway Attractions 
Operating Group.
 The brand new 
‘DreamWorks Tours - Shrek’s 
Adventure!’ opened in  
London in July
(1)
  Excluding the effect of the change in allocation of central costs in 2015. Reference in the narrative below is made to these adjusted figures, unless otherwise stated. Further detail is provided on  
page 50. Including this reallocation, reported EBITDA and operating profit growth were 3.0% and 0.0% respectively, and 3.8% and 0.4% respectively on a constant currency basis. 
21
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions
Capital­investment
Our existing estate growth was underpinned by our strategy  
of planned capital investment cycles, with each Midway attraction 
having a ‘high year’ once every five years, followed by four  
‘low’ years.
This year’s major high year capital projects included the new  
‘Star Wars’ experiences at Madame Tussauds London and  
Berlin, and ‘Ice Age 4D’ at MT Shanghai.
In the non-high capital investment years, many attractions receive 
‘mobile features’ which we move around the estate to several 
different locations over a period of years, thus maximising  
capital efficiency.
Customer­satisfaction
Our focus on customer service and investment in new products 
and features has seen us enjoy continued excellent guest  
satisfaction scores.
Existing­estate­-­looking­ahead
2016 will see significant further investment in the existing estate, 
including a new ‘drop ride’ at MT Berlin, a 4D movie in Bangkok 
at our MT attraction there, and penguins in SEA LIFE Sydney.
New­openings­-­Midway­r oll­out
Our Midway roll out strategy continued apace in 2015, with 
seven attractions opening throughout the year.
SEA LIFE Michigan was the first attraction to open, in January.  
As is typical of new aquariums, the attraction opened very 
strongly with excellent PR coverage and high penetration of the 
local resident market. Our other North American openings 
comprised a SEA LIFE, Madame Tussauds and ‘The Orlando Eye’ 
observation attraction in Orlando, Florida. Located on the 
world-renowned ‘I-Drive’ this cluster of three attractions  
opened on the same day - another first for Merlin! 
Elsewhere, we also opened two LEGOLAND Discovery Centres, 
in Osaka, Japan and in Istanbul, Turkey. The latter immediately 
formed a cluster with the existing SEA LIFE Centre located in  
the same shopping mall. 
Finally, 2015 saw the launch of the new ‘DreamWorks T ours - 
Shrek’s Adventure!’ attraction, opened alongside our existing 
cluster of attractions on London’s famous ‘South Bank’. The new 
brand concept has received a positive customer response,  
which bodes well for further potential roll out.
Looking­ahead
Our Midway roll out programme will see us open seven 
attractions in 2016, including three in Asia - a Madame Tussauds 
and a SEA LIFE Centre in Chongqing and the first LEGOLAND 
Discovery Centre in China, to be opened in Shanghai.
Six of these attractions will be creating or adding to clusters, 
where we have more than one attraction in the same location, 
providing operating cost, marketing and cross-selling advantages. 
New attractions in Arizona, Michigan, Istanbul and Shanghai will 
be located alongside existing attractions; in Chongqing, China,  
our two openings will create a new cluster from the outset. 
‘The Orlando Eye’ observation attraction in Orlando, Florida
The new LEGOLAND Discovery Centre in Osaka, Japan
The 2016 opening schedule reflects our longer term ambition  
of an even geographic spread of revenue across Europe,  
the Americas and Asia Pacific, and also that our focus will  
be primarily on cluster cities. 
Longer term, we continue to see scope for 100+ new Midway 
attractions across the world. By the end of 2020, we target 
opening 40 new attractions, prioritising opportunities in the 
Americas and Asia Pacific, continuing our cluster city focus.
Reinforcing our plans for growth in Asia, in October 2015, we 
announced an agreement with China Media Capital which will 
see us form a joint venture and accelerate our Midway roll out in 
the region. In November we then announced plans for our first 
business in India, Madame Tussauds New Delhi, scheduled to 
open in early 2017.
22
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 FOCUS­ON­CHINA
China has been a major growth driver for Merlin in recent years, where we have continued 
to increase brand awareness and drive product innovation. We have a strong pipeline of new 
openings, supported by the recent announcement to partner with China Media Capital.
Underpinning this growth are the rapidly expanding number of middle class households, which 
economic forecasts suggest could potentially increase from 47 million to 472 million over the 
period 2010-20. We believe that in the fullness of time, our China Midway estate could expand  
to over 30 attractions.
Our­history­in­China
Acquisitions
Our transformational acquisition in 2007 of  
The Tussauds Group brought with it Madame 
Tussauds (MT) Shanghai and MT Hong Kong, 
followed in 2012 by Chang Feng Ocean World, 
a large aquarium in Shanghai then owned by 
Living and Leisure Australia.
Our strategy to raise brand awareness and 
increase visitor numbers at the MT’s has led to 
several years of strong growth. In 2015 MT 
Shanghai benefited from ‘high year’ investment 
in a new ‘Ice Age 4D’ cinema, driving significant 
increases in visitor numbers and revenue. MT 
Shanghai continues to be one of the most 
profitable attractions across the Merlin estate. 
At Chang Feng Ocean World, our focus on 
improving the guest experience through an 
improved product offering has yielded great 
results. This focus, on top of an already strong 
level of visitation, brought good price and yield 
growth. Both of our Shanghai attractions have 
been buoyed by significant growth in  
domestic tourism. 
Organic expansion
In 2013 we opened MT Wuhan, focused on  
the domestic market, followed in 2014 by  
MT Beijing in a great location close to 
Tiananmen Square.
Futur e­gr owth
2016 will see an MT and a SEA LIFE Centre 
open in Chongqing, with the first LEGOLAND 
Discovery Centre (LDC) in China also opening 
in Shanghai. We have identified further sites and 
will continue to roll out our MT, SEA LIFE and  
LDC attractions.
Looking further ahead, we have entered into  
a strategic agreement with China Media  
Capital, a leading investor in the media and 
entertainments industries, to explore wider 
opportunities. We plan to work with them 
initially to tailor our Dungeon brand to the 
Chinese market and in turn leverage their 
ownership of DreamWorks IP in China. We 
hope this will see the development of other 
‘DreamWorks T ours’ attractions in China, most 
likely based upon the Kung Fu Panda character. 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 LEGOLAND PARKS ENJOYED ANOTHER EXCELLENT YEAR FOLLOWING THE 
RECORD PERFORMANCE REPORTED IN 2014. THE POSITIVE UNDERLYING 
MOMENTUM OF THE LEGOLAND BRAND CONTINUES, SUPPORTED BY THE 
STRENGTH OF THE LEGO TOY BRAND AND OUR ONGOING INVESTMENT 
ACROSS THE ESTATE. IN ADDITION, THE STRONG EARLY PERFORMANCE OF 
THE NEW 152 ROOM FULLY THEMED HOTEL AT LEGOLAND FLORIDA HAS 
PROVIDED FURTHER CONFIDENCE IN OUR ONGOING RESORT POSITIONING 
STRATEGY . WE REMAIN ON TRACK TO OPEN THREE NEW LEGOLAND PARKS 
OVER THE COURSE OF 2016 TO 2018 AND TARGET A FURTHER OPENING BY 
THE END OF 2020.
LEGOLAND
Parks
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks
2015 2014 Gr owth
Constant­ 
Curr ency­Gr owth
Visitors (m) 12.7 12.7 (0.1)%
Revenue (£m) 429 386 11.2% 10.6%
EBITDA (£m) 169 142 18.6%
(1)
 16.7%
(1)
Operating profit (£m) 146 120 21.8%
(1)
19.7%
(1)
Like for like revenue growth  8.2%
T rading­performance
The positive momentum around the LEGOLAND brand 
continued in 2015. The strength and product development of  
the core toy brand, coupled with the continued investment in 
compelling product across the LEGOLAND park estate and 
impetus provided by the 2014 release of ‘The LEGO Movie’  
have delivered another year of strong growth.
Overall revenue growth of 10.6% was driven predominantly  
by growth in revenue per capita (RPC), supporting strong 
conversion of revenue into profit, with EBITDA growth of 
16.7% and operating profit growth of 19.7% for the year 
(all at constant currency). At reported currencies, the results  
from our two parks in North America benefited from the 
translation impact of the strength of the US Dollar, leading  
to revenue growth of 11.2%, converting into EBITDA growth  
of 18.6% and operating profit growth of 21.8%.
Existing­estate
Revenue grew by 8.2% on a like for like basis, despite the tough 
comparatives created in 2014 which saw like for like revenue 
growth of 13.2%. Growth in the prior year benefited from 
increased visitation following the launch of ‘The LEGO Movie’  
and the associated marketing and promotional opportunities that 
this created. Although 2015 saw continued strong visitation, the 
revenue performance was primarily driven by growth in RPC.  
This reflected the opportunity to close the pricing differential 
with competitors in the North American market, coupled with 
lower overall promotional activity compared to 2014, which 
included promotions related to ‘The LEGO Movie’. Like for like 
growth in EBITDA and operating profit was strong, reflecting the 
RPC-led revenue growth and the non-recurrence of certain 
remedial costs related to the LEGOLAND Windsor Hotel  
which suppressed the 2014 result. 
Capital­investment
LEGOLAND parks operate under a four year pre-determined 
capital investment cycle whereby ‘high’ or ‘medium’ years are 
typically followed by a ‘low’ year.
In 2015, the ‘high year’ investment was in LEGOLAND Windsor, 
with a ‘medium’ year in LEGOLAND Florida. In both of these 
parks, the new product was based around ‘LEGO Friends’, the 
LEGO toy range targeted towards girls, with themed areas added, 
including new ride and show content. This was complemented 
with new ‘LEGO Friends’ themed rooms at our on-site hotels. 
These investments were well received by our guests and helped 
to broaden the customer demographic, with LEGOLAND 
Windsor for example seeing a 2% increase in the number  
of girls visiting compared to boys. 
R esort­positioning
Our strategy of developing the parks as short break destinations 
continued in 2015. In May we opened the fantastic new 152 
room hotel at LEGOLAND Florida. The hotel benefited from 
being the first on-site themed accommodation and delivered a 
strong opening performance, both directly in the hotel and in its 
contribution to park volumes (see page 27). We also ran a trial of 
14 ‘giant-sized’ beer barrel chalets in LEGOLAND Deutschland. 
This accommodation concept has proved extremely popular and 
will be ‘rolled out’ further in 2016.
The strong performance of our existing accommodation, as well 
as the success of the LEGOLAND Florida Hotel, provides us with 
further confidence in our resort positioning strategy. We continue 
to see significant further opportunity for accommodation 
expansion at our existing resorts, as well as exploring options to 
accelerate the accommodation strategy at any new parks.
(1)
  Excluding the effect of the change in allocation of central costs in 2015. Reference in the narrative below is made to these adjusted figures, unless otherwise stated. Further detail is provided on  
page 50. Including this reallocation, reported EBITDA and operating profit growth were 19.3% and 22.6% respectively, and 17.4% and 20.5% respectively on a constant currency basis.
 ‘LEGO Friends’ at 
LEGOLAND Windsor and Florida 
proved highly popular, broadening 
the customer demographic 
25
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 ‘NINJAGO - The Ride’ at LEGOLAND California
OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks
Customer­satisfaction
It is a testament to the strength of the product and our excellent 
staff that, in a year of continued growth, our already high guest 
satisfaction score improved further in 2015.
Looking­ahead
We will continue to make further investments across our estate, 
providing guests with new, innovative and compelling features  
at each of our parks, under our defined four year capital  
investment cycles.
Our ‘high year’ investment in 2016 will be at LEGOLAND  
Billund in Denmark. Opening early in the season, ‘NINJAGO -  
 The Ride’, will be a brand new, interactive ‘dark’ ride capitalising 
on LEGO’s own NINJAGO brand. We will also open smaller 
scale attractions using the same underlying concept in California  
and Malaysia and plan to roll the product out to other parks  
in future years. 
It is the large and increasing scale of the Operating Group  
that allows us to invest so effectively in this way. Many of our 
investments, in both the existing estate and accommodation, 
benefit from the Operating Group’s attractions being similar  
in their core concept, design and construction. As we roll out 
compelling new product for our guests at any given park,  
we are able to capture and learn from the guest feedback, 
operational improvements and efficiencies seen in prior  
launches. Exploiting synergies in this way helps us to drive  
growth with capital efficiency. 
Further harnessing the strength of the LEGO brand and the 
momentum created around ‘The LEGO Movie’, we will also be 
launching ‘The LEGO Movie 4D A New Adventure’ throughout 
our parks, beginning with Florida and California in the first  
half of the year. Partnering with Warner Bros. and the LEGO  
Group, the short, animated film will again feature our guests’  
favourite characters such as Emmet and Wyldstyle.
Longer term, we will again seek to explore any potential 
marketing and promotional opportunities around further  
LEGO movies as they are launched, with further releases 
expected over the coming years. 
New­openings­-­developing­new­LEGOLAND­parks
2015 has seen continued progress on the three new 
LEGOLAND parks currently being developed in Dubai  
(2016), Japan (2017) and South Korea (2018).  
LEGOLAND Dubai
LEGOLAND Dubai is on schedule to open in the fourth  
quarter of 2016. T ogether with its associated waterpark, which 
will be run as a ‘second gate’ attraction, the park will operate 
under a management contract and be funded primarily by  
Dubai Parks and Resorts. Similar to the operating model  
used for LEGOLAND Malaysia, Merlin will earn fees for the 
management of the park, including additional amounts based 
upon performance, with no upfront or ongoing capital  
investment obligation. The LEGOLAND park and waterpark  
will be located as part of a wider resort, consisting of a number 
of other complementary leisure attractions and hotels, including 
‘motiongate
™
 Dubai’ and ‘Bollywood Parks
™
 Dubai’. The resort  
is well located on the main highway connecting Dubai and Abu 
Dhabi and is equidistant between the two city’s international 
airports. The resort is expected to attract a range of visitors, 
primarily from the Middle East and Indian sub-continent.
LEGOLAND Japan
LEGOLAND Japan is on schedule to open in the first half of 2017, 
with construction well progressed. Opening under an ‘Operated 
and Leased’ model, Merlin will invest approximately a third of the 
overall cost. The balance of the funding will be met by KIRKBI, who 
own 75% of the LEGO Group and are a 29.89% shareholder in 
Merlin. Japan is the second largest theme park market in the world 
and, given the level of LEGO brand awareness and the specific 
‘young family’ target demographic, LEGOLAND Japan is expected 
to be complementary to the existing parks in the region.
LEGOLAND Korea
Located on Jung-do island in Chuncheon, South Korea, 
LEGOLAND Korea is expected to open in 2018. Similar to 
LEGOLAND Japan, the park will operate under an ‘Operated 
and Leased’ model with Merlin investing approximately  
one-third of the total park cost.
Further developments
With the sustained success of the LEGO and LEGOLAND  
brands we continue to pursue options for the roll out of further 
LEGOLAND parks. In the fullness of time we firmly believe that 
there is scope for over 20 parks worldwide. In addition to the 
parks in Dubai, Japan and South Korea, we target one further 
opening by 2020. This is likely to be in either North America  
or China, where we are actively negotiating potential projects, 
including a partnership with China Media Capital for a joint 
venture in the Shanghai area, as announced in October 2015. 
Furthermore, we see opportunity for accommodation at each  
of the parks which have yet to open, with a range of possible 
funding structures. Specifically, we have plans for  
accommodation in both Japan and Dubai.
26
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 LEGOLAND­HO TEL­AT LEGOLAND FLORIDA RESORT
The 152 room LEGOLAND hotel at 
LEGOLAND Florida Resort opened on  
15 May 2015, representing the beginning of  
this location’s resort positioning journey. 
Located just 130 ‘kid steps’ from the theme 
park entrance, the hotel is a fully immersive 
LEGO experience, with each guest room 
heavily LEGO themed. There are also themed 
restaurants and live entertainment - we even 
have special ‘VIP’ suites and a ‘Disco Elevator’ - 
it is a truly magical experience! 
Performance so far has been strong and we  
saw occupancy levels of 98% in the key summer 
period. We’re also delighted that the hotel has 
created over 100 new jobs for the surrounding 
local community, who have given us  
fantastic support.
Looking forward, we see significant scope for 
further accommodation at the site. In 2015, we 
purchased adjacent, undeveloped land for the 
resort’s second phase of accommodation, which  
is expected to follow the holiday village style.
Existing expansion space provides opportunities 
for still further accommodation. These could 
include a ‘Castle’ hotel, lodges or ‘glamping’.
Each would have different levels of theming 
and offer varying price points to ensure we 
cater to as many guests as possible.
DID YOU KNOW? 
There are more than 2,000 LEGO 
models in the entire hotel created 
out of more than two million  
LEGO bricks! 
This is the first LEGOLAND hotel 
to have its own Model Shop where 
guests can build exclusively with 
Model Builders daily. 
Behind reception is an entire wall 
created out of more than 5,000 
LEGO Minifigures. 
Hotel guests are greeted by a 
smoke-breathing LEGO dragon 
created out of more than 445,000 
LEGO bricks. Each wing spans  
8 feet! 
27
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 RESORT
Theme Parks
THE RESORT THEME PARKS OPERATING GROUP HAS HAD A CHALLENGING 
YEAR IN 2015. DESPITE A POSITIVE START TO THE SEASON, THE OVERALL 
PERFORMANCE WAS MATERIALLY IMPACTED BY THE ACCIDENT WHICH 
TOOK PLACE AT ALTON TOWERS IN JUNE. OUTSIDE OF OUR UK DAY -VISIT 
TRADING WE ARE PARTICULARLY PLEASED WITH THE PERFORMANCE AT 
GARDALAND. IN ADDITION THE RESILIENCE OF OUR ACCOMMODATION 
OFFERING THROUGHOUT THE YEAR GIVES US CONFIDENCE IN THIS 
STRATEGY . OUR PRIMARY FOCUS SINCE THE ACCIDENT ON 2 JUNE HAS  
BEEN WORKING TO ENSURE EVERY POSSIBLE LESSON IS LEARNT. 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks
2015 2014 Gr owth
Constant­ 
Curr ency­Gr owth
Visitors (m) 10.2 12.0 (14.2)%
Revenue (£m) 285 331 (14.0)% (10.2)%
EBITDA (£m) 47 87 (49.2)%
(1)
(46.5)%
(1)
Operating profit (£m) 18 60 (75.0)%
(1)
(73.6)%
(1)
Like for like revenue growth  (12.4)%
Alton­ T owers­accident
The Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Report, and Health, 
Safety and Security Committee Report comment in detail on the  
accident at Alton T owers. The review of the Resort Theme Parks 
Operating Group which follows focuses on the implications on 
operations and trading during the period.
T rading­performance­of­existing­estate
Revenue in the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group fell by 
12.4% on a like for like basis, primarily reflecting the significant 
decline in visitation at Alton T owers following the accident on  
2 June. This led to a decline in EBITDA of 46.5% and operating 
profit of 73.6% at constant currency. The reported trading results 
of the attractions in Continental Europe were adversely impacted 
by the translation impact of the weakening of the Euro against 
Sterling. At reported foreign exchange rates, revenue fell by 
14.0% and EBITDA and operating profit fell by 49.2% and  
75.0% respectively.
The performance of the Operating Group was dominated by the 
impact of the incident at Alton T owers and the resulting significant 
decline in park visitation through the main trading season. Whilst 
the majority of the impact was experienced at Alton T owers 
Resort, this created a difficult day-visit theme park market across 
the UK. As a result THORPE PARK, our other major rides park, 
also experienced a decline in visitation. 
Action was taken to limit the decline in volumes and refocus 
marketing efforts towards younger families and the broader short 
break appeal of the resort. However, this had limited effect over 
the key summer trading period in the face of ongoing media 
coverage of the incident.
Outside of the UK, Gardaland - Italy’s largest theme park - traded 
well, benefiting from a major new ride investment.
Whilst our larger resorts typically have a significant element of 
variable costs, the vast majority of these for the 2015 season  
had been committed by the end of May. 
As a result of this, and despite good trading in Gardaland, the 
significant revenue shortfall at Alton T owers resulted in a 
significant decline in EBITDA and operating profit. As a  
result, EBITDA margins declined to 16.5%.
Capital­investment
Consistent with our strategy of deploying capital in the existing 
estate according to a pre-determined four year cycle, 2015  
saw a major investment at Gardaland. ‘Oblivion’ - a new dive-
coaster - opened at the start of the 2015 season,  
receiving excellent guest feedback and helping contribute  
to a good trading performance for the resort. Further  
details are set out on page 31.
R esort­positioning
Our strategy of developing our resorts into short break 
destinations continued in 2015. Alton T owers Resort saw the 
launch of a new 125 lodge ‘Enchanted Village’ in April, which 
complements the existing 391 rooms across two hotels 
at the resort. Notwithstanding the challenging trading within the 
day-visit market, this new accommodation offering performed 
broadly in line with our expectations, and received excellent guest 
feedback. The 2015 performance further benefited from the full 
year impact of the new ‘Azteca’ hotel opened in August 2014 at 
Chessington World of Adventures, and reinforces our continued 
confidence in the strategy. 
The ‘Enchanted Village’ at Alton Towers Resort
(1)
  Excluding the effect of the change in allocation of central costs in 2015. Reference in the narrative below is made to these adjusted figures, unless otherwise stated. Further detail is provided on  
page 50. Including this reallocation, reported EBITDA and operating profit growth were (46.2)% and (70.7)% respectively, and (43.3)% and (69.0)% respectively on a constant currency basis. 
29
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks
Customer­satisfaction
We are pleased that, in a difficult year for the Resort Theme 
Parks Operating Group, guest satisfaction scores remain high, 
increasing slightly as a result of continued investment in new 
products and features together with the exceptional staff  
that helped deliver enjoyable days out to our guests. 
Looking­ahead
We will continue to invest in the Resort Theme Parks Operating 
Group through our four year capital investment cycle in new and 
compelling propositions, delivering fun, memorable days out to 
our guests.
Our resort positioning strategy will take another step forward  
in 2016 as we open a new 100 room ‘Adventure Hotel’ in 
Gardaland, adjacent to the existing 247 room hotel. This 
forms a major part of the resort’s ongoing strategy to increase  
multi-day visits, and appeal more to the approximately three 
million international visitors who already come to the Lake  
Garda region of Italy. 2016 will also see us launch a new ‘glamping’ 
offering at Chessington World of Adventures, complementing the 
existing 219 rooms currently offered through our two hotels at 
that resort. At Warwick Castle, we will be opening the ‘Knight’s 
Village’, where 28 themed lodges will complement our existing 
successful medieval ‘glamping’ experience.
Beyond 2016, we see a strong pipeline of further  
accommodation across each of our resorts as part of the  
Group target to open 2,000 new rooms by the end of 2020. 
These include a combination of further hotels, lodges, ‘glamping’, 
and other exciting options for our guests to enjoy! Where 
possible, we may also look to use Intellectual Property in  
our accommodation projects in the same way that we have  
for our existing estate investments.
We remain cautious on the outlook for Alton T owers in 2016, 
given the challenging year we have experienced in 2015 and  
the inherent uncertainty around customer behaviour. We are 
confident in the resort’s opportunities and strength longer term. 
We remain optimistic on the short term performance of  
our European theme park resorts, as well as our  
accommodation offerings. 
Intellectual­pr operty­and­technology
We view the use of Intellectual Property (IP) and technology  
as an increasingly important part of the Resort Theme Parks 
growth strategy. It is an opportunity to generate marketing and 
PR opportunities and grow first-time and repeat visitation  
with good capital efficiency. 
Across the RTP estate, we already benefit from the Group’s 
excellent relationships with major IP owners, such as the BBC, 
DreamWorks Animation, ITV and Rovio. 2016 will see further 
significant developments with existing, and new, IP partners, 
including Derren Brown at THORPE PARK.
We will launch new themed areas at Gardaland (Kung Fu Panda) 
and Heide Park (How to Train Y our Dragon) using DreamWorks 
Animation IP . These new features will build on the expertise 
gained from the ‘CBeebies Land’ themed area at Alton T owers  
to both support visitation levels during the year of launch and, as 
attractions targeted towards young families, to help broaden the 
resorts’ demographics.
In the UK, our major high year capex project is at THORPE PARK 
where we have partnered with Derren Brown - the acclaimed 
British maestro of mind control - to create a world’s first 
experience combining the unique talents of Derren to those 
of the Merlin Magic Making creative team (see page 35).
Finally, at Alton T owers, we will use state-of-the-art, Virtual Reality 
technology to create ‘Galactica’, a completely new ‘space travel’ 
experience. The use of technology in this way, alongside an 
existing roller coaster, allows us to create a truly unique 
experience for our guests with good capital efficiency. 
‘Galactica’ at Alton Towers Resort
The new ‘glamping’ offering at Chessington World of Adventures
30
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 2015 saw the launch of a new dive-coaster at Gardaland. At a total investment of over  
€20 million, not only was this the first of its kind for the park, it was also the first for the  
Italian theme park market!
It was not however a completely new ride for Merlin. The original ‘Oblivion’ ride, manufactured  
by Bolliger & Mabillard, was opened at Alton T owers in March 1998. Bringing the ride into the  
21st century, the original concept and brand were re-developed, fusing updated and refreshed  
Intellectual Property with the latest in roller coaster technology.
The ride was launched at the start of the season with an excellent marketing and PR campaign, 
which drove very high pre-launch awareness. Guest satisfaction KPIs were strong from launch, with 
the ride enjoying excellent product scores. The strength of the ‘Oblivion’ brand has allowed us to 
offer dedicated retail offerings which has helped drive secondary spend in the park. Furthermore,  
the ride has delivered wider park benefits as the area around ‘Oblivion’ has been refreshed, with  
noticeable uplifts in the number of guests enjoying our food and beverage, retail and other units  
in the vicinity. 
As a further sign of the ‘Oblivion’ brand strength - an internally-generated IP - and our ability to 
capitalise on this through our resort positioning strategy, we also opened two new ‘Oblivion’  
themed rooms at the Gardaland Hotel. 
OBLIVION AT GARDALAND RESORT
31
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 MERLIN MAGIC MAKING
• Finds new business opportunities all over the planet.  
• Creates the highest class visitor attractions and  
 compelling propositions.
• Takes creative ideas and produces amazing content  
 for our attractions.
• Delivers them at market leading speed and value.
 FINDING  THE MAGIC
‘2016 IS SET TO BE EVEN BUSIER’
The Midway pipeline roll out was successfully delivered for  
2015, with seven businesses opened across three continents. 
2016 development is set to be even busier. We have already 
secured seven new Midways scheduled to open this year, with 
three in China, two in the USA and two in Europe, with our first 
adventure in India also underway as we target a 2017 opening 
for Madame Tussauds in New Delhi.
As we look to continue our growth in line with our strategy and 
to capitalise on our new relationship with China Media Capital, 
we have strengthened our Asia team. 
MERLIN MAGIC MAKING IS THE UNIQUE RESOURCE THAT SITS AT THE HEART 
OF EVERYTHING MERLIN DOES. THIS SPECIALIST IN-HOUSE TEAM EMPLOYS 
OVER 300 PEOPLE IN ITS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, CREATIVE, PRODUCTION 
AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAMS. MERLIN MAGIC MAKING CONSTANTLY 
RAISES THE BAR IN INNOVATIVE THINKING.
32 MERLIN Magic Making
 CREATING  THE MAGIC
Our Midway roll out continued apace in 2015, starting  
with SEA LIFE Michigan and followed by the cluster of three 
attractions in Orlando, two new LDC’s in Osaka and Istanbul  
and, last but not least, the amazing new ‘DreamWorks T ours - 
Shrek’s Adventure!’ in London.
Across our existing businesses, 2015 has been yet another huge 
success, led by a new dive-coaster, ‘Oblivion’, in Gardaland and  
two new ‘LEGO Friends’ lands in our LEGOLAND resorts.
Our creative and innovative pipeline looks even stronger as we 
look forward into 2016. We have some amazing projects near 
completion across the whole Group, including at THORPE PARK, 
Alton T owers, SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium and the LEGOLAND 
parks in California and Billund. 
‘WE HAVE PROACTIVELY TEAMED UP WITH 
SOME OF THE BIGGEST IP HOLDERS IN  
THE WORLD’
As Intellectual Property (IP) becomes even more prevalent 
across the whole industry, we continue to strengthen our 
portfolio, proactively teaming up with some of the biggest IP 
holders in the world to produce some ground breaking ‘magic’.
DreamWorks Animation, the BBC, Derren Brown, LEGO,  
Star Wars, and Horrible Histories are just the highlights  
of the stellar line up we have in 2016.
We will look even further into these relationships and drive 
new IP opportunities by proactively seeking out partners for 
true co-creation. The next generation of these partnerships 
can be seen with the new ‘Derren Brown Ghost Train’ 
experience at THORPE PARK (see page 35). 
Oh…and in our spare time we have a couple of ideas on our 
own IP front…watch this space!
‘OUR UNIQUE BLEND OF MATCHING 
TECHNOLOGIES OLD AND  
NEW T OGETHER’
Technology continues to feature heavily in our thinking, with  
our unique blend of technologies old and new, ensuring that  
we produce innovative, exciting and immersive experiences  
for our guests to enjoy. In 2016 we will see a fully integrated 
Virtual Reality roller coaster experience at Alton T owers,  
which will lead to a mesmerising visit to ‘outer space’, as well  
as ground breaking ride technology being introduced into  
our LEGOLAND parks.    
        In 2016 we will see a  
fully integrated Virtual Reality 
roller coaster experience at  
Alton Towers, which will lead  
to a mesmerising visit to  
‘outer space’
33
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 MERLIN Magic Making
 DELIVERING  THE MAGIC
During a breathtaking 2015 we have been working on over 50 
major projects, in eleven countries. These projects represent a 
total capital investment of nearly £240 million  - another record!
All of our Midway roll out businesses have started the build 
process and our existing estate projects are nearing completion 
for a great 2016.
Hotels development is in really good shape. In 2016 we will see 
the launch of a new 100 room hotel in Gardaland and a further 
‘Castle’ hotel launched at LEGOLAND Deutschland to 
complement the existing offering.
We have further strengthened our projects team with a number 
of key appointments in 2015, introducing more specialists to 
ensure we can continue to successfully deliver the magic.
Overall 2015 has been a real success, 2016 is beginning to shape 
up really well and we are looking forward to pushing ourselves  
to new heights in our delivery to our guests. 
 PRODUCING  THE MAGIC
T o support our innovative thinking we are ensuring that our 
technology stays at the forefront of our production processes. 
In wax production we have been using 3D printing technology  
to help us create ‘bodies’ for our figures and have used a variety 
of 3D mapping techniques to improve the quality and quicken 
the process of producing wax heads.
LEGO model demand continues to rise, with the opening of our 
new parks in Dubai and Japan, our expansion of the LEGOLAND 
Discovery Centre chain and the great new features we plan for 
our existing LEGOLANDs. T o meet this demand we are starting 
to implement our ‘hub strategy’, where we plan to have three 
main geographic production hubs (Asia, Europe, North America) 
over the next few years. This starts with our brand new Merlin 
Magic Making production hub in Florida that opens in the first 
quarter of 2016 and the expansion of our very successful hub  
in Malaysia.
Merlin Animal Welfare continues to be at the forefront of the 
care and wellbeing of the wonderful creatures in our care. We 
have new training programmes in place that are enhancing the 
skills of our animal care teams and we are working with a number 
of external conservation partners to make sure that we are 
leading the industry when it comes to the collection and display 
of animals. The team have been heavily involved in projects as 
diverse as banning the use of cyanide in the wild to creating 
sustainable animal collection methods.
        In 2016 we will see 
the launch of a new 100  
room hotel in Gardaland  
and a further ‘Castle’ hotel 
launched at LEGOLAND 
Deutschland
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
34 MERLIN Magic Making
What are
we doing?
We are co-creating a world’s first entertainment experience - with 
the well known Intellectual Property, Derren Brown. We have been 
able to marry the mind bending talents of Derren to that of the 
Merlin Magic Making creative team, to create a unique  
entertainment that has not been seen before.
What will the  
results be?
Well…that would be telling! If you want to have your ‘socks blown 
off’, see you at THORPE PARK in 2016.
How are we
doing it?
In the great Merlin Magic Making tradition, we are using a mix of 
innovative technology, standard show-based entertainment and  
new ride design, to create a visitor experience that will be absolutely 
unique, not just to the theme park market, but to any entertainment 
experience. Work on construction is completed and we are in  
the process of adding that special magic that will deliver a world  
class attraction.
DERREN­BR O WN’S­GHOS T­TRAIN­THORPE PARK
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
35 TEAM MERLIN
‘THE MERLIN WAY’ CAPTURES THE ESSENCE OF HOW TEAM MERLIN  
ARE ALIGNED WITH OUR ULTIMATE GOAL OF DELIVERING MEMORABLE 
EXPERIENCES TO OUR GUESTS. OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY UNDERPINS THIS 
GOAL, DRIVING OUR AMBITION TO BE THE BEST COMPANY TO WORK FOR 
IN OUR INDUSTRY; NURTURING OUR GLOBAL LEADERS; GIVING OUR  
TEAM THE SKILLS TO BE THE BEST AT WHAT THEY DO; AND REWARDING 
GREAT PERFORMANCE. OUR SUCCESS IS DEMONSTRATED BY THE 
OUTSTANDING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORES RETURNED BY  
OUR ANNUAL EMPLOYEE SURVEY .  
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 TEAM MERLIN
Employee­engagement
Merlin’s success rests with ‘Team Merlin’, our extraordinary 
people who have an absolute passion for what they do,  
delivering memorable experiences to our visitors.  
Or as we put it, living ‘The Merlin Way’.
The Merlin Way values capture the 
essence of Merlin. In short, ‘We LOVE 
what we do’, ‘We CARE’… and we do  
it all ‘FOR THE LOVE OF FUN’. These 
values are the reason why so many of  
our employees love working here to  
keep on giving our visitors the most 
magical, memorable experiences 
every day, everywhere.
Our People Strategy underpins how the Group meets its 
objectives, keeping our people engaged and focused on our 
customers. Wherever they work and whatever their role, our  
job is to make sure that our people feel that they’re working for 
the best - and certainly most magical - company in our sector. 
Most importantly though it is our shared vision of doing it all  
‘FOR THE LOVE OF FUN’!
    A war ds
  The Sunday Times ‘25 Best Big   
 Companies to Work For’ survey  
 has ranked us 15th for 2015 and  
 we’re in the top 25 again for 2016.  
 We’re really proud! The Job Crowd  
 also named us as one of the top  
 five companies for graduates in  
 our sector.
‘The Wizard Wants to Know’
During the summer, we ran ‘The Wizard Wants to Know’, our 
annual online employee survey. We invited everybody to tell us 
what they think and to make suggestions - it’s our chance to find 
out just how engaged our employees really are. We’re excited 
that our people, everywhere, completed the survey, and thrilled 
that again, 95% of our respondents said that they enjoy working 
here. We think these scores are truly awesome! 
Our employee engagement score is one of Merlin’s Key 
Performance Indicators, measuring whether our teams think  
we are a ‘Great Place to Perform’, a ‘Great Place for Customers’,  
and a ‘Great Place to Work’. This year we’re really proud  
that our engagement score has increased again and that it’s  
way above our 80% target. We continue to believe that  
‘The Merlin Way’ sits at the heart of these great results.
Other engagement initiatives
We continue to promote strong communications across all our 
offices and attractions. These include quarterly team briefs from 
the Executive team, attraction team briefs, newsletters and good, 
old-fashioned noticeboards. 
All our people can play a full part 
at Merlin through a number of 
schemes. These include: 
•  FOR THE LOVE OF FUN 
- this encourages everybody 
to embed their love of fun into 
the way we work, so that it’s at 
the heart of everything we do.
•  STAR - our online global 
recognition scheme where 
employees can send ‘Stars’ to 
recognise colleagues who live ‘The Merlin Way’, or just to say 
‘Thank Y ou’ for a job well done. In 2015, they sent more than 
100,000 ‘Stars’ worldwide - the most ever! 
•  Spark an Idea - another online service that lets our colleagues 
share their ideas, however big or small. For example, ‘Trading 
Ambassadors’ at one LEGOLAND resort now put LEGO 
Minifigures on their name badges to trade with visitors.  
Our visitors love it - and it boosts our Minifigure sales, too! 
•  The Merlin Way Film Competition - this gives our people the 
chance to make a short video demonstrating just how they 
make ‘The Merlin Way’ come to life. This year Madame 
Tussauds London beat more than 100 other entries  
from across the globe! 
<   The Merlin Way: our special potion of Merlin values that wins the 
hearts and minds of our employees to deliver memorably fun 
experiences to our guests.
37
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 TEAM MERLIN
Diversity
Our people are the single biggest reason for our success, so  
we’re always striving to make life at Merlin better for all of them. 
Diversity is a crucial part of this. We’ve designed our strategy to 
give us the best people for every role, regardless of gender, race, 
disability, sexual orientation, or any other factor. We want to  
make sure that, wherever possible, everyone has the same  
access to every opportunity. Y ou can read more about our 
disability work in our ‘Being a Force for Good’ section on page 54. 
In 2015 we continued our work to promote gender diversity, 
where our Women at Merlin (W@M) programme has been  
a great success. It helps us give women the support and 
opportunities they need to achieve their ambitions and  
develop into senior roles. We have now expanded the  
network by opening up some of our W@M workshops  
and webinars to women working at lower grades across  
the world. There are now 108 women making up 33% of  
our senior leadership teams, while 3,925 or 49% of our  
permanent colleagues are women.
Each of our Operating Groups has now set up Diversity 
Development Plans. These don’t just focus on achieving a  
gender balance, but on improving our diversity overall. T o  
support this, we’ve launched an ‘Unconscious Bias’ programme 
for our senior leaders globally. It trains them to recognise and 
avoid unconscious bias, so that Merlin remains an inclusive  
place to work, where every single employee can flourish.
Colleagues at Falls Creek on the slopes! 
Colleagues at LEGOLAND Billund making it FUN
T alent­and­development
Merlin’s future growth depends on recruiting and developing  
the Team Merlin of the future. We’re an entertainment company, 
dedicated to giving our guests unforgettable experiences, so we 
seek out people who have a genuine love of fun and a natural 
ability to inject magic into the lives of our guests whenever  
they visit one of our attractions. 
Once recruited, it’s our commitment to develop and promote 
people within Merlin by offering amazing careers. We carefully 
nurture their talents, providing them with training to do a great 
job and supporting their development to enable them to take full 
advantage of the fantastic opportunities available. We encourage 
employees to move across disciplines, brands, and countries to 
build their own unique careers like many hundreds of employees 
before them. Fundamentally we believe Merlin offers a world of 
opportunities; whatever they want from their next role, we  
strive to offer it in Merlin!
Recruitment
As Merlin grows each year, we need an 
ever greater variety of roles and skills 
and offer an increasingly wide range of 
opportunities. We have been working 
closely with our recruiters to give them 
the skills, knowledge and creativity they 
need to find and select candidates who 
have the right skills and attitudes for 
long and successful careers with us. 
Technology plays a key role in our hiring strategy and application 
process so we continue to put special emphasis on our social 
media activities and how we present our internal employer  
brand and values to the outside world. In developing markets,  
we continue to build relationships that will help us improve  
our campaigns there. 
‘Welcome to T eam Merlin’ - our new induction
In 2015 we launched our brand new induction, ‘Welcome to 
Team Merlin’. We’re now confident that, wherever in the world 
our new people join us, they have a clear, consistent and fun 
induction into our magical business. The induction has proved 
hugely successful globally, with some outstanding feedback. 
We also introduced our global ‘Senior Leader Induction’. This 
brings together our new leaders from around the world for an 
exciting five days. Sessions provide insights into the whole Merlin 
business, our Operating Groups, Merlin Magic Making and other 
key functions. 
The induction gives our new leaders a fabulous opportunity to 
network and a valuable chance to improve their understanding of 
our strategy, ‘The Merlin Way’, and their role as a Merlin leader in 
fulfilling our strategy and enhancing our culture.
38
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 And finally, at any time our teams can access Merlin’s School of 
Magic, our online training resource run with the renowned 
Ashridge Business School.
Compensation­and­benefits
When you rely on your people as much as we do, it’s essential  
to provide compensation and benefit programmes which are 
competitive and which support our business and culture.
Share plans
We continue to make great 
progress towards our goal  
of helping as many of our 
colleagues as possible to  
take an equity stake in Merlin. 
We call this ‘Owning a Piece  
of the Magic’ and it’s an 
important way of making  
Team Merlin even more 
committed to our success.
Early in the year we launched our second Employee Sharesave 
offer. It gives our permanent colleagues a chance to build up a 
holding of Merlin shares by saving over a three year period  
and buying shares at a discount. This opportunity was spread 
internally with a huge multi-media campaign, which included 
videos from our CEO, webinars, face to face briefings, intranet 
updates, posters and ‘table-top teasers’. We’re thrilled that,  
so far, almost 38% of our permanent colleagues worldwide  
have enrolled in the Sharesave plans.
We also made more than 400 share awards to colleagues at 
executive, senior and middle management levels under our  
long term incentive plans. 
Other benefits initiatives
We continue to harmonise our local benefit structures  
one country at a time and run a number of programmes to  
support our teams. For example, we’ve increased our focus on 
pensions (particularly in the UK), to reflect the age profile of  
our employees and ensure we apply latest legislation. We’ve  
also extended our employee healthcheck programme to  
support the physical wellbeing of our people. 
We’ve seen a big jump in the number of colleagues moving  
to new countries to support our business growth, and things  
haven’t slowed down this year! These moves have directly 
supported our Midway and LEGOLAND attractions as they  
step up their development. Our international mobility 
programme is invaluable in helping us move our greatest  
assets safely, securely and comfortably. 
TEAM MERLIN
Training
Whether customer facing, in a management role or a support 
function at any of our attractions, or in a position at one of our 
corporate offices, our goal is to allow everyone to have the right 
skills to be the best at what they do and fulfil their potential in 
their career with Merlin. A key component of this is the wealth  
of training we provide. Aside from the initial induction, there are 
opportunities specific to an individual’s role and an abundance  
of specialist training to further enhance their careers. 
Accelerate
Accelerate is our fast track graduate programme which provides 
tailored roles for Marketing and General Management positions 
and is structured to support individuals at every step of their 
Merlin career. This was demonstrated in 2015 when all of our 
2013 intake moved into permanent roles and a number of 
Accelerate alumni were promoted into senior positions across 
the Group. Reflecting our global scale, the 2015 intake included 
super-talented recruits from across the UK, North America, 
Germany, China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea and Australia. 
Leadership development programmes
We’ve got lots of other brilliant leadership development 
programmes, including partnering with the IMD Business School 
in Switzerland to provide our senior executives with exceptional 
leadership development. Our flagship ‘XCalibre’ programme, 
which we run with Kingston University is for leaders with bags  
of potential. There’s the ‘Merlin Leadership Programme’, which 
we run globally, as well as our ‘Bootcamps’ - development centres 
specifically for our General Management, Finance and HR team 
members. Bootcamps combine personal development and 
competency assessment to help us identify and nurture the  
talent already working here.
Merlin employee exchange programme
Originally launched in the UK, the Merlin Employee Exchange 
Programme is now a global success story. Through job swaps  
or placements, the programme gives our people the chance to 
work in other attractions around the world. Linked to individual 
employees’ Personal Development Plans and Merlin’s succession 
planning strategy, this programme lets those involved develop 
new skills, forge new relationships and benefit from new 
experiences, all of which help prepare them for the next step  
in their career. Nearly 60 placements took place in 2015. 
39
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 RISKS
and uncertainties
MERLIN CONTINUES TO EXERCISE A PROACTIVE APPROACH TO THE 
MANAGEMENT OF POTENTIAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD 
AFFECT THE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY OF GUESTS, STAFF OR OUR 
ANIMALS OR HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP’S BUSINESS 
PERFORMANCE, DELIVERY OF ITS STRATEGY OR THE INTEGRITY OF ITS 
FINANCIAL REPORTING. IT IS AN INTEGRATED ‘BOTTOM UP’ AND ‘TOP DOWN’ 
APPROACH, WITH BUSINESS RISKS IDENTIFIED, EVALUATED, CONTROLLED AND 
MONITORED BY BOTH OUR ATTRACTION AND CORPORATE MANAGEMENT 
TEAMS, AND OVERSEEN BY THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES. EMPHASIS IS 
PLACED ON IDENTIFYING NEW RISKS THAT MAY AFFECT MERLIN IN THE FUTURE.
In September 2014, new or revised obligations were introduced by 
the Financial Reporting Council in connection with the assessment 
of risk management and internal controls by the Board. The most 
notable of the changes were those that related to:
•  The ongoing monitoring, review, assessment and reporting  
of risk management and internal control effectiveness; and
•  The statement required from the Directors that they have  
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation over a specified assessment  
period (the Viability Statement).
Merlin’s strategic business planning and risk management 
processes had historically gone some way to meeting these 
objectives and were extended in 2015 to meet the  
obligations fully.
Overview­of­Merlin ’ s­appr oach­to­risk­management­
Merlin separates risk and the management thereof into three 
components. The Board retains overall responsibility for these 
components, appointing specific Committees to oversee the 
management of the risks in each category as follows:
•  Health, safety and security risk - overseen by the Health, Safety 
and Security (HSS) Committee which comprises both Board 
members and senior management representatives. Our HSS 
Committee report on pages 66 to 69 provides more details 
of our approach to HSS governance, management  
and assurance.
•  Commercial and strategic risk - overseen by the Group’s 
Executive Committee (a non-Board committee), the 
Commercial and Strategic Risk Management Committee 
(CSRMC) comprises members of the Executive Committee 
and is chaired by the CFO (a full Board member) with minutes 
of the quarterly meetings provided to the Non-executive 
Board members and a verbal update to the Board provided by 
the Chairman. Annually, a detailed report of the discussions  
and output of the Committee is provided to the Board.
•  Financial process risk - overseen by the Audit Committee 
which comprises Non-executive members of the Board.
 Merlin continues to 
exercise a proactive approach 
to the management of 
potential risks and 
uncertainties
40
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 RISKS and uncertainties
Risk appetite
In fulfilling the Group’s strategy, proportionate and considered 
commercial risks are taken to maximise profitable growth and 
sustainable returns for its investors. The amount of risk the Group 
is willing to take to achieve such commercial success must never 
compromise the health, safety and security of guests, employees, 
contractors, animals or other visitors and be aligned with the 
Group’s policies on sustainability and the environment. 
T o ensure there is effective governance, monitoring and 
measurement of the Group’s appetite for risk, both quantitative 
and qualitative measures are used. Quantitative measures include 
defined financial and non-financial targets, whereas, qualitative 
measures consider items such as reputational impact, 
management effort or compliance with law and regulation.
In assessing the significant risks the Group faces, the risk appetite 
parameters set by the Board fall into two distinct categories:
•  Compliance risk - this covers the requirement to comply with 
legislative or regulatory requirements in all territories where 
the Group operates. It includes, but is not limited to, ride 
safety, accounting practices or fraud and bribery, as well as 
ensuring compliance with the Group’s values and ethical 
principles. In these circumstances the Board is risk averse and 
does not countenance any breaches in compliance obligations.
•  Commercial risk - this covers the willing acceptance of a risk 
to earn a commercial reward. The Group manages this type  
of risk by employing an appropriate analysis of threats and 
opportunities and structured review processes, independent 
expert opinions and decision-making authority levels. Factors 
such as the scale of possible commercial upside, the potential 
market size, the quantum of downside risk and timescales 
involved may all be relevant to commercial risk decisions.
Risk management
Each attraction and central function maintains a risk register, being 
a record of the material risks it faces categorised into the three 
components of risk identified above. The registers include a rating 
of each risk, based on an assessment of likelihood and impact 
after taking into account existing mitigating control measures 
including front end processes, management oversight and 
independent review. Where this assessment indicates a  
high residual risk, additional actions are considered to further  
mitigate the risk. Risk registers provide the basis for ongoing risk 
management and all are formally reviewed at least once a year. 
This review feeds into the annual strategic business planning cycle.
In addition to the ongoing risk management processes, periodic 
detailed reviews of specific risk issues are also undertaken.  
This review process, together with structured audit programmes 
covering both financial processes and health, safety and security 
controls across the Group, allow the Board to gain assurance 
over the robustness of risk management systems.
Health,­safety­and­security­(HSS)­risk
We are continually working to identify and implement new  
safety improvements and reduce risks. Our goal is to provide and 
maintain the highest practical health, safety and security standards 
across Merlin’s portfolio. We operate a positive and proactive 
safety culture with an approach that complies with legislation, 
meets or exceeds industry standards and above all safeguards  
our guests, employees, visitors and contractors within our care. 
Merlin’s Health, Safety and Environmental Management System 
provides a systematic approach that combines appropriate 
organisational structure, management commitment, planning, 
policies, processes, monitoring, incident reporting, auditing, 
reviewing, effective communications, and software that  
effectively controls risk and delivers proactive maintenance 
procedures plus robust systems of work. 
Managers at every level are responsible for HSS matters, 
supported by functional HSS specialists who provide advice and 
help with all aspects of risk. Merlin’s managers are integral to the 
effective planning, organisation, control, monitoring and review  
of preventative and protective measures.
Commer cial­and­strategic­risk
The management of commercial and strategic risk is embedded 
across the Group through a regular cycle of strategic and 
operational reviews completed at attraction, regional and 
divisional levels. Each attraction and central function is required  
to perform a full risk assessment workshop on an annual basis.  
The purpose of this process is to review any material changes  
in the external commercial landscape and to assess whether 
recent trading trends may require an alternative risk management 
approach. These annual assessments are incorporated into the 
commercial and strategic section of the risk register for each 
Operating Group and are aggregated at Group level.
 
During the year the CSRMC participated in an externally facilitated 
workshop to consider whether any new or emerging industry or 
macro risks ought to be added as key focus areas in 2016. Risks 
that were added as a result of this process include the fast  
changing technological developments the industry is undergoing.
The CSRMC also has oversight responsibility for the treatment  
of animals in our care. T o ensure that we meet the high standards 
our stakeholders expect, the Group has a team dedicated to 
animal welfare and development. This team of subject matter 
experts is responsible for ensuring that the Group behaves in  
an ethical way in the sourcing, transportation, care and display of 
animals. The team works across the globe with regulatory bodies, 
vets and conservationists to develop programmes that support 
breeding rather than collection from the wild, delivering high 
quality educational content and identifying improvements in  
the already high standards we set for animal care.
41
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 RISKS and uncertainties
Financial­pr ocess­risk
Financial processes within the Group are led and co-ordinated  
by the central finance function. T o manage financial process risks 
we continually assess external regulatory changes, the quality and 
timeliness of internal financial reporting and other financial risk 
areas such as taxation and treasury. Key issues are reviewed on  
a quarterly basis by a senior finance team within Merlin and 
reported to the Audit Committee.
Further assurance is gained from both the internal and external 
audit processes. In 2015 the internal audit function, based on an 
annual assessment of risk, provided audit coverage of material 
central functions and attractions representing approximately  
60% of attraction generated revenue, as well as central revenue 
generating functions, such as e-commerce and call centres. These 
activities seek to identify procedural weaknesses and provide a 
structure to assess and report on management’s response. The 
Group is also subject to external audit. Matters arising from  
both audit functions are reported to the Audit Committee.
Business­continuity­planning
The Group has in place disaster recovery plans incorporating 
escalation procedures and crisis management protocols. They  
are regularly updated.
More broadly, business continuity plans exist to allow attractions 
to recover performance in the event of various adverse incidents. 
Examples of such incidents could include prolonged power failure, 
major IT failure or life support system failure within a SEA LIFE 
attraction. It is recognised that only limited contingency planning 
can be made against natural disasters such as major flooding or 
earthquakes, however the Group’s geographic diversity provides 
protection against the financial impact of such occurrences.
The Group has performed a review of these business continuity 
processes following the accident at Alton T owers in line with its 
standard response protocols. Findings from this review will be 
implemented in 2016. 
Principal­risks­
The tables on the following pages highlight the main risks that 
have been identified through the Group’s risk assessment 
processes and that have the potential to impact on the  
strategic development of the Group.
The risk committees consider both gross and net risk, where 
gross risk reflects the risk exposure and risk landscape before 
considering the mitigations in place, and net risk reflects the 
residual risk after mitigations. The gross risk movement from  
prior year for each principal risk and uncertainty has been 
assessed and is presented as follows:
Stable   No change in gross risk exposure
Increasing  Increased gross risk exposure
Reduced    Reduced gross risk exposure
Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to  
a net risk position are also described for each principal risk  
and uncertainty.
Viability­Statement­
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability 
of the Group over a four year period, taking into account the 
Group’s current position and the potential impact of the principal 
risks documented on pages 43 to 45. Based on this assessment, 
the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period until December 2019. 
The Group’s strategic planning process occurs annually on a 
rolling basis, in the middle of the year, covering the current  
year plus four further years. Accordingly the Directors have 
determined that a four year period to December 2019 is an 
appropriate period over which to provide its Viability Statement.
The strategic plan considers all elements of the Group’s growth 
strategy. It focuses on capital investment in the existing estate, 
where the review period matches or is in excess of the pre-
determined capital investment cycles; new business development 
including the roll out of Midway attractions and the development 
of committed new LEGOLAND parks; and the expansion of  
our accommodation portfolio. The Group also considers strategic 
acquisition opportunities and other uncommitted potential major 
capital projects within the plan period to assess the availability  
of appropriate funding.
The Board also carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 
growth drivers, future performance, solvency or liquidity as well  
as the Group’s approach to risk management as set out in this 
Strategic Report. The outputs from these reviews are then  
used to perform liquidity and debt covenant headroom analysis, 
including the downside sensitivity review based on principal risks.
While the review has considered all the principal risks identified 
by the Group, severe but plausible events were focused on for 
enhanced stress testing. The results take into account the controls 
implemented by the Group as well as the availability and likely 
effectiveness of specific mitigating actions that could be taken to 
avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the identified 
underlying risks. The diversification of the Group’s attractions 
helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption for many 
of its principal risks, for example extreme weather conditions or 
changing economic and political environments. Also, our ability to 
flex the cost base and the ability to rephase or delay capital 
investment protects our viability in the face of macro events  
or uncertainty not in the Group’s control.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
42 RISKS and uncertainties
Description
Gr oss 
risk­tr end Mitigating­factors
Health,­safety­and­security­(HSS)
Ride and 
attractions 
safety
Health and safety is one of Merlin’s  
Key Performance Indicators.
A serious accident to a guest or staff member  
on a ride or at an attraction could cause harm  
to an individual and impact confidence in the 
Group’s brands. 
Stable •   Proactive ownership of HSS risks by line management 
based on the provision and adoption of HSS policies, 
Codes of Practice and guidance notes.
•   Competent and trained operational and engineering  
staff, backed up by professional HSS teams supporting, 
monitoring and inspecting attractions.
•   Utilisation of HSS systems to support the management  
of risks with annual risk register and action planning 
processes by each attraction.
•   Regular internal and annual independent external  
auditing regimes.
•   Regular review of performance as well as key policies  
and procedures.
Contractor 
management
The delivery of new attractions and experiences 
often involve work by sub-contractors. Poor 
workmanship or unreliable delivery could impact 
the Group’s safety and growth expectations.
Stable •  Contractor selection and approval procedures.
•   Major contracts are managed by qualified project 
managers and are subject to strict tendering processes.
•   Contractor performance is monitored by in-house 
project management teams.
T errorism A terrorist attack on, or sabotage of, a ride or 
attraction could cause harm to one or more 
individuals, as well as impacting guest confidence. 
A terrorist attack on a city in which the Group 
operates could impact on people’s confidence  
to visit that city.
Increasing •  Detailed security protocols.
•  Regularly tested major incident management plans. 
•  Co-operation with local and national security forces.
•  Availability of appropriate insurance cover.
Pandemic A material macro event such as the spread of a 
worldwide pandemic could impact visitation in 
one or more of the Group’s geographies.
Increasing •  Regularly tested major incident management plans.
Infrastructure 
safety
The failure of one of the Group’s buildings or 
other structural elements, through fire, flood, 
power failure, substandard build quality or 
degradation, could cause harm to an individual  
or animal. This could lead to an adverse impact 
on the public’s confidence in the Group’s brands.
Stable •  External independent review processes.
•   Competent and trained operational and engineering staff, 
monitoring and inspecting facilities in accordance with a 
planned maintenance and inspection regime.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
43 Description
Gr oss­ 
risk­tr end Mitigating­factors
Commer cial­and­strategic
Customer 
satisfaction
Customer satisfaction is one of Merlin’s 
Key Performance Indicators.
A downturn in customer enjoyment of our 
attractions could impact repeat visitation. 
Similarly subsequent adverse social media 
feedback could adversely affect customer 
likelihood to visit.
Stable •   Regular and detailed customer feedback collected at every 
location. Data analysed against challenging satisfaction 
targets and actions taken accordingly.
•   Ongoing investment in our attractions continually 
refreshes the experiences for customers. 
•   Monitoring public and social media for concerns in order 
to take any requisite action.
People 
availability and 
expertise
Staff engagement is one of Merlin’s  
Key Performance Indicators. 
Merlin is a people business. The increasing cost of 
attracting and retaining motivated, customer 
service orientated staff could impact guest 
satisfaction and future expansion.
Increasing •  Personal development plans in place at all levels of the   
   business to encourage long term employment stability.
•  Succession planning processes embedded across the 
   Group and proactively managed. 
•   Annual employee survey to monitor employee 
engagement and to identify opportunities to develop  
HR policies and processes.
Foreign 
exchange rates 
impacting 
international 
tourism
Changes in exchange rates can have a positive or 
adverse impact on inbound tourism. If exchange 
rates work against a country in which the Group 
generates a high proportion of its revenue this 
can adversely impact visitation.
Stable •    Increased hedging as a result of further diversification of 
the Group’s operations globally.
•    Ability to proportionally upweight marketing activity 
towards either domestic or international audiences 
depending on tourism trends.
Animal welfare Growth would be impacted if animals were lost 
to disease or other welfare issues.
Stable •  External Zoo Licence audits ensure appropriate  
   animal care.
•  Internal ethics committee and the Merlin Animal Welfare  
   and Development team ensure the ethical treatment of 
   animals in our care.
Availability and 
delivery of new 
sites and 
attractions
The Midway and LEGOLAND parks growth 
strategy is predicated on the availability of 
suitable sites. A decline in the pipeline of  
suitable and economically viable sites could  
inhibit this growth.
Planning permission is often required for  
new rides and attractions so growth could  
be impacted if planning permission could  
not be obtained.
Stable •   Experienced site search and business development teams, 
working several years in advance to maintain a strong 
pipeline of expansion opportunities.
•   Sites regularly update their development masterplans and 
teams work closely on fostering links with local 
communities and planning authorities.
•   The introduction of a dedicated New Openings team in 
2015 expands the Group’s resources to support its roll 
out strategy.
Competition Competition for leisure time and new entrants to 
the market could reduce opportunities for growth.
Stable •  Diversification to reduce reliance on individual  
   attractions or locations.
•  Ongoing investment in sites to ensure continued  
   appeal to visitors.
IT robustness, 
technological 
developments 
and cyber 
security
The Group has grown in the past both organically 
and through acquisition and as a consequence has 
varied IT systems across its portfolio.
Such systems and associated technical 
developments necessary to meet consumer 
expectations are integral to the success of the 
Group’s operations and financial reporting integrity.
The Group remains conscious of the increasing 
threat of cybercrime and speed by which new 
technology can act as a business interrupter.
Increasing •   IT strategy focused on ensuring the long term stability of 
operating systems and data security, whilst keeping pace 
with the changing face of consumer IT expectations.
•   Increasing resilience of the Group’s IT stability and security 
through an expanded use of secured hosting partners and 
penetration testing regimes. 
•   Further measures put in place to mitigate the increasing 
threat of cyber security risk.
Weather / 
seasonality
Individual attraction performance can be  
affected by particularly adverse weather at  
key trading periods.
Stable •   Increased hedging as the proportion of revenue generated 
from Asia Pacific and North America regions increases.
•  Healthy mix of indoor and outdoor attractions.
•  Strategy to drive an increased percentage of 
   pre-booked business.
RISKS and uncertainties
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
44 Description
Gr oss­ 
risk­tr end Mitigating­factors
Financial­pr ocess
Anti-bribery and 
corruption
An incident of bribery or corruption could lead 
to prosecution and fines and could cause 
reputational damage to the Company.
Merlin’s business model is lower risk relative to 
other industries as the majority of transactions 
are of low value and to individual customers.
Merlin has a well embedded culture across the 
Group in which fraud and bribery at any level  
are not tolerated. Merlin does however operate 
globally and increasingly within territories with  
a historically higher propensity to bribery  
and corruption.
Stable •   Global fraud and bribery training programme in place 
alongside a fraud policy sign off for all staff.
•   Robust financial and contractual controls with regard to 
procurement activities. Internal audit monitors purchasing 
processes on a rotational basis. 
•   A separate profit protection team monitors for theft or 
other criminal activity across the Group and ensures best 
practice for protection is shared between sites.
•   A whistleblowing policy is in place together with an 
independently operated employee hotline.
Liquidity /  
Cash flow risk
Many of Merlin’s businesses are seasonal in 
nature, generating cash in peak trading periods 
and utilising cash out of season, when capital 
investments are undertaken and fixed costs 
continue to be incurred.
Merlin’s growth plans include both the roll out  
of existing Midway and LEGOLAND brands, as 
well as strategic acquisitions when appropriate 
opportunities present themselves. The Group 
needs to have sufficient cash to fund  
these activities. 
Lack of liquidity and changes to the global credit 
market could impact the Group’s long term 
ability to meet current growth targets.
Reducing •   The Group has a £300 million multi-currency revolving 
credit facility to assist with seasonal cash flow 
requirements as necessary.
•   Short term cash flow forecasts are updated frequently in 
order to ensure liquidity for business operations on an 
ongoing basis.
•   Forecasts cover at least four years and are reviewed 
regularly to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists 
and to meet the covenant tests set out in the Group’s 
banking facilities. 
•   Merlin maintains strong relationships with a number of 
lenders and keeps the debt markets under review in 
order to ensure that funding is obtained at the right time 
and at the right price to ensure the availability of funds  
to meet its strategic growth plans.
•   The continued expansion of the Group outside of 
Northern Europe reduces the exposure to any one  
peak trading period.
Interest  
rate risk
In addition to equity, Merlin continues to finance 
its operations through cash flow and long term 
debt. As a significant amount of the debt is at  
floating rates it is exposed to interest rate 
fluctuations which could impact on  
financial performance.
Stable •   Interest rate swap arrangements in place to fix the 
majority of the debt, all of which are hedge accounted.
Foreign 
exchange 
translation risk
Merlin generates its main profits in Sterling,  
Euros and US Dollars and has long term debt in 
these currencies.
Merlin reports its results in Sterling and is 
therefore subject to translation risk from 
exchange rate fluctuations when reporting its 
consolidated results.
Increasing •   The Group presents constant currency figures where 
appropriate to show the underlying results of the  
Group excluding the impact of foreign exchange  
rate translation differences.
•   Treasury policies in place and reviewed annually  
with regular reviews of currency exposures.
•   Broad match of borrowings in the currencies  
of underlying profits. 
•   Currency exposures hedged where appropriate.
Credit risk Merlin has limited credit risk with its customers, 
the vast majority of whom pay in advance or at 
the time of their visit. 
Merlin has relationships with a number of banks 
and is therefore inherently exposed to some 
credit risk.
Stable •   Counterparty credit ratings are regularly monitored and  
there is no significant concentration of credit risk with 
any single counterparty.
RISKS and uncertainties
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
45 GROUP
Financial Review
Andr ew­Carr
Chief Financial Officer
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 GROUP Financial Review
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Gr owth 
£m
Change­at 
actual­rate­%
Change ­ at­
constant ­ rate ­ %
Revenue 1,278 1,249 29 2.3% 3.9%
EBITDA 
(1)
402 411 (9) (2.1)% (1.1)%
Operating profit 
(1), (2)
291 311 (20) (6.2)% (5.6)%
Net finance costs 
(1)
(41) (62) 21 32.6%
Profit before tax
 (1)
250 249 1 0.3%
Taxation 
(1)
(70) (70) - -
Profit for the year 
(1)
180 179 1 0.4%
Post-tax exceptional items (10) (17) 7 43.2%
Leverage on net debt to underlying EBITDA 2.3x 2.3x
Table notes:
(1)
  References to EBITDA, net finance costs, taxation and all other profit measures in the table above and the following commentary are stated on an underlying basis, before exceptional items 
unless otherwise stated. Further details are provided of exceptional items on page 118.
(2)
   Operating profit is defined as EBITDA less depreciation and amortisation.
  Details of the Group’s accounting policies are contained within the financial statements on pages 108 to 161 and those areas requiring significant judgement in the preparation of the financial 
statements are summarised on page 114.
 Further information regarding the Group’s segmental analysis; geographical revenues and assets; and certain operating costs are provided in note 2.1 to the financial statements on pages 115 to 117.
T rading­performance­
Despite the challenging trading conditions experienced in 2015, 
Merlin has delivered a robust set of financial results. Underlying 
profit before tax of £250 million was in line with 2014, and with 
£325 million of operating cash flow, the business remains highly 
cash generative. We continue to invest for the long term - in  
both our existing and new attractions.
T otal revenue grew by 3.9% in 2015 on a constant currency  
basis, reflecting our like for like businesses combined with the 
contribution of new Midway attractions and accommodation.  
Like for like revenue grew by 0.4%, with strong growth in the 
LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group offset by challenging trading 
in Resort Theme Parks (RTP). Movements in foreign exchange 
rates reduced the reported results however, resulting in revenue 
growth of 2.3% to £1,278 million. Further detail on the impact  
of foreign exchange movements is provided on the next page.
Visitor numbers grew by 0.3% during the year, reflecting the 
continued strong performance in LEGOLAND off the back of a 
record year in 2014 and the benefit of new attractions, offset by  
a sharp decline in RTP and a lower Midway Attractions like for  
like performance. 
Revenue per capita (RPC) was £18.31, in line with the prior  
year (2014: £18.15). This was driven by general underlying  
price increases and mix improvements, with proportionally  
higher visitation in the LEGOLAND parks which bring higher 
average spend levels. This was offset by adverse net foreign 
exchange translation impacts. Our focus continues to be on 
revenue maximisation rather than specific volume or RPC targets.
Reported EBITDA fell by £9 million, or 2.1%, to £402 million. 
EBITDA declined by 4.3% on a like for like basis and by  
1.1% including the contribution of new attractions and  
accommodation, on a constant currency basis. 
Merlin’s operating model is such that increased revenues at 
existing attractions should flow through to operating profit less 
incremental expenditure on a number of variable costs, such as 
direct cost of sales, incremental labour costs and variable rents.  
Similarly, if an attraction experiences significant unplanned 
reductions in revenue, some costs may be variable but a 
proportion of costs will be relatively fixed. Operating margins  
are also impacted by the mix of revenues across attractions, 
including the impact of foreign exchange translation, as well as  
the nature of additional revenues generated by each site.
In 2015, EBITDA margins fell by 1.4% to 31.5%, as a result of the 
lower like for like revenue growth, the significant decline in RTP 
revenue and a cost base that can only be flexed to a limited 
degree in the short term. Additionally, the dilutive impact of new 
openings has further dampened the Group margin. A number of 
one-off central cost savings were made during the year, including 
savings in variable remuneration. This resulted in a reduction in 
central costs of 12.7%, excluding the effect of the change in 
allocation of costs to the three Operating Groups  
(see page 50 for more details).
Operating profit declined by £20 million, or 6.2%. This reflected 
both the decline in EBITDA and an increase in the depreciation 
and amortisation charge from £100 million to £111 million, 
reflecting our continued capital investment across the estate. 
47
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 GROUP Financial Review
Finance­costs
Net underlying finance costs reduced by £21 million to
£41 million (2014: £62 million). In March 2015 the Group 
completed a refinancing of its core debt facilities which provided 
further flexibility for the Group and significantly reduced the  
cost of debt finance (see note 2.3 to the financial statements).  
More details on the refinancing are set out on the next page.
Underlying­pr ofit­befor e­tax
Underlying profit before tax of £250 million was in line with the 
prior year. This was consistent with the revised expectations we 
announced for the year on 27 July 2015 in the light of challenging 
trading conditions following the accident at Alton T owers.  
T axation
An underlying tax charge of £70 million is equivalent to an 
effective tax rate of 27.9% (2014: 28.0%) of underlying profit 
before tax. The difference between the reported effective  
tax rate and the UK standard weighted tax rate of 20.3% is  
mainly due to the different tax rates that apply in the various 
jurisdictions we operate in around the world. Further detail  
is provided in note 2.4 to the financial statements.
Exceptional­items
There were no exceptional costs impacting EBITDA or  
operating profit in 2015 or 2014.
Exceptional finance costs of £13 million were incurred in the 
period. The Group restructured its interest rate swaps as part of 
a wider refinancing of the debt facilities and as a result recycled 
£14 million through the income statement that had previously 
been hedge accounted through equity. This was then offset  
by foreign exchange gains of £1 million, also as part of the 
refinancing. Tax on exceptional items amounted to a credit  
of £3 million (2014: credit of £6 million).
For eign­exchange­rate­sensitivity
Merlin is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange 
rates principally on the translation of the results of our overseas 
operations. The table below shows the impact on 2014 revenues 
of re-translating them at 2015 foreign exchange (FX) rates. 
Operating profits would be similarly impacted.
Earnings­per­shar e­(EPS)
Basic earnings per share was 16.8p (2014: 16.0p).
Adjusted earnings per share, which excludes the impact of 
exceptional items, was 17.8p (2014: 17.7p). 
Reconciliation between basic and adjusted earnings
Dividend
The Company has adopted a progressive dividend policy with a 
target range of payout of 35-40% of underlying profit after tax,  
so as to maintain an appropriate level of dividend cover whilst 
retaining sufficient capital in the Group to fund continued 
investment across our six strategic growth drivers.
In September 2015 we paid an interim dividend of 2.1 pence  
per share and the Board is recommending a final dividend of  
4.4 pence per share. This equates to a full year dividend of  
6.5 pence per share.
When making proposals for the payment of dividends, the 
Directors consider the resources available to the Company  
and its subsidiaries. Specifically they have taken account of  
the Company’s significant distributable profits, as well as  
the liquidity of the Group.
Curr ency
2014 
average 
FX­rates
2015 
average 
FX­rates
%age­
movement­
in ­ FX ­ rates
R evenue­
impact­£m
USD 1.66 1.54 7.4% 22
EUR 1.24 1.39 (11.5)% (26)
AUD 1.82 2.04 (11.9)% (9)
Other (6)
R eduction­in­2014­r evenues­at­2015­FX­rates (19)
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit attributable to shareholders 170 162
Exceptional items after tax 10 17
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 180 179
Weighted average number of shares 
(million)
1,014 1,014
Basic earnings per share 16.8p 16.0p
Adjusted earnings per share 17.8p 17.7p
 Merlin’s refinancing 
provided further flexibility for 
the Group and significantly 
reduced the cost of  
debt finance
48
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 GROUP Financial Review
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,007 1,136
Less: cash and cash equivalents (152) (285)
855 851
Finance leases 82 84
Net debt 937 935
Leverage on net debt to  
underlying EBITDA
2.3x 2.3x
2015
£m
2014
£m
EBITD A 402 411
Working capital and other movements (18) -
Tax paid (59) (54)
Net­cash­inflow­fr om­operating­activities 325 357
Capital expenditure (215) (192)
Other investing activities (5) (3)
Interest paid, net of interest received (41) (56)
Dividends paid (64) (20)
Net­cash­inflow­befor e­r efinancing­ 
and­r epayment­of­borr owings
- 86
Refinancing and repayment of borrowings (137) (70)
Net­cash­(outflow)/inflow­for­the­year (137) 16
Merlin continues to be highly cash generative, with a net 
operating cash flow after tax of £325 million (2014: £357 million). 
This reflects EBITDA less £18 million of working capital and other 
outflows, primarily relating to the payment of 2014 performance 
related bonuses, together with tax payments in the year of  
£59 million.
Capital expenditure of £215 million was incurred, comprising 
£125 million on the existing estate and £90 million on new 
attractions and accommodation.
Consistent with Merlin’s strategy, our capital investment 
programme creates new rides, themed areas or features for  
the existing businesses, following the specific investment cycles 
laid down for each Operating Group. 
In addition to the £125 million invested in the existing estate, we 
have invested £40 million in new accommodation offerings across 
our theme park resorts, including the ‘Enchanted Village’ lodges  
at Alton T owers and the new LEGOLAND Florida Hotel. The 
Group invested £44 million opening new Midway attractions. 
Seven new attractions were opened in 2015 and we plan to 
open a further seven in 2016.
Capital expenditure of £6 million was incurred in respect of the 
new LEGOLAND parks currently under development in Japan 
and South Korea. 
All major capital projects are appraised both operationally and 
financially and Merlin sets clear project return targets to assist in 
assessing their viability and to ensure appropriate prioritisation.
Cash­flow Other investing activities of £5 million reflected an increased 
investment in LEGOLAND Malaysia. 
Refinancing and repayments of borrowings totalled £137 million. 
Surplus cash reserves were used to make a net repayment of 
£110 million of term debt as part of the refinancing (set out 
below). Payments of £27 million were made in respect of the 
refinancing and restructuring of the related interest rate swaps.
Net interest paid of £41 million (2014: £56 million) has reduced 
reflecting lower finance costs following the refinancing in  
March 2015.
Dividends paid in the year of £64 million comprise the final 
dividend for 2014 of £43 million together with the interim 
dividend for 2015 of £21 million (2014: £20 million).
Net­debt
Further detail is provided in note 4.1 to the financial statements. 
Leverage on net debt at the year end equates to 2.3x underlying 
EBITDA (2014: 2.3x), reflecting broadly similar levels of both 
EBITDA and net debt for each reporting period.
Loan­facilities­
In March 2015 Merlin completed a refinancing of its core  
debt facilities. The new committed facilities are: 
•  Bank facilities from twelve relationship banks in the form of 
£648 million of floating rate term debt in a combination of  
US Dollars, Euro and Sterling to mature in March 2020.
•  A £300 million multi-currency revolving credit facility from  
the same twelve banks.
•  The Group’s inaugural bond in the form of €500 million  
(£367 million) seven year notes with a coupon rate of  
2.75% to mature in March 2022.
In connection with the refinancing, fixed charges over shares in 
certain Group companies and certain intra-Group receivables 
were released. The new facilities are senior and unsecured. This 
transition to unsecured facilities reflects the re-positioning of the 
Merlin credit profile as one more expected of a listed business. 
49
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 GROUP Financial Review
These landmark transactions confirmed investors’ confidence  
in the Group’s strategy, allowing Merlin to diversify sources of 
finance in line with its business plan, while benefiting from long 
term resources at an attractive cost.
In addition to the term debt a new multi-currency revolving 
facility of £300 million (2014: £150 million) was made available. 
This facility, in conjunction with the Group’s cash balance of  
£152 million (2014: £285 million), is available to finance working 
capital requirements and capital investment. At 26 December 
2015 all of these facilities remained available and £nil had been 
drawn down from the revolving facility (2014: £nil). 
Merlin is required to comply with certain financial and non-
financial covenants in the bank facilities, including a requirement 
to maintain certain ratios of EBITDA to both net finance costs 
and net debt. We are also required to comply with certain 
non-financial covenants in the €500 million notes. All covenant 
requirements were satisfied throughout the year. 
Further detail is provided in note 4.2 to the financial statements.
Net­assets­
Net assets increased by £86 million from £1,063 million in  
2014 to £1,149 million in 2015.
The consolidated statement of financial position on page 110 
shows an increase in property, plant and equipment of  
£85 million from £1,410 million to £1,495 million, primarily 
reflecting the capital additions referred to previously offset by 
depreciation charges, together with the retranslation of those 
assets at different foreign exchange rates. Foreign exchange 
translation differences account for the majority of the reported 
reduction in intangible assets from £942 million to £923 million. 
Working capital movements of £11 million related to the 
payment of 2014 performance related remuneration and other 
timing differences. Further detail is provided in note 3.4 to the 
financial statements. Net debt has remained broadly flat. The net 
pensions liability also remained flat at £5 million (2014: £5 million). 
The £170 million profit for the year was reduced by amounts 
totalling £24 million within other comprehensive income. This 
primarily reflected exchange losses arising on the retranslation  
of net assets denominated in foreign currencies offset by the 
recycling of interest rate swaps referred to previously. In  
addition we paid dividends of £64 million.
Further detail is provided in the notes to the financial  
statements on pages 113 to 154.
R eturn­on­capital­employed­(R OCE)
The Board considers ROCE to be an important metric for 
appraising financial performance and uses it, along with EPS, in the 
remuneration of senior executives. For 2015 minor amendments 
were made to the ROCE calculation.
The profit measure used in calculating ROCE is based on 
underlying operating profit after tax; the change to the tax rate 
applied reflects the more stabilised tax position following the IPO. 
The capital employed element of the calculation is based on net 
operating assets which include all net assets other than deferred 
tax, financial assets and liabilities, and net debt. From 2015 we 
use average net assets in this calculation to better match the 
deployment of capital to the period over which the related 
income is earned. ROCE in 2015 was 9.7% (2014: 10.6%) 
largely reflecting the decline in underlying operating profit. 
Had the changes not been made the reported ROCE for 
2015 would have been 9.5%.
Allocation­of­Gr oup­costs
As announced via RNS on 15 January 2016, Merlin has  
revised the way in which certain costs incurred by the Group  
are allocated to its three Operating Groups. This change will  
apply for the 2015 full year results and all subsequent periods.  
Overall Group reported profitability is not affected. The  
effect included in reported 2015 EBITDA is as follows:
2015
£m
Midway Attractions 4
LEGOLAND Parks 1
Resort Theme Parks 2
Central costs (7)
Gr oup­total -
Summary
I am pleased with the robust financial results the Group has 
reported for 2015, despite the extremely challenging trading 
conditions. 2015 has seen us further strengthen the Company’s 
financial structure with the refinancing, and the platform for 
future growth remains sound.
Andr ew­Carr
Chief­Financial­Officer
24 February 2016
50
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD
Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way
A KEY ELEMENT OF ‘THE MERLIN WAY’ IS THAT WE CARE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE, 
OUR VISITORS, THE CREATURES IN OUR CHARGE AND THE COMMUNITIES 
AND ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE OPERATE. WE CALL THIS ‘BEING A FORCE 
FOR GOOD’ AND FOCUS OUR EFFORTS IN THE FOLLOWING KEY AREAS: 
MERLIN’S MAGIC WAND CHILDREN’S CHARITY; SUSTAINABILITY AND THE 
ENVIRONMENT; MARINE & WILDLIFE CONSERVATION; AND ACCESSIBILITY - 
DELIVERING ENVIRONMENTS THAT PROVIDE ACCESS FOR ALL.
51
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5   COMMUNITY OUTREACH
We have visited hundreds of children in hospital to bring smiles  
to them. The Merlin Magic has enabled them to be children  
first and patients second. 
Children have had visits from SEA LIFE mascots, Master  
Model builders and even a dog trained in sign language! 
  MAGICAL VISITS - DAYS OUT
During 2015 every single Merlin attraction has hosted a MMW 
visit. In total we provided over 75,000 tickets with a retail value  
of over £1 million. 
Edinburgh Dungeon actor meets patient  
at the Royal Hospital for Sick Children
 It is so rare  
to get a photo of 
my son with him 
smiling. I was  
in tears
WE BELIEVE IN MAKING A POSITIVE  
DIFFERENCE, IN A MERLIN WAY. 
Our very own children’s charity Merlin’s Magic  
Wand (MMW) has delivered a record number of  
magical experiences for children around the world  
who are disadvantaged through sickness and disability.
MMW thrives due to the engagement and support of  
Merlin employees, guests and partners. T o find out more  
about the great work the charity does, visit its website at  
www.merlinsmagicwand.org or follow our Facebook page.    
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
52  The children were  
so excited when they saw 
their new Merlin’s Magic 
Wand play area
SINCE 2010 MERLIN HAS CREATED 17 MAGICAL SPACES... AND COUNTING!
WE TAKE THE MAGIC TO THE CHILDREN WHEN THEY CAN’T COME TO US!
FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way
MERLIN’S 
MAGIC
SPACES
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
53 Accessibility
It is our aim to provide experiences and environments that are 
accessible to all. We want to provide industry leading facilities and 
experiences. The cornerstones of our approach are:
Guest Information
•  We will provide clear, accurate, consistent and accessible 
information to enable visitors to make informed choices.
Accessible Environments 
•  We will make our environments as accessible as possible,  
continually improving our estate.
T eam Engagement 
•  We will ensure employees have the tools and training to   
deliver memorable experiences to accessibility  
challenged guests.  
We make no differentiation between able bodied and disabled 
persons in terms of recruitment, training and career progression.  
We will make every effort to continue the employment and 
training of those persons who become disabled while  
employed by the Group.  
Community­R elations
As well as through our MMW activities, each attraction continues 
to forge partnerships in the local community, for example with 
local charities and other groups supporting disadvantaged people.
SEA LIFE Brighton work with a local community initiative ‘Gully’s  
Days Out’ to provide tickets to young people with additional needs.
Over 100 foster children enjoyed a day out at SEA LIFE Bangkok  
in June 2015.
LEGOLAND Windsor is proud to be an active member of the  
local community - as a key partner for the local children’s hospice 
for which we host a Christmas party and offer magical visits for 
the children; providing LEGOLAND Annual Passes to foster 
children; and offering free workshops in local libraries. 
 It is our aim to 
provide experiences and 
environments that are 
accessible to all
LEGOLAND Florida were able to provide foster children  
with a duffle bag, carefully and lovingly decorated to help these
children carry their prized possessions from home to home.
Our Dallas cluster have been involved with a whole range of 
local community initiatives, from helping celebrate World Turtle 
Day at the SEA LIFE Centre, to helping out with the annual  
‘Texas Trash Off’.
FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way
54
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Marine­and­wildlife­conservation
As well as being the leading global operator of aquariums  
through our SEA LIFE brand, Merlin also runs zoos at the 
Chessington World of Adventures Resort in the UK along 
with WILD LIFE Sydney Zoo and WILD LIFE Hamilton Island 
in Australia. The Company has an excellent reputation for the 
ethical and responsible care, preservation and conservation of 
animals and the marine environment. This reputation is widely 
acknowledged by expert organisations around the world.
Merlin actively engages our guests and employees in our 
conservation and welfare work through our global ‘Breed, 
Rescue, Protect’ initiative and promotes the protection of 
wildlife across the globe by supporting projects and 
campaigns which make a real difference.  
SEA­LIFE
The SEA LIFE Trust has again enjoyed fantastic support from  
SEA LIFE staff and visitors the world over. With this support, 
the Trust was able to campaign against whaling, for better 
protection for sharks and to reduce marine litter.
•  Over 105,000 people have signed the ‘Wipe Out Whaling’ 
petition as part of the campaign to help bring an end to  
the transport of whale meat through Europe. 
•  In just one weekend in September, SEA LIFE staff and 
volunteers cleaned over 33km of beach, river and lakeside, 
removing over 1.4 tonnes of litter!
•  Our staff supported the Trust by holding fundraising events in 
July - walking, rowing, running, cycling and kayaking over 7,500 
miles in the process - that’s the equivalent of crossing the 
Atlantic twice! 
In 2016 the focus for the Trust is on habitat protection. SEA LIFE 
sites will be working with the Trust to fund projects helping to 
protect local habitats and wildlife across the globe. T o find out 
more about the Trust and the conservation projects we are 
supporting, just visit www.sealifetrust.org.
WILD­LIFE
Chessington Zoo’s breeding programmes had a busy year, 
including two firsts for Chessington - the birth of two Blesbok 
Antelope and a Southern Three-banded Armadillo. Other 
successes include five Sitatunga calves, two Squirrel monkey 
babies and a Humbolt Penguin chick in their brand new walk-
through enclosure. The Chessington Conservation Fund 
expanded its support in Ecuador to enable the expansion of a 
rainforest nature reserve by a massive 137 acres. This area was  
at a specific risk of destruction by silica and gold mining so this 
purchase has safeguarded this important nature hotspot.
WILD LIFE Sydney Zoo is part of several managed species 
programmes including the national ‘Save the Tasmanian Devil’ 
breeding programme. ‘Adopt an animal’ packages are also sold for 
koalas, wombats, bilbies, cassowaries and Tasmanian devils with all 
proceeds going to the WILD LIFE Conservation Fund (WLCF). 
FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way
55
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5  We promote a culture  
of environmental awareness  
and responsibility
Sustainability­and­the­envir onment­
Strategy and governance
Merlin’s strategy on sustainability and the environment is  
to manage resources responsibly. Ultimate responsibility  
for this strategy rests with the CEO, with management  
teams responsible for implementation at local  
and regional levels.
Environment and energy management
We have specific budgets set aside to implement 
environmentally focused initiatives and an annual ‘Environmental 
Award’ to recognise the great work done at our sites in this 
area. We have developed groupwide sustainability management 
and carbon reduction plans and a number of water and waste 
management initiatives that have been developed to encourage 
sites and build on examples of best practice across the Group, 
through 2015 and beyond. 
We participate in the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(CRC) energy efficiency scheme, EU Energy Efficiency  
Directives (ESOS UK) and other applicable environmental 
regulations globally.
FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way
Environmental policy
We recognise that our operations impact upon 
the environment and that effective management 
of this impact is essential for sustainable business 
success. We are committed to regular monitoring, 
auditing and review of our activities and identifying 
opportunities for sustainable environmental 
improvement, in line with our strategic business 
goals and in order to minimise the potentially 
harmful effects of such activity. 
We will:
  Comply with all relevant legislation and where 
appropriate and practicable exceed these 
requirements and apply best practice. 
  Promote a culture of environmental  
responsibility and awareness through the  
Group sustainability team.
  Promote communication of our environmental  
 sustainability initiativ es.   Encourage business partners to carry out  
their activities in an environmentally  
responsible manner.
  Further develop our excellent standards on 
managing marine habitat and wildlife.
  Manage impacts on biodiversity. 
  Implement practical and cost-effective water, 
waste and energy conservation and pollution 
control measures to minimise environmental 
impacts associated with the Group’s operations. 
  Encourage regular investments in  
environmental initiatives. 
  Measure, monitor and make public our annual 
carbon emissions, with a carbon reduction  
target of at least 2% year on year. 
  Work with stakeholders to minimize the  
impact of our products and services. 
  Strive to continually improve our environmental 
performance and ensure our strategic business 
growth is sustainable.
Solar powered cars at LEGOLAND Florida
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
56 FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way
Pr ocur ement­and­sour cing
We recognise the responsibility we have to the workers in  
our supply chain and seek to ensure our products are made in  
an appropriate environment and the products we source are 
produced in accordance with international laws and legislation.  
We require all of our suppliers to sign the Merlin  
Entertainments Standard Terms and Conditions of Purchase, 
which captures the Group’s policies in areas such as fraud, bribery 
and child labour. We will independently audit certain categories 
of suppliers who produce Merlin Entertainments branded 
products. We commit to working with suppliers to ensure  
they achieve our standards. Strict sanctions are applied when 
standards are not met.
We will enter into rebate and volume discount arrangements 
with suppliers where appropriate but do not require suppliers  
to make loyalty or ‘pay to stay’ type payments to the Group.  
Our payment terms vary in different territories; standard  
payment terms are 45 days.  
Human­Rights
Merlin has implemented a Human Rights Policy that sets out our 
approach in this area. We are guided in this by the International 
Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work; and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational 
Enterprises. The Policy notes that:
•  We value diversity and have a commitment to equal 
opportunity and intolerance of discrimination and harassment.
• We will not engage in child labour.
•  We will not use forced or compulsory labour and have 
policies in place regarding non-excessive working hours.
•  We respect employees’ right to join, form or not to join  
a labour union without fear of reprisal, intimidation or 
harassment and will act in good faith when legally  
required to enter into collective bargaining agreements.
•  We operate in full compliance with local labour laws  
regarding wages, benefits, holidays and rest breaks.
•  We are committed to maintain a safe, secure and healthy 
workplace for our employees.
•  We will comply with all relevant legislation and where 
appropriate and practicable, exceed these requirements  
and apply best practice.
R eport­boundaries Financial control - All facilities under  
the Group’s direct financial control  
have been included.
Consistency­with­ 
financial­statements
This report covers the twelve month 
period from 1 December 2014 to  
30 November 2015 in comparison  
to our financial year of January to 
December 2015.
Methodology The WRI / WBCSD Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) 
applying emissions factors from  
DEFRA (2015).
Intensity­ratio Emissions per £1 million of revenue
Scope­1 18,980 tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent  
(2014: 17,436 tonnes)
Scope­2­ 
Localised­Based
123,277 tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent  
(2014: 125,989 tonnes)
Scope­2­ 
Market­Based
(2,292) tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent  
(2014: nil)
Gr oup­Gr oss­and­ 
Net­emission
139,965 tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent  
(2014: 143,425 tonnes)
Intensity­baseline­ 
(r evenue)
£1,278 million  
(2014: £1,249 million)
Emissions­ 
intensity
110 tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent per  
£1 million of revenue (2014: 115 tonnes)
Table notes:
• Scope 1 refers to direct emissions (natural gas, LPG, heating oil, refrigerants, diesel, petrol).
• Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions (purchased electricity, purchased heat and steam).
•  Scope 2 market based offsets are renewable energy certificates purchased  
in the USA.
•  Our base year (2014) emissions intensity value has been adjusted from 113 tonnes 
of CO
2
 per £1 million of revenue, as previously reported, to 115 tonnes of CO
2
 per 
£1 million of revenue in line with our carbon recalculation policy, largely due to the 
inclusion of refrigerants which were not reported in 2014.
• Our annual target is to reduce our carbon emission intensity by 2% year on year. 
 We value diversity 
and have a commitment 
to equal opportunity
Greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting
The Company is required to annually report its carbon  
dioxide emissions in tonnes emitted. During the year DEFRA 
released updated carbon factors, reflecting a significant drop  
in the purchased UK electricity carbon factor when compared  
to 2014. This, taken with other technical revisions made, is  
estimated to have contributed 2% to the savings noted above.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
57 CORPORATE
Governance Statement
Intr oduction
Merlin has a premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange  
and is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code), the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (the DTRs)  
and the Listing Rules. Merlin believes that effective corporate 
governance is a fundamental aspect of a well run company  
and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance across the Group. In this regard, Merlin takes account 
of the views of its shareholders and institutional shareholder 
representative bodies. The Code can be viewed on the website  
of the Financial Reporting Council (www.frc.org.uk). The DTRs 
and the Listing Rules can be viewed on the website of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (www.fshandbook.info).
Statement­of­compliance
Merlin was fully compliant throughout the accounting period  
with all relevant provisions of the Code, the DTRs and the Listing 
Rules, with the exception of the provisions relating to Board 
composition for the period prior to the 2015 AGM.
Boar d­composition
The Board has undergone a number of changes during the year 
including the departure of Miguel Ko (Non-executive Director),  
Dr. Gerry Murphy (Blackstone Representative Director) and 
Rob Lucas (CVC Representative Director) at the AGM, followed 
by the appointment as Non-executive Directors of Trudy Rautio 
in October and of Yun (Rachel) Chiang effective January 2016, 
which together have led to an increase in Board diversity. Trudy 
and Rachel were appointed after rigorous search processes using 
Spencer Stuart and Russell Reynolds respectively, both of which 
are external search companies with no links to Merlin.
Fair ,­balanced­and­understandable
As part of the Company’s commitment to maintaining high 
standards of corporate governance, the Board has put in place 
a process dedicated to ensuring that the Annual Report and 
Accounts is presented in a way that is fair, balanced and 
understandable. This process includes a review of all Board and 
Committee meetings by the Company Secretary of any matters 
for inclusion, as well as a series of specific reviews undertaken 
by a dedicated Disclosure Committee of senior managers.
Evaluation­of­effectiveness
During the year externally facilitated evaluations were
undertaken, as required every three years, in relation to the 
Board and its Committees, as well as of the internal audit function 
and the external auditors. These were facilitated by Prism Cosec, 
who are independent of the Company and also advise the 
Company on company secretarial compliance matters.
Our 2014 Effectiveness Review made a number of 
recommendations, including reviewing the balance and 
composition of the Board, continuing our focus on succession 
planning for Executive Directors and facilitating greater dialogue 
between the Board and senior management, in particular in 
relation to strategy. All of the recommendations from the 2014 
Effectiveness Review were specifically addressed during the year.  
Some further recommendations arose from the 2015 
Effectiveness Review, including formalising the training made 
available to Directors. This recommendation has already been 
actioned with a programme of Director training sessions  
having been introduced for 2016.
Investor­r elations
The Company communicates with institutional and private 
shareholders in a number of ways and has a dedicated investor 
relations team to facilitate the exchange of information and 
feedback between shareholders and shareholder representative 
bodies and the Company. Details of major shareholders are 
provided on page 62.  
The Company undertakes regular meetings in which existing  
and potential investors are provided with information on the 
financial and trading position of the Group. This activity is led by 
the CEO and the CFO, together with the Company’s investor 
relations team. They report back regularly to the Board so that 
the Non-executive Directors in particular can appreciate and 
discuss the views of shareholders. During the year the Chairman 
and the Company Secretary also met with many of our leading 
shareholders to ensure full and mutually constructive dialogue.  
Merlin’s 2016 financial calendar is set out on page 162.
The Company’s corporate website is regularly updated with news 
and information, including its Annual Report and Accounts, which 
set out our strategy and performance together with our plans for 
future growth. Our presentations to analysts and shareholders  
are also available on the Company website.
At our AGM all shareholders have the opportunity to discuss  
and raise questions concerning the performance, trading and 
development of Merlin and to vote on the resolutions proposed. 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
58 BOARD
of Directors
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
59 2 3 1
BOARD of Directors
          Nick Varney,
          Chief Executive Officer
Nick has over 25 years’ experience in  
the visitor attractions industry and was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer of 
Merlin Entertainments in 1999. He  
has been a Director of the Company 
throughout the year and continues in  
this role as at the date of this report.
Prior to Merlin, Nick was Managing 
Director of Vardon Attractions and a 
main board Director of Vardon plc. In 
1999 Nick led the management buyout 
of Vardon Attractions to form Merlin 
Entertainments. In 2005 he initiated  
the process which led to its acquisition  
by Blackstone and subsequent rapid 
expansion, taking the Company to  
its 2013 Listing on the London  
Stock Exchange.
Before joining Vardon Attractions,  
Nick held senior positions within  
The Tussauds Group (then a part of 
Pearson plc), including Marketing Director 
of Alton T owers and Head of Group 
Marketing. He started his career in  
FMCG marketing first with Rowntree  
and then Reckitt & Colman.
          Andrew Carr,
          Chief Financial Officer
Andrew is a qualified chartered 
accountant and was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer of Merlin Entertainments 
in 1999. He has been a Director of  
the Company throughout the year and 
continues in this role as at the date of  
this report. As previously announced, 
Andrew will retire at the end of October 
2016 and Anne-Francoise Nesmes will be 
appointed to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer in August, allowing for an 
appropriate transition period.
Prior to Merlin, Andrew was Financial 
Director of Vardon Attractions and 
played a key role in the management 
buyout of Vardon Attractions to form 
Merlin Entertainments in 1999 and in  
the subsequent business, including two 
follow-on buyouts, the acquisitions of 
LEGOLAND, Gardaland and The 
Tussauds Group and the Listing of  
Merlin Entertainments on the  
London Stock Exchange.
Before joining Vardon Attractions, 
Andrew trained, and was subsequently 
head of a regional Corporate Finance 
Department, at KPMG.
          Sir John Sunderland,
          Chairman
Sir John was appointed Chairman of 
Merlin Entertainments in December 
2009. He has been Chairman of the 
Company throughout the year and 
continues in this role as at the date  
of this report.
Sir John is currently Chairman of 
Cambridge Education Group, Chancellor 
of Aston University and an Associate 
Member of BUPA. He is also an adviser 
to CVC Capital Partners.
Previously, Sir John was Chairman of 
Cadbury Schweppes from 2003 to 2008 
and Chief Executive Officer from 1996 to 
2003. Sir John was also President of the 
CBI from 2004 to 2006, President of the 
Chartered Management Institute from 
2006 to 2007 and President of the Food 
and Drink Federation from 2002 to 2004.
Sir John was a Non-executive Director of 
the Rank Group from 1998 to 2006 and 
a Director of the Financial Reporting 
Council from 2004 to 2011.
Sir John was a Non-executive Director of 
Barclays Bank PLC from 2005 to 2015 and 
of AFC Energy plc from 2012 to 2015.
The members of the Board during the year and at the date of this report are as follows:
7 9
1 2 3 4 5
6 8
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
60 5
4
6
7
9
8
BOARD of Directors
          Ken Hydon, 
          Non-executive Director 
Ken was appointed a Non-executive 
Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Merlin Entertainments  
in 2013. He has been a Director of  
the Company throughout the year and 
continues in this role as at the date  
of this report.
Ken is currently a Non-executive Director 
of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. Previously, 
he was CFO of Vodafone Group Plc. Ken 
was also a Non-executive Director of 
Tesco Plc from 2004 to 2013, a Non-
executive Director of Royal Berkshire 
NHS Foundation Trust from 2005 to 
2012 and a Non-executive Director of 
Pearson Plc from 2006 to 2015.
          Charles Gurassa,
           Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director 
Charles was appointed Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director of 
Merlin Entertainments and Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee in 2013. 
He has been a Director of the Company 
throughout the year and continues in  
this role as at the date of this report. 
 
Charles is the Non-executive Chairman 
of Channel 4 and Genesis Housing 
Association, Deputy Chairman at EasyJet 
plc and a trustee of English Heritage and 
the Migration Museum. He is a former 
Chairman of Virgin Mobile plc, LOVEFiLM, 
Phones4U, MACH, Tragus, NetNames, 
Parthenon Entertainments and Alamo/
National Rent a Car and former Deputy 
Chairman of the National Trust. 
          Fru Hazlitt, 
          Non-executive Director 
Fru was appointed a Non-executive 
Director of Merlin Entertainments in 2014. 
She has been a Director of the Company 
throughout the year and continues in this 
role as at the date of this report.
Fru was formerly Managing Director, 
Commercial, Online and Interactive at 
ITV, and previously Chief Executive 
Officer at GCap Media plc and Virgin 
Radio. Prior to that Fru spent six years at 
Yahoo! where her roles included 
Managing Director, UK and Ireland, and 
Sales and Marketing Director, Europe.
She is now a Governor of Downe House 
School and has also served as a Non-
executive Director on the Boards of 
Betfair Plc and Woolworths Plc.          Søren Thorup Sørensen, 
          Non-executive Director 
Søren was appointed a Non-executive 
Director of the Company in 2013, 
representing KIRKBI. He has been a 
Director of the Company throughout  
the year and continues in this role as  
at the date of this report.
Søren is currently the Chief Executive 
Officer of KIRKBI, following his 
appointment in March 2010. Søren was 
formerly a Partner, Chief Financial Officer 
and member of the Group Executive 
Board of A.P . Moller - Maersk Group 
between 2006 and 2009. Prior to this  
he was Managing Partner of KPMG 
Denmark, having been a Partner at 
KPMG since 1997. Outside the KIRKBI 
Group, Søren is currently Non-executive 
Chairman of T opdanmark A/S and holds 
Non-executive Director positions at  
LEGO A/S, TDC A/S and Falck  
Holding A/S.
          Trudy Rautio, 
          Non-executive Director 
Trudy was appointed a Non-executive 
Director of Merlin Entertainments 
with effect from 1 October 2015  
and continues in this role as at the  
date of this report. 
Trudy retired on 1 May 2015 from  
the position of Chief Executive Officer  
of Carlson, a privately held global 
hospitality and travel company. Trudy  
had been a senior executive with  
Carlson since 1997, having served as 
Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial and Administrative Officer  
of Carlson preceding her appointment
as CEO.
Prior to joining Carlson, Trudy served as 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer of Jostens, Inc., and served as  
Vice President of Finance for  
Minneapolis-based Pillsbury Co.
Trudy is the Chair of The Rezidor  
Hotel Group Board, and also serves  
on the Board of Directors for Cargill,  
The Donaldson Company, Inc., and 
Securian Holding Company.
          Yun (Rachel) Chiang, 
          Non-executive Director 
Rachel was appointed a Non-executive 
Director of Merlin Entertainments with 
effect from 1 January 2016 and continues  
in this role as at the date of this report. 
She has extensive experience of the 
Asian consumer and property markets, 
having held a number of senior executive  
and non-executive roles in the region. 
Rachel is currently Partner and founding 
member of the private equity activities of 
Pacific Alliance Group (PAG), one of the 
region’s largest Asia-focused alternative 
investment managers with over $11 
billion in funds under management across  
Private Equity, Real Estate and Hedge 
Funds. She currently holds Non-executive 
positions with Hong Kong-listed Sands 
China (a majority-owned subsidiary of 
Las Vegas Sands) and Hong Kong-listed 
Pacific Century Premium Developments 
(PCPD) which specializes in the 
development and management of 
premium property and infrastructure 
projects in the Asia Pacific region.
His executive career included roles 
as Chief Executive of Thomson Travel 
Group plc, Executive Chairman TUI 
Northern Europe, Director TUI AG  
and as Director, Passenger & Cargo 
business at British Airways. He is a former 
Non-executive Director at Whitbread plc, 
trustee of the children’s charity Whizz-Kidz 
and a member of the development board 
of the University of Y ork.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
61 CORPORATE
Governance Report
Boar d­membership­and­UK­corporate­governance­code
As at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts the Company 
complies and the Company intends to continue to comply with 
the Code. The Board will also take account of institutional 
shareholder governance rules and guidance on disclosure  
and shareholder authorisation of corporate events. 
The Code recommends that a UK listed company’s Chairman  
be independent on appointment. The Chairman was appointed  
in December 2009. The Board considers that the Chairman was 
independent on appointment and remains so. The Chairman is an 
adviser to CVC, who were a shareholder in the Company from 
July 2010 until March 2015. The Board does not consider that this 
has had any effect on the independence of the Chairman for the 
purposes of the Code. The Chairman’s role is to ensure good 
corporate governance.
The Code recommends that at least half the members of the 
Board of Directors (excluding the Chairman) of a UK listed 
company should be independent in character and judgement and 
free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, 
or could appear to affect, their judgement. 
The Board has concluded that, for the purposes of the Code, 
Charles Gurassa, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt, Trudy Rautio and Rachel 
Chiang should be regarded as independent Non-executive 
Directors and that their appointments were in the best  
interests of shareholders.
Although Mr Gurassa previously served on the board of Tragus 
Group Limited (formerly a portfolio company of Blackstone, 
which was a shareholder in the Company until March 2015) and 
Mr Ko served during his tenure as a Director of the Company  
on the board of Formula One (Delta T opco Limited), a CVC 
portfolio company, the other Directors have concluded that  
these relationships did not have any effect on the independence 
of those Directors.
Blackstone and CVC, along with KIRKBI, were the pre-IPO  
major shareholders of Merlin. Blackstone and CVC ceased to 
hold any shares in the Company in March 2015, while KIRKBI 
presently holds 29.89% of the issued share capital of  
the Company.
The Non-executive Directors representing KIRKBI (Søren Thorup 
Sørensen), Blackstone (Dr. Gerry Murphy) and CVC (Rob Lucas) 
are not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Code. 
Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas stepped down as Directors at 
the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Accordingly, the Board considers that from the conclusion  
of the 2015 AGM, the Company was in full compliance with  
the recommendation of the Code concerning the balance of 
independent Non-executive Directors on the Board.
R elationship­agr eements
The Company has entered into Relationship Agreements  
with each of KIRKBI, Blackstone and CVC. The Relationship 
Agreements with Blackstone and CVC (which were described  
in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended  
27 December 2014) terminated when they ceased to hold any 
shares in the Company. The Relationship Agreement with KIRKBI 
remains in force. Under the KIRKBI Relationship Agreement: 
•  KIRKBI is entitled to appoint one Director to the Board. In 
addition, while KIRKBI holds at least 10% of the Company’s 
issued share capital, it may also appoint an observer to the 
Board (with the right to attend and speak but not vote).
•  KIRKBI may appoint an observer (with the right to attend and 
speak but not vote) to each of the Audit Committee, 
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee for so 
long as KIRKBI (together with its respective affiliates) holds at 
least 10% of the Company’s ordinary shares.
Major­shar eholdings
As at 23 February 2016, the latest practicable date prior to the 
date of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Company had been 
notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interest in 3% or 
more of the Company’s total voting rights:
Name­of­
shar eholder
Number­of­
or dinary­
shar es
%­of­issued­
shar e­capital
Natur e­of­
holding­
(Dir ect/­
Indir ect)
KIRKBI Invest A/S 302,971,529 29.89 Direct
62
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 CORPORATE Governance Report
Boar d­and­its­Committees
The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the 
Board and for overseeing communications with all Board and 
Committee members and shareholders. He ensures that the 
Board receives sufficient information on financial, trading and 
corporate issues prior to Board meetings.
The Board has established Health, Safety and Security, Audit, 
Remuneration, and Nomination Committees with formally 
delegated duties and responsibilities and written terms of 
reference. In addition, from time to time, separate Committees 
may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues when  
the need arises.
 
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for day-to-day 
operations and the development of strategic plans for 
consideration by the Board. He is assisted in this by an  
Executive Committee of senior managers. The Executive 
Committee is not a formal committee of the Board.
The terms of reference of each of the Board and its Committees 
are available on the Company’s corporate website  
www.merlinentertainments.biz
The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board  
and each of its Committees, also have access to the advice and 
services of the Group Legal Director/General Counsel and 
Company Secretary and other senior management, as well  
as external advice on, inter alia, legal, accounting, remuneration, 
health and safety and corporate governance matters. Appropriate 
induction and subsequent training is provided to members of  
the Board and its Committees.
The table below sets out the membership of the Board and  
its Committees during the year, together with the number of 
meetings held and each member’s attendance. The tables  
overleaf contain further information in relation to the Board  
and its Committees covering their respective responsibilities, 
duties and Code compliance.
The ­ Boar d
Health, ­ Safety­ 
and ­ Security­
Committee ­
(2)
Audit­
Committee
R emuneration­
Committee
Nomination­
Committee
Number­of­meetings­held­
(1)
9 4 4 4 3
Sir John Sunderland #9 #4 N/A 3
(7)
#3
Nick Varney 9 4 N/A N/A N/A
Andrew Carr 9 4 N/A N/A N/A
Charles Gurassa 9 4 4 #4 3
Ken Hydon 9 N/A #4 3
(7)
3
Fru Hazlitt 9 4 2
(5)
4 3
Trudy Rautio 1
(3)
N/A N/A N/A 1
(3)
Søren Thorup Sørensen 9 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Miguel Ko 
(4)
4 N/A 2
(6)
1 1
(6)
Dr. Gerry Murphy 
(4)
5 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Rob Lucas 
(4)
4 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Table notes:
#
 Denotes Chairman. 
(1)
  Number of meetings attended during the year during term of respective Director. Rachel Chiang joined the Board effective 1 January 2016 and is therefore not included  
within this analysis. 
(2)
  In addition to the Board members noted above, the Health, Safety and Security Committee also includes as members the managing directors of both the Resort Theme Parks  
and Midway Attractions Operating Groups and the director of health, safety and security. These members attended all four meetings that took place in the year. 
(3)
 Trudy Rautio has attended each of the Board and Nomination Committee meetings held following her appointment in October. 
(4)
 Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas all stood down as Directors at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM. 
(5)
 Fru Hazlitt has attended each of the two Audit Committee meetings held following her appointment to this Committee.  
(6)
 Miguel Ko attended each of the two Audit Committee meetings and the only Nomination Committee meeting held prior to standing down at the AGM.  
(7)
 Sir John Sunderland and Ken Hydon did not formally attend one of the Remuneration Committee meetings, instead tabling their comments to its Chairman in advance. 
63
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 CORPORATE Governance Report
The­Boar d Health,­Safety­and­Security­Committee
Principal­
r esponsibilities­
and­duties
The­Boar d­has­overall­r esponsibility­for­overseeing­ 
the­management­of­the­Company .
 
•    Overseeing the Company’s strategy and management.
•    Determining the Company’s capital structure.
•    Overseeing the Company’s financial reporting and controls.
•    Ensuring the Company maintains a sound system of  
internal controls and risk management.
•    Approval of the annual capital expenditure budget,  
major capital projects and strategic transactions.
•    Ensuring effective communication with shareholders  
and managing investor relations.
•    Considering and, if accepted, implementing 
recommendations from Committees within their  
respective remits, including:
   •     Appointments to the Board and Committees;
   •    Board and senior management remuneration;
   •    Succession planning; and
   •    Changes to the Company’s share incentive plans.
•    Appointing Committees and agreeing their  
terms of reference.
•    Corporate governance matters and reporting thereon.
•    Approving major policies, including:
   •    Health and safety policy;
   •    Fraud policy; and
   •    Share dealing policy.
•    Approving the appointment of principal financial  
and professional advisers.
•    Approval of major litigation.
•    Approval of Group insurance programme.
The­Health,­Safety­and­Security­Committee­assists­the­
Boar d­in­ensuring­that­health,­safety­and­security­matters­
ar e­managed­effectively­and­pr oactively­thr oughout­ 
the­Gr oup.
•   Recommending to the Board, implementing and monitoring 
the Group’s health, safety and security policy.
•   Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s health and  
safety processes and controls.
•   Reviewing the health and safety resources available  
within the Group and the skills of the health and  
safety management.
•   Reviewing the adequacy of security processes and controls.
•   Reporting to the Board on matters within the remit of  
the Committee.
See the Health, Safety and Security Committee Report on pages 
66 to 69 for further details on how the Group manages  
Health, Safety and Security risks.
Number­of­
meetings
At least six times a year and as required or otherwise at the 
request of one or more of the Directors.
Where urgent decisions are required on matters specifically 
reserved for the Board between meetings, there is a process 
in place to facilitate discussion and decision making.
At least four times a year and at such other times as the 
Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
Code­
compliance
W e­comply
The Code recommends that the Board of a UK listed plc 
should comprise at least 50% independent Non-executive 
Directors (excluding the Chairman).
From the conclusion of the 2015 AGM the Board has 
complied with this recommendation.
N/A
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
64 CORPORATE Governance Report
Audit­Committee R emuneration­Committee Nomination­Committee
The­Audit­Committee­assists­the­Boar d­in­
discharging­its­r esponsibilities­in­r elation­to­
financial­r eporting ,­external­and­internal­
audits­and­contr ols.
 
•  Financial reporting.
•  Internal controls. 
•  Whistleblowing and fraud.
•  Internal audit.
•  External audit.
•   Reporting to the Board on matters within 
the Committee’s remit, including the risk 
management process.
•   Considering the processes supporting  
the assessment of the Group’s longer term 
solvency and liquidity which underlie the 
Viability Statement.
See the Audit Committee Report on pages 70 to 
75 for further details on the Committee’s activities 
in the year.
The­R emuneration­Committee­assists­the­
Boar d­in­discharging­its­r esponsibilities­in­
r elation­to­r emuneration.
 
•   Setting the remuneration policy for 
Executive Directors and the Chairman.
•   Reviewing and making recommendations  
to the Board on senior management 
remuneration.
•   Determining the individual remuneration 
and benefits package of each of the 
Executive Directors.
•   Determining the fees of the Chairman.
•   Reviewing the design of share incentive 
plans for approval by the Board.
•   Ensuring appropriate reporting on 
remuneration matters in the Annual  
Report and Accounts.
No Director may participate in discussions 
relating to his own terms and conditions of 
remuneration.
Non-executive Directors’ fees are determined 
by the full Board.
See the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 
76 to 96 for further details on the Committee’s 
activities in the year.
The­Nomination­Committee­assists­the­
Boar d­in­discharging­its­r esponsibilities­in­
r elation­to­the­composition­of­the­Boar d.
•   Reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board.
•   Reviewing the size, structure and 
composition of the Board.
•   Considering and making recommendations 
to the Board on retirements, re-elections 
and appointments of additional and 
replacement Directors and on membership 
of Committees.
•   Considering succession planning for both 
Executive and Non-executive Directors  
and the Chairman.
•   Considering the time required for  
Directors to fulfil their roles.
•   Developing a policy on diversity and 
reporting on progress thereon.
•   Making appropriate recommendations to 
the Board on matters within the remit  
of the Committee.
See the Nomination Committee Report on page 
97 for further details on the Committee’s activities 
in the year.
At least three times during the financial year  
at appropriate times in the audit cycle.
In addition, it meets at such other times as the 
Board or the Committee Chairman requires, 
or if requested by the external auditors.
At least twice each year and at such other 
times as the Board or the Committee 
Chairman requires.
At least twice each year and at such other 
times as the Board or the Committee 
Chairman requires.
W e­comply
 
The Code recommends that an Audit 
Committee should comprise at least three 
independent Non-executive Directors and 
that at least one member should have recent 
and relevant financial experience. 
The Audit Committee consists of four 
independent Non-executive Directors. Ken 
Hydon is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants, the Association 
of Chartered Certified Accountants and the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers and is 
considered by the Board to have recent and 
relevant financial experience. No members of 
the Audit Committee have links with the 
Company’s external auditors.
W e­comply
 
The Code recommends that a Remuneration 
Committee should comprise at least three 
independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee consists of four independent 
Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
W e­comply
 
The Code recommends that a majority of the 
members of the Nomination Committee 
should be independent Non-executive 
Directors. 
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of 
the Board and consists of the Chairman of the 
Committee and three independent Non-
executive Directors.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
65 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY
Committee Report
Dear Shareholder
The Health, Safety and Security (HSS) of our guests, our 
employees and the people who work in partnership with us 
are of paramount importance to Merlin. We have an absolute 
commitment to continuously achieve the highest practical safety 
standards. We will never compromise our commitment to health, 
safety and security or become complacent in this area.
Following the traumatic accident at Alton T owers in June our 
immediate focus was to further strengthen our policies and 
processes. The Group undertook a full investigation following 
the accident and as a result added further safety protocols. 
On re-opening, ‘The Smiler’ ride will incorporate extensive  
new safety measures, enhanced training and additional levels  
of supervisory procedures.
Continuous­impr ovement
Aligned with our philosophy of continuous improvement, we  
have continued to invest in and develop our HSS and engineering 
activities and control structures, ensuring we capture learning 
points and apply them across our Operating Groups. 
Through the course of the year, we have invested significantly  
in senior staff across each of the Operating Groups as well as 
making enhancements to local working protocols and upgraded  
software systems.
The­Boar d­and­HSS­Committee
The HSS Committee assists the Board in ensuring that HSS 
matters are managed effectively and proactively throughout  
the Group.
This report describes the work of the HSS Committee and how  
it discharges its duties, together with details of the Group’s HSS 
management systems, policies and processes.
Looking­forwar d
Looking forward we will continue to challenge, monitor and 
support the whole of the Merlin business in their HSS efforts.  
We have a strong history of delivering millions of safe 
experiences to our guests and this comes in no small  
measure from our strong safety culture.
Sir­John­Sunderland
Chairman­of­the­Health,­Safety­and­Security­Committee
24 February 2016
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMITTEE
Executive Committee
Operating Groups 
& Business Units
Operating Groups 
HSS Committees
Attraction / Department
HSS Forums
Attractions / Sites
HSS Committee
of the PLC Board
Group HSS  
Department
Lead HSS
Professionals
HSS Professionals & 
Representatives
PLC Board
The­r ole­of­the­HSS­Committee  
The HSS governance structure is illustrated below:
66
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report
HSS management system
The Group’s HSS Policy and health and safety management 
systems set mandatory obligations for standards and performance 
across all attractions and operations.
The requirements and policies set out in the Group’s Global 
Health and Safety Manual are well established, providing a robust 
framework for delievering safe operations and enable monitoring 
for compliance and continual improvement.
The role of operational management 
Operational management are responsible for and integral to HSS 
matters, supported by functional HSS specialists. Two key safety 
management activities are as follows:
•  Risk r egisters - attraction management prepare detailed HSS 
risk registers that assist in the management of effective safety 
risk control by identifying and assessing all significant or 
material risks. The Group’s principal HSS risks identified 
through these processes are summarised on pages 40 to 45.
•  Action plans - every attraction is required to prepare an 
annual HSS action plan, driven by the results of its risk register, 
safety inspections and audits, near-miss/incident investigations 
and employee surveys. Appropriate control measures are  
then implemented. 
Ride­and­attraction­safety
All of Merlin’s rides are managed for safety through their life cycle 
and the Group seeks to comply with all applicable national or 
local legislation and industry standards.
Operational and engineering processes cover areas such as; codes 
of safe working practices; new ride pre-use inspection and testing; 
emergency plans and procedures; as well as regular inspection, 
maintenance and refurbishment. A more detailed insight into the 
role of a ride engineer during a typical annual cycle is provided  
on page 69.
Construction­safety­and­contractor­selection
Merlin recognises its responsibility to ensure that high standards 
of health and safety are maintained on all of its construction 
projects across the world. 
When considering a new location or product, local legal 
requirements are carefully researched. During the design phase  
of a project any higher risk activity which might be required 
during construction, such as the need to work at height, is 
identified and minimised. The Group ensures that the importance 
of safe construction practice is recognised and adopted by  
its commercial partners or landlords.
 The Group operates a 
positive and proactive safety 
culture, its priority being to 
safeguard guests, employees 
and contractors
The HSS Committee reports to the Board, operating under 
specific terms of reference (available on the Company’s website). 
It has three areas of focus:
•  T o set, monitor adherence to, and recommend improvements 
in, the Group’s policies­and­pr ocedur es for ensuring the 
health, safety and security of guests, employees, suppliers  
and operating assets.
•  T o monitor the Group’s processes for identifying­and­
managing­risks.
•  T o monitor the skills,­effectiveness­and­levels­of­r esour ce 
within the Group’s HSS team.
The HSS Committee comprises the Chairman, three independent 
Non-executive Directors, the CEO, the CFO, the managing 
directors of Resort Theme Parks and Midway Attractions and 
Merlin’s Group Health, Safety and Security Director. Details of the 
frequency of and attendance at meetings is outlined on page 63.
The Committee receives advice from Health, Safety and Security 
professionals and is updated on industry best practice. Issues 
discussed at the HSS Committee are shared with the Board.
HSS­management­
The Group has a well developed approach to HSS management, 
in line with HS(G)65 - the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) 
endorsed business model for effective safety management in  
the United Kingdom. 
The Group operates a positive and proactive safety culture, its 
priority being to meet or exceed industry and legal standards  
and above all safeguard guests, employees and contractors. 
Procedures and practices are constantly reviewed to identify 
where there are opportunities to implement new safety 
improvements and reduce risks.
67
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report
A contractor’s health and safety performance is one of the key 
elements considered during a tendering process. Contractors are 
asked to explain and verify their health and safety management 
systems and practices as well as providing details about how they 
will comply with both local legal requirements and the Group’s 
policies and standards.
The Group ensures that projects have sufficient resources and 
timescales to enable their completion without compromising 
health and safety, capturing and acting on regular feedback on 
any health and safety issues, incidents or challenges.
Food­Safety­and­Hygiene
The Group recognises its duty to ensure that exposure of visitors, 
employees and contractors on its sites to food related illnesses 
must be avoided. The Group seeks to meet or exceed any 
national or local legal requirements, adopting the best practice 
approach associated with the international Hazard Analysis 
and Critical Control Point (HACCP) system.
The Group has a detailed and prescriptive Food Safety Manual 
that provides clear and consistent direction for each attraction 
on how to address food safety and hygiene risks. The manual is 
applicable to all Merlin sites and the content of the manual 
must be adhered to at all times. 
All attractions are regularly independently assessed by food safety 
specialists for compliance against the requirements of the Food 
Safety Manual. Typically, theme parks are audited twice per year, 
with Midway attractions audited at least annually.
Security
Attractions maintain both active and passive security protocols in 
order to maintain the integrity of physical boundaries, together 
with the operations and assets that sit within those boundaries. 
Security risk assessments help ensure that the appropriate 
technology, techniques and resources commensurate to 
the national or local threat level are used.
As the types of threats and risks evolve the Group works closely 
with local police and governmental security agencies to ensure 
appropriate intelligence is shared and attraction based security 
protocols remain suitable, proportional and robust.
HSS­and­employees­-­‘Pr otecting­the­Magic’
HSS initiatives are regularly communicated to maintain employee 
awareness, encourage real team engagement and a sense of 
ownership across the business, including initiatives such as:
•  ‘Six­Spells­for­Safety’ - introduced early in 2015, these 
demonstrate simple ways to operate safely and securely  
and are displayed on posters and banners at sites around  
the world.
•    ‘Pr otecting­the­Magic’ intranet site - a new one-stop 
location containing HSS documentation, a brand new 
induction film and an engaging safety quiz.
Extensive health and safety training programmes, regular 
refresher training and specific personal development needs are 
implemented. These are tailored to particular job roles, based on 
risk assessment findings. As a minimum, all employees receive 
HSS induction training and regular safety briefings.
Communication to senior management is actively facilitated and 
employees are regularly consulted about risks and preventative 
or protective measures. 
Monitoring­performance­
HSS performance is regularly reviewed by each attraction, 
each Operating Group’s senior leadership team and the HSS 
Committee, using a blend of leading and lagging  
performance indicators.
All attractions in Merlin are subjected to routine health and safety 
audits, conducted by health and safety professionals independent 
of the attraction being assessed. These audits seek to evaluate 
compliance with Merlin’s Global Health and Safety Manual and 
associated safety policies. Any non-compliance or improvement 
opportunities identified then require remedial action. These 
audits complement regional and attraction initiated safety 
inspections and audits that take place during the course of  
each year.
Continuous­impr ovement
Merlin’s safety arrangements help deliver safe ride experiences to 
millions of visitors each year. Nonetheless, the Group will never 
become complacent and where improvements are identified will 
seek to implement them immediately. T o ensure that HSS and 
engineering activities and control structures are commensurate 
with the Group’s increasing scale, and to support the next phase 
of growth, specialist teams have been expanded as follows:
•  New senior HSS management roles to directly support  
the Resort Theme Parks and LEGOLAND Parks Operating 
Groups, with updated reporting structures.
•  A new senior HSS role to support each of the Operating 
Groups and focus exclusively on the development and 
implementation of HSS training and assurance programmes 
across the Group.
•  A new Group engineering function to provide ‘best in class’ 
engineering support; ensure consistent groupwide engineering 
standards and processes; and practical compliance  
assurance programmes.
•  New, dedicated Training and Compliance Manager roles to 
reside within the engineering departments at each of our 
theme parks. 
68
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 FOCUS­ON MERLIN ENGINEERING
Merlin’s rides are kept running safely as a result of our rigorous approach to safety management. Key to 
this are our engineers - highly trained, qualified and technically competent professionals, typically with  
core mechanical and/or electrical skills.  
Each engineer undergoes ride specific training and must demonstrate an excellent level of knowledge  
and competence before they are permitted to perform the activities we outline below. Their individual 
performance is then continually assessed through shadowing, performance monitoring and auditing.
Daily Inspections are completed for safety critical 
elements of each ride, for example the integrity of 
passenger restraint systems, brakes and emergency 
devices. On completion, the ride will be signed off 
as safe for use and handed over to the operations  
team to carry out pre-opening checks.  
Each ride undergoes Planned Maintenance,  
running in parallel to the daily inspections. With the 
frequency and type of work specific to each ride, 
these routines can be completed either out of park 
operating hours or during the day, for example 
where a ride vehicle is relocated to the maintenance 
workshop for its scheduled examination and service. 
Predictive Maintenance is carried out during 
operating hours, assessing a ride’s functionality  
and performance. Ride engineers will use their 
experience and the latest technology to monitor 
and evaluate ride performance, looking either at the 
overall operation of the ride, or certain equipment 
used within it, checking for example running speed, 
noise, vibration and operating temperatures.   
Reactive Tasks often relate to ride stoppages  
which can occur for numerous reasons throughout 
the day, for example guest behaviour resulting in  
the activation of an emergency stop or a fault 
condition being reported by the ride’s computer 
control system.  
Attending engineers will be competent in all relevant 
technical aspects of the ride and will investigate  
the cause and undertake corrective action. Safety 
inspections and checks will then be followed to  
allow the ride to be put back into operation.
Shutdown Preparation involves planning for  
‘In-service Inspection’ and ‘Annual Maintenance’ 
activities, undertaken while the ride is shut 
down and taken out of service. 
It is typically done in early autumn for those parks 
that have a closed season or on a rotational basis 
where the park remains open throughout the year.  
A rigorous programme of work sets out the level of 
‘strip down’ and ‘non-destructive testing’ required, as 
well as whether such activities are to be undertaken 
in-house or with third party specialist assistance.  
In-service Inspections require an independent and 
competent Inspection Body (IB) to annually check 
the condition and suitability of a ride for continuing 
safe use. This includes thorough examination of all 
safety critical components. The in-house engineering 
team’s responsibility during this process is to strip 
down each ride and prepare safety critical 
components ready for independent inspection  
and non-destructive testing.
Annual Maintenance takes place alongside the 
In-service Inspections, with the engineering team 
carrying out work on each ride in line with 
manufacturer’s recommendations, replacing 
components where required. 
On completion of the In-service Inspection, annual 
maintenance and function testing processes a 
Declaration of Operational Conformity (or safety 
certificate) will be issued if the IB is satisfied with the 
condition of the ride. This will typically be valid for  
twelve months. There can be minor variances to this 
process depending on the location of the attraction.    
Our engineers review ride performances regularly,  
working with the ride manufacturer and the IB to 
make Reliability Improvements, enhancing reliability, 
productivity and asset life. After these reviews, it 
may be decided that an adjusted schedule of 
planned maintenance is required to maintain 
optimum performance.
69
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 AUDIT
Committee Report
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Audit Committee 
(the Committee) and to be able to confirm, on behalf of the 
Board, that we believe the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee remains engaged in maintaining the integrity  
of the Company’s financial reporting, internal control framework 
and risk management process. During the year the Committee 
delivered a detailed programme of work to ensure that it 
continues to meet the increasing depth of review and reporting 
that is now required of Audit Committees. An external 
assessment of the Committee was undertaken during the  
year which found it to be effective.
Following updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Committee spent time ensuring that the additional requirements 
introduced were met by the Company. Particular focus was given 
to enhancements to the Company’s risk management processes, 
and systems of internal control, including any learnings from its 
internal investigation into the accident at Alton T owers.  The 
Committee is satisfied that the Company has appropriate 
systems and procedures in place to identify, evaluate and  
manage material risks to the business. 
The Committee also spent time considering the processes 
supporting the assessment of the Group’s longer term solvency 
and liquidity which underlie the new Viability Statement. 
Following this we agreed the stress testing parameters of the 
Group’s principal risks and that the appropriate period over 
which the assessment should be made for the Viability Statement 
was that of the Group’s business plan, which covers the current 
year and the next four years.
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 
40 to 45. The Committee has reviewed these and is comfortable 
the Company has addressed them appropriately within its 
ongoing operating model and priorities.
With respect to financial reporting, as in previous years, the  
two areas determined to be of most significance in preparing  
the Group’s financial statements are the valuation of assets 
including impairment, and revenue recognition.
The Committee recognises that independent and effective auditors 
are an essential component of the overall control framework.
A new Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Director has 
been appointed following an internal promotion of the previous 
director. The internal audit plan is risk based and we are satisfied 
with the content and quality of both reporting and management 
responses. An external assessment conducted during the year 
found the internal audit department to be effective. 
In 2015 Hugh Green replaced Mark Summerfield as the KPMG 
Senior Statutory Auditor, Mark having reached the end of his 
permitted tenure. The Committee is pleased with the smooth 
transition, a point supported by a review of KPMG’s effectiveness 
in late 2015. This review covered KPMG’s mindset and culture, 
skills and knowledge, judgement and quality control measures.  
The feedback received was positive with only minor points to be 
addressed. We have also kept abreast of the latest regulations  
on auditor rotation; we expect that a retender will be required  
no later than 2023 and will bear in mind the next KPMG 
partner rotation after the 2019 audit is concluded.
The CFO plays a critical role in maintaining financial reporting 
quality and we are therefore pleased that, with the recently 
announced appointment of Anne-Francoise Nesmes, we have 
found someone well qualified to be Andrew Carr’s successor.
Priorities for 2016 include continuing to deliver incremental 
improvements to the already effective risk management and 
control frameworks and monitoring the implementation of the 
Group’s new admissions systems, through which the Group will 
ultimately transact a significant proportion of its revenues.
From the date of the 2015 AGM Fru Hazlitt joined the Audit 
Committee following Miguel Ko stepping down from the Board. 
As we move into 2016 I am delighted that Trudy Rautio and 
Rachel Chiang have been appointed to the Audit Committee, 
adding to the valuable contribution provided by Charles Gurassa 
and resulting in a Committee with deep financial, sector and 
international business experience. We have also appreciated the 
enthusiastic support of management throughout the year.
K en­Hydon
Chairman­of­the­Audit­Committee
24 February 2016 
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
70
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 AUDIT Committee Report
The­r ole­of­the­ Audit­Committee
The Audit Committee has received delegated authority from  
the Board as set out in its written terms of reference (available 
on the Company’s website). Its primary responsibilities, subject 
only to minor changes in the year, are:
•  T o monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company and report to the Board on significant financial 
reporting issues and judgements.
•  T o review and report on the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal controls and the overall risk management systems.
•  T o review the Company’s arrangements for its employees to 
raise concerns through its whistleblowing and fraud policies.
•  T o monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function, and its material findings, in the context 
of the Company’s overall risk management and internal 
control environment.
•  T o oversee the performance and independence of the 
external auditors.
•  T o report formally to the Board and make recommendations 
where it is deemed necessary on matters within its terms of 
reference, including a report to the Board on how it has 
discharged its responsibilities.
•  T o consider the processes supporting the assessment of the 
Group’s longer term solvency and liquidity which underlie  
the Viability Statement.
The above obligations form the basis of an annual programme  
of work agreed before the start of the year and reviewed at  
each meeting to consider the inclusion of any further items that 
may need to be added in response to matters arising. In addition, 
the Committee is kept abreast of any updates in governance, 
legislation or guidance. All elements of the programme were 
covered during the course of the year. 
Membership and meetings
Details of the membership, their qualifications and the frequency 
and attendance at meetings are outlined in the Corporate 
Governance section on pages 62 to 65. In addition to the 
permanent members, the CFO and other key members of 
management routinely attend. The Chairman and the CEO are also 
invited to attend meetings as observers and others are invited to 
attend from time to time depending on the matters under discussion. 
Private meetings are routinely held with internal audit and KPMG. 
The Committee also meets privately after each Committee meeting.  
Effectiveness review
During the year an external effectiveness review of the Audit 
Committee was undertaken. This was based on a questionnaire 
sent to Committee members, all other attendees and the Board 
on a broad range of matters including the Committee’s scope; 
organisation and meetings; quality of debate and challenge; and 
leadership of the Committee. The results showed the  
Committee to be effective.
Risk­management­and­the­contr ol­envir onment
The Board retains overall responsibility for the Company’s 
internal controls and, as outlined in the Risks and uncertainties 
section on pages 40 to 45, separates the Company’s oversight 
of risk management into three risk components: Health, safety 
and security; Commercial and strategic; and Financial process. 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
overseeing the overall risk management process and specifically 
monitoring financial risk. The Audit Committee therefore has a 
dual role in relation to internal controls and risk management. 
In assessing internal controls, the Committee reviewed the overall 
risk management process in place during the year. At the end of 
the year it examined the Company’s risk organisation, how this 
has been practically implemented including the depth and 
effectiveness of reviews, and the methodology by which risk 
matters raised are brought to the attention of the Board, all 
intensified by the Alton T owers accident.
The Committee directly monitors the management of the 
financial process risk of the Company. Management remain 
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal 
controls over financial reporting. Such controls are designed to 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve its 
business objectives through the following structure:
•  The first level of internal control comprises the delegated 
authority limits and purchasing and sale price approval  
levels in place across the Company.
•  The second level of internal control is the frequent and 
regular review processes the Company undertakes on its 
trading performance along with its detailed capital  
investment and strategic planning processes. 
•  The third level of assurance is gained from audit and self-
assessment, including quarterly self-certification by the heads 
of finance of each of the business units; periodic internal audit 
reviews, with the support of specialist experts as appropriate; 
and the findings of the external auditors on the control 
environment and financial statements. The outcomes of  
these assurance activities are reviewed by management, the  
Audit Committee and the Board.
71
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 AUDIT Committee Report
Audit plans and outcomes
The internal audit annual plan is developed in conjunction  
with management, the focus being driven by the results of an 
assessment of various risk factors, before being reviewed and 
approved by the Committee.
Internal audit results and management responses are presented 
at each Committee meeting, with significant findings discussed in 
more detail and challenged where appropriate. The Committee 
continues to review management actions in response to 
significant findings and look at the root cause of consistent 
themes emerging across the Company, requesting ‘deep dive’ 
assessments of the financial control environment as necessary. 
Significant findings relate to areas where controls are found to be 
absent or inadequate in areas which are considered susceptible 
to fraud or material misstatement (at a local level) or where 
there is any evidence of deliberate falsification of documents. 
KPMG also present their view of Merlin’s control environment  
at the December meeting, following their audit of such  
processes in the fourth quarter.
These measures, combined with an assessment of discussions 
with relevant stakeholders of the internal control systems, 
satisfied the Committee that in 2015 a thorough process exists 
within Merlin to assess the internal control environment, and that 
financial process controls are in place to mitigate the risk of a 
substantial loss or fraud occurring.
Significant­issues­consider ed­in­2015­
Detailed below are some of the main areas that the  
Committee focused on in 2015. We are pleased to report  
that the Committee had no cause for disagreement with 
management during the year on these matters.
Accounting, tax and financial reporting
In addition to considering the material financial reporting matters 
noted below and in the table opposite, the Committee assessed 
the financial statements presented by the Company during the year 
as well as items that they believe are material to the integrity of  
the financial processes and output, including the consideration of: 
•  The half year and full year financial statements.
•  Disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts in relation  
to internal control, risk management process and the work  
of the Committee.
•  The tax position of the Group, in particular the effective  
tax rate and the recognition of deferred tax assets.
•  Key assumptions in relation to the Company’s defined  
benefit pension schemes.
•  Treasury accounting matters arising from the Company’s 
refinancing in the year.
•  Technical updates, in particular in relation to the requirements 
of and changes to the Code.
•  The Audit Committee’s report in the context of the  
Code’s requirement for ‘fair, balanced and  
understandable’ reporting.
Going concern and viability review
The Committee considered the Group’s going concern review, 
especially the appropriateness of the key judgements, assumptions 
and estimates underlying the budgets that underpin the review 
and a review of compliance with key financial covenants. The 
Committee also considered the key risks identified by the Group 
and the mitigating internal controls, together with how the risks 
have been addressed in the going concern assessment.
This process enabled the Committee, on behalf of the Board, to 
assess whether any material residual risks remained that could 
pose a significant threat to the viability of the business as a whole. 
The Committee also assessed over what period such a viability 
review would be appropriate and agreed with the four year 
outlook period used. The impact of those risks that could affect 
the future viability of the Group over the next four years was 
then reviewed as was the resilience of the Group to the 
occurrence of these risks, in severe yet plausible scenarios.  
As a result of this analysis, the disclosures detailed in the  
Viability Statement, on page 42, were approved by the Board.
Whistleblowing systems and fraud/bribery mitigation
The Committee receives regular updates on whistleblowing, 
including the quantity, source and nature of incidents reported 
and how matters are resolved. Efforts have continued in 2015  
to increase the awareness of the Company’s whistleblowing 
procedures. Internal audit results have confirmed that the 
external hotline has been effectively rolled out, adding a further 
route by which issues can be independently raised, supplementing 
the existing local ‘profit protection’ teams. The Company has a 
good culture of encouraging its staff to report incidents of poor 
practice. 84% of the employees who completed the annual staff 
survey in 2015 agreed they were aware of the whistleblowing 
options. The Company revised and reissued its fraud and bribery 
policy in 2015. This includes the provision of mandatory training 
for those staff who are considered most likely to be exposed  
to such risk.
Misstatements 
Management reported to the Committee that they were not 
aware of any material misstatements made intentionally to 
achieve a particular presentation. The external auditors reported 
to the Committee any misstatements that they had found in the 
course of their work and that no material adjustments were 
required. The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that  
the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities with diligence  
and professional scepticism.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management 
and consulting where necessary with the auditors, the Committee 
was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately addressed 
the significant judgements and key estimates both with respect to 
the amounts reported and the disclosures. The Committee was 
also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining 
the value of assets and liabilities had been appropriately 
scrutinised and challenged and were sufficiently robust.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
72 AUDIT Committee Report
Consideration of significant accounting matters 
Following discussion with both management and the external auditors, the Committee determined the areas of most significance, which 
could give rise to misstatement of the Group’s financial statements. These are set out below. These items were considered by the 
Committee at the time they agreed the external auditor’s plan, when reviewing the external auditor’s final audit findings, and in 
discussion with relevant members of management.
Matter­consider ed Summary
The valuation of assets and impairment 
This is an area of significant judgement given that 
the Group is involved in opening attractions in new 
and, to some degree, unproven locations. Existing 
businesses operate in geographically or politically 
diverse areas and in the past the Group has made 
material acquisitions resulting in significant balances 
of goodwill and intangible assets. 
The Group has accumulated experience of 
opening many attractions around the world, but 
inevitably the performance of additional attractions, 
particularly in new markets, can be difficult to 
predict accurately. The exposure of existing 
attractions to macro-economic volatility or material 
adverse events, such as the accident at Alton 
T owers, may indicate a need for an impairment 
assessment. These factors make forecasting the 
returns from the existing estate and acquired 
businesses similarly uncertain. 
Valuations are performed based on discounted 
future cash flow forecasts and other market data. 
They are complex to perform, include judgemental 
information such as market discount rates, and are 
based almost entirely upon forward looking 
estimates of future cash flows.
Management provided detailed papers to the Audit Committee, explaining the 
methodology and judgements applied to test the value of assets and to determine if an 
impairment adjustment was required. These papers examined the basis by which discount 
rates were determined, as well as the judgements made to calculate an asset’s terminal 
value. A combination of discount rate, terminal value and forecast cash flows are used  
to calculate the ‘value in use’.
The papers considered the valuation of goodwill at an Operating Group level, individual 
brands and specific property, plant and equipment. For each of these categories, in 
accordance with accounting standards, as well as ‘value in use’, ‘fair values’ were provided 
using an appropriate EBITDA multiple. Comparing the higher of these two valuations to 
their carrying values determined if any impairment was required. This paper specifically 
analysed the impact of the accident at Alton T owers on the expected future earnings  
of the attraction and the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group, as well as detailing  
the results of sensitivity analysis performed.
The papers also set out the disclosures proposed for the Annual Report and  
Accounts, taking account of the procedures noted above and the findings reported to  
the Committee. 
Having reviewed the basis of management’s calculations and the findings of the external 
audit on the valuation of assets and impairment, the Committee is satisfied with the 
appropriateness of the presentation in the financial statements and the adequacy of  
the disclosures, and that no impairment is required.
Revenue recognition  
Revenue is generated by high volumes of low value 
transactions in numerous jurisdictions across the 
world. During the year the Company announced 
its plan to roll out the accesso
®
 admissions system 
across the Group. This system will ultimately 
generate a significant proportion of the Group’s 
revenue transactions. 
Whilst there is limited judgement required in 
Merlin’s revenue accounting policies compared to 
some other sectors, the accuracy of financial 
reporting relies on robust internal controls over 
cash reconciliations and the accurate cut-off of 
revenue at the balance sheet date in the instance 
of advanced sales or payment in arrears by  
trade customers. 
IFRS 15, the new accounting standard on revenue 
from contracts with customers, which will become 
effective from the 2018 accounting period, could 
potentially have an impact on the Group’s  
financial results.
The roll out of the new admissions system commenced during the year under the 
guidance of a senior steering group, chaired by the Group’s Chief Information Officer.  
The steering group includes a number of the Group’s senior finance team, including the 
Group CFO. The project roll out team includes finance resource that is responsible for 
designing and implementing appropriate financial processes and controls.
The project was at an early stage in 2015, initially focused on a number of the Group’s 
smaller attractions, representing a very small percentage of the Group’s revenues. As the 
new system is increasingly used across the estate during 2016, it will be a key focus for  
the Committee.
The Committee has concluded that IFRS 15 is not expected to materially alter the  
Group’s financial results.
Other than as noted above, there have been no material changes in revenue streams or 
processes during 2015. As in previous years, the Audit Committee has considered the 
internal controls in place, including those over revenue streams, and concludes that  
they remain effective.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
73 AUDIT Committee Report
R esponsibilities­in­r espect­of­internal­and­external­audit
As noted above the internal and external audit functions represent 
an important part of the third line of defence in terms of 
maintaining  an effective internal control environment within the 
Company. The Committee oversees both internal and external 
audit to ensure they are independent and effective, and further 
information is provided in the following sections as to how the 
Committee satisfies itself of this independence and effectiveness. 
Internal audit
The Company’s internal audit function is led by an appropriately 
qualified Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Director. 
Through 2015 he reported jointly to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and the CFO and the Committee consider him to 
have the appropriate experience to lead the function. During  
the year it was indicated that he would move to another role  
within the Company in early 2016 and the Audit Committee 
chair participated in the recruitment of his replacement. The 
Committee is satisfied that the appropriate focus, skills and 
experience were in place throughout 2015, a view supported  
by the results of the external effectiveness review performed 
towards the end of the year. The Committee is also confident 
that the new Group Internal Audit and Risk Management 
Director has the relevant skills and experience to fulfil the 
obligations of the role. The transition took place in January 2016.
The internal audit function comprises six in-house auditors, 
including the Group Internal Audit and Risk Management 
Director, four of whom hold professional accounting qualifications 
and two who are part qualified and actively working towards full 
qualification. When necessary external support is used. For 
example PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) provided specialist 
support to the audit of the Company’s IT strategic roadmap  
and risks as the internal team did not have the relevant skills. 
The Committee received and approved a presentation of the 
audits planned to be performed in 2015 at the start of the year, 
including an assessment of the risk approach taken in formulating 
the priorities. Factors such as size and location of business, history 
of audit findings, competence and stability of local management, 
material changes to a business and relevance to the Group’s 
strategy were factored into this prioritisation. 
During the year, audits have been undertaken in operations 
representing coverage of approximately 60% of the Group’s 
revenue. In 2015, in addition to the revenue generating locations, 
internal audits were performed over the effectiveness of central 
marketing procedures, admissions and web booking systems, 
central profit protection systems and bribery and fraud mitigation 
procedures. The coverage is in line with the plan approved by  
the Committee. 
The internal audit reports are reviewed by management with 
significant findings also reviewed by the Company’s Executive 
Committee. Any such findings are also discussed at the Audit 
Committee, along with recommendations and actions planned  
by management. 
An external review of the effectiveness of internal audit was 
undertaken during the year and the results of the review  
were presented to the Committee in December. Members  
and attendees of the Audit Committee meetings, along with  
the senior finance community of the Company, were questioned  
on a range of subjects including the governance and organisation 
of the internal audit function, their audit approach and the 
effectiveness of their reports and conclusions. The survey results 
showed that the internal audit function is considered professional, 
diligent and its internal audits appropriately detailed.
Having considered comments from management, external 
auditors, the survey results and the quality of the internal audit 
reporting and findings, the Committee concluded that the 
internal audit function is effective.
External audit 
KPMG LLP were the Company’s external auditors throughout 
the year. The Committee is responsible for overseeing the work 
of the external auditors, including considering the scope of 
planned work and the assessment of risk and materiality on 
which it is based and, on behalf of the Board, approving the  
audit fee and ensuring their independence.
Appointment and governance of the external auditors
The Committee is responsible for making a recommendation  
to the Board on the appointment, reappointment or removal of 
the external auditors, together with their remuneration and 
terms of their engagement.
Having performed the role of Senior Statutory Auditor for five 
years, Mark Summerfield stepped down from this role at the 
conclusion of the 2014 reporting cycle. Hugh Green took over 
the position for the 2015 audit and the Committee has been 
pleased with the smooth transition. An effectiveness survey of 
KPMG in late 2015 also concluded that a range of stakeholders 
acknowledged that the transition had been smooth.
In recommending the reappointment of external auditors  
at the AGM, the Committee has considered the latest EU  
Audit Reforms guidance. Following consultation between the 
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) and the 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC), it is now expected that Merlin 
will be required to retender its audit no later than for the 2023 
financial year and will bear in mind the next KPMG partner 
rotation after the 2019 audit has concluded. The Committee has 
considered whether a retender in 2016 would be appropriate as 
part of its annual recommendation to the Board on the 
appointment of the external auditors.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
74 AUDIT Committee Report
Remuneration and independence of external auditors
The auditors are eligible for selection to provide non-audit 
services only to the extent that their skills and experience make 
them a competitive and most appropriate supplier of these 
services. Non-audit services are subject to market tenders or 
tests and are awarded to the most appropriate provider. 
Non-audit services that are awarded to the auditors are normally 
limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual  
audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed 
understanding of the Group is necessary. The principle followed 
with regard to non-audit services is that the auditors may not 
provide a service which: 
• Places them in a position to audit their own work.
• Impacts their independence by creating a shared interest.
•  Results in the auditors developing close personal  
relationships with Merlin employees.
•  Results in the auditors functioning as a manager  
or employee of Merlin.
• Puts the auditors in the role of advocate for Merlin.
 
The Committee granted the CFO authority to approve the 
following without prior approval:
•  Work which a third party requires to be carried out by  
the Company’s auditors.
•  Tax compliance work where the external auditor is the  
most appropriate party to perform those services.
•  Any other work up to a value of £100,000 where the  
external auditor is best placed to undertake the work.
Management provides the Committee with reports on audit, 
audit-related and non-audit expenditure, together with proposals 
of any material non-audit related assignments. The Committee 
regularly reviews and, where necessary, challenges management 
to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is not 
impaired. The Committee has determined that ‘non-audit fees’ 
should be no higher than 70% of ‘audit and audit-related 
fees’; this level will continue to be monitored. The Committee 
continues to monitor the implementation of the EU directive by 
the UK Government which will, in future, place certain restrictions 
around non-audit services performed by the auditors.
Fees for non-audit services during the year amounted to £0.8 
million (2014: £0.8 million). This represents a ratio of 58%. Details 
of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related services and 
non-audit services can be found in note 2.1 to the  
financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related 
and non-audit fees, and the nature of services provided, are not 
such that would compromise the objectivity and independence  
of the external auditors.
Assessment of the performance of the external auditors
Following consideration of the FRC’s Practice Aid on Audit 
Quality, the Committee has evaluated the performance, 
independence and objectivity of KPMG. One part of this 
evaluation was an effectiveness assessment, facilitated by an 
external party. This assessment was conducted by way of a series 
of questionnaires issued to, and interviews with, Audit Committee 
members and other attendees, and senior finance personnel both 
at Merlin’s attractions and at its head office. The survey covered 
KPMG’s mindset and culture, skills and knowledge, judgement  
and quality control aspects of the audit.
The survey indicated widespread support of the quality of the 
KPMG audit and the Committee were satisfied with KPMG’s 
responses to points raised in the survey.
In addition, the effectiveness of KPMG’s 2015 audit was assessed 
over the year by reference to the following factors:
•  The performance of Hugh Green in his first year as Senior 
Statutory Auditor, including his understanding of our business 
and the impact on the Annual Report and Accounts.
•  The robustness and perceptiveness of KPMG’s handling of  
key accounting and audit judgements.
•  The quality of communication with the Committee, including 
the regular reports on accounting and governance matters.
•  The skills and experience of the wider audit team and their 
execution of the audit, including the way they handled the key 
accounting and audit judgements and communication of the 
same with management and the Committee.
•  Their reputation and standing, including their independence 
and objectivity and their internal quality procedures.
•  The quality of the formal report to shareholders.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee 
concluded that the external auditors were effective.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
75 DIRECTORS’
Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder
This year’s Remuneration Report is split into two sections:
•  Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee contains details of our remuneration principles 
and of the key decisions reached by the Committee  
during 2015. 
•  Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of  
pay received by Directors in 2015 and full details of how we 
intend to implement our pay policy during 2016. The Annual 
Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote 
at the 2016 AGM.
For the reference of shareholders, an Annex to the 
Remuneration Report contains the current Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy (Policy) that was approved by a binding 
shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM in the exact form that it  
was included in the 2013 Remuneration Report. This Policy 
remains effective for the forthcoming year.
R emuneration­principles
A series of key principles underpin the Merlin remuneration 
structure: payments should be based on results and performance; 
pay should be aligned to the long term success of the Company, 
and consistent with best practice; widespread share ownership 
should be encouraged.
Performance orientated
•  Rewarding performance is a core part of our ethos.  
About 80% of our permanent employees participate in a 
bonus plan and over 325 employees receive regular share 
awards or share option grants.
•  T o reinforce the link between performance and pay,  
most employees are rewarded for the performance of  
their particular attraction. Only the senior executives  
(the Executive Committee and their direct reports) and 
employees of central functions are rewarded for the 
performance of the overall Group.
•  For senior executives, including the Executive Directors, 
performance related pay, based on stretching short term  
and longer term targets, forms a significant part of their 
potential pay packages.
Aligned to the long term success of the Company
Our pay structure encourages strong alignment between  
the interests of our senior executives and the interests of  
our shareholders.
•  Senior executives receive regular awards of shares under  
the Performance Share Plan (PSP) which are subject to the 
achievement of challenging EPS and ROCE performance 
targets. EPS and ROCE are key performance indicators  
aligned to the Company’s strategic priorities. 
•  The business continues to see many global opportunities for 
the successful deployment of capital and these measures are 
designed to ensure that this is done in the most effective 
manner to generate sustainable long term returns.
•  For senior executives, there is greater emphasis on rewards 
for delivery of longer term performance targets than short 
term performance targets.
•  Members of the Executive Committee are required to  
build up and retain a significant holding of Merlin shares.  
For Executive Directors, the requirement is to build a  
holding of shares worth 200% of salary.
Consistent with best practice
•  Salaries are set at competitive, but not excessive, levels 
compared to peers and other companies of an equivalent  
size and complexity.
•  There is potential for market competitive levels of total pay 
but only if stretching business targets are delivered.
•  For our employees, we have a high degree of simplicity  
in our pay model.
Widespread share ownership
•  Widespread share ownership is an integral part of Merlin’s 
culture. We operate all-employee share plans that enable  
all of our permanent employees to purchase a stake in  
our Company. 
•  These plans supplement the discretionary share plans for 
senior executives (Deferred Bonus Plan and PSP) and the 
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP) for middle management.
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
76
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
P erformance­in­2015
The financial and operating performance of Merlin in 2015 is  
set out on pages 2 to 57 in the Strategic Report.
2015 was a challenging year for Merlin. The Company grew 
revenues by 2.3% (3.9% on a constant currency basis) but, 
reflecting the lower levels of like for like revenue growth and 
the significant decline in revenue in the Resort Theme Parks 
Operating Group, underlying operating profit decreased by 
£20 million, or 5.6% on a constant currency basis.
As a result of financial performance falling below expectations  
the threshold for payment of profit-related bonus was not met. 
As a consequence neither the CEO nor CFO will receive a  
bonus in relation to 2015 performance.
Pay­decisions­for­2016
The proposed pay structure for the Executive Directors for  
2016 is outlined on pages 78 to 79. Key decisions made by  
the Committee in relation to 2016 include:
•  In order to be compliant with the revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Committee has strengthened the 
existing provisions relating to the withholding and recovery  
of incentive awards (‘malus’ and ‘clawback’ provisions) so  
that they can potentially be applied to any element of the 
Executive Directors’ variable pay awarded in respect of  
2016. Further details of these provisions are outlined in  
the ‘Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016’ section  
of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
•  Both Executive Directors asked not to be considered for an 
increase in their salaries as part of the review to be effective 
from 1 January 2016. The average salary increase for the  
Merlin UK workforce effective 1 January 2016 is 1.5%.
•  The Committee has agreed the same basic structure to the 
bonus plan as 2015 with individual objectives for the Executive 
Directors appropriately reflecting Company priorities.
•  The Committee has also maintained the same basic structure 
for the PSP with unchanged threshold and maximum 
performance conditions. 
•  Following the announcement of the retirement of the current 
CFO, Andrew Carr, and the appointment of Anne-Francoise 
Nesmes the remuneration arrangements for Anne-Francoise 
are set out on page 79 and those for Andrew are set  
out as follows.
R etir ement­of­CFO­
As a Committee, we recognise our responsibility to ensure that 
pay decisions relating to departing Directors are determined 
fairly both for shareholders and for the departing individuals. 
As outlined in our announcements in January and February, 
Andrew Carr has decided to retire and will step down as a Board 
Director on 1 August 2016. Andrew will continue to work for 
the Company until 31 October 2016 in order to provide 
transitional support to the new CFO.
Andrew will receive no further payments following cessation of 
employment and will not be eligible for future bonus or LTIP 
awards and accordingly he will not be a participant in either 
the 2016 annual bonus plan or the 2016 PSP award. Andrew’s 
outstanding deferred bonus share award will vest upon cessation 
of employment in accordance with our standard policy for good 
leavers. His outstanding PSP awards will be time pro rata reduced 
upon cessation of employment and will remain subject to the 
existing performance conditions measured over the full three 
year performance period.
I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in 
understanding our remuneration practices and that you will be 
supportive of the resolution relating to remuneration at the 
AGM. As ever, the Committee welcomes any questions or 
comments from shareholders.
Charles­Gurassa
Chairman­of­the­R emuneration­Committee
24 February 2016
77
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Implementation­of­r emuneration­policy­in­2016
This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our remuneration policy (as set out in the  
Annex to this Remuneration Report) in 2016 for the current Executive Directors. The remuneration arrangements for the new  
CFO, Anne-Francoise Nesmes, are set out on page 79.
Base salary
Salary details for the current Executive Directors are set out below.
Salary­ 
1­October­2014
Salary­
1­October­2015 %­incr ease
Nick Varney £581,400 £581,400 Zero
Andrew Carr £351,900 £351,900 Zero
As­a­per centage­of­maximum­bonus­opportunity
Measur e CEO CFO
Underlying operating profit 80% 80%
Personal objectives 20% 20%
T otal 100% 100%
Pension and benefits
As in 2015, the current Executive Directors will receive a Company contribution worth 25% of salary. Nick Varney will receive this 
contribution as a cash allowance and Andrew Carr will receive a contribution to the Group Pension Plan up to the minimum Annual 
Allowance of £10,000 and a cash allowance in respect of the balance. T o the extent that a cash allowance is paid this is reduced by the 
corresponding amount of employer National Insurance Contributions. They will also receive a standard package of other benefits 
consistent with those received in 2015.
Annual bonus
The structure of the annual bonus plan for 2016 remains broadly consistent with the 2015 plan. Key features are as follows:
• The maximum annual bonus potential will be 150% of salary for the CEO and 135% for the CFO.
• One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years under The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
•  Bonus payments and deferred share awards will be subject to potential withholding or clawback during the three year period following 
the award of the bonus in exceptional circumstances of evidence coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a 
material misstatement of the financial accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
The annual bonus for 2016 for Executive Directors will be determined as detailed below:
Payment under the non-financial elements of the bonus will be scaled back to the extent that Group underlying operating profit targets 
are not fully met. This means that if there is no payment under the Group underlying operating profit element of the bonus scheme, 
there will also be no payment under this element of the bonus irrespective of performance against the aforementioned individual 
measures. The targets themselves, as they relate to the financial year 2016, are deemed to be commercially sensitive. However, 
retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next year’s remuneration report to the  
extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
78 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
EPS­performance­condition­(50%­of­awar d)
Adjusted EPS growth % of award vesting
Below threshold
<7% p.a.  
cumulative growth
0%
Threshold
7% p.a.  
cumulative growth
10%
Between threshold  
and maximum
7% - 14% p.a. 
cumulative growth
10% to 50%  
on sliding scale
Maximum
14% p.a.  
cumulative growth
50%
R OCE­performance­condition­(50%­of­awar d)
Average ROCE % of award vesting
Below threshold <9% 0%
Threshold 9% 12.5%
Between threshold 
and maximum
9% - 13% 12.5% to 50% on 
sliding scale
Maximum 13% 50%
PSP awards will be subject to potential withholding or clawback during the five year period following the date of award in exceptional 
circumstances of evidence coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a material misstatement of the financial 
accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
Employee Share Plan
Invitations to UK employees (including Executive Directors) to participate in the Employee Sharesave Plan (UK Sharesave Plan) were 
issued in 2014 and 2015. Similar invitations were issued to relevant employees under the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the 
Overseas Sharesave Plan.
Invitations for the next award under each of these plans commenced in February 2016.
New CFO pay arrangements
Anne-Francoise Nesmes will commence employment with Merlin on 1 August 2016. Her pay arrangements will be in line with our 
policy and will comprise:
• Salary of £385,000 fixed until October 2017.
• Pension contribution worth 25% of salary plus a standard benefits package including relocation support.
•  Annual bonus potential of up to 135% of salary paid in a mixture of cash and deferred shares as outlined above. In 2016, Ms Nesmes 
will have a time pro-rated bonus potential.
•  Annual PSP awards. The Committee’s current policy is that Ms Nesmes will receive an annual PSP award of shares worth 225% of 
annual salary, consistent with the award policy for her predecessor. Her first PSP award will be granted in September 2016 shortly 
after she commences employment with Merlin.
• Twelve month notice period.
For completeness, there are no buy-out arrangements to compensate for forfeited long term incentive awards.
In line with the Merlin shareholding requirement, Ms Nesmes will be expected to retain at least 50% of vested share awards  
(after selling sufficient shares to satisfy tax liabilities) until she holds Merlin shares worth at least 200% of her salary.
Performance Share Plan
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are granted over Merlin shares with the number of shares under award determined by reference 
to a percentage of base salary. Vesting of the awards is conditional upon satisfaction of performance conditions and is usually also 
conditional upon continued employment until the awards vest.
The CEO will be amongst the participants in the PSP award to be granted in April 2016. Awards will be over shares worth, at the date 
of grant, 250% of salary for the CEO. Vesting of these awards will be subject to satisfaction of the following performance conditions 
measured over the three financial years to December 2018. Owing to planned retirement the CFO will receive no award under the  
PSP in 2016.
Adjusted EPS is defined on page 164. 
Adjusted EPS growth will be calculated by comparing Adjusted EPS for the 2018 financial 
year with Adjusted EPS for the 2015 financial year.
ROCE is defined on page 165.
Average ROCE will be calculated as an average of ROCE for the 2016, 2017 and 2018 
financial years.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
79 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
2016
Basic fee for UK-based Non-executive £50,000
Basic fee for overseas-based Non-executive £50,000 plus a travel allowance of £1,000 per Board meeting attended in person
Senior Independent Director additional fee £10,000
Audit Committee Chairman additional fee £10,000
Remuneration Committee Chairman additional fee £10,000
Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee £250,000
Non-executive Director remuneration
The table below shows the fee structure for Independent Non-executive Directors for 2016. Independent Non-executive  
Director fees are determined by the full Board except for the fee for the Chairman of the Board which is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. 
There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees nor to the shareholder representative Non-executive Directors.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
80 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
2015
All­figur es­shown­in­£000
Salary­ 
and­fees­
(1)
Benefits­
(2)
Annual­
bonus­
(3)
Long­term­
incentives­
(4)
Other ­
(5)
P ension ­
(6)
T otal
Executive Directors
Nick Varney 581 21 - - 3 128 733
Andrew Carr 352 17 - - 3 82 454
Non-executive Directors
Sir John Sunderland 250 - - - - - 250
Charles Gurassa 70 - - - - - 70
Ken Hydon 60 - - - - - 60
Miguel Ko
 (7)
21 - - - - - 21
Fru Hazlitt 50 - - - - - 50
Trudy Rautio 
(8)
14 - - - - - 14
Søren Thorup Sørensen - - - - - - -
Dr. Gerry Murphy 
(7)
 - - - - - - -
Rob Lucas 
(7)
- - - - - - -
2014
All­figur es­shown­in­£000
Salary­ 
and­fees­
(1)
Benefits­
(2)
Annual­
bonus­
(3)
Long­term­
incentives­
(4)
Other ­
(5)
P ension ­
(6)
T otal
Executive Directors
Nick Varney 573 20 859 - 3 127 1,582
Andrew Carr 347 18 444 - 3 81 893
Non-executive Directors
Sir John Sunderland 250 - - - - - 250
Charles Gurassa 70 - - - - - 70
Ken Hydon 60 - - - - - 60
Miguel Ko 50 - - - - - 50
Fru Hazlitt
 (9)
38 - - - - - 38
Søren Thorup Sørensen - - - - - - -
Dr. Gerry Murphy - - - - - - -
Rob Lucas - - - - - - -
Notes to the table - methodology: 
(1)
 Salary and fees - this represents the cash paid or receivable in respect of the period.
(2)
  Benefits - this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid or receivable in respect of the period. Executive Directors receive a company car or car allowance, phone costs, income 
protection insurance, an annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
(3)
  Annual bonus - this is the total annual bonus earned in respect of the period. Two-thirds of this bonus is paid in cash and the remaining third is deferred in shares for three years. 
Further details relating to the 2015 bonus are disclosed below.
(4)
  Long term incentives - this column relates to the value of long term awards whose performance period ends in the year under review. The first long term incentive award granted 
post Listing has a performance period that ends in 2016. As a result, this column has a zero figure in 2014 and 2015. 
(5)
  Other - this column relates to the value of the grant of options under the UK Sharesave Plan. The grant has been valued, for the 2014 and 2015 grants respectively, at 22.6% and 
29.8% of the face value of shares under option which is the IFRS 2 valuation for these awards.
(6)
  Pension - Executive Directors receive a Company contribution worth 25% of salary. Nick Varney receives this contribution as a cash allowance and Andrew Carr receives this as a contribution to 
the Group Personal Pension Plan up to the Annual Allowance and, in respect of the balance, as a cash allowance. This figure represents the benefit received by the Directors in respect of the 
period. The 2014 figures have been amended to reflect the reduction in cash amount paid for the corresponding amount of employer National Insurance Contributions.
(7)
 Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas stepped down from the Board on 14 May 2015. Fees shown for Miguel Ko are from 28 December 2014 to 14 May 2015.
(8)
 Trudy Rautio joined the Board on 1 October 2015. Fees shown in the table are from that date to 26 December 2015.
(9)
 Fru Hazlitt joined the Board on 1 April 2014. Fees shown in the table are from that date to 27 December 2014.
AUDITED INFORMATION
The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report up until the ‘Unaudited information’ heading on page 86 is subject to audit.
Single­total­figur e­of­r emuneration
The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors for 2015 with prior year 
comparatives for 2014.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
81 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
(1)
  The maximum number of shares that could be awarded has been calculated using the closing share price on 1 April 2015 of £4.42 and is stated before the impact of reinvestment of 
the dividends paid since grant. 
Scheme­inter ests­awar ded­during­the­financial­year
Performance Share Plan awards
An award was granted under the PSP to selected senior executives, including the Executive Directors, on 2 April 2015. This award is 
subject to the performance conditions described below and will vest on 2 April 2018.
T ype­of­awar d
Maximum­
number­of­
shar es
Face­value­ 
(£)
 (1)
Face­value­ 
(%­of­salary)
Thr eshold­vesting­ 
(%­of­awar d)
End­of­
performance­
period
Nick Varney
Performance 
shares
328,846 £1,453,500 250% For EPS element  
10% of award (max 50%)
For ROCE element 
12.5% of award (max 50%)
30 December 2017
Andrew Carr
Performance 
shares
179,134 £791,772 225%
(1)
 The maximum annual bonus payout that can be received as a result of individual objectives is scaled back to the extent that the underlying operating profit target is not fully satisfied.
Additional­disclosur es­in­r espect­of­the­single­figur e­table
Annual bonus
Executive Directors are participants in the central bonus plan. The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors for 
2015 was 150% of salary for the CEO and 135% of salary for the CFO. One-third of any bonus earned is deferred into shares for three 
years under The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
The maximum potential annual bonus that could be paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2015 performance was determined by 
underlying operating profit performance. 20% of that potential bonus was additionally subject to satisfaction of individual objectives. 
Performance measures and targets applying to the 2015 annual bonus are set out below.
In 2015 no bonus was payable to employees under the central bonus plan, including the Executive Directors, since the financial 
threshold for payment of bonus was not achieved.
P erformance­
measur e
Pr oportion ­ of­
bonus ­ determined­ 
by ­ measur e
Thr eshold­
performance
T arget­
performance
Maximum­ 
performance
Actual­
performance
% of  
maximum 
bonus­payable
Underlying 
operating profit
80% £310.6 million
(0% of bonus 
payable)
£330.4 million
(40% of bonus 
payable)
£350.2 million
(80% of bonus  
payable)
£291.5 million 0%
Individual 
objectives
20% 
(1)
Following the year end, the Committee assessed performance  
against the individual objectives for each Director for 2015.
CEO:   The CEO met the majority of his personal objectives which 
covered a range of areas from delivering new openings, new 
accommodation rooms, customer satisfaction targets and 
securing future sites. 
CFO:   The CFO met the majority of his personal objectives which 
covered a range of areas including delivering new finance 
facilities and implementing new systems. 
0% as 
threshold 
profit target 
was not 
achieved
TOT AL 0% (CEO)
0% (CFO)
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
82 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
UK Sharesave awards
The Executive Directors participated in the 17 March 2015 grant of options under the Sharesave Plan on the same terms as other UK 
employees. Details relating to their participation in this grant are set out below. No performance conditions apply to these options. 
Each option is exercisable at an exercise price of £3.2371. The option exercise price represents a 20% discount to the average closing 
price of a share (£4.0463) on the three dealing days prior to the invitation to participate in the Company’s Plan which was 16 February 
2015. The face value of options in the above table is based on the aforementioned exercise price.
Deferred Bonus Plan awards
The Executive Directors’ annual bonuses are delivered two-thirds in cash and one-third in shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan. 
On 25 March 2015, the Executive Directors received an award of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan relating to the 2014 annual 
bonus. The value of these shares was included in the annual bonus figure in the 2014 single total figure of remuneration. No further 
performance conditions apply to these shares. 
(1)
  The maximum number of shares awarded has been calculated using the closing share price on 24 March 2015 of £4.45 and is stated before the impact of reinvestment of the 
dividends paid since grant. 
EPS­performance­condition­(50%­of­awar d)
Adjusted EPS growth % of award vesting
Below threshold
<7% p.a.  
cumulative growth
0%
Threshold
7% p.a.  
cumulative growth
10%
‘Mid-point’
10.5% p.a.  
cumulative growth
27.5%
Maximum
14% p.a.
cumulative growth
50%
R OCE­performance­condition­(50%­of­awar d)
Average ROCE % of award vesting
Below threshold <9% 0%
Threshold 9% 12.5%
‘Mid-point’ 11% 27.5%
Maximum 13% 50%
Based on Adjusted EPS as defined in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts. 
Adjusted EPS growth will be calculated by comparing Adjusted EPS for the 2017 financial 
year with Adjusted EPS for the 2014 financial year.
Based on ROCE as defined in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Average ROCE will be calculated as an average of ROCE for the 2015, 2016  
and 2017 financial years.
T ype­of­awar d
Maximum­number­ 
of­shar es Face­value­(£) Options­exer cisable
Nick Varney Share Option 2,780 £8,999
1 April 2018 -        
30 September 2018
Andrew Carr Share Option 2,780 £8,999
T ype­of­awar d
Maximum­number­ 
of­shar es
(1)
Face­value­(£) V esting­date
Nick Varney Deferred shares 64,364 £286,420 25 March 2018
Andrew Carr Deferred shares 33,308 £148,220 25 March 2018
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
83 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Payments­to­past­Dir ectors­
There were no payments to past Directors during 2015. 
Payments­for­loss­of­office
There were no payments for loss of office to Directors during 2015. 
Statement­of­Dir ectors ’­shar eholding­and­shar e­inter ests
A shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary applies to the Executive Directors. Both of the current Executive Directors had a 
shareholding that surpassed that requirement at 26 December 2015.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve the shareholding requirement primarily by retaining at least 50% of any share awards that 
vest under the PSP and the Deferred Bonus Plan (after selling sufficient shares to satisfy tax liabilities). Individuals are expected to be 
compliant with their shareholding requirement within five years of that individual becoming subject to the requirement. The Committee 
reviews ongoing individual performance against the shareholding requirement at the end of each financial year.
Current shareholding requirements and the number of shares held by Directors are set out in the table below. 
Number­of­shar es
Dir ector
V alue­of­shar eholding­at­26­
December­2015­as­a­%­of­
salary­(Shar eholding­
r equir ement­target)
Shar es­
owned­
outright­at­
26­December­2015
Inter ests­in­shar e­incentive­
schemes,­awar ded­without­
performance­conditions­at­ 
26­December­2015
 
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­Deferr ed
­­­­­­Shar esave­­­­­­­­­­­ Bonus­
(1)
Inter ests­in­shar e­
incentive­schemes,­
awar ded­subject­to­
performance­conditions­
at­26­December­2015­
(2)
PSP
Nick Varney
 (3)
5,014% (200%) 6,477,823 5,816 65,346 906,636
Andrew Carr
 (3)
3,625% (200%) 2,835,123 5,816 33,816 494,997
Sir John Sunderland - 531,044 - - -
Charles Gurassa - 31,746 - - -
Ken Hydon - 31,920 - - -
Fru Hazlitt - 31,746 - - -
Trudy Rautio
 
- 11,250 - - -
Søren Thorup Sørensen
 
- - - - -
Notes to the table:
(1)
  In accordance with the Deferred Bonus Plan rules, the Committee has determined that an additional award of shares will be made in respect of shares which vest under Deferred 
Bonus Plan awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the deferral period (calculated on the assumption that dividends are 
reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis). The total number of shares shown in this table includes 982 shares and 508 shares for Nick Varney and Andrew Carr 
respectively which relate to assumed reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant on Deferred Bonus Plan awards.
(2)
 Further details relating to the PSP grants are summarised below. 
(3)
 For the purposes of determining Executive Director shareholdings, the individual’s salary and the share price as at 26 December 2015 has been used (£4.50).
Between 26 December 2015 and the date of this report there were no changes in the shareholdings outlined in the above table.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
84 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Outstanding awards under the PSP
(1)
  In accordance with the PSP rules, the Committee has determined that an additional award of shares will be made in respect of shares which vest under PSP awards to reflect the 
value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the vesting period (calculated on the assumption that dividends are reinvested in Company shares on a 
cumulative basis). The figures in the table above relate to assumed reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
Date­of­grant
Date­of­
vesting
Maximum­
number­of­
shar es
Face­value­ 
(%­of­salary)
Dividend­
equivalent­
shar es
(1)
P erformance­
condition
End­of­
performance­
period
Nick 
Varney
12 November 
2013
1 April 2017 560,952 310% 11,822
EPS: 10% vests for 7% 
p.a. cumulative growth 
increasing to 50%  
vesting for 14% p.a. 
cumulative growth
ROCE: 12.5% vests for 
average ROCE of 9% 
increasing to 50% 
vesting for average 
ROCE of 13%
December 2016
Andrew 
Carr
12 November 
2013
1 April 2017 306,667 280% 6,463
Date­of­grant
Date­of­
vesting
Maximum­
number­of­
shar es
Face­value­ 
(%­of­salary)
Dividend­
equivalent­
shar es
(1)
P erformance­
condition
End­of­
performance­
period
Nick 
Varney
2 April 2015 2 April 2018 328,846 250% 5,016
EPS: 10% vests for 7% 
p.a. cumulative growth 
increasing to 50% 
vesting for 14% p.a. 
cumulative growth
ROCE: 12.5% vests for 
average ROCE of 9% 
increasing to 50% 
vesting for average 
ROCE of 13%
December 2017
Andrew 
Carr
2 April 2015 2 April 2018 179,134 225% 2,733
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
85 (1)
 From Listing on 13 November 2013 to 28 December 2013.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
P erformance­graph­and­CEO­r emuneration­table
The chart below compares the T otal Shareholder Return performance of the Company over the period from Listing to 26 December 
2015 to the performance of the FTSE 350 Index. This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which 
Merlin is a member. The base point in the chart for Merlin equates to the Offer Price of 315p. 
The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payouts and PSP vesting levels as a percentage 
of maximum opportunity over this period.
2013
(1)
2014 2015
CEO single figure of remuneration £000 151 1,582 733
Annual bonus payout  
(as a % of maximum opportunity)
n/a (no maximum  
limit applied in 2013)
100% 0%
PSP vesting outturn  
(as a % of maximum opportunity)
n/a (no award  
vested in 2013)
n/a (no award  
vested in 2014)
n/a (no award  
vested in 2015)
V alue­of­£100­invested­at­the­Offer­Price­(Merlin) 
­/­on­the­date­of­Listing­(FT SE­350)
£150
£145
£140
£135
£130
£125
£120
£115
£110
£105
£100
£95
£90
2014 year end  
(27 December
2014)
Merlin Entertainments FTSE 350
Listing  
(13 November
2013)
2013 year end  
(28 December
2013)
2015 year end  
(26 December
2015)
115
126
103
101
100
103
146
DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
86 P er centage­change­in­r emuneration­of­the­CEO
The table below indicates the change in the CEO’s remuneration between 2014 and 2015 and the change in average remuneration for 
other UK employees between 2014 and 2015. The Remuneration Committee believes that the UK workforce is the most appropriate 
comparator for this analysis for the UK based CEO.
Salary­incr ease­
(1)
Benefits­incr ease/decr ease­
(2)
Annual ­ bonus ­ incr ease/decr ease ­
(3)
CEO 0% + 5% - 100%
Average for all UK employees + 1.5% + 1% - 89%
(1)
 The CEO’s salary was increased by 2% effective 1 October 2014. There has been no further increase since that time.
(2)  
The CEO’s increase in benefits of 5% reflects the increased cost of company car provision (£1,000).
(3)
 For comparative purposes the annual bonus % for the CEO is compared to the average for the participants in the central bonus plan. 
R elative­importance­of­the­spend­on­pay
This chart illustrates the total expenditure on pay for all of Merlin’s employees compared to distributions to shareholders by  
way of dividend and share buyback. In order to provide context for these figures, underlying operating profit is also shown. 
£m
Employee costs
327
312
Distributions to 
shareholders
64
20
311
291
Underlying 
operating profit
(see page 108)
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
+£44m­ 214.9% -£20m­ (6.2%) +£15m­ 4.8%
2014
2015
DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
87 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
V otes­for V otes­against V otes­withheld
Approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration 815 million (98%) 17 million (2%) 0.3 million
Consideration­by­the­Dir ectors­of­matters­r elating­to­Dir ectors ’­r emuneration
The Committee has been chaired throughout the year by Charles Gurassa. The Committee has comprised the Chairman of the Board, 
the Chairman of the Committee, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt and Miguel Ko (until he stepped down from the Board on 14 May 2015).
The Committee met four times during 2015. The CEO, CFO, Group HR Director, Group Compensation & Benefits Director, Deputy 
Company Secretary, Søren Thorup Sørensen and the Group Legal Director (in his role as secretary to the Committee) were also 
present at some of these meetings by invitation. 
The Committee is responsible for determining all aspects of Executive Director pay. It also monitors pay arrangements for other senior 
executives and oversees the operation of all share plans. Full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website under 
Investor Relations - Corporate Governance. 
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company in 2013 to provide advice on executive remuneration matters. During the year 
the Committee received independent and objective advice from Deloitte, principally on the drafting of the remuneration report, 
shareholder consultation and market practice. Deloitte was paid £47,915 in fees during 2015 for these services (charged on a time plus 
expenses basis). Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the 
code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. In addition, other practices of Deloitte, separate from the  
executive remuneration practice, have provided indirect tax advice to the Company during the year.
Shar eholder ­ voting ­ on ­ 2014 ­ r emuneration ­ r eport
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, strong shareholder support was received for our resolutions on remuneration as summarised below.
External­boar d­appointments
Executive Directors are normally entitled to accept external appointments outside the Company with the consent of the Board.  
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors held an external appointment for which they received a fee.
Annual­General­Meeting
The Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report will be submitted for an advisory shareholder vote  
at our Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 May 2016. 
On behalf of the Board
Charles­Gurassa
Chairman­of­the­R emuneration­Committee
24 February 2016
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
88 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
ANNEX TO THE REMUNERATION REPORT - POLICY REPORT
For the reference of shareholders, this Annex to the Remuneration Report sets out our Directors’ Remuneration Policy (Policy) that 
was approved by a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM in the exact form that it was included in the 2013 Remuneration Report. 
This Policy applies to payments made from 15 May 2014. The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not 
subject to audit.
P olicy­table
The following table sets out details of each component of the Executive Director remuneration package. Our aim is to provide pay 
packages that will:
•  Motivate and retain our industry leading employees.
•  Attract high quality individuals to join us.
•  Encourage and support a high performance culture.
•  Reward delivery of our business plan and key strategic goals.
•  Align our employees with the interests of shareholders and other external stakeholders.
Purpose­and­link­ 
to­strategy Operation Maximum­opportunity P erformance ­ conditions ­
(1)
Fixed­pay
Base­salary
T o appropriately recognise 
responsibilities and attract and 
retain talent by ensuring 
salaries are market 
competitive.
Generally reviewed annually with any 
increase normally taking effect from  
1 October although the Committee may 
award increases at other times of the 
year if it considers it appropriate.
The review takes into consideration a 
number of factors, including (but not 
limited to):
•  The individual Director’s role,   
   experience and performance.
•  Business performance.
•  Market data for comparable roles in 
   appropriate pay comparators.
•  Pay and conditions elsewhere in  
   the Group.
No absolute maximum has been set  
for Executive Director base salaries. 
Current Executive Director salaries  
are set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration section of this 
Remuneration Report. 
Any annual increase in salaries is at the 
discretion of the Committee taking into 
account the factors stated in this table 
and the following principles:
•   Salaries would typically be increased  
at a rate consistent with the average 
salary increase (in percentage of salary 
terms) for permanent employees.
•   Larger increases may be considered 
appropriate in certain circumstances 
(including, but not limited to, a change 
in an individual’s responsibilities or in 
the scale of their role or in the size 
and complexity of the Group).
•   Larger increases may also be 
considered appropriate if a Director 
has been initially appointed to the 
Board at a lower than typical salary.
None
Benefits
T o provide market 
competitive benefits.
Benefits are role specific and take into 
account local market practice.
Benefits currently include a company  
car or car allowance, phone costs, 
income protection insurance, an annual 
medical, private medical insurance and 
life assurance of four times annual salary.  
The Committee has discretion, in the 
event of the appointment of a Director 
based overseas or in exceptional 
circumstances, to add to or remove 
benefits provided to Executive Directors.
There is no overall maximum as the 
level of benefits depends on the annual 
cost of providing individual items in the 
relevant local market and the individual’s 
specific role.
None
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
89 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Purpose­and­link­ 
to­strategy Operation Maximum­opportunity P erformance ­ conditions ­
(1)
P ension
T o provide market 
competitive retirement 
benefits.
Current policy is for the Company to 
either contribute to the Group Pension 
Plan and/or to provide a cash allowance 
in lieu of pension.
Executive Directors receive a 
contribution of up to 25% of salary to 
the Group Pension Plan and/or as a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension.
None
V ariable­pay
Annual­bonus­
(2), (3)
T o link reward to key business 
targets for the forthcoming 
year and to individual 
contribution.
Additional alignment with 
shareholders’ interests 
through the operation of 
bonus deferral.
The Executive Directors are participants 
in the central bonus plan which is 
reviewed annually to ensure bonus 
opportunity, performance measures and 
targets are appropriate and supportive 
of the business strategy.
T wo-thirds of an Executive Director’s 
annual bonus is delivered in cash 
following the release of audited results 
and the remaining third is deferred into 
an award over Company shares under 
The Merlin Entertainments plc  
Deferred Bonus Plan. 
•   Deferred awards are usually granted in 
the form of conditional share awards 
or nil-cost options (and may also be 
settled in cash).
•   Deferred awards usually vest three 
years after award although may vest 
early on leaving employment or on a 
change of control (see later sections).
•   An additional payment (in the form  
of cash or shares) may be made in 
respect of shares which vest under 
deferred awards to reflect the value  
of dividends which would have been 
paid on those shares during the  
vesting period (this payment may 
assume that dividends had been 
reinvested in Company shares  
on a cumulative basis).
•   Deferred awards will be subject to 
withholding at the Remuneration 
Committee’s discretion during the 
deferral period in exceptional 
circumstances where the Committee 
finds that the Executive Director has 
engaged in misconduct justifying 
summary dismissal or there has been  
a material misstatement of the 
financial accounts relating to the 
relevant bonus year which has led  
to an overpayment of bonus.
The maximum award that can be made 
under the central bonus plan is 150%  
of salary.
Each year the Remuneration Committee 
determines the maximum bonus 
opportunity for individual Executive 
Directors within this limit. 
The bonus is based on 
performance assessed 
over one year using 
appropriate financial, 
strategic and individual 
performance measures.
The majority of the 
bonus will be determined 
by measure(s) of Group 
financial performance. 
The selected measure(s) 
for the next financial 
year are set out in  
the Annual Report on 
Remuneration section  
of this Remuneration 
Report.
A sliding scale of targets 
is set for each Group 
financial measure with 
payout at zero for 
threshold financial 
performance increasing 
to 50% for meeting 
expectations and  
100% for maximum 
performance.
The remainder of the 
bonus will be based  
on financial, strategic or 
operational measures 
appropriate to the 
individual Director. The 
selected measures for 
the next financial year 
are set out in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration 
section of this 
Remuneration Report.
Any bonus payout is 
ultimately at the 
discretion of the 
Committee.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
90 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Purpose­and­link­ 
to­strategy Operation Maximum­opportunity P erformance ­ conditions ­
(1)
P erformance­Shar e­ 
Plan­(PSP)­
(3), (4)
T o link reward to key business 
targets for the longer term 
and to retain executives. 
Awards are usually granted annually 
under the PSP to Executive Directors 
and other selected senior executives.
Individual award levels and performance 
conditions on which vesting will be 
dependent are reviewed annually by  
the Remuneration Committee.
Awards may be granted as conditional 
awards of shares, nil-cost options or 
forfeitable share awards (or, if 
appropriate, as cash-settled equivalents). 
Awards normally vest at the end of a 
period of at least three years following 
grant although may vest early on leaving 
employment or on a change of control 
(see later sections).
An additional payment (in the form of 
cash or shares) may be made in respect 
of shares which vest under PSP awards 
to reflect the value of dividends which 
would have been paid on those shares 
during the vesting period (this payment 
may assume that dividends had been 
reinvested in Company shares on a 
cumulative basis).
The maximum annual award permitted 
under the PSP is shares with a market 
value (as determined by the Committee) 
of 350% of salary.
Each year the Remuneration Committee 
determines the actual award level for 
individual Executive Directors within  
this limit.
Vesting of PSP awards is 
dependent on measures 
of Group earnings 
and return on total 
investment with the 
precise measures 
and weighting of the 
measures determined by 
the Committee ahead of 
each award. These details 
are disclosed in the 
Annual Report on 
Remuneration section 
of this Remuneration 
Report.
Performance will usually 
be measured over a 
three year performance 
period. For achieving 
a ‘threshold’ level of 
performance against a 
performance measure, 
no more than 25% of the 
portion of the PSP award 
determined by that 
measure will vest. Vesting 
then increases on a 
sliding scale to 100% 
for achieving a stretching 
maximum performance 
target.
All­Employee­Shar e­Plan­
(UK­Shar esave­Scheme)­ 
(3), (5)
T o create staff alignment with 
the Group and promote a 
sense of ownership.
Tax-approved monthly savings scheme 
facilitating the purchase of shares 
through share options at a discounted 
exercise price by all eligible  
UK employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to 
participate on the same basis as  
other employees.
Monthly saving limit of £250 prior to  
6 April 2014, £500 thereafter (or such 
other limit as may be approved from 
time to time by HMRC) under all  
savings contracts held by an individual.
The Sharesave scheme is 
structured in accordance 
with HMRC requirements 
so has no performance 
conditions but requires 
participants to make 
regular savings into a 
savings contract.
Company­Shar e­Option­
Plan­(CSOP)­
(3)
Executive Directors will  
only receive CSOP awards in 
exceptional circumstances.
Individuals who are 
promoted to the Board 
may have outstanding 
awards under this plan.
The CSOP permits grants of share 
options with an exercise price of not 
less than the market value of a share  
(as determined by the Committee)  
at the time of grant.
Options are usually exercisable between 
three and ten years following grant 
although may have a different exercise 
period on leaving employment or on a 
change of control (see later sections).
Options that are HMRC unapproved 
may, if appropriate, be settled in cash  
or be net-settled.
Annual awards of options over shares 
worth up to 100% of salary at grant  
(or, if the Remuneration Committee 
determines that special circumstances 
exist, 200% of salary).
If CSOP awards  
were, in exceptional 
circumstances, granted 
to an Executive Director, 
they would be subject 
to an appropriate 
performance condition 
as determined by the 
Committee.
An individual promoted 
to the Board may have 
outstanding CSOP 
awards (granted prior to 
their promotion) that 
have no performance 
conditions attached  
to them.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
91 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Differ ences­in­policy­fr om­br oader­employee­population
There are differences in the precise components within the pay policy for Executive Directors and for our employees generally and a 
greater proportion of Executive Directors’ pay is ‘at risk’ and determined by performance than for our employees generally. However, as 
outlined in the Committee Chairman’s statement, common principles underlie the pay policy through the Company including for the 
Executive Directors. In particular, we place great emphasis throughout the Company on reward being linked to performance (either 
Group performance or of an employee’s particular attraction) and on encouraging share ownership (through participation in the PSP , 
CSOP or the All Employee Share Plan).
Non- executive­Dir ectors
Purpose­and­link­to­strategy Operation Opportunity
Non- executive­Dir ector­(NED)­fees
T o appropriately recognise responsibilities by 
ensuring fees are market competitive. 
NED fees (other than NEDs whose 
appointment is in respect of their position  
as representatives of the pre-IPO major 
shareholders) comprise payment of an  
annual basic fee and additional fees for  
further Board responsibilities such as:
•  Senior Independent Director.
•  Audit Committee Chairman.
•  Remuneration Committee Chairman.
The Chairman of the Board receives an 
all-inclusive fee.
No NED participates in the Group’s incentive 
arrangements or pension plan or receives any 
other benefits other than where travel to the 
Company’s registered office is recognised as a 
taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive 
the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit. 
Fees are generally reviewed annually.
NEDs whose appointment is in respect of 
their position as shareholder representatives 
do not receive a fee.
Fees are set at an appropriate level that is 
market competitive and reflective of the 
responsibilities and time commitment 
associated with specific roles.
No absolute maximum has been set for 
individual NED fees. Current fee levels are set 
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration 
section of this Remuneration Report. 
The Company’s Articles of Association 
provide that the total aggregate fees paid to 
the Chairman and NEDs will not exceed 
£1,000,000. 
Notes to the table: 
(1)
  The Committee may vary or waive any performance condition(s) if circumstances 
occur which cause it to determine that the original condition(s) have ceased to be 
appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and not 
materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition (in its opinion). In the 
event that the Committee was to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation 
would be provided in the next Remuneration Report..
(2)
  Performance measures - annual bonus. The annual bonus measures are reviewed 
annually and chosen to focus executive rewards on delivery of key financial targets 
for the forthcoming year in addition to key strategic or operational goals relevant to 
an individual. Precise targets for bonus measures are set at the start of each year  
by the Remuneration Committee based on relevant reference points, including, for  
Group financial targets, the Company’s business plan and are designed to be 
appropriately stretching.
(3)
  The Committee may: (a) in the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital 
and (with the exception of HMRC approved options) demerger, super dividend or 
dividend in specie or any other corporate event which it reasonably determines 
justifies such an adjustment, adjust; and (b) amend the terms of awards granted 
under the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the 
relevant plans (which were summarised for shareholders in the Company’s IPO 
Prospectus). Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the 
transfer of existing shares. In line with prevailing best practice at the time this Policy 
Report is approved, any issuance of new shares is limited to 5% of share capital  
over a rolling ten year period in relation to discretionary employee share schemes 
and 10% of share capital over a rolling ten year period in relation to all employee 
share schemes. 
(4)
  Performance measures - PSP. The PSP performance measures are chosen to provide 
alignment with our longer term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable 
manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders 
in the Company. In particular, our use of earnings and return on total investment 
measures is designed to reward management for delivery of key financial measures 
of Company success that should result in sustainable value creation. Targets are 
considered ahead of each PSP grant by the Remuneration Committee taking into 
account relevant external and internal reference points and are designed to be 
appropriately stretching.
(5)
  Broadly equivalent versions of the UK Sharesave Scheme operate for USA employees 
(US Employee Stock Purchase Plan) and overseas employees (Overseas Sharesave 
Scheme). An Executive Director based in the USA or overseas may be eligible to 
participate in one of these schemes instead of the UK Sharesave Scheme. The 
monthly contribution limit for the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan would be 
specified by the Remuneration Committee before each grant.
(6)
  The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and 
payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy 
set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: (a) before the policy 
came into effect; or (b) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director  
of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in 
consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For these 
purposes ‘payments’ includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable 
remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the  
payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
(7)
  The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out in this Policy 
Report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take 
account of a change in legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for  
that amendment. 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
92 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Illustrations­of­application­of­r emuneration­policy
Merlin’s remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of 
stretching short term and long term performance targets.
The charts below provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance 
scenarios. The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Assumed­performance Assumptions­used
All performance scenarios (Fixed pay) •  Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension.
•  Base salary - salary effective as at 1 January 2014.
•  Benefits - estimated value of 5% of salary.
•  Pension - amount expected to be received in 2014 (25% of salary).
Minimum performance (Variable pay) •  No payout under the annual bonus.
•  No vesting under the PSP .
Performance in line with expectations (Variable pay)
*
•  50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
•  50% vesting under the PSP .
Maximum performance (Variable pay)
*
•  100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
•  100% vesting under the PSP .
*  PSP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions. All-employee share plans have been excluded. For the purposes of the 
illustration, we have, consistent with legislative requirements, included the maximum permitted annual bonus opportunity (150% of salary) and maximum permitted PSP award 
(350% of salary) as set out in the Policy Table above. We would emphasise that these are the maximum permitted awards under the incentive schemes. The CFO’s actual annual 
bonus opportunity for 2014 (135% of salary) is lower than the scheme maximum and the face value of the PSP awards granted to the CEO and CFO in November 2013  
(310% of salary and 280% of salary respectively) was lower than the scheme maximum.
£000
Minimum Minimum Meeting 
expectations
Meeting 
expectations
Maximum Maximum
CEO CFO
741
449
1,311
2,174 2,166
3,591
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
100% 34%
20%
46%
24%
55%
21%
100% 34%
20%
46%
21%
24%
55%
PSP
Annual Bonus
Fixed Pay
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
93 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Appr oach­to­r ecruitment­r emuneration
Principles
In determining remuneration arrangements for new 
appointments to the Board (including internal promotions),  
the Committee applies the following principles:
•  The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, 
including the calibre of the individual, market data and existing 
arrangements for other Executive Directors, with a view that 
any arrangements should be in the best interests of Merlin 
and our shareholders, without paying more than is necessary.
•  Typically, the new appointment will have (or be transitioned 
onto) the same package structure as the other Executive 
Directors, in line with the Policy Table presented above.
•  Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the 
organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any 
legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the 
original terms and conditions. Similarly, if an Executive Director 
is appointed following the Company’s acquisition of or merger 
with another company or business, legacy terms and 
conditions would be honoured.
•  Upon appointment, the Committee may consider it 
appropriate to offer additional remuneration arrangements  
in order to secure the appointment. In particular, the 
Committee may consider it appropriate to ‘buy out’ terms  
or remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a  
previous employer (discussed below).
•  The Committee may provide costs and support if the 
recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
Maximum level of variable pay
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be 
granted to new Executive Directors in respect of recruitment 
shall be limited to the maximum permitted in the Policy Table, 
namely 500% of their annual salary. This limit excludes any 
payments or awards that may be made to buy out the Director 
for terms, awards or other compensation forfeited from their 
previous employer (discussed below).
Buy outs
T o facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may  
make a one-off award to buy out terms, incentives and any other 
compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. In doing so, the Committee will take account of all 
relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to 
incentive awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the 
proportion of the vesting/performance period remaining and the 
form of the award (e.g. cash or shares). The overriding principle 
will be that any replacement buy out award should be of 
comparable commercial value to the terms, incentives and other 
compensation which have been forfeited. However such awards 
would only be considered where there is a strong commercial 
rationale to do so.
Components and approach
The remuneration package offered to new appointments may 
include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other 
element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the 
particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests of 
shareholders subject to the limits on variable pay set out above.
In considering which elements to include, and in determining the 
approach for all relevant elements, the Committee will take into 
account a number of different factors, including (but not limited 
to) market practice, existing arrangements for other Executive 
Directors and internal relativities. If appropriate, different targets 
may be applied to a new appointee’s annual bonus in their  
year of joining.
The Committee would seek to structure buy out and variable 
pay awards on recruitment to be in line with the Company’s 
remuneration framework so far as practical but, if necessary,  
the Committee may also grant such awards outside of that 
framework as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.2 subject to  
the limits on variable pay set out above. The exact terms of any  
such awards (e.g. the form of the award, timeframe, performance 
conditions, and leaver provisions) would vary depending upon  
the specific commercial circumstances.
Recruitment of Non-executive Directors
In the event of the appointment of a new Non-executive 
Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line 
with the structure set out in the Policy Table for Non-executive 
Directors. However the Committee (or the Board as 
appropriate) may include any element listed in the Policy Table 
above, or any other element which the Committee considers is 
appropriate given the particular circumstances, with due regard 
to the best interests of shareholders.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
94 DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Service­contracts
Key terms of the current Executive Directors’ service agreements and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment (other than 
Non-executive Directors whose appointment is in respect of their position as representatives of the pre-IPO major shareholders) are 
summarised in the table below. It is envisaged that any future appointments would have equivalent contractual arrangements unless 
otherwise stated in this Policy Report.
Each of the Non-executive Directors nominated by the pre-IPO major shareholders are appointed pursuant to the relevant Relationship 
Agreement with their nominating shareholder and do not have individual letters of appointment with the Company. These Relationship 
Agreements provide for the aforementioned shareholders to maintain a Non-executive Director as a shareholder representative for so 
long as they hold 10% of the Company’s share capital. The Company has the right to remove these Directors should the relevant 
shareholding fall below 10% and no fees or termination payments are payable. 
Each Director will retire and put themselves forward for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company.
All Executive Directors’ service agreements and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office at 3 Market Close, Poole, Dorset BH15 1NQ.
P olicy­on­payment­for­loss­of­office
As outlined above, there are no contractual obligations to make any payments to Executive Directors in relation to loss of office and any 
termination payment would be subject to negotiation although would not be expected in normal circumstances to exceed salary, 
pension and benefits in relation to the individual’s outstanding notice period.
In relation to payments under non-contractual incentive schemes, the Committee would take the following factors into account:
•  The Committee may determine that the Executive Director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the financial year in which they 
cease employment. This bonus would usually be time apportioned. In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Committee may, 
at its discretion, take into account performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial year as a whole.
•  The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules. 
The table overleaf summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which 
Executive Directors could hold awards.
Consideration­of­employment­conditions­elsewher e­in­the­Gr oup
The Committee does not formally consult with employees as part of its process when determining Executive Director pay. However the 
Committee is kept informed of general decisions made in relation to employee pay and related issues by the Group HR Director and is 
conscious of the importance of ensuring that its pay decisions for Executive Directors are regarded as fair and reasonable within the 
business. As outlined in the Policy Table, pay and conditions in the Group are one of the specific considerations taken into account when 
the Committee is determining salary levels for the Executive Directors.
Consideration­of­shar eholders ’­views
The Company’s three major shareholders each had a representative on the Committee in the pre-Listing period and, accordingly, the 
structure of our post-Listing remuneration policy has been subject to significant consultation with them. In addition we have sought the 
views of our largest institutional shareholders and leading advisory bodies post Listing.
Pr ovision P olicy
Notice period Executive Directors - twelve months’ notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
Non-executive Directors - three months’ notice by either the Company or the Non-executive Director or no 
notice period if terminated by shareholders. 
T ermination payment There is no payment in lieu of notice clause in the Executive Directors’ service agreements. Any payments of 
compensation on termination would be subject to negotiation in line with general principles which include a 
duty for the individual to mitigate loss. 
Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of their notice period.
Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling twelve months’ notice periods so have no fixed expiry date. 
All Non-executive Directors have rolling three months’ notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
95 The following table summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which 
Executive Directors could hold awards.
Plan
Good­leaver­ 
categories
T r eatment­for­ 
good­leaver
T r eatment­
for ­ any­ 
other ­ leaver
T r eatment ­ on ­ a ­ change­ 
of ­ contr ol ­ / ­ voluntary­
winding-up
Deferr ed­
Bonus­Plan
•  Death.
•  Injury.
•  Disability.
•  Ill-health.
•  Retirement.
•  Redundancy.
•  Transfer of employing   
   company or business to 
   which an individual’s 
   employment relates out 
   of the Group.
•  Any other scenario in  
   which the Remuneration 
   Committee determines 
   that good leaver 
   treatment is  
   appropriate (other than 
   circumstances justifying 
   summary dismissal).
Deferred bonus awards vest on 
cessation of employment / death.
Deferred bonus 
awards lapse.
Deferred bonus awards  
vest in full.
P erformance­
Shar e­Plan­
PSP awards will usually vest on a 
time-apportioned basis on the normal 
vesting date subject to any relevant 
performance condition(s) measured 
over the full performance period.
However, in the event of death, or 
special circumstances at the 
Remuneration Committee’s discretion, 
awards may vest early based on the 
Committee’s determination of the 
extent to which any relevant 
performance conditions are satisfied. 
The Committee has the discretion, 
acting fairly and reasonably, to dis-apply 
time apportionment.
Awards lapse. PSP awards will vest on a 
time-apportioned basis 
(unless the performance 
period is complete or unless 
the Committee determines 
otherwise) and subject to the 
Committee’s determination 
of the extent to which any 
relevant performance 
conditions are satisfied. 
Company­
Shar e­Option­
Plan
Executive 
Directors will 
only receive 
CSOP awards  
in exceptional 
circumstances.
Individuals who 
are promoted 
to the Board 
may have 
outstanding 
awards under 
this plan.
Options become exercisable for a 
period of six months after the date on 
which the Committee determines the 
extent to which the option becomes 
exercisable (or twelve months in the 
event of death).
Options will become exercisable 
subject to the Committee’s 
determination of the extent to which 
any relevant performance conditions 
are satisfied and on a time-apportioned 
basis unless the Committee determines 
otherwise. In relation to HMRC-
unapproved options, options may 
become exercisable at the normal 
vesting date or earlier if the  
Committee determines.
Options lapse. Options will become 
exercisable on a time-
apportioned basis (unless  
any performance period is 
complete or unless the 
Committee determines 
otherwise) and subject to the 
Committee’s determination 
of the extent to which any 
relevant performance 
conditions are satisfied.
UK­Shar esave­
Scheme­/­
Overseas­
Shar esave­
Scheme
Options become exercisable immediately on death, ceasing employment due to injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, sale of 
the employing company or business to which an individual’s employment relates out of the Group or on a change of control  
of the Company.
US­Employee­
Stock­Pur chase­
Plan
Options become exercisable on death, ceasing employment due to injury, permanent disability, reaching normal retirement  
age, sale of the employing company or business to which an individual’s employment relates or on a change of control of  
the Company.
DIRECTORS’ Remuneration Report
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
96 Dear Shareholder
This report describes the activities of the Nomination Committee 
during 2015. The Committee met three times during the year 
and focused its attention on Board appointments, succession 
planning and diversity.
Boar d­appointments
One of the primary objectives of the Nomination Committee 
during the year has been to address the composition of the 
Board following the departure of the Representative Directors  
of Blackstone and CVC, having regard to the key markets of the 
USA and Asia Pacific region in which a significant part of the 
Group’s strategic development is focused.
Following the announcement of the proposed departure of 
Miguel Ko at the 2015 AGM, the Nomination Committee sought 
to identify further Non-executive Directors with particular 
knowledge and experience of the USA and Asia Pacific markets.  
As a result Trudy Rautio was appointed as a Non-executive 
Director with effect from 1 October 2015. Trudy’s extensive 
knowledge of the US leisure market will be a valuable addition to 
the Board. The appointment of Rachel Chiang as a Non-executive 
Director with effect from 1 January 2016, with her significant 
experience of the Asia Pacific market, further strengthened  
the Board, in particular in relation to this important area of 
development focus. 
As a result of the Board changes during the year, the Board is 
now fully compliant with the Board composition provisions of the 
Code and reflects a wider diversity of skills, regional knowledge 
and backgrounds. 
Reflecting these changes to the Board, a number of updates have 
been made to the membership of the Committees, effective after 
the Nomination Committee meeting on 24 February 2016. Fru 
Hazlitt has stepped down from the Audit Committee. In addition 
to both Trudy Rautio and Rachel Chiang joining the Audit 
Committee, Trudy joined the Remuneration Committee and 
Rachel joined the Health, Safety and Security Committee.
With effect from 24 February 2016, the Nomination Committee 
will consist of Sir John Sunderland, Charles Gurassa, Fru Hazlitt 
and Ken Hydon.
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Succession­planning
The Board and Nomination Committee have undertaken detailed 
succession planning reviews during 2015, focused on Executive 
Director positions as well as other senior manager roles within 
the Group. This has identified key individuals already in the 
Group, for whom high level training and development 
opportunities have been established and implemented. 
A number of important changes to the management structure 
were implemented during the year, including the creation of a 
New Openings group focused on developing and opening new 
attractions globally. We continue to discuss the Group’s senior 
management structure and how that might evolve as Merlin 
continues its international expansion.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that management have 
implemented credible and effective succession planning across its 
senior management and has a management structure which is 
appropriate to its strategy.
Diversity
Merlin’s policy is for our leaders to have a diversity of thinking, 
experience, gender, country of origin and cultural background. 
We believe a diverse Board and management team is more in 
touch with our customers, employees and investors. This policy  
is reflected in the approach we are taking to recruitment  
at senior manager and Board level.
Sir­John­Sunderland
Chairman­of­the­Nomination­Committee
24 February 2016
NOMINATION
Committee Report
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
97 DIRECTORS’
Report
Intr oduction
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts includes 
additional information required to be disclosed under the 
Companies Act 2006, the DTRs, the Code and the Listing Rules.
Certain information required to be included in the Directors’ 
Report is included in other sections of this Annual Report  
and Accounts.
These sections provide an overview of the strategy, development and 
performance of the Company’s business in the year ended and as at 
26 December 2015 together with information on the approach of 
the Company to Corporate Governance and the constitution, work 
and effectiveness of the Board and its principal Committees.
The following sections are therefore incorporated by reference 
into this Directors’ Report:
• The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 57.
• The Corporate Governance Statement on page 58.
• The section entitled ‘Board of Directors’ on pages 59 to 61.
• The Corporate Governance Report on pages 62 to 65.
• The Health, Safety and Security Committee Report  
 on pages 66 to 69.
• The Audit Committee Report on pages 70 to 75.
• The Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 96.
• The Nomination Committee Report on page 97.
The Company is required to provide disclosures and information 
in relation to a number of additional matters which are covered 
elsewhere in this Annual Report and Accounts. These matters 
and cross-references to the relevant sections of this Annual 
Report and Accounts are shown in the following table:
Dir ectors
The names of the persons who, at any time during the financial 
year, were Directors of the Company are:
Disclosur e Section­title Pages
Future Developments Strategic Report 2 to 57
Research and  
Development
Merlin Magic Making 32 to 35
Employee diversity  
and engagement
T eam Merlin 36 to 39
Greenhouse Gas  
Emissions
‘Being a Force for Good’ - 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility The Merlin Way
51 to 57
Disabled persons ‘Being a Force for Good’ - 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility The Merlin Way
51 to 57
Disclosur e Section­title Pages
Relationship 
Agreements 
(additional details)
Corporate Governance 
Report
62 to 65
Internal Controls Audit Committee Report 70 to 75
Financial Instruments Note 4.3 to  
the Accounts
135 to 138
Share Capital and  
Movements therein
Note 4.5 to  
the Accounts
141 to 142
Subsidiary and 
Associated 
Undertakings
Note 5.8 to  
the Accounts
150 to 154
Name
Sir John Sunderland
Nick Varney
Andrew Carr
Charles Gurassa
Ken Hydon
Miguel Ko
Fru Hazlitt 
Søren Thorup Sørensen
Dr. Gerry Murphy
Rob Lucas
Trudy Rautio
Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas were Directors from 
the start of the financial year until the conclusion of the 2015 
AGM. Trudy Rautio was appointed a Director with effect from  
1 October 2015. 
Rachel Chiang was subsequently appointed a Director with effect 
from 1 January 2016.
98
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 DIRECTORS’ Report
Each Director in post at the time of the AGM (other than  
Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas) offered themselves 
for re-election at the 2015 AGM of the Company and their 
re-election was approved by shareholders. All Directors (other 
than Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas) remained  
in office at the end of the financial year.
Dir ectors ’­indemnities­and­insurance
The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to 
indemnify the Directors of the Company or any Group company 
against liabilities arising from or in connection with the execution 
of their duties or powers to the extent permitted by law. The 
Company has not given any specific indemnity in favour of the 
Directors during the year but the Company has purchased 
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance during the year,  
which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors in  
the performance of their duties or powers.
No amount was paid under any Director’s indemnity or the 
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance during the year other 
than the applicable insurance premiums.
Appointment­and­r emoval­of­Dir ectors
A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of 
shareholders in a general meeting following nomination by the 
Board or a member (or members) entitled to vote at such a 
meeting or following retirement by rotation if the Director 
chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy 
or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires  
at the next AGM. A Director may be removed by the Company 
in certain circumstances set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association or by a special resolution of the Company. All 
Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line  
with the recommendations of the Code.
Specific details relating to KIRKBI and their rights to appoint 
Directors are set out in the Corporate Governance section  
on page 62. 
Shar e­capital­and­r elated­matters
The Articles of Association do not contain any restrictions on the 
transfer of shares in the Company other than customary restrictions 
applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share (all the issued 
share capital of the Company as at the date of this Annual Report 
and Accounts is fully paid). Each ordinary share in the capital of the 
Company ranks equally in all respects. No shareholder holds shares 
carrying special rights relating to the control of the Company.
Amendment­to­the­Company’ s­Articles­of­Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by 
a special resolution of its shareholders passed at a general 
meeting of its shareholders.
P ower­of­Dir ectors­in­r espect­of­shar e­capital
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company 
(including, subject to obtaining the required authority from the 
shareholders in general meeting, the power to authorise the issue 
of new shares and the purchase of the Company’s shares). Since 
its shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange on  
13 November 2013, the Directors have not exercised any of  
the powers to issue or purchase shares in the Company.
R elated­parties
The only material agreements with related parties during the  
year were as follows:
•  LEGOLAND Licence and Co-operation Agreement (LCA):  
This agreement was entered into on 24 August 2005 with 
KIRKBI and sets out the rights granted to the Group to use 
the LEGO and LEGOLAND brands in connection with the 
development, operation and promotion of the Group’s 
present and future LEGOLAND businesses. It includes certain 
requirements for the Group to develop LEGOLAND 
attractions, certain operational requirements for those 
attractions, and the nature of royalties due to KIRKBI for the 
use of the rights. The LCA includes rights for KIRKBI to 
terminate the LCA on a change of control of Merlin but only 
if this would result in a Licensee (as defined in the LCA) being 
controlled by a LEGO competitor or an inappropriate party. 
The LCA defines an inappropriate party as any person or 
entity (other than a financial institution) where one-third of its 
revenue is derived from the manufacture and sale of tobacco, 
armaments and/or pornographic material.
•  Relationship Agreements with each of KIRKBI, Blackstone and 
CVC: the Blackstone and CVC Relationship Agreements 
ended when they ceased to be shareholders in March 2015; 
more details on the KIRKBI Relationship Agreement are 
provided in the Corporate Governance section on page 62.
There were no contracts of significance during the year to which 
the Company, or any of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and 
in which a Director is or was materially interested.
99
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 DIRECTORS’ Report
Change­of­contr ol
The only other significant agreements to which the Company is  
a party that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a change of 
control of the Company following a takeover bid, are:
(i)  a Multi-currency Facilities Agreement entered into by the 
Group dated 25 February 2015 which replaced the Group’s 
existing debt facilities. This includes provisions in relation to  
a change of control or the sale of all or substantially all of  
the Group’s assets, the occurrence of which will, after a 
negotiation period, give the lenders under the Agreement  
the right to accelerate outstanding loans and terminate 
commitments. The outstanding senior unsecured facilities 
comprise approximately £648 million in floating rate term 
debt and a £300 million revolving credit facility, both to 
mature in 2020.
(ii)  an Indenture dated as of 19 March 2015 in relation to an  
issue of €500 million 2.75% fixed rate notes due in 2022  
(the notes) under which, in the event of a change of control  
of the Company and a ratings event, the holders of the  
notes may have the right to require that those notes be 
repurchased at 101% of their principal nominal amount  
plus any accrued and unpaid interest.
Further details on the Group’s banking facilities are shown in  
note 4.2 to the financial statements.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office  
or employment resulting from a change of control.
Branches­outside­the­UK
Merlin Entertainments plc has no branches outside the UK. 
Dividend
An interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share was paid on  
24 September 2015 to shareholders on the Register on 14 August 
2015. A final dividend for the year ended 26 December 2015  
of 4.4 pence per share will be recommended for payment to 
shareholders. The final dividend will be proposed to shareholders 
for approval at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
P olitical­donations
No political donations were made during the year.
Subsequent­events
On 24 February 2016 the Group invested $34.4 million  
(£24.6 million) in Big Bus T ours Group Holdings Limited, the 
leading global owner-operator of Hop On Hop Off City T ours. 
The consideration will be settled in cash and will provide Merlin  
with a minority equity holding and an investment in loan notes.
Going­concern
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial 
resources to continue operating for the next twelve months and 
that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a 
sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient cash 
funds and borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those 
facilities to be available to meet the Group’s foreseeable  
cash requirements.
The process followed by the Group in the preparation of the 
Viability Statement is set out in the Risks and uncertainties 
section on page 42.
Audit­information­
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the auditors are unaware. The Directors 
have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant  
audit information and ensure the auditors are aware of  
such information.
R e-appointment­of­auditors
As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the 
re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors to the Company will 
be proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Appr oval­of­annual­r eport
The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and 
Report and the Directors’ Report were approved by the Board 
on 24 February 2016.
For and on behalf of the Board
Colin­N.­ Armstr ong
Gr oup­Company­Secr etary
24 February 2016
Merlin­Entertainments­plc
Registered number 08700412
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
100 Dir ectors ’­r esponsibilities­statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required to prepare Group and parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. For this 
purpose, the Company is the parent Company of the Group.  
The Group financial statements are required to be prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRS) and applicable law. The 
Company has elected to prepare the Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards 
including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’. 
The Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of 
the Group and Company for that period. In preparing each of 
the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to: 
•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently.
•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
•  For the Group financial statements, state whether they  
have been prepared in accordance with Adopted IFRS.
•  For the Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the Company financial statements.
•  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and  
the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as  
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee and the Health, Safety and Security 
Committee as well as from its legal and other professional 
advisers, the Board considers the Annual Report and  
Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced  
and understandable and that it provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position  
and performance, business model and strategy.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept (and they  
hereby exclude) any liability to any person in relation to this 
report except to the extent that such liability is imposed by 
law and may not be validly excluded.
The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge that:
•  The Group financial statements contained in this report 
(which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU), when taken as a whole, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit  
of the Group.
•  The Company financial statements (which have been 
prepared in accordance with applicable UK Accounting 
Standards), give a true and fair view of the state  
of affairs of the Company.
•  The Directors’ Report and the other sections of this report 
referred to therein together represent a fair review of the 
strategy, development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group together with a description of  
the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Nick­ V arney­ ­ ­ Andr ew­Carr
Chief­Executive­Officer­ ­ Chief­Financial­Officer
24 February 2016   24 February 2016
DIRECTORS’
Responsibilities Statement
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
101 INDEPENDENT
Auditor’s Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ONLY
Materiality
•   £14.3 million, representing 6.0%  
of profit before tax.  
Scope
•   75% of total profits before tax  
arise in audited components. 
•   All other components are subject 
to specified audit procedures or 
analysis at an aggregated level. 
Key risks
•  valuation of non-current assets; and 
•  revenue recognition.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
 
We have audited the financial statements of Merlin 
Entertainments plc for the 52 week period ended 26 December 
2015 set out on pages 108 to 161. In our opinion:  
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at  
26 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the 52  
week period then ended;   
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU);   
•  the parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The context for our audit is that there has been:
•  a generally stable environment in which the Group has 
operated, though parts of the Resort Theme Parks business 
have been affected by a major accident at Alton T owers in the 
year, which increased the risk over carrying values of certain 
associated assets; 
•  no significant changes to the Group’s strategy and operations 
that our audit has had to consider. The accesso
®
 admissions 
system has not had a significant bearing on our audit this  
year; and
•  a slight, but not significant lowering in our assessed materiality 
given the increasing public profile of the Group.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements 
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, in decreasing order of significance were as set out 
below. While these risks are the same as in the prior year, we 
have noted changes in the nature and emphasis of these risks  
and in our responses to them below. 
Carrying value of non-current assets £2,475 million  
(2014: £2,414 million): Risk vs 2014: 
Refer to page 73 (Audit Committee Report) and pages 129 to 
131 (accounting policy and financial disclosures).
•  The risk - A history of business combinations and the capital 
intensive nature of the business model means that the Group 
has significant balances of goodwill, intangible assets and 
property, plant and equipment. There is a risk that the future 
performance of these assets may lead to their carrying values 
not being recoverable in full. When impairment testing is 
required there are inherent uncertainties in estimating the 
value of assets to the business through discounted cash flows. 
These uncertainties arise principally in the inputs used in 
forecasting future cash flows (for example expected changes 
in visitation at existing attractions, particularly where there 
have been recent changes in the overall offering, new  
and ongoing promotions or planned customer  
experience improvements). 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
102 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only
Uncertainty arises partly due to the unpredictable impact of 
factors such as competition, the weather, and the political and 
economic environment on trading performance but also as 
the Group’s new attractions are often in unproven locations. 
Additionally and specifically in relation to the Resort Theme 
Parks goodwill, events during the year at Alton T owers have 
meant that previous trading patterns have been disrupted and 
greater uncertainty exists over forecasting visitor numbers. 
The reduced EBITDA since June 2015 and the risk that a 
return to previous levels of performance may not be achieved 
immediately has reduced valuation headroom. This increases the 
risk over this asset’s valuation. There is also uncertainty around 
the most appropriate rate at which to discount these expected 
future cash flows.
•  Our response - Our audit procedures included, amongst 
others, an analysis of the Group’s previous ability to forecast 
cash flows accurately and challenging the reasonableness of 
current forecasts. These current forecasts include assumptions 
such as the expected change in visitation and revenues arising 
from activities such as new and ongoing promotions and 
customer experience improvements, as well as the response 
to specific events, including the accident at Alton T owers.  
Our challenge of the forecasts included an assessment of the 
Group’s assumptions around these activities, including a 
comparison of expected changes against the past results of 
similar activities carried out by the Group. In addition, specific 
to Alton T owers, we considered historic peer group data for 
incident recovery rates and their applicability to Merlin’s 
business model and visitor market. We corroborated major 
assumed cost reductions to detailed plans and wherever 
possible contractual agreements. This allowed us to assess the 
level of the risk inherent in the current cash flow forecasts. 
   The data used by the Group to determine its earnings 
multiple and calculate its discount rates was benchmarked 
against market data, including publicly available analysts’ reports 
and peer comparisons. We were supported by our valuation 
specialists in this work. We performed a sensitivity analysis of 
the long term growth rate, discount rates and forecast cash 
flows to show the effect of possible downside scenarios and 
considered the resulting headroom across the valuations, as 
well as the appropriateness of the related disclosures. We also 
assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about the sensitivity 
of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in 
key assumptions appropriately reflected the risks inherent in 
the valuation of non-current assets.
Revenue recognition £1,278 million (2014: £1,249 million):  
Risk vs 2014: 
Refer to page 73 (Audit Committee Report) and page 116 
(accounting policy). 
•  The risk - Merlin’s revenues come from a number of different 
channels, such as admissions ticketing income, annual passes, 
spend in attractions on items such as food and drink and 
accommodation revenues. These revenues arise across a  
large portfolio of sites that due to the different jurisdictions  
in which the Group operates, and the Group’s decentralised 
nature, use a number of different revenue systems or system 
configurations, many of which require manual processes to 
transfer data to the finance systems. 
    Manual, rather than automated, processes across multiple 
decentralised income systems increase the risk of error.  
Such errors could arise through the under or over recording 
of outputs from these systems, or due to the need for  
the separate recording and appropriately timed release of 
deferred revenue, which arises when tickets are either bought 
in advance or bought to allow access to multiple attractions. 
Although the low value of individual transactions means  
an individual error would be both difficult to detect and 
insignificant, the high volume of transactions mean  
systemic failure could lead to errors that aggregate  
into material balances. 
•  Our response -  As described in ‘Our application of 
materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit’ we 
selected sites for audit to ensure appropriate coverage of  
key financial measures, including revenue. 
   At certain sites we performed testing of the general  
IT control environment of the systems used to record  
revenue, followed by testing of the processes to assess the 
completeness and accuracy of revenue entries arising from 
these systems. At other sites, we performed testing of the 
design, implementation and operating effectiveness of manual  
controls supporting these systems, including reconciliations  
of till records to revenue journal entries in the  
accounting records. 
  This controls testing was supported by substantive  
audit procedures including, amongst others, performing 
reconciliations of total cash received to revenue recorded, 
predictive analytical procedures (taking into account factors 
such as trends in seasonality, changes in pricing and visitation), 
confirmation of the appropriate timing of sales cut-off by 
checking the specific posting of revenue for days either  
side of the period end; and substantive testing of deferred  
and accrued revenue balances through agreeing back to  
ticketing system records and checking underlying calculations, 
corroboration of ticket usage terms to underlying contracts 
and predictive analytical procedures based on  
revenue movements.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
103 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only
Key Specified risk-focused audit procedures Audits for group reporting purposes
All PBT percentages represent profits and losses before tax as calculated on an absolute basis, meaning the coverage is the proportion tested of total profits 
added to total losses of individual components.
Analysis at aggregated group level
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Scope of our work
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole  
was set at £14,300,000 for 2015 (2014: £15,500,000). This was 
determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax, 
of which it represents 6.0% (2014: 6.9%). This is lower than the 
benchmark percentage used in 2014, because our view of the 
increasing public profile of the Group meant we considered a 
lower percentage to be appropriate. We initially planned a higher 
materiality using 6.0% of budgeted profits and then lowered this 
in line with the Group’s revised profit expectations following the 
Alton T owers accident, adjusting our audit procedures accordingly.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that following this revision 
to materiality, we would report all corrected and uncorrected 
misstatements identified through our audit with a value in  
excess of £715,000 (2014: £750,000), in addition to other audit 
misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
We audited 75% (2014: 84%) of the total profits and losses that 
made up Group profit before tax, 75% (2014: 70%) of total 
Group revenue and 72% (2014: 67%) of total Group assets.  
This included the audit, for group reporting purposes, of the 
financial information of certain components. It also included audit 
procedures on finance costs and assets arising on consolidation; 
the total of these balances were audited at group level. Audits  
for group reporting purposes, including those performed by  
the Group audit team, were performed at components in the 
following locations: UK, USA, Australia, Denmark, Germany,  
Italy, Hong Kong and China.
Our coverage of profits has decreased year on year as the results 
at some larger sites (particularly Alton T owers) has reduced their 
relative contribution. 
The remaining 25% of total profits and losses that made up 
Group profit before tax, 25% of total Group revenue and 28% of 
total Group assets was represented by a large number of smaller 
reporting components. None of these components individually 
represent more than 4.4% of any of the total profits or losses 
that made up Group profit before tax, total Group revenue or 
total Group assets. We obtained further coverage by performing 
specified risk-focused audit procedures over the reasonableness 
of the financial result and position at 17 of these reporting 
components covering a further 7% of total profits or losses that 
made up Group profit before tax. We have refined our scoping 
compared to the approach we have followed in the past to 
include more Midway attractions as, although each site tends to 
be relatively small, this is an area where the Group is growing via 
the roll out of new attractions. We adjusted the sites selected for 
these procedures during the course of our work in response to a 
change in perceived risk resulting from findings of Merlin’s Internal 
Audit function. For the remaining components, analysis at an 
aggregated level was performed to re-examine our assessment 
that there were no significant risks of material misstatement 
within these components.
Revenue 70%
15%
15%
PBT 84%
8%
8%
Assets 67%
13%
20%
2014 2015
Revenue 75%
PBT 75%
Assets 72%
12%
16%
18%
7%
12%
13%
Scoping and
Coverage
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
104 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only
The Group audit team carried out audits for group reporting 
purposes of the financial information of components covering 
39% of the total profits and losses that made up Group profit 
before tax, including the only individually financially significant 
component, Merlin Attractions Operations Limited. The Group 
audit team also undertook all audit procedures of certain total 
Group account balances as mentioned above, gaining coverage 
over a further 6% of the total profits and losses that made up 
Group profit before tax. The largest component audited by a 
component audit team represented 12% of the total profits  
and losses that made up Group profit before tax.
Materiality of the Group financial statements
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the 
key reporting components of the Group were all performed 
to local materiality levels. These local materiality levels were set 
individually for each component by the Group audit team and 
ranged from £440,000 to £4,500,000 having regard to the 
mix of size and risk profile of the Group across components.
Detailed audit and specified procedure instructions were sent to 
component auditors. These instructions covered the significant 
audit areas that should be addressed by these audits, which 
included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed 
above, and set out the information required to be reported back 
to the Group audit team. The Group audit team visited three key 
component locations in Hong Kong, China and Australia, which 
included assessing the audit risk and strategy. Teleconferences 
were also held with these component auditors and all key 
reporting components that were not visited. During these 
meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were 
discussed in more detail, with any further work required by the 
Group audit team then performed by the component auditor.
Profit before tax 
£237 million
Materiality 
£14.3 million
£14.3 million Whole financial 
statements materiality
£4.5 million Range of component  
materiality (£0.44 million  
to £4.5 million)
£0.715 million Misstatements reported  
to the Audit Committee
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
105 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only
4  Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion:  
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006.
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
•  information given in the Corporate Governance Statement  
set out on pages 58 to 65 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting 
processes and about share capital structures is consistent  
with the financial statements.
5  We have nothing to report on the disclosures of  
principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
•  the Directors’ statement of longer term viability on page 42, 
concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based 
on that, the Directors’ assessment and expectations of the 
Group continuing in operation over the four years to 2019; or 
•  the disclosures in note 1.1 of the financial statements 
concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6  We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 
which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you  
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains a 
material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial 
statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is  
otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
•  we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy; or
•  the section of the annual report describing the work of the 
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:  
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or  
•  the parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by  
law are not made; or  
•  we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit; or
•  a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared 
by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
•  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 100, in relation  
to going concern and longer term viability; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page  
58 relating to the Company’s compliance with the eleven 
provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 101, the Directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of 
the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made 
solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject 
to important explanations and disclaimers regarding 
our responsibilities, published on our website at  
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should 
be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of 
this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis 
of our opinions.
Hugh Green (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants
Gateway House, T ollgate
Chandlers Ford
Southampton
SO53 3TG
24 February 2016
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Table of contents
PRIMARY STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 108
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 109
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 110
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY      111
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 112
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
SECTION 1 - BASIS OF PREPARATION 113
SECTION 2 - RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
2.1 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 115
2.2 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 118
2.3 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS                                    118
2.4 TAXATION 120
2.5 EARNINGS PER SHARE                                 124
SECTION 3 - OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
3.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 125
3.2 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 127
3.3 IMPAIRMENT TESTING 129
3.4 WORKING CAPITAL 131
3.5 PROVISIONS 133
SECTION 4 - CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING 
4.1 NET DEBT 134
4.2 INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 134
4.3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 135
4.4 LEASE OBLIGATIONS 139
4.5 EQUITY AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 141
4.6 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS 142
SECTION 5 - OTHER NOTES 
5.1 INVESTMENTS 145
5.2 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 145
5.3 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 147
5.4 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 148
5.5 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 149
5.6 ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION 149
5.7 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 149
5.8 SUBSIDIARY AND JOINT VENTURE UNDERTAKINGS 150
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
107 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
For the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015 (2014: 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014)
2015 2014
Note
Underlying 
trading 
£m
Exceptional 
items 
(3)
 
£m
Total 
£m
Underlying 
trading 
£m
Exceptional 
items 
(3)
 
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue 2.1 1,278 -  1,278 1,249 -  1,249 
Cost of sales 2.1 (193) -  (193) (181) -  (181)
Gross profit 1,085 -  1,085 1,068 -  1,068 
Staff expenses 2.1 (327) -  (327) (312) -  (312)
Marketing (68) -  (68) (62) -  (62)
Rent (87) -  (87) (83) -  (83)
Other operating expenses (201) -  (201) (200) -  (200)
EBITDA 
(1)
2.1 402 -  402 411 -  411 
Depreciation and amortisation 3.1, 3.2 (111) -  (111) (100) -  (100)
Operating profit 291 -  291 311 -  311 
Finance income 2.3 5 1  6 2 -  2 
Finance costs 2.3 (46) (14) (60) (64) (23) (87)
Profit before tax 250 (13) 237 249 (23) 226 
Taxation 2.4 (70) 3 (67) (70) 6 (64)
Profit for the year 
(2)
180 (10) 170 179 (17) 162 
Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share (p) 2.5 16.8 16.0 
(1)
 EBITDA - this is defined as profit before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and is after taking account of attributable profit after tax of joint ventures.
(2)  
Profit for the year for 2015 and 2014 is wholly attributable to the owners of the Company.
(3)  
Details of exceptional items are provided in note 2.2.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
108 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015 (2014: 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014)
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit for the year 170 162 
Other comprehensive income
Items that cannot be reclassified to the consolidated income statement
Defined benefit plan remeasurement gains and losses 5.2 (1) (1)
Recognition of the assets and liabilities of the defined 
contribution section of the defined benefit scheme
5.2 - (1)
(1) (2)
Items that may be reclassified to the consolidated income statement
Exchange differences on the retranslation of net assets of foreign operations (36) (23)
Exchange differences relating to the net investment in foreign operations 3 7 
Cash flow hedges - effective portion of changes in fair value (2) (9)
Cash flow hedges - reclassified to profit and loss 2.2 14 -
Income tax on items relating to components of other comprehensive income 2.4 (2)  -  
(23) (25)
Other comprehensive income for the year net of income tax (24) (27)
Total comprehensive income for the year 
(1)
146 135 
(1)
 Total comprehensive income for 2015 and 2014 is wholly attributable to the owners of the Company.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
109 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
At 26 December 2015 (2014: 27 December 2014)
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 3.1 1,495 1,410 
Goodwill and intangible assets 3.2 923 942 
Investments 5.1 11 6 
Other receivables 3.4 11 7 
Deferred tax assets 2.4 35 49 
2,475 2,414 
Current assets
Inventories 3.4 30 26 
Trade and other receivables 3.4 76 60 
Derivative financial assets 2 1 
Cash and cash equivalents 4.1 152 285 
260 372 
Total assets 2,735 2,786 
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.2 4 5 
Derivative financial liabilities 1 12 
Trade and other payables 3.4 235 226 
Tax payable 22 27 
Provisions 3.5 4 4 
266 274 
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.2 1,003 1,131 
Finance leases 4.4 82 84 
Other payables 3.4 24 23 
Provisions 3.5 51 50 
Employee benefits 5.2 5 5 
Deferred tax liabilities 2.4 155 156 
1,320 1,449 
Total liabilities 1,586 1,723 
Net assets 1,149 1,063 
Issued capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company 1,145 1,059 
Non-controlling interest 4 4 
Total equity 4.5 1,149  1,063 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Nick Varney   Andrew Carr
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
110 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015 (2014: 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014)
Note
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Capital 
reserve 
£m
Trans-
lation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
parent 
equity 
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interest 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At 29 December 2013 10 3,183 (2,250) (85) (2) 84 940 4 944 
Profit for the year -  -  -  -  -  162 162 -  162 
Other comprehensive 
income for the year net 
of income tax
-  -  -  (16) (9) (2) (27) -  (27)
T otal comprehensive 
income for the year
-  -  -  (16) (9) 160 135 -  135
Equity dividends 4.5 - - - -  -  (20)  (20)  -  (20)  
Capital restructure 4.5 - (3,183) 2,250 - -  933  -  -  -  
Equity-settled 
share-based transactions
4.6 - - -  -  -  4 4 -  4 
At 27 December 2014 10 - - (101) (11) 1,161 1,059 4 1,063 
Profit for the year -  -  -  -  -  170 170 -  170 
Other comprehensive 
income for the year net  
of income tax
-  -  -  (34) 11 (1) (24) -  (24)
T otal comprehensive  
income for the year
-  -  -  (34) 11 169 146 -  146 
Equity dividends 4.5 -  -  -  -  -  (64) (64) -  (64)
Equity-settled
share-based transactions
4.6 -  -  -  -  -  4 4 -  4 
At 26 December 2015 4.5 10 -  -  (135) - 1,270 1,145 4 1,149 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
111 Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 170 162 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 3.1, 3.2 111 100 
Finance income 2.3 (6) (2)
Finance costs 2.3 60 87 
Taxation 2.4 67 64 
402 411 
Working capital changes (19) (4)
Changes in provisions and other non-current liabilities 1 4 
384 411 
Tax paid (59) (54)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 325 357 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 1 2 
Acquisition of investments 5.1 (5) (3)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (215) (192)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (219) (193)
Cash flows from financing activities
Equity dividends paid 4.5 (64) (20)
Proceeds from bank loans 1,002 -  
Financing costs (14)  -  
Interest paid (42) (58)
Settlement of interest rate swaps 2.2 (13)  -  
Repayment of borrowings (1,112) (70)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (243) (148)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (137) 16 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4.1 285 264 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 4 5 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 4.1 152 285 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
For the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015 (2014: 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014)
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
112 SECTION 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
1.1  Basis of preparation
Merlin Entertainments plc (the Company) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and its registered office is 3 Market Close, 
Poole, Dorset, BH15 1NQ. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRS) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. 
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101). 
The accounting policies set out in the sections below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in 
these consolidated financial statements and have been applied consistently by all subsidiaries and joint ventures.
The Group prepares its annual consolidated financial statements on a 52 or 53 week basis. These consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015 (2014: 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014). The consolidated financial 
statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and certain investments which are 
measured at their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling. 
All values are stated in £ million (£m) except where otherwise indicated.
Going concern
The Group reported a profit for the year of £170 million (2014: £162 million) and generated operating cash inflows of £325 million 
(2014: £357 million). Following a refinancing in March 2015, extending maturities and diversifying the Group’s sources of funding, the 
Group is now funded by bank facilities due for repayment in 2020 and fixed rate notes due for repayment in 2022. The Group has 
access to a £300 million revolving credit facility to support its liquidity needs of which £nil was drawn down at the year end. The 
Group’s forecasts show that it is expected to be able to operate within the terms of these facilities. Further details of these facilities  
are provided in note 4.2.
                                                                                                                                                                               
After reviewing the Group’s statement of financial position, available facilities, cash flow forecasts and trading budgets and making 
appropriate enquiries, the Directors believe the Group to be operationally and financially robust and have a reasonable expectation  
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next twelve months. Accordingly, the Group 
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Merlin Entertainments plc, its subsidiaries and branches at the 
end of each reporting period and include its share of its joint ventures’ results using the equity method.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns 
through its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial 
statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the  
date that control ceases.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated.
Where subsidiaries enter into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, these 
are considered to be insurance arrangements and accounted for as such. In this respect, the subsidiary concerned treats the guarantee 
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that it will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
113 SECTION 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
1.1  Basis of preparation (continued)
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions are translated using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying 
net investment hedges.
The results and financial position of those Group companies that do not have a Sterling functional currency are translated into  
Sterling as follows:
• Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the end of the reporting period.
• Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates during the year.
• All resulting exchange differences are recognised in equity in the translation reserve.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Financial instruments often consist of a combination of debt and equity and the Group has to decide how to attribute values to each. 
They are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: 
(i)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets  
or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and 
(ii)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Group’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Group’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Group 
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments. 
T o the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability, and where such an instrument takes 
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share 
premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares. 
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance costs. Finance payments associated with financial 
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
Judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Group’s accounting policies. It also 
requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates.
In this regard the impairment testing (note 3.3) involves a higher degree of judgement or complexity and is explained in more detail in 
the related note.
New standards and interpretations
A full list of new accounting standards and interpretations that have been implemented in the year or will be implemented next year, 
and which have no significant impact, can be found in note 5.5.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
114 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2.1 Profit before tax 
Segmental information
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses. The Group is managed through its three Operating Groups, which form the operating segments on which the information 
shown below is prepared. The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is provided internally 
to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who is the Group’s chief operating decision maker. An operating segment’s results are reviewed 
regularly by the CEO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which 
discrete financial information is available. Performance is measured based on segment EBITDA, as included in internal management 
reports. Segment operating profit is included below for information purposes.
(1)
  During 2015 the Group has revised how certain costs are internally allocated to its three Operating Groups. There has been no 
change to the operating segments or their composition. This change does not affect the 2014 figures. The effect has been to increase 
the 2015 reported segment EBITDA and operating profit in Midway Attractions, LEGOLAND Parks and Resort Theme Parks by  
£4 million, £1 million and £2 million respectively, with an equivalent increase in costs of £7 million reported within ‘Other items’  
in the tables above.
(2)
  Other items include Merlin Magic Making, head office costs and various other costs, which cannot be directly attributed to  
the reportable segments.
Reconciliation to statutory items included in the consolidated income statement
Midway Attractions 
£m
LEGOLAND 
Parks 
£m
Resort Theme 
Parks 
£m
Segment results 
£m
2015
Segment revenue 561 429 285 1,275 
Segment profit, being segment EBITDA 
(1)
221 169 47 437 
Segment depreciation and amortisation (54) (23) (29) (106)
Segment operating profit 
(1)
167 146 18 331 
2014
Segment revenue 529 386 331 1,246
Segment profit, being segment EBITDA 
(1)
214 142 87 443
Segment depreciation and amortisation (47) (22) (27) (96)
Segment operating profit 
(1)
167 120 60 347
Revenue 
£m
EBITDA 
£m
Depreciation and 
amortisation 
£m
Operating profit 
£m
2015
Segment results 1,275 437 (106) 331
Other items 
(1), (2)
3 (35) (5) (40)
Total per consolidated income statement 1,278 402 (111) 291
2014
Segment results 1,246 443 (96) 347
Other items 
(1), (2)
3 (32) (4) (36)
Total per consolidated income statement 1,249 411 (100) 311
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
115 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2.1  Profit before tax (continued)
Geographical areas
While each Operating Group is managed on a worldwide basis, part of our strategy is to diversify geographically across the four regions 
shown below. The information presented is based on the geographical locations of the visitor attractions concerned. 
Geographical information
Revenue
Accounting policy
Revenue arises from the operation of visitor attractions and theme park resorts. Revenue represents the amounts (excluding VAT and 
similar taxes) received from customers for admissions tickets, accommodation revenue, retail, food and beverage sales and sponsorship. 
Revenue from the sale of annual passes is deferred and then recognised over the period that the pass is valid. Ticket revenue is 
recognised at point of entry. 
From time to time, the Group enters into service contracts for attraction development and revenue is recognised under these contracts 
on a percentage completion basis. Service contract revenue in the current and previous years is not material.
Cost of sales
Cost of sales of £193 million (2014: £181 million) represents variable expenses (excluding VAT and similar taxes) incurred from revenue 
generating activity. Retail inventory and food and beverage consumables are the principal expenses included under this category.
Revenues
2015 
£m
Non-current 
assets 
2015
£m
Revenues
2014 
£m
Non-current 
assets 
2014
£m
United Kingdom 467 851 490 811 
Continental Europe 300 764 318 794 
North America 336 481 274 429 
Asia Pacific 175 333 167 325 
1,278 2,429 1,249 2,359 
Deferred tax 35 49 
Investments 11 6 
2,475 2,414 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
116 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued) 
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2.1  Profit before tax (continued)
Operating expenses
Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 
2015 2014
Operations 16,980 15,567 
Attraction management and central administration 1,841 1,760 
18,821 17,327 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 279 266 
Share-based payments (note 4.6) 4 4 
Social security costs 34 32 
Other pension costs 10 10 
327 312 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Audit of these financial statements 1.2 1.2 
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 
Other assurance services 0.4 0.4 
Other services relating to taxation 0.4 0.4 
2.3 2.3 
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
Auditor’s remuneration
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
117 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued) 
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2.2  Exceptional items
Accounting policy
Due to their nature, certain one-off and non-trading items have been classified separately as exceptional items in order to draw them  
to the attention of the reader. In the judgement of the Directors this presentation shows the underlying performance of the Group 
more accurately.
Exceptional items
The following items are exceptional and have been shown separately on the face of the consolidated income statement:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within finance income and costs
Foreign exchange gain 
(1)
(1) -
Cash flow hedges - reclassified to profit and loss 
(1)
14 -
Loss on re-measurement of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
(2)
-  23  
Exceptional items before income tax 13 23
Income tax credit on exceptional items above (3) (6) 
Exceptional items for the year 10 17 
2.3  Finance income and costs 
Accounting policies
Income and costs
Finance income comprises interest income, applicable foreign exchange gains and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in 
the income statement. Finance costs comprise interest expense, finance charges on finance leases, applicable foreign exchange losses and 
losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. Interest income and interest expense are recognised as they 
accrue, using the effective interest method. 
Capitalisation of borrowing costs
The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of assets taking a substantial 
period of time to get ready for their intended use as part of the cost of that asset. 
(1) 
 As part of the refinancing undertaken during the year (see note 4.2), the Group incurred net exceptional financing costs of  
£13 million. The Group restructured its interest rate swaps as part of a wider refinancing of the debt facilities, and paid a net  
£13 million to cash settle certain swaps. In respect of these swaps, £14 million had previously been hedge accounted through equity 
and was therefore recycled through the income statement. This was then offset by foreign exchange gains of £1 million as part of the 
wider refinancing. These have been separately presented in order to better present the underlying finance cost for the Group. 
Further details of the Group’s borrowings are presented in note 4.2.
(2)  
The Group determined at 27 December 2014 that a more reliable estimate could be formed of the likelihood and timeframe for  
an earlier refinancing of its existing bank facilities than the contractual repayment date of July 2019. This was determined following 
reviews undertaken by management and external advisors of refinancing options. As a result the Group accelerated the amortisation 
of financing costs and the resulting adjustment was recognised as a loss on re-measurement and separately presented in the income 
statement as an exceptional charge as it was not part of the Group’s underlying finance cost. 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
118 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Underlying trading
In respect of assets not held at fair value
Interest income 2 2
Other  
Net foreign exchange gain 3 -
5 2
Exceptional items
Other
Net foreign exchange gain (note 2.2) 1 -
6 2
2015
£m
2014
£m
Underlying trading
In respect of liabilities not held at fair value
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 44 62
Other interest expense 2  2
46 64
Exceptional items
In respect of liabilities not held at fair value
Loss on re-measurement of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (note 2.2) - 23
In respect of liabilities held at fair value
Cash flow hedges - reclassified to profit and loss (note 2.2) 14 -
14 23
60 87
Capitalised borrowing costs amounted to £2 million in 2015 (2014: £2 million), with a capitalisation rate of 3.2% (2014: 4.2%). Tax relief 
on capitalised borrowing costs amounted to £nil in 2015 (2014: £1 million).
Finance costs
2.3  Finance income and costs  (continued) 
Finance income and costs
Finance income
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
119 2.4  Taxation
Accounting policies
The tax charge for the year is recognised in the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income, according to the 
accounting treatment of the related transaction. The tax charge comprises both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates substantively enacted at the end of the 
reporting period, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided on certain temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and taxation purposes respectively. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition 
of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business 
combination; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures to the extent that they will probably not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of 
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
After considering forecast future profits, deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which those assets can be utilised. 
Recognised in the income statement 
SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued) 
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 60 56
Adjustment for prior periods (4) 3
T otal current income tax 56 59
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7 4
Changes in tax rate - (1)
Adjustment for prior periods 4 2
T otal deferred tax 11 5
Total tax expense in income statement 67 64
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
120 2015
 %
2015 
£m
2014
 %
2014 
£m
Profit before tax 237 226
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 20.3% 48 21.5% 48
Non-deductible expenses 3.8% 9 2.5% 6
Income not subject to tax (1.9)% (4) (1.9)% (4)
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 7.6% 18 7.1% 16
Effect of changes in tax rate - -  (0.4)% (1)
Unrecognised temporary differences (0.1)% -  (0.5)% (1)
Effect of recognising deferred tax assets previously unrecognised (1.6)% (4) (2.0)% (5)
Adjustment for prior periods - -  2.1% 5
Total tax expense in income statement 28.1% 67 28.4% 64
SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2.4  Taxation (continued) 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The effective tax rate (ETR) reflects updates to the headline UK rate, including the effect on the measurement of deferred tax.
The difference between the reported ETR of 28.1% and the UK standard weighted tax rate of 20.3% is mainly due to the different tax 
rates that apply in the various jurisdictions the Group operates in around the world.
The ETR based on underlying trading, excluding exceptional items, was 27.9% in 2015 (2014: 28.0%).
Recognised directly in equity through the statement of other comprehensive income
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences relating to the net investment in foreign operations 1 -
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 1 -
Total tax expense in statement of other comprehensive income 2 -
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
121 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued) 
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2.4  Taxation (continued) 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2015 
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 21 30 (123) (114) (102) (84)
Other short term temporary differences 32 31 (6) (7) 26 24 
Intangible assets -  -  (47) (47) (47) (47)
Tax value of loss carry-forwards 3 -  -  -  3 -  
Tax assets/(liabilities) 56 61 (176) (168) (120) (107)
Set-off tax (21) (12) 21 12 -  -  
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 35  49 (155) (156) (120) (107)
28 December 
2014 
£m
Recognised in 
income 
£m
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
Effect of 
movements 
in foreign 
exchange 
£m
26 December 
2015
£m
Property, plant and equipment (84) (18) -  -  (102)
Other short term temporary differences 24 4 (2) -  26 
Intangible assets (47) -  -  -  (47)
Tax value of loss carry-forwards -  3 -  -  3 
Net tax liabilities (107) (11) (2) -  (120)
Other short term temporary differences primarily relate to financial assets and liabilities and various accruals and prepayments.
Set-off tax is separately presented to show deferred tax assets and liabilities by category before the effect of offsetting these amounts  
in the statement of financial position where the Group has the right and intention to offset these amounts.
Movement in deferred tax during the current year 
In 2015 movements in net deferred tax liabilities recognised in income in respect of property, plant and equipment were principally due 
to tax allowances utilised in the UK and USA. Net deferred tax asset movements in other short term temporary differences were 
primarily due to movements in financial assets and liabilities, accruals and prepayments in the USA.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
122 2.4  Taxation (continued) 
Movement in deferred tax during the previous year 
SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
In 2014 movements in net deferred tax liabilities recognised in income in respect of property, plant and equipment were principally due 
to tax allowances utilised in the UK and USA. Net deferred tax asset movements in other short term temporary differences were 
primarily due to increases in financial assets and liabilities, principally in the UK.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
The unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to loss carry-forwards include £1 million (2014: £1 million) which expire within five years 
and £1 million (2014: £nil) which expire within ten years. The remaining losses and other timing differences do not expire under current 
tax legislation. 
The tax losses arose in jurisdictions which are not expected to generate taxable profits in the foreseeable future and therefore there is 
currently no expectation that the losses will be utilised.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Property, plant and equipment 3 4 
Other short term temporary differences 16 23 
Intangible assets 1 3 
Tax value of loss carry-forwards 47 51 
Net unrecognised tax assets 67 81 
29 December 
2013
£m
Recognised in 
income
£m
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
£m
Effect of 
movements 
in foreign 
exchange
£m
27 December 
2014
£m
Property, plant and equipment (72) (10) -  (2) (84)
Other short term temporary differences 13 8 2 1 24 
Intangible assets (48) -  -  1 (47)
Tax value of loss carry-forwards 3 (3) -  -  -  
Net tax (liabilities)/assets (104) (5) 2 -  (107)
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
123 2.5  Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the 
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders is 
adjusted for exceptional items (see note 2.2).
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 
Share incentive plans (see note 4.6) are treated as dilutive to earnings per share when, at the reporting date, the awards are both ‘in the 
money’ and would be issuable had the performance period ended at that date. 
In 2015, the PSP has a dilutive effect as the performance measures have been partially achieved, whereas the DBP , CSOP and AESP are 
dilutive as certain option tranches are ‘in the money’, after accounting for the value of services rendered in addition to the option price.
In 2014 the PSP had a dilutive effect as the performance measures had been partially achieved, whereas the DBP was not dilutive as the 
awards had not yet been issued, and the CSOP was not dilutive as the options were ‘out of the money’ after accounting for the value of 
services rendered in addition to the option price. 
Earnings per share
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 170 162 
Exceptional items net of tax (see note 2.2) 10 17 
Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 180 179 
2015 2014
Basic weighted average number of shares 1,013,746,032 1,013,746,032 
Dilutive potential ordinary shares 1,720,789 434,077 
Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,015,466,821 1,014,180,109 
2015 
Pence
2014 
Pence
Basic and diluted earnings per share on profit for the year 16.8 16.0 
Exceptional items net of tax 1.0 1.7 
Adjusted and diluted earnings per share on adjusted profit for the year 17.8 17.7 
SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (continued) 
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
124 3.1  Property, plant and equipment
Accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where components of an item of PPE have different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
The initial cost of PPE includes all costs incurred in bringing the asset into use and includes external costs for the acquisition, 
construction and commissioning of the asset, internal project costs (primarily staff expenses) and capitalised borrowing costs. 
  
Assets acquired through business combinations
At the time of a business combination PPE is separately recognised and valued. Given the specialised nature of the PPE acquired, fair 
values are calculated on a depreciated replacement cost basis. The key estimates are the replacement cost, where industry specific 
indices are used to restate original historic cost; and depreciation, where the total and remaining economic useful lives are considered, 
together with the residual value of each asset. The total estimated lives applied are consistent with those set out below. Residual values 
are based on industry specific indices.
New sites
Capital expenditure on new attractions includes all the costs of bringing the items of PPE within that attraction into use ready for the 
opening of the attraction. Pre-opening costs are only capitalised to the extent they are required to bring PPE into its working condition. 
Other pre-opening costs are expensed as incurred.
On inception of a lease for a new site, the estimated cost of decommissioning any additions is included within PPE and depreciated over 
the lease term. A corresponding provision is set up as disclosed in note 3.5.
Existing sites
Subsequent expenditure on items of PPE in our existing estate can be broadly split into two categories:
•  Capital expenditure which adds new items of PPE to an attraction or which extends the operational life of, or enhances existing 
items of PPE is accounted for as an addition to PPE. Examples of such expenditure include new rides or displays and enhancements 
to rides or displays, which increase the appeal of our attractions to visitors.
•  Expenditure which is incurred to maintain the items of PPE in a safe and useable state and to maintain the useful life of items of PPE 
is charged to the income statement as incurred. Examples of such expenditure include regular servicing and maintenance of buildings, 
rides and displays and ongoing repairs to items of PPE.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of PPE. 
Land is not depreciated. Assets under construction are not depreciated until they come into use, when they are transferred to buildings 
or plant and equipment as appropriate. No residual values are typically considered.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
Asset class Depreciation policy
Freehold / long leasehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold buildings 20 - 50 years
Plant and equipment 5 - 30 years
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
125 3.1  Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
Property, plant and equipment
SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued)  
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Under 
construction 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 29 December 2013 862 861 62 1,785 
Additions 29 46 123 198 
Movements in asset retirement provisions 3 2 -  5 
Disposals (1) (3) -  (4)
Transfers 37 57 (94) -  
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (11) (9) -  (20)
Balance at 27 December 2014 919 954 91 1,964 
Additions 25 42 151 218 
Movements in asset retirement provisions (note 3.5) 3 -  -  3 
Disposals (6) (10) -  (16)
Transfers 53 88 (141) -  
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (17) (16) (1) (34)
Balance at 26 December 2015 977 1,058 100 2,135 
Depreciation
Balance at 29 December 2013 161 303 -  464 
Depreciation for the year - owned assets 26 69 -  95 
Depreciation for the year - leased assets 1 3 -  4 
Disposals (1) (3) -  (4)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange -  (5) -  (5)
Balance at 27 December 2014 187 367 -  554 
Depreciation for year - owned assets 28 78 -  106 
Depreciation for year - leased assets 1 3 -  4 
Disposals (6) (10) -  (16)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange -  (8) -  (8)
Balance at 26 December 2015 210 430 -  640 
Carrying amounts
At 29 December 2013 701 558 62 1,321 
At 27 December 2014 732 587 91 1,410 
At 26 December 2015 767 628 100 1,495 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
126 3.1  Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
PPE was tested for impairment in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, as referred to in note 3.3. No impairment charges 
have been made in the current or prior year. 
The Group leases buildings and plant and equipment under finance lease agreements secured on those assets. At 26 December 2015 
the net carrying amount of leased buildings was £16 million (2014: £18 million) and the net carrying amount of leased plant and 
equipment was £30 million (2014: £34 million). Further details in respect of leases and lease obligations are provided in note 4.4.
Capital commitments
At the year end the Group has a number of outstanding capital commitments in respect of capital expenditure at its existing attractions 
and for Midway attractions that are under construction. These are expected to be settled within two financial years of the reporting 
date. These amount to £32 million (2014: £50 million) for which no provision has been made. 
In addition, at year end foreign exchange rates, the Group is expecting to invest a further £98 million in LEGOLAND Japan and 
LEGOLAND Korea over the period from 2016 to 2018. 
3.2  Goodwill and intangible assets
Accounting policies
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired less any 
contingent liabilities assumed. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to groups of 
cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment. In respect of joint ventures, the carrying amount of 
goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the joint venture.
Where they arise on acquisition, brands have been valued based on discounted future cash flows using the relief from royalty method, 
including amounts into perpetuity. Currently all such brands held are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives. This is based 
upon the strong historical performance of the brands over a number of economic cycles, the demonstrable ‘chaining’ of brands, and the 
Directors’ intentions regarding the future use of brands. The Directors feel this is a suitable policy for a brands business which invests in 
and maintains the brands, and foresee no technological developments or competitor actions which would put a finite life on the brands. 
The brands are tested annually for impairment.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Other intangible assets comprise software licences, sponsorship rights and other contract based intangible assets. They are amortised on a 
straight-line basis from the date they are available for use. They are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
The estimated useful lives of other intangible assets are as follows:
SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
Asset class Estimated useful life
Licences Life of licence (up to 15 years)
Other intangible assets Relevant contractual period (up to 30 years)
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
127 3.2  Goodwill and intangible assets (continued) 
Goodwill and intangible assets 
SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued)  
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
      Intangible assets
Goodwill 
£m
Brands 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 29 December 2013 942 191 25 1,158 
Additions -  -  1 1 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (17) (5) -  (22)
Balance at 27 December 2014 925 186 26 1,137 
Additions -  -  3 3 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (19) (4) (1) (24)
Balance at 26 December 2015 906 182 28 1,116 
Amortisation
Balance at 29 December 2013 174 12 11 197 
Amortisation for the year -  -  1 1 
Effects of movements in foreign exchange (3) -  -  (3)
Balance at 27 December 2014 171 12 12 195 
Amortisation for the year -  -  1 1 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (2) -  (1) (3)
Balance at 26 December 2015 169 12 12 193 
Carrying amounts
At 29 December 2013 768 179 14 961 
At 27 December 2014 754 174 14 942 
At 26 December 2015 737 170 16 923 
Intangible assets are tested for impairment in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, as referred to in note 3.3. As a result of 
these tests, no impairment charges have been made in the year (2014: £nil).
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating segments which represent the lowest level at which it is monitored and tested for 
impairment. It is denominated in the relevant local currencies and therefore the carrying value is subject to movements in the  
underlying exchange rates.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Midway Attractions 524 530 
LEGOLAND Parks 37 38 
Resort Theme Parks 176 186 
737 754 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
128 3.2  Goodwill and intangible assets (continued) 
Brands
The Group has valued the following acquired brands, all with indefinite useful economic lives. They are all denominated in their relevant 
local currencies and therefore the carrying value is subject to movements in the underlying exchange rates. 
SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
Asset
Goodwill Goodwill is reviewed at an Operating Group level, being the relevant grouping of cash-generating units (CGUs) at 
which the benefit of such goodwill arises. A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates largely 
independent cash inflows, being the Group’s individual attractions.
Brands Brands are reviewed individually.
PPE PPE is reviewed at an attraction level.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Midway Attractions
Madame T ussauds 26 26 
SEA LIFE 15 15 
London Eye 10 10 
Other 8 8 
59 59 
Resort Theme Parks
Gardaland Resort 42 45 
Alton T owers Resort 32 32 
THORPE PARK 15 15 
Heide Park 10 11 
Other 12 12 
111 115 
170 174 
The Madame Tussauds brand value is predominantly related to the London attraction but includes value identified with the Group’s 
other Madame Tussauds attractions. The SEA LIFE brand is related to the Group’s portfolio of SEA LIFE attractions. The London Eye, 
Gardaland Resort, Alton T owers Resort, THORPE PARK and Heide Park brands all arise from those specific visitor attractions. 
3.3  Impairment testing
Accounting policies
The carrying amounts of the Group’s goodwill, intangible assets and PPE are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists or if the asset has an indefinite life, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
The process of impairment testing is to estimate the recoverable amount of the assets concerned, and recognise an impairment loss 
whenever the carrying amount of those assets exceeds the recoverable amount.
The level at which the assets concerned are reviewed varies as follows:
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
129 3.3  Impairment testing (continued) 
For assets that are in continuing use but do not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for 
the CGU to which the assets belong.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. They are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill, and then 
to reduce the carrying amount of other intangible assets and other assets on a pro rata basis.
Calculation of recoverable amount
In accordance with accounting standards the recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs 
to sell. T o assess value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount 
rate. The Group uses a multiple of EBITDA to estimate fair value which is based on the Group’s average market capitalisation as a 
multiple of the Group’s underlying EBITDA. The Group’s internally approved five year business plans, being the current year and four 
future years, are used as the basis for these calculations, with cash flows beyond the four year outlook period then extrapolated using  
a long term growth rate. 
Common assumptions have been adopted for the purpose of testing goodwill across the business and for testing brand values as their 
risk profiles are similar. The key assumptions and estimates used when calculating the net present value of future cash flows from the 
Group’s businesses are as follows:
SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued)  
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
Sensitivity analysis
Impairment reviews are often sensitive to changes in key assumptions. Sensitivity analysis has therefore been performed on the 
calculated recoverable amounts considering incremental changes in the key assumptions of EBITDA, discount rate and long term growth 
rate in relation to value in use calculations. 
When reviewing the outputs of the sensitivity analysis, particular focus is given to material amounts where headroom is more limited.  
As in prior years, this solely relates to goodwill attributed to the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group (RTP) where the headroom is 
£55 million. The Midway Attractions and LEGOLAND Parks Operating Groups, as well as individual brands, show considerable 
headroom and are not sensitive to even significant changes in any of the key assumptions. 
Estimate
Future cash flows Assumed to be equivalent to the operating cash flows of the businesses less the cash flows in respect of capital 
expenditure. The Group uses EBITDA as a proxy for the operating cash flows of its attractions as they are not 
significantly impacted by movements in working capital.
Growth in EBITDA EBITDA is forecast by an analysis of both projected revenues and costs. Visitor numbers and revenue projections are 
based on market analysis, including the total available market, historic trends, competition and site development 
activity, both in terms of capital expenditure on rides and attractions as well as marketing activity.
Operating costs projections are based on historical data, adjusted for variations in visitor numbers and planned 
expansion of site activities as well as general market conditions.
Timing and quantum of future 
capital and maintenance 
expenditure
Projections are based on the attractions’ long term development plans, taking into account the capital investment 
necessary to maintain and sustain the performance of the attractions’ assets.
Long term growth rate A growth rate of 2.5% (2014: 2.5%) was determined based on management’s long term expectations, taking account 
of historical averages and future expected trends in both market development and market share growth.
Discount rates to reflect  
the risks involved
Based on the estimated weighted average cost of capital of a ‘market participant’ within the main geographical 
regions where the Group operates, these are drawn from market data and businesses in similar sectors, and 
adjusted for asset specific risks. The key assumptions of the ‘market participant’ include the ratio of debt to equity 
financing, risk free rates and the medium term risks associated with equity investments. Net present values are 
calculated using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate of between 9.1% and 12.7% (2014: 9.4% and 13.1%), derived 
from the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital of between 7.2% and 9.4% (2014: 7.4% and 9.7%).
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
130 3.3  Impairment testing (continued) 
For RTP , where recoverable amount was based upon value in use, testing was performed on forward looking data extracted from the 
Group’s strategic plan. As this plan was prepared before the accident at Alton T owers in June, revised amounts have been included in 
the four year outlook period reflecting significant cost saving initiatives implemented at Alton T owers during 2015, as well as to consider 
future performance of the Operating Group including, but not limited to, the anticipated recovery in trading for Alton T owers in 2016 
and beyond. 
In undertaking sensitivity analysis for RTP , consideration has been given to increases in discount rates and movements in EBITDA. It has 
also specifically considered the short and long term downside risks to EBITDA at Alton T owers. These calculations do not take account 
of further potential operational cost or capital expenditure controls which would be possible were they required.
At the year end the Directors consider that the forecasts used reflect the current best estimate of future trading in RTP . It is noted 
however that the calculations are inherently sensitive to the pace of the recovery at Alton T owers. While in the short term a delay in 
the pace of the recovery would be highly unlikely to affect valuations by a substantial amount, longer term shortfalls that affect the 
outlook for the fourth year of the plan (which drive the terminal value) would have a more significant impact. If EBITDA for RTP as a 
whole were forecast to be 6% lower than currently anticipated for 2020, headroom would be absorbed in full. While it is not impossible 
for such a shortfall to occur, the Directors do not consider it to be probable based on the strength of the product development, 
diversity across the businesses in RTP and our proven track record in scaling our cost base to respond to changing demand.
Discount rates have been derived from market data. As these rates are intended to be long term in nature they are expected to be 
reasonably stable in the short term, however market discount rates could increase in future. If the discount rate used across RTP had 
been higher by a factor of 6%, headroom would have been absorbed in full. The Directors have formed their best estimate of the 
discount rate and do not consider that such a move in the rate is appropriate, but it is not impossible that a different view of  
discount rates could be required in the future.
The long term growth rate, which is applied to the cash flows of the final year in the business plan, was determined based on 
management’s long term expectations, taking account of historical averages and future expected trends in both market development 
and market share growth. The Directors do not consider it probable that this rate will prove to be inappropriate in the future, but note 
that if circumstances caused the rate to lower to 1.7%, headroom would be absorbed in full.
3.4  Working capital 
Accounting policies
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is measured using the first-in first-out principle and includes 
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their present location and condition. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original invoice amount less an allowance for any amounts considered by 
management to be uncollectible. Bad debts are written off when identified. Other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less 
impairment losses. 
Inventories 
SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Maintenance inventory 7 6
Goods for resale 23 20
30 26
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
131 SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued)  
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
3.4  Working capital (continued) 
Trade and other receivables
Ageing of trade receivables
The ageing analysis of trade receivables, net of allowance for uncollectible amounts, is as follows:
Current liabilities Non-current liabilities
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Trade payables 41 31 -  -  
Accruals 108 115 2 2
Deferred income 72 69 - - 
Other payables 14 11 22 21 
235 226 24 23 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Neither past due nor impaired 10 10
Up to 30 days overdue 8 4
Between 30 and 60 days overdue 1 1
Over 60 days overdue 1 1
20 16
Current assets Non-current assets
2015
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Trade receivables 20 16 -  -  
Other receivables 25 17 -  -  
Prepayments and accrued income 31 27 11 7 
76 60 11 7 
Accruals 
Accruals comprise balances in relation to both operating and capital costs incurred at the reporting date but for which an invoice has 
not been received and payment has not yet been made.
Deferred income
Deferred income comprises revenues received or invoiced at the reporting date which relate to future periods. The main components 
of deferred income relate to advanced ticket revenues in respect of online bookings and annual pass purchases; pre-booked 
accommodation; and certain sponsorship and similar arrangements. 
Trade and other payables
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
132 SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
3.5  Provisions 
Accounting policy
Provisions are recognised when the Group has legal or constructive obligations as a result of past events and it is probable that 
expenditure will be required to settle those obligations. They are measured at the Directors’ best estimates, after taking account of 
information available and different possible outcomes.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Provisions 
Asset retirement 
provisions
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 28 December 2014 36 18 54 
Provisions made during the year 3 3 6 
Utilised during the year -  (3) (3)
Unused amounts reversed -  (2) (2)
Unwinding of discount 1 -  1 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange -  (1) (1)
Balance at 26 December 2015 40 15 55 
2015
Current -  4 4 
Non-current 40 11 51 
40 15 55 
2014
Current -  4 4 
Non-current 36 14 50 
36 18 54 
Asset retirement provisions
Certain attractions operate on leasehold sites and these provisions relate to the anticipated costs of removing assets and restoring the 
sites concerned at the end of the lease term. These leases are typically of a duration of between ten and 60 years.
They are established on inception and discounted back to present value with the discount then being unwound through the income 
statement as part of finance costs. They are reviewed at least annually.
Other 
Other provisions largely relate to the estimated cost arising from open insurance claims, tax matters and legal issues. 
There are no anticipated future events that would be expected to cause a material change in the timing or amount of outflows 
associated with the provisions.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
133 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.1  Net debt 
Analysis of net debt
Net debt is the total amount of cash and cash equivalents less interest-bearing loans and borrowings and finance lease liabilities. Cash 
and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits and other short term liquid investments such as money market funds which 
are subject to an insignificant risk of a change in value. 
Restricted funds of £nil (2014: £6 million) are included in cash and cash equivalents. 
4.2  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Accounting policy
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less attributable fees. These fees are then amortised through 
the income statement on an effective interest rate basis over the expected life of the loan (or over the contractual term where there is 
no clear indication that a shorter life is appropriate). If the Group subsequently determines that the expected life has changed, the 
resulting adjustment to the effective interest rate calculation is recognised as a gain or loss on re-measurement and presented  
separately in the income statement.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current
Floating rate bank facilities due 2020 640 -  
Floating rate bank facilities due 2019 (repaid March 2015) -  1,131 
€500 million fixed rate notes due 2022 363 -  
£300 million floating rate revolving credit facility due 2020 -  -  
£150 million floating rate revolving credit facility due 2019 (cancelled March 2015) -  -  
1,003 1,131 
Current
Interest payable 4 5 
1,007 1,136 
28
December
2014
£m
Net
cash flows
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Effect of 
movements
in foreign
exchange
£m
26
December
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 285 (137) -  4 152 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (note 4.2) (1,136) 124 (3) 8 (1,007)
(851) (13) (3) 12 (855)
Finance leases (note 4.4) (84) -  -  2 (82)
Net debt (935) (13) (3) 14 (937)
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
134 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.2  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (continued) 
In 2015 the Group refinanced its long term debt. 
The new committed facilities are: 
•  Bank facilities comprising £250 million, $540 million and €50 million floating rate term debt to mature in March 2020. The relevant 
floating interest rates are LIBOR, the USD benchmark rate and EURIBOR, which were 0.59%, 0.57% and (0.13)% respectively at  
26 December 2015. The margin on the bank facilities is dependent on the Group’s adjusted leverage ratio and is currently 2.0%.
•  A £300 million multi-currency revolving credit facility. The margin on this facility is also dependent on the Group’s adjusted leverage 
ratio and would currently be at a margin when drawn of 1.75% over the same floating interest rates.
• A bond in the form of €500 million seven year notes with a coupon rate of 2.75% to mature in March 2022.
These new facilities enabled the repayment of the existing secured facilities due to mature in 2019. The fees related to the new facilities 
are being amortised to the maturity of the debt as the debt is currently expected to be held for its full term. 
All 2014 facilities were secured by fixed charges over the shares in certain Group companies and certain intra-group receivables.  
This security was released in 2015. The borrowings under the new bank facilities (including the revolving credit facility) and the  
€500 million bonds are unsecured but guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
4.3  Financial risk management 
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group would not have sufficient funds to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s 
Treasury Department produces short term and long term cash forecasts to identify liquidity requirements and headroom, which are 
reviewed by the Group’s Chief Financial Officer. Surplus cash is actively managed across Group bank accounts to cover local shortfalls or 
invested in bank deposits or other short term liquid investments such as money market funds. In some jurisdictions bank cash pooling 
arrangements are in place to optimise the use of cash. 
As at the reporting date the Group had £152 million of cash and cash equivalents (2014: £285 million) and a £300 million revolving 
credit facility, of which £nil was drawn down (2014: £150 million of which £nil drawn down), in order to meet its obligations and 
commitments that will fall due.
The following table sets out the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of 
netting agreements. This analysis assumes that interest rates prevailing at the reporting date remain constant.
0 to <1 
year 
£m
1 to <2 
years 
£m
2 to <5 
years 
£m
5 years 
and over 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows
£m
2015
Floating rate bank facilities due 2020 (17) (17) (685) -  (719)
€500 million fixed rate notes due 2022 (10) (10) (31) (382) (433)
Finance lease liabilities (6) (6) (19) (162) (193)
Trade payables and derivatives (45) (4) (8) -  (57)
(78) (37) (743) (544) (1,402)
2014
Floating rate bank facilities due 2019 (42) (45) (1,237) -  (1,324)
Finance lease liabilities (6) (6) (19) (171) (202)
Trade payables and derivatives (40) (8) (4) -  (52)
(88) (59) (1,260) (171) (1,578)
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
135 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.3  Financial risk management (continued) 
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on both interest bearing assets and liabilities. The Group has a policy of actively managing its 
interest rate risk exposure using a combination of fixed rate debt and interest rate swaps. 
At 26 December 2015 the Group had €500 million of fixed rate debt. Taken together with the floating rate bank facilities, that have 
been swapped to a fixed rate using interest rate swaps (the accounting of which is set out below), in aggregate 75% (2014: 80%) of the 
year end interest-bearing loans and borrowings is at a fixed rate for a weighted average period of 5.2 years (2014: 2.1 years).
Interest rate swaps are recognised at fair value which is determined by reference to market rates. It is the estimated amount that the 
Group would receive or pay to exit the swap, taking into account current interest rates, credit risks and bid/ask spreads. Following  
initial recognition, changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement, except where the Group adopts  
hedge accounting.
When hedge accounting, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items. It makes 
an assessment, at inception and on an ongoing basis, as to whether the hedging instruments are expected to be ‘highly effective’ in 
offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items during the life of the hedge. The effective portion of 
changes in fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. Any ineffective 
portion of changes in fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The amount recognised in other comprehensive income is 
removed and included in profit or loss in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect profit or loss. If the hedging instrument no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income would 
be recognised immediately in profit or loss. All interest rate swaps held by the Group are hedge accounted.
Sensitivity analysis
Based on the net debt position as at 26 December 2015, taking into account interest rate swaps, each 100 basis points (bp) fall or rise in 
market interest rates would result in an increase or decrease in net interest paid of £nil (2014: £1 million). This has been calculated by 
applying the interest rate change to the Group’s variable rate cash, borrowings and derivatives. 
Foreign currency risk
As the Group operates internationally the performance of the business is sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s 
potential currency exposures comprise transaction and translation exposures:
Transaction exposures
The revenue and costs of the Group’s operations are denominated primarily in the currencies of the relevant local territories.  
Any significant cross-border trading exposures are hedged by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. 
Translation exposures
The Group’s results, as presented in Sterling, are subject to fluctuations as a result of exchange rate movements. The Group does  
not hedge this translation exposure to its earnings but, where material, may carry out net asset hedging by borrowing in the same  
currencies as the currencies of its operating units. The Group’s debt is therefore denominated in Euros, US Dollars and Sterling  
and at 26 December 2015 consisted of €550 million, $540 million and £250 million. 
Gains or losses arise on the retranslation of foreign currency denominated borrowings designated as effective net investment hedges of 
overseas net assets. These are offset in equity by corresponding gains or losses arising on the retranslation of the related hedged foreign 
currency net assets. The Group also treats specific intercompany loan balances, which are not intended to be repaid in the foreseeable 
future, as part of its net investment. In the event of a foreign entity being sold or a hedging item being extinguished, such exchange 
differences would be recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign currency balances is kept to a minimal level by using foreign currency swaps to 
exchange balances back into Sterling or by buying and selling foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary. The fair value of foreign 
exchange contracts is the present value of future cash flows and is determined by reference to market rates. At 26 December 2015  
the fair value of foreign currency swaps was £1 million (2014: £nil). 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
136 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.3  Financial risk management (continued) 
Sensitivity analysis on foreign currency risk
A 10% strengthening of all currencies against Sterling would increase net debt by £72 million. As described above, gains or losses in  
the income statement and equity are offset by the retranslation of the related foreign currency net assets or specific intercompany  
loan balances.
A 10% strengthening of all currencies against Sterling would reduce the fair value of foreign exchange contracts and result in a charge  
to the income statement of £4 million (2014: £9 million). 
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations. Credit risk is limited to the carrying value of the Group’s monetary assets. The Group has limited credit risk with its 
customers, the vast majority of whom pay in advance or at the time of their visit. There are credit policies in place with regard to  
its trade receivables with credit evaluations performed on customers requiring credit over a certain amount. 
The Group manages credit exposures in connection with financing and treasury activities including exposures arising from bank  
deposits, cash held at banks and derivative transactions, by appraisal, formal approval and ongoing monitoring of the credit position  
of counterparties. Counterparty exposures are measured against a formal transaction limit appropriate to that counterparty’s  
credit position. 
Carrying value
Sterling 
£m
Euro 
£m
US Dollar 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
2015
Cash and cash equivalents 90 7 10 45 152 
Floating rate bank facilities due 2020 (247) (36) (357) -  (640)
€500 million fixed rate notes due 2022 -  (363) -  -  (363)
Finance lease liabilities (54) (28) -  -  (82)
(211) (420) (347) 45 (933)
2014
Cash and cash equivalents 202 8 47 28 285 
Floating rate bank facilities due 2019 (408) (332) (318) (73) (1,131)
Finance lease liabilities (54) (30) -  -  (84)
(260) (354) (271) (45) (930)
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
137 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.3  Financial risk management (continued) 
Fair values
Fair value hierarchy
The Group analyses financial instruments in the following ways:
• Level 1: uses unadjusted quoted prices in active markets.
• Level 2: uses inputs that are derived directly or indirectly from observable prices (other than quoted prices). 
• Level 3: uses inputs that are not based on observable market data.
Fair value versus carrying amounts
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are presented in the table below, together with the carrying amounts shown in the 
statement of financial position. Short term receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following 
disclosures on the basis that their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value. 
The bank facilities, loan notes and finance leases are held at amortised cost. The fair values shown above for the bank facilities and loan 
notes have been calculated using market values and are classified as Level 2 and Level 1 respectively. The fair values of the finance leases 
are determined by reference to similar lease agreements.
Of the financial assets and liabilities held at fair value, the derivative financial assets or liabilities are classified as Level 2 and the 
investments are classified as Level 3.
There have been no transfers between levels in 2015 or 2014.
2015 2014
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair 
value  
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Fair 
value  
£m
Held at amortised cost
Floating rate bank facilities due 2020 (640) (631) -  -  
Floating rate bank facilities due 2019 -  -  (1,131) (1,128)
€500 million fixed rate notes due 2022 (363) (358) -  -  
Finance lease liabilities (82) (82) (84) (84)
Held at fair value
Derivative financial instruments 1 1 (11) (11)
Investments 11 11 6 6 
(1,073) (1,059) (1,220) (1,217)
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
138 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.4  Lease obligations 
Accounting policies
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting 
treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at  
an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge 
is allocated during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease 
incentives received and predetermined non-contingent rent increases are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the 
total lease expense over the lease term. This therefore excludes the potential impact of future performance or rent increases based on 
inflationary indices.
Lease arrangements
The Group’s most significant lease arrangements relate to a sale and leaseback transaction undertaken during 2007, involving the PPE of 
certain attractions within the Midway Attractions and Resort Theme Parks Operating Groups. The leases are accounted for as finance 
or operating leases depending on the specific circumstances of each lease and the nature of the attraction. For certain of the sites an 
individual lease agreement is split for accounting purposes as a combination of finance and operating leases, reflecting the varied nature 
of assets at the attraction. During 2012 the Group undertook a further sale and leaseback transaction of the LEGOLAND Windsor 
Hotel. This is being accounted for as an operating lease.
Each of these sale and leaseback agreements runs for a period of 35 years from inception and allows for annual rent increases based  
on the inflationary index in the United Kingdom and fixed increases in Continental Europe. The Group has the option, but is not 
contractually required, to extend each of the lease agreements individually for two further terms of 35 years, subject to an  
adjustment to market rates at that time. 
The Group also enters into operating leases for sites within the Midway Attractions Operating Group and central areas. These are 
typically of a duration between ten and 60 years, with rent increases determined based on local market practice. In addition to a fixed 
rental element, rents within the Midway Attractions Operating Group can also contain a performance related element, typically  
based on turnover at the site concerned. Options to renew leases exist at these sites in line with local market practice in the  
territories concerned. 
The key contractual terms in relation to each lease are considered when calculating the rental charge over the lease term. The potential 
impact on rent charges of future performance or increases based on inflationary indices are each excluded from these calculations.
There are no significant operating restrictions placed on the Group as a result of its lease arrangements.
Lease costs and commitments
During 2015 £89 million (2014: £86 million) was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases.  
Of this £12 million (2014: £12 million) was contingent on performance.
The lease commitments in the following tables run to the end of the respective lease term and do not include possible lease renewals. 
Where relevant, the lease commitments noted do not include the potential impact of future performance or rent increases based on 
inflationary indices.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
139 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.4  Lease obligations (continued) 
Finance leases
These tables provide information about the future minimum lease payments and contractual terms of the Group’s finance lease  
liabilities, as follows: 
The nominal interest rate for finance leases in the table above represents the weighted average effective interest rate. This is used 
because the table above aggregates finance leases with the same maturity date and currency. 
Operating leases
The minimum rentals payable as lessee under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
The Group has also entered into lease agreements as part of the developments of LEGOLAND Japan and LEGOLAND Korea which 
are being developed under the Group’s ‘operated and leased’ model. Following the opening of the parks, the Group’s local operating 
company in each territory will lease the site and park infrastructure from each of the development partners for a period of 50 years. 
The leases will be accounted for as finance or operating leases from the date the parks start operating depending on the specific 
circumstances of each lease and the nature of the assets at the attractions.
Future 
minimum lease 
payments 
2015 
£m
Interest 
2015 
£m
Present value 
of minimum 
lease payments 
2015 
£m
Future 
minimum lease 
payments 
2014
£m
Interest 
2014 
£m
Present value 
of minimum 
lease payments 
2014 
£m
Less than one year 6 6 -  6 6 -  
Between one and five years 25 25 -  26 25 1 
More than five years 244 162 82 254 171 83 
275 193 82 286 202 84 
Currency
Nominal 
interest rate
Year of 
maturity
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Finance lease liabilities GBP 5.64% 2042 54 54 
Finance lease liabilities EUR 9.11% 2042 28 30 
82 84 
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Less than one year 76 76 
Between one and five years 291 297 
More than five years 1,271 1,326 
1,638 1,699 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
140 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.5  Equity and capital management
Capital management
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt which includes borrowings (see note 4.2), cash and cash equivalents and equity 
attributable to equity holders of the parent Company, as disclosed below. The Group’s objective when managing capital is to maintain a 
strong capital base so as to maintain investor and creditor confidence and to sustain future development of the business; to provide 
returns for shareholders; and to optimise the capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. There are no externally imposed capital 
requirements on the Group.
T o enable the Group to meet its objective, the Directors monitor returns on capital through constant review of earnings generated 
from the Group’s capital investment programme and through regular budgeting and planning processes, manage capital in a manner so 
as to ensure that sufficient funds for capital investment and working capital are available, and the requirements of the Group’s debt 
covenants are met.
The Group does not routinely make additional issues of capital, other than for the purpose of raising finance to fund significant 
acquisitions or developments intended to increase the overall value of the Group.
Share plans have been created to allow employees of the Group to participate in the ownership of the Group’s equity instruments,  
in order to ensure employees are focused on growing the value of the Group to achieve the aims of all the shareholders. The  
Group’s equity-settled share plans are settled either by the issue of shares by Merlin Entertainments plc or by the purchase of  
shares in the market.
Share capital and reserves 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share  
at general meetings of the Company.
Each ordinary share in the capital of the Company ranks equally in all respects and no shareholder holds shares carrying special rights 
relating to the control of the Company. 
The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with its major shareholder, KIRKBI, in connection with the exercise of its rights 
as a major shareholder in the Company and the right to appoint Directors to the Board. Relationship Agreements with Blackstone and 
CVC (which were described in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27 December 2014) terminated in March 2015 
when they ceased to hold any shares in the Company.
The nominal value of shares in issue is shown in share capital, with any additional consideration for those shares shown in  
share premium.
2015 
Number
2014 
Number
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each
On issue and fully paid at beginning and end of year 1,013,746,032 1,013,746,032 10 10
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
141 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.5  Equity and capital management (continued) 
Dividends
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment.
The Directors of the Company propose a final dividend of 4.4 pence per share for the year ended 26 December 2015  
(2014: 4.2 pence per share). The total dividend for the current year, subject to approval of the final dividend, will be 6.5 pence 
per share (2014: 6.2 pence per share).
Capital reserve
Balances arose in the capital reserve when the Group’s previous parent company, Merlin Entertainments S.à r.l. arranged its own 
acquisition by Merlin Entertainments plc, a new legal parent. The balances represented the difference between the value of the equity 
structure of the previous and new parent companies. 
On 26 February 2014 the Company reduced its share capital by means of a court sanctioned reduction of capital, which resulted in an 
increase in available reserves for distribution by way of dividends to shareholders in the amount of £3,183 million. When the capital 
position of the parent Company was rearranged the capital reserve was adjusted appropriately such that the equity balances presented 
in the Group accounts best reflected the underlying structure of the Group’s capital base.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of  
foreign operations.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
4.6  Share-based payment transactions
Accounting policy
The fair value of the share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained 
earnings, net of deferred tax. The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant. Non-market based vesting conditions 
(i.e. earnings per share and return on capital employed targets) are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest, 
which is reviewed at each accounting date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards 
issued. No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or are not exercised.
The Group operates cash-settled versions of the employee incentive plans for employees in certain territories. The issues and resulting 
charges of these plans are not material to the financial statements. 
Equity-settled plans
The Group operates four employee share incentive plans: the Performance Share Plan (PSP), the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP), the 
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP) and the All Employee Sharesave Plan (AESP) as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and the tables below. A summary of the rules for the plans and the performance conditions attaching to the PSP are given in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interim dividend for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014 of 2.0 pence per share -  20 
Final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014 of 4.2 pence per share 43 -  
Interim dividend for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015 of 2.1 pence per share 21 -  
Total dividends paid 64 20 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
142 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.6  Share-based payment transactions (continued) 
Analysis of share-based payment charge 
Analysis of awards 
The weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) over the year were as follows:
(1)
 Nil cost options
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
PSP 1 2 
CSOP 1 1 
AESP 2 1 
4 4 
Date of grant
Exercise
price (£)
Period when 
exercisable
Average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
Number  
of shares 
2015
Number  
of shares 
2014
PSP November 2013 - December 2015 -  2017 - 2025 8.7 5,633,093 3,611,209 
DBP March 2015 -  2018 - 2025 9.2 361,734 -  
CSOP November 2013 - September 2015 3.15 - 4.42 2016 - 2025 8.4 3,192,347 2,305,252 
AESP January 2014 - March 2015 2.96 - 3.43 2016 - 2018 2.2 5,502,199 3,180,962 
Total 14,689,373 9,097,423 
PSP 
(1)
Number
DBP 
(1)
Number Number WAEP (£) Number WAEP (£)
At 29 December 2013 3,633,489 -  2,298,375 3.15 -  -  
Granted during the year 120,577 -  206,850 3.64 3,555,062 2.98 
Forfeited during the year (142,857) -  (199,973) 3.17 (374,100) 2.99 
At 27 December 2014 3,611,209 -  2,305,252 3.19 3,180,962 2.98 
Granted during the year 2,426,028 383,843 1,083,850 4.38 2,823,813 3.24 
Forfeited during the year (404,144) (22,109) (196,755) 3.46 (473,366) 3.11 
Exercised during the year -  -  -  -  (4,213) 2.98 
Expired during the year -  -  -  -  (24,997) 2.98 
At 26 December 2015 5,633,093 361,734 3,192,347 3.58 5,502,199 3.10 
Exercisable at end of year
At 27 December 2014 -  -  -  -  -  -  
At 26 December 2015 -  -  -  -  -  -  
CSOP AESP
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
143 SECTION 4 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
4.6  Share-based payment transactions (continued) 
The fair value per award granted and the assumptions used in the calculations for the significant grants in 2014 and 2015 are as follows: 
A description of the key assumptions used in calculating the share-based payments is as follows:
• The binomial valuation methodology is used for the PSP , CSOP and DBP . The Black-Scholes model is used to value the AESP . 
• Due to limited trading history in the Group’s shares, the expected volatility is based on a portfolio of comparator companies.
• The risk free rate is equal to the prevailing UK Gilts rate at grant date, which is commensurate with the expected term.
• Expected forfeiture rates are based on recent experience of staff turnover levels.
• Behavioural expectations have been estimated in estimating the award life.
• The charge is spread over the vesting period on a straight-line basis.
Scheme Date of grant
Exercise 
price (£)
Share price  
at grant 
date (£)
Fair  
value per 
award (£)
Expected 
dividend 
yield
Expected 
volatility
Award life 
(years)
Risk free 
rate
PSP 2 April 2015 -  4.47 4.47 n/a n/a 3.0 n/a
DBP 25 March 2015 -  4.45 4.45 n/a n/a 3.0 n/a
CSOP 1 April 2015 4.42 4.42 0.99 1.4% 24% 4.7 1.0%
AESP 13 January 2014 3.17 3.73 0.70 0.7% 20% 2.2 0.8%
7 February 2014 2.96 3.54 0.84 0.7% 22% 3.3 1.2%
17 February 2015 3.43 4.04 0.71 1.5% 18% 2.2 0.7%
17 March 2015 3.23 4.38 1.20 1.4% 20% 3.3 0.9%
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
144 5.1  Investments 
Accounting policy  
As no observable market data is available for the Group’s existing investments, fair value is determined by reference to discounted 
future cash flows, with movements recorded in other comprehensive income. No fair value movements have been recorded and there 
is no material sensitivity to the assumptions used.
LEGOLAND Malaysia
In 2013 the Group acquired 16,350,300 shares in IDR Resorts Sdn. Bhd. (IDR) for the consideration of £3 million. During the year the 
Group acquired an additional 26,149,700 shares for the consideration of £5 million. 
IDR is accounted for at fair value and is not consolidated. IDR and its subsidiaries are deemed to be related parties as the Group is 
committed to subscribing for share capital in IDR which together with its subsidiaries owns LEGOLAND Malaysia (see note 5.3).
LEGOLAND Korea
In 2014 the Group made a £3 million investment in the consortium company developing LEGOLAND Korea. The investment is 
accounted for at fair value and is not consolidated.
5.2  Employee benefits
Accounting policies
Defined contribution pension schemes
In the case of defined contribution schemes, the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate fund on behalf of the employee and has 
no further obligations to them. The risks and rewards associated with this type of scheme are assumed by the members rather than the 
employer. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement 
as incurred. 
Defined benefit pension schemes
A defined benefit scheme is a post-employment benefit scheme other than a defined contribution scheme. The Group’s net obligation 
is calculated for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the 
current and prior periods. That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and offset by the fair value of any scheme assets. 
 The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they occur directly in equity through other comprehensive income.
Defined contribution pension schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes and the total expense relating to those schemes in the current 
year was £10 million (2014: £10 million).
Defined benefit pension schemes
The principal scheme that the Group operates is a closed scheme for certain former UK employees of The Tussauds Group, which was 
acquired in 2007. The scheme entitles retired employees to receive an annual payment based on a percentage of final salary for each 
year of service that the employee provided. The pension schemes have not directly invested in any of the Group’s own financial 
instruments or in properties or other assets used by the Group.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At beginning of year 6 3 
Additions 5 3 
At end of year 11 6 
SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
145 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Equities 23 23 
Corporate bonds and cash 5 5 
Fair value of scheme assets 28 28 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (33) (33)
Net pension liability (5) (5)
Present value 
of scheme 
assets 
£m
Present value of 
defined benefit 
obligations 
£m
Net pension 
liability 
£m
At 29 December 2013 17 (21) (4)
Net interest 1 (1) -  
Contributions by employer 1 -  1 
Benefits paid (1) 1 -  
Remeasurement gain/(loss) 2 (3) (1)
Recognition of defined contribution section assets and liabilities 8 (9) (1)
At 27 December 2014 28 (33) (5)
Net interest 1 (1) -  
Contributions by employer 1 -  1 
Benefits paid (1) 1 -  
Remeasurement loss (1) -  (1)
At 26 December 2015 28 (33) (5)
5.2  Employee benefits (continued) 
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 1 January 2013. As a result, the Group agreed to pay  
deficit reduction contributions of £455,500 per annum until 2018, together with an additional one-off payment of £350,000 which  
was paid in 2014.
The Group expects £1 million in contributions to be paid to its defined benefit schemes in 2015. The weighted average duration of the 
defined benefit obligation at 26 December 2015 was 20 years.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes are:
Movement in the net pension liability 
The amount recognised in the income statement was £nil (2014: £nil). The amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income was a loss of £1 million (2014: loss of £2 million). 
The closed Tussauds Group scheme operated a defined contribution section underpinned by a minimum level of benefit. Recent 
experience has indicated that this minimum level of benefit is now giving rise to a deficit; consequently the assets and liabilities of the 
defined contribution section of the scheme were recognised in 2014.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
146 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
5.2  Employee benefits (continued) 
Actuarial assumptions
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages) at the year end were:
2015 2014
Discount rate 3.9% 3.9%
Future salary increases 3.5% 3.5% 
Rate of price inflation 3.2% 3.2% 
Goods and services
Sales 
£m
Amounts owed 
by related  
party 
£m
Purchases 
£m
Amounts owed 
to related  
party 
£m
2015
KIRKBI Invest A/S - -  9 2 
LEGO Group 1 1 47 2 
1 1  56 4 
2014
KIRKBI Invest A/S 1 -  7 2 
LEGO Group 1 - 37 2 
2 - 44 4
Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on published statistics and mortality tables. For the Tussauds Group scheme the 
actuarial table used is S1PA. The mortality assumption adopted predicts that a current 65 year old male would have a life expectancy to 
age 85 and a female would have a life expectancy to age 88.
5.3  Related party transactions 
Identity of related parties
The Group has related party relationships with a major shareholder, key management personnel, joint ventures and IDR Resorts  
Sdn. Bhd. 
All dealings with related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis.
Transactions with shareholders
During the year the Group entered into transactions with a major shareholder, KIRKBI Invest A/S, and the LEGO Group, a related party 
of KIRKBI Invest A/S. During the year Blackstone Capital Partners and funds advised by CVC Capital Partners (via Lancelot Holdings  
S.à r.l.) ceased to hold any shares. 
Transactions entered into, including the purchase and sale of goods, payment of fees and royalties, and trading balances outstanding at  
26 December 2015, were as follows: 
Prior to the refinancing in March 2015 (see note 4.2) KIRKBI Invest A/S, as a member of a banking syndicate, owned an element of the 
Group’s bank loan portfolio. The balance outstanding at 26 December 2015 is £nil (2014: £49 million).
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
147 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
5.3  Related party transactions (continued)  
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management of the Group, being the Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Board, the members of the Executive 
Committee and their immediate relatives control 1.7% (2014: 2.1%) of the voting shares of the Company.
The compensation of key management was as follows:
Transactions with other related parties
As part of the agreement for the development and operation of LEGOLAND Malaysia, the Group has subscribed for share capital in 
IDR Resorts Sdn. Bhd. (IDR) which together with its subsidiaries owns the park. On this basis, IDR and its subsidiaries are deemed to be 
related parties. At 26 December 2015 the Group had subscribed for 42,500,000 shares in IDR (2014: 16,350,300 shares).
Transactions entered into, including the purchase and sale of goods, payment of fees and trading balances outstanding at 26 December 
2015, are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Key management emoluments including social security costs 4.2 7.7
Contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.3 0.5
Share-based payments and other related payments 1.4 0.8
5.9 9.0
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Sales to related party 5 5
Amounts owed by related party 3 3
5.4  Contingent liabilities 
On 2 June 2015 an accident occurred at Alton T owers Resort on ‘The Smiler’ ride. The Group responded immediately to support 
those who were injured, and maintains appropriate insurance that we expect will provide full compensation in due course. We continue 
to fully support the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) as they undertake their investigation. It is possible that additional uninsured costs 
and, depending on the outcome of the HSE investigation, financial penalties may be incurred. At this stage these costs are not anticipated 
to be material in the context of the Group’s financial statements.
The Group has contingent liabilities arising from local planning obligations and other obligations. The total liability under these obligations 
could amount up to £1 million (2014: £1 million).
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
148 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
5.5  New standards and interpretations 
The following standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) or the International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee, have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated financial statements:
• IAS 19 (Amendment) ‘Employee benefits’ - defined benefit plans: employee contributions.
• IFRS 2 (Amendment) ‘Share-based payment’ - definition of ‘vesting condition’.
•  IFRS 3 (Amendment) ‘Business combinations’ - classification and measurement of contingent consideration and scope exclusion for  
the formation of joint arrangements.
• IFRS 8 (Amendment) ‘Operating segments’ - disclosures on the aggregation of operating segments.
•  IFRS 13 (Amendment) ‘Fair value measurement’ - measurement of short term receivables and payables and scope of  
portfolio exception.
• IAS 16 (Amendment) ‘Property, plant and equipment’.
• IAS 24 (Amendment) ‘Related party disclosures’ - definition of ‘related party’.
EU endorsed IFRS and interpretations with effective dates after 26 December 2015 relevant to the Group will be implemented in the 
financial year when the standards become effective.
The IASB has issued the following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that will be effective for the Group as from  
1 January 2016. The Group does not expect any significant impact on its consolidated financial statements from these amendments.
• IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ - accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations.
•  IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’ - clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation  
and amortisation.
• IAS 27 ‘Separate financial statements’ - equity method.
• IFRS 5 ‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’ - changes in method for disposal.
• IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ - continuing involvement for servicing contracts.
• IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ - discount rate in a regional market sharing the same currency - e.g. the Eurozone.
• IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ - disclosure initiative.
During 2014 the IASB issued IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’, which will become effective from the 2018 accounting 
period. The Group’s revenue is generated by high volumes of low value transactions, thereby requiring limited judgement on accounting 
for revenue compared to other industry sectors. The Group considers that the implementation of this new standard will not have any 
significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, which will become effective from the 2019 accounting period. It is anticipated that this 
will require many of the Group’s leases to be accounted for ‘on balance sheet’ and will result in significant changes to the presentation of 
the Group’s consolidated financial statements. It will therefore be a key area of focus. 
5.6  Ultimate parent company information
The largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by Merlin Entertainments plc, incorporated in 
the United Kingdom. No other group financial statements include the results of the Company. 
5.7  Subsequent events
On 24 February 2016 the Group invested $34.4 million (£24.6 million) in Big Bus T ours Group Holdings Limited, the leading global  
owner-operator of Hop On Hop Off City T ours. The consideration will be settled in cash and will provide Merlin with a minority equity  
holding and an investment in loan notes.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
149 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
5.8  Subsidiary and joint venture undertakings 
The Group has the following investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures:
Subsidiary undertaking
Country of 
incorporation
Class of 
share held
Ownership 
2015
Ownership 
2014
AAE Unit Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
AQDEV Pty Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Aquia Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Australian Alpine Enterprises Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Australian Alpine Enterprises Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Australian Alpine Reservation Centre Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Christchurch Investment Company Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Falls Creek Ski Lifts Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Gebi Falls Creek Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 57.0% 57.0%
Hotham Heights Developments Ltd Australia Ordinary 65.0% 65.0%
Illawarra Tree T opps Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Discovery Centre Melbourne Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Limlimbu Ski Flats Ltd Australia Ordinary 64.0% 64.0%
Living and Leisure Australia Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Living and Leisure Australia Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
Living and Leisure Australia Management Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Living and Leisure Finance Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
LLA Aquariums Pty Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Melbourne Underwater World Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Melbourne Underwater World Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
ME LoanCo (Australia) Pty Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
MHSC DP Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
MHSC Hotels Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
MHSC Properties Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
MHSC Transportation Services Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Mount Hotham Management and Reservation Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Mount Hotham Skiing Company Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
MUW Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Northbank Development Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
Northbank Place (Vic) Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 50.0% 50.0%
Oceanis Australia Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Oceanis Australia Unit Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
Oceanis Developments Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Oceanis Foundation Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Oceanis Holdings Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Oceanis Korea Unit Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
Oceanis NB Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Oceanis Northbank Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
Oceanis Unit Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
Parkthorn Properties Pty Ltd
 (3)
Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Sydney Attractions Group Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
150 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
5.8  Subsidiary and joint venture undertakings (continued)
Subsidiary undertaking
Country of 
incorporation
Class of 
share held
Ownership 
2015
Ownership 
2014
Sydney T ower Observatory Pty Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Sydney Wildlife World Pty Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
The Otway Fly Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
The Otway Fly Unit Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
The Sydney Aquarium Company Pty Limited Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Underwater World Sunshine Coast Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
US Fly Trust Australia - 100.0% 100.0%
White Crystal (Mount Hotham) Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary 82.6% 82.6%
Madame T ussauds Austria GmbH Austria Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
MT Austria Holdings GmbH Austria Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Centre Belgium N.V. Belgium Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (Canada) Inc Canada Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds Exhibition (Beijing) Company Limited China Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds Exhibition (Shanghai) Company Limited China Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds Exhibition (Wuhan) Company Limited China Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Indoor Children's Playground (Shanghai) Company Limited China Ordinary 100.0% -
Merlin Entertainments Hong Kong Limited China Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Exhibition (Chongqing) Company Limited China Ordinary 100.0% -
Shanghai Chang Feng Oceanworld Co. Ltd China Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND ApS Denmark Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Denmark Holdings ApS Denmark Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE France SARL France Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Dungeon Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Heide-Park Soltau GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Deutschland Freizeitpark GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Discovery Centre Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Holidays Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LLD Share Beteiligungs GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LLD Share GmbH & Co. KG Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Konstanz GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
T ussauds Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
T ussauds Heide Metropole GmbH Germany Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments India Private Limited India Ordinary 100.0% -
Merlin Entertainments Ireland 1 Limited Ireland Ordinary 100.0% -
Merlin Entertainments Ireland 2 Limited Ireland Ordinary 100.0% -
SEA LIFE Centre Bray Limited Ireland Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Gardaland S.r.l. Italy Ordinary 99.9% 99.9%
Incoming Gardaland S.r.l. Italy Ordinary 99.9% 99.9%
Merlin Attractions Italy S.r.l. Italy Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Italy S.r.l. Italy Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
151 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
5.8  Subsidiary and joint venture undertakings (continued)
Subsidiary undertaking
Country of 
incorporation
Class of 
share held
Ownership 
2015
Ownership 
2014
Merlin Water Parks S.r.l. Italy Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Ronchi del Garda S.p.A. Italy Ordinary
(1)
 49.4%
(1)
 49.4%
Ronchi S.p.A. Italy Ordinary 90.4% 90.4%
LEGOLAND Japan Limited Japan Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (Japan) Limited Japan Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Luxembourg 3 S.à r.l. 
(2)
Luxembourg Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Lux Finco 1 S.à r.l. Luxembourg Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Lux Finco 2 S.à r.l. Luxembourg Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Malaysia Hotel Sdn. Bhd Malaysia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Malaysia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Studios (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Malaysia Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Amsterdam Dungeon B.V. Netherlands Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds Amsterdam B.V. Netherlands Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Holdings Nederland B.V. Netherlands Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Centre Scheveningen B.V. Netherlands Ordinary 60.0% 60.0%
Auckland Aquarium Limited New Zealand Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (New Zealand) Limited New Zealand Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (SEA LIFE PORTO) Unipessoal Lda Portugal Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Korea Company Limited  
(formerly Aquaria Twenty-One Co. Ltd)
South Korea Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Busan Aquaria T wenty One Co. Ltd South Korea Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Korea LLC South Korea Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SLCS SEA LIFE Centre Spain S.A. Spain Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (Thailand) Limited Thailand Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Siam Ocean World Bangkok Co Ltd Thailand Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Istanbul Sualti Dunyasi T urizm Ticaret A.S T urkey Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Alton T owers Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Alton T owers Resort Operations Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Charcoal CLG 1 Limited (company limited by guarantee) UK - 100.0% 100.0%
Charcoal CLG 2 Limited (company limited by guarantee) UK - 100.0% 100.0%
Charcoal Holdco Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Charcoal Midco 1 Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Charcoal Newco 1 Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Charcoal Newco 1a Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Chessington Hotel Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Chessington World of Adventures Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Chessington World of Adventures Operations Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Chessington Zoo Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
CWA PropCo Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Iconic Images International Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
KZ China Holdco Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
KZ Mexico Holdco Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND US Holdings Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
152 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
5.8  Subsidiary and joint venture undertakings (continued)
Subsidiary undertaking
Country of 
incorporation
Class of 
share held
Ownership 
2015
Ownership 
2014
LEGOLAND Windsor Park Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
London Aquarium (South Bank) Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
London Dungeon Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
London Eye Holdings Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
London Eye Management Services Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussaud’s Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds T ouring Exhibition Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
M.E.G.H. Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Attractions Management Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Attractions Operations Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainment Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (Asia Pacific) Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (Blackpool) Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (Dungeons) Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (NBD) Limited (formerly Tussauds (NBD) Limited) UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments (SEA LIFE) Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Crown (UK) Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% -
Merlin Entertainments Developments Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Finance Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Employee Benefit Trustees Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Holdings Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group International Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Operations Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin’s Magic Wand Trustees Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin UK Finco 1 Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin UK Finco 2 Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin US Holdings Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Centre (Blackpool) Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Centres Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Trust Trustees Limited  UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
The London Planetarium Company Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
The Millennium Wheel Company Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
The Seal Sanctuary Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
The T ussauds Group Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Thorpe Park Operations Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
T ussauds Attractions Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
T ussauds Group (UK) Pension Plan Trustee Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
T ussauds Holdings Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
T ussauds Hotels Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
T ussauds Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
T ussauds Theme Parks Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Warwick Castle Limited UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
153 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES (continued)
52 weeks ended 26 December 2015
5.8  Subsidiary and joint venture undertakings (continued)
(1)
   Merlin Entertainments plc has control over this entity via control of the immediate parent entity and the control that the 
immediate  parent entity has over the subsidiary entity. 
(2) 
 Merlin Entertainments Group Luxembourg 3 S.à r.l. is held by the Company. All other subsidiaries are held by intermediate subsidiaries.
(3)
  Company sold or dissolved between 27 December 2015 and 24 February 2016.
Subsidiary undertaking
Country of 
incorporation
Class of 
share held
Ownership 
2015
Ownership 
2014
Wizard AcquisitionCo Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Wizard BondCo Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Wizard EquityCo Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Wizard NewCo Limited 
(3)
UK Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Lake George Fly LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND California LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Discovery Center Arizona LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Discovery Center Boston LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Discovery Centre (Dallas) LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Discovery Centre (Meadowlands) LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Discovery Center Michigan LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
LEGOLAND Discovery Center Philadelphia LLC USA - 100.0% -
LEGOLAND Discovery Centre US LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds Hollywood LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussaud Las Vegas LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussaud’s New Y ork LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds Orlando LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds San Francisco LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Madame T ussauds Washington LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Crown (US) Inc USA Ordinary 100.0% -
Merlin Entertainments Group Florida LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group US Holdings Inc USA Ordinary 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group US LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments Group Wheel LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments North America LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Merlin Entertainments US NewCo LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
San Francisco Dungeon LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Charlotte LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Meadowlands LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Michigan LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Minnesota LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE Orlando LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
SEA LIFE US LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
The T ussauds Group LLC USA - 100.0% 100.0%
Joint venture
SEA LIFE Helsinki Oy Finland Ordinary 50.0% 50.0%
Pirate Adventure Golf Limited UK Ordinary 50.0% 50.0%
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
154 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company Statement of Financial Position at 26 December 2015 (2014: 27 December 2014)
Note
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current assets
Investments iii 3,115 3,111 
Other receivables iv 1,062 -  
4,177 3,111 
Current assets
Other receivables iv 31 58 
31 58 
Total assets 4,208 3,169 
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings vi 4 -  
Other payables v 91 2 
95 2 
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings vi 1,003 -  
Total liabilities 1,098 2 
Net assets 3,110 3,167 
Issued capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company vii 3,110 3,167 
Total equity 3,110 3,167 
The notes on pages 157 to 161 form part of these financial statements.
The parent Company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Nick Varney   Andrew Carr
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
155 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company Statement of Changes in Equity at 26 December 2015 (2014: 27 December 2014)
Note
Share 
capital 
£m
Share  
premium 
£m
Retained
earnings 
£m
Total  
equity 
£m
At 29 December 2013 10 3,183 (11) 3,182 
Profit for the year -  -  1 1 
T otal comprehensive income for the year -  -  1 1 
Equity dividends -  -  (20) (20)
Capital restructure vii -  (3,183) 3,183 -  
Share incentive schemes:
Movement in reserves for  
employee share schemes
iii -  -  4 4 
At 27 December 2014 10 -  3,157 3,167 
Profit for the year -  -  3 3 
T otal comprehensive income for the year -  -  3 3 
Equity dividends -  -  (64) (64)
Share incentive schemes:
Movement in reserves for  
employee share schemes
iii -  -  4 4 
At 26 December 2015 vii 10 -  3,100 3,110 
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
156 NOTES TO THE MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
i  Accounting policies 
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework  
(FRS 101). The amendments to FRS 101 (2014/15 Cycle) issued in July 2015 and effective immediately have been applied. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs), but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with 
Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
 
In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied IFRS 1 whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance 
with FRS 101. The policies applied under the entity’s previous accounting framework are not materially different to FRS 101 and have 
not impacted on equity or profits for the year.
The consolidated financial statements of Merlin Entertainments plc are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards and are available to the public and may be obtained from 3 Market Close, Poole, Dorset, BH15 1NQ. Company financial 
statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs).
  
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures:
• Cash flow statement and related notes; 
• Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries; 
• Disclosures in respect of capital management;  
• The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs;
• Disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel. 
As the consolidated financial statements of Merlin Entertainments plc include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken  
the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures:
• IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ in respect of group settled share-based payments;
•  Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 ‘Financial  
Instrument Disclosures’. 
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial 
statements and in preparing an opening FRS 101 IFRS statement of financial position at 29 December 2013 for the purposes of the 
transition to FRS 101 Adopted IFRSs. 
These financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015 (2014: 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014). 
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented a profit 
and loss account of the Company.
A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is set out below.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less provision for impairment. The carrying amount of the Company’s investments in 
subsidiaries is reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists the investment’s 
recoverable amount is estimated. If the carrying value of the investment exceeds the recoverable amount, the investment is considered 
to be impaired and is written down to the recoverable amount. The impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end 
exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
157 NOTES TO THE MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(continued)
i  Accounting policies (continued) 
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to 
items recognised directly in equity, when it is recognised directly in equity, or when it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income, when it is recognised through the statement of comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates substantively enacted at the end of the 
reporting period, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided on certain temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  
reporting purposes and taxation purposes respectively. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition 
of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business 
combination; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures to the extent that they will probably not reverse  
in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the 
carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
After considering forecast future profits, deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which those assets can be utilised.
Share-based payments
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.  
The fair value is measured at grant date and charged as the employees become unconditionally entitled to the rights.
The Group’s equity-settled share plans are settled either by the issue of shares by Merlin Entertainments plc or by the purchase of 
shares in the market. The fair value of the share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period net of deferred tax 
with a corresponding entry to retained earnings. The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant. Non-market based 
vesting conditions (i.e. earnings per share and return on capital employed targets) are taken into account in estimating the number of 
awards likely to vest. The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each accounting date up to the vesting date, at 
which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued. No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards 
are forfeited or are not exercised.
The Group operates cash-settled versions of the employee incentive schemes for employees in certain territories. The issues and 
resulting charges of these schemes are not material to the financial statements.
Loans to group undertakings
Loans to group undertakings are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 
method, less provision for impairment.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Financial instruments often consist of a combination of debt and equity and the Group has to decide how to attribute values to each. 
They are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: 
(i)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or 
financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and 
(ii)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Group’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Group’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Group 
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments. 
T o the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability, and where such an instrument takes 
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share 
premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares. 
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance costs. Finance payments associated with financial 
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
158 NOTES TO THE MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(continued)
i  Accounting policies (continued)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
These are initially recognised at the principal value of the loan concerned, less any related fees. These fees are then amortised through 
the income statement on an effective interest rate basis over the expected life of the loan (or over the contractual term where there is 
no clear indication that a shorter life is appropriate).
If the Group subsequently determines that the expected life has changed, the resulting adjustment to the effective interest rate 
calculation is recognised as a gain or loss on re-measurement and presented separately in the income statement.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment.
ii  Employees 
The average number of employees of the Company during the year was seven (2014: seven). All employees were Directors of  
the Company.
The employment costs of the Directors of the Company have been borne by Merlin Entertainments Group Limited for their services to 
the Group as a whole. The costs related to these Directors are included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 96. 
One Director accrued benefits under defined contribution schemes during the year (2014: two).
iii  Investment in subsidiary undertaking
Where subsidiary undertakings incur charges for share-based payments in respect of share options and awards granted by the Company, 
a capital contribution in the same amount is recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to 
shareholders’ equity.
The subsidiary undertaking at the year end is as follows: 
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertaking 
£m
Cost and carrying value
At 29 December 2013 3,107  
Capital contributions to subsidiaries 4
At 27 December 2014 3,111 
Capital contributions to subsidiaries 4 
At 26 December 2015 3,115
Company Activity
Country of 
incorporation Shareholding
Description  
of shares held
Merlin Entertainments Group Luxembourg 3 S.à r.l. Holding company Luxembourg 100.0% Ordinary
A full list of Group companies is included in note 5.8 of the consolidated financial statements on page 150.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
159 NOTES TO THE MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(continued)
iv  Other receivables 
Amounts owed by group undertakings comprise funds loaned by the Company to fellow group undertakings. The non-current loans have 
maturities of 2020 and 2022 and carry interest rates that are based on the costs of servicing the external bank facilities and loan notes.
v  Other payables
Current assets Non-current assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed by group undertakings 31 58 1,062 -
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Amounts owed to group undertakings 90 -
Accruals 1 2
91 2
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current
Floating rate bank facilities due 2020 640 -
€500 million fixed rate notes due 2022 363 -
£300 million floating rate revolving credit facility due 2020 - -
1,003 -
Current
Interest payable 4 -
1,007 -
vi  Borrowings
In 2015 the Group refinanced its long term debt. 
The new committed facilities are: 
•  Bank facilities comprising £250 million, $540 million and €50 million floating rate term debt to mature in March 2020. The relevant 
floating interest rates are LIBOR, the USD benchmark rate and EURIBOR, which were 0.59%, 0.57% and (0.13)% respectively at  
26 December 2015. The margin on the bank facilities is dependent on the Group’s adjusted leverage ratio and is currently 2.0%.
•  A £300 million multi-currency revolving credit facility. The margin on this facility is also dependent on the Group’s adjusted leverage 
ratio and would currently be at a margin when drawn of 1.75% over the same floating interest rates.
• A bond in the form of €500 million seven year notes with a coupon rate of 2.75% to mature in March 2022.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
160 NOTES TO THE MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(continued)
vi  Borrowings (continued)
The fees related to the new facilities are being amortised to the maturity of the debt. 
The borrowings under the new bank facilities (including the revolving credit facility) and the €500 million bonds are unsecured but 
guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
vii  Equity
Share capital
Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at 
general meetings of the Company.
On 26 February 2014 the Company reduced its share capital by means of a court sanctioned reduction of capital, which resulted in an 
increase in available reserves for distribution by way of dividends to shareholders in the amount of £3,183 million.
Retained earnings
The profit after tax for the year in the accounts of Merlin Entertainments plc is £3 million (2014: profit after tax of £1 million).
Dividends 
The Directors of the Company propose a final dividend of 4.4 pence per share for the year ended 26 December 2015  
(2014: 4.2 pence per share). The total dividend for the current year, subject to approval of the final dividend, will be 6.5 pence  
per share (2014: 6.2 pence per share).
In making this proposal the Directors have considered the resources available to the Company and its subsidiaries. Specifically they have 
taken account of the Company’s significant distributable profits, as noted above, as well as the position and liquidity of the Group 
disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position as explained in the Group going concern disclosures on page 113.
2015
Number
2015
£m
2014
Number
2014
£m
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each
At beginning and end of the year 1,013,746,032 10 1,013,746,032 10 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Interim dividend for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014 of 2.0 pence per share - 20
Final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014 of 4.2 pence per share 43 -
Interim dividend for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015 of 2.1 pence per share 21 -
Total dividends paid 64 20
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
161 SHAREHOLDER Information
Share listing
The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Share register and registrars
The Company’s share register is maintained and administered  
in the UK by Computershare Investor Services PLC 
(Computershare) at the following address:
Computershare  Telephone: 
Investor Services PLC +44 (0)370 703 6259
The Pavilions  Investor Centre:
Bridgwater Road  www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus
Bristol   Website: 
BS99 6ZZ  www.computershare.com
Computershare operates a portfolio service for Merlin 
shareholders called Investor Centre. This provides our 
shareholders with online access to information about their 
investments as well as a facility to help manage their  
holdings online, such as being able to:
• Update dividend mandate bank instructions and review   
 dividend payment history.
• Update member details and address changes.
• Register to receive Company communications electronically.
Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share 
dealing service to existing shareholders which can also be 
accessed through the Investor Centre.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share was paid on 24 
September 2015 to shareholders on the Register on 14 August 2015.
A final dividend for the year ended 26 December 2015 of 4.4 
pence per share will be recommended to shareholders for 
approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan
The Company has introduced a Dividend Re-Investment Plan 
(DRIP) which allows holders of ordinary shares, who choose  
to participate, to use their cash dividends to acquire additional 
shares in the Company which will be purchased on their behalf 
by the DRIP administrator. Further information in relation to the 
DRIP will be sent to shareholders in advance of the 2016  
Annual General Meeting.
Financial calendar
The principal dates in our financial calendar for 2016 are 
as follows:
Preliminary Announcement of Results  25 February
Trading Update    19 May
Annual General Meeting   19 May
Interim Results Announcement  28 July
Trading Update    29 September
Pre-Close Trading Update   29 November
Shareholder communications
We encourage our shareholders to receive their communications 
from the Company electronically using email and web-based 
communications. This means that information about the 
Company can be received as soon as it is available. The use  
of electronic communications also reduces costs and the  
impact on the environment. Shareholders can register for 
electronic communications through Investor Centre or  
by contacting Computershare.
Shareholders with any queries regarding their shareholding  
should contact Computershare. The Investor Relations section  
of our corporate website also contains information which  
shareholders may find helpful  
(www.merlinentertainments.biz/investor-relations).
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM of the Company will be held on 19 May 2016 at Safari 
Hotel, Chessington World of Adventures, Leatherhead Road, 
Chessington, Surrey, KT9 2NE at 11.00am. The Notice of AGM 
will be sent to shareholders separately.
Registered in  Company number
England and Wales  08700412
EPIC/TIDM  ISIN
MERL   GB00BDZT6P94
Registered office  
Merlin Entertainments plc
3 Market Close
Poole
Dorset
BH15 1NQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0)1202 440082
Email:  investor.relations@merlinentertainments.biz
Website:  www.merlinentertainments.biz
Company secretary Investor relations director
Colin N. Armstrong  Alistair Windybank
External auditors
KPMG LLP
Gateway House, T ollgate
Chandlers Ford
Southampton, SO53 3TG  Telephone
United Kingdom  +44 (0)23 8020 2000
Joint Corporate Brokers
Barclays Bank PLC  Citigroup Global Markets Limited
5 North Colonnade  Citigroup Centre, Canada Square
Canary Wharf  Canary Wharf
London   London
E14 4BB   E14 5LB
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
162 2015
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Results
Revenue 1,278 1,249 1,192 1,074 946 
Underlying EBITDA 402 411 390 346 306 
Underlying operating profit 291 311 290 258 232 
Operating profit 291 311 260 199 230 
Profit before tax 237 226 172 98 96 
Consolidated statement of financial position
Property, plant and equipment 1,495 1,410 1,321 1,290 1,112 
Intangible assets 923 942 961 970 970 
Cash and cash equivalents 152 285 264 142 60 
Non-current interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings
1,003 1,131 1,179 1,333 1,178 
T otal equity 1,149 1,063 944 617 555 
Consolidated statement of cash flows
Net cash flow from operating activities 325 357 365 348 292 
Changes in working capital (19) (4) 30 24 3 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash 
and cash equivalents
(137) 16 125 81 (4)
FINANCIAL Record
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
163 GLOSSARY
Key terms Definition
Adjusted EPS Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to 
ordinary shareholders, adjusted for exceptional items, by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Blackstone Was one of the three pre-IPO major shareholders of the Company.
Capex Capital Expenditure.
Cluster A group of attractions located in a city close to one another.
Constant currency growth Using 2015 exchange rates.
CVC Was one of the three pre-IPO major shareholders of the Company.
DreamWorks T ours - Shrek’s Adventure! This is a new attraction opened in 2015. It is part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
EBITDA Profit before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and after taking 
account of attributable profit after tax of joint ventures.
EPS Earnings per share.
Exceptional items Due to their nature, certain one-off and non-trading items have been classified as exceptional in 
order to draw them to the attention of the reader and to show the underlying business 
performance more accurately.
Existing estate (EE) EE comprises all attractions other than new openings. 
High year Y ear of high spend in capital investment cycle of an attraction.
IP Intellectual Property.
IPO Initial Public Offering.
KIRKBI KIRKBI owns 75% of LEGO A/S and owns 29.89% of the share capital of Merlin Entertainments plc.
KPI Key Performance Indicator.
LDC LEGOLAND Discovery Centre attractions. These are part of the Midway Attractions  
Operating Group.
Lead price Face value of a ticket, which may then be discounted.
Like for like (LFL) 2015 LFL growth refers to the growth between 2014 and 2015 on a constant currency basis 
using 2015 exchange rates and includes all businesses owned and operated before the start  
of 2014.
Listing Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
164 GLOSSARY
Key terms Definition
LLP LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group.
Merlin Magic Making (MMM) MMM is the unique resource that sits at the heart of everything Merlin does. Employing over 
300 people, this specialist in-house business development; creative; production; and project 
management group constantly raises the bar in innovative thinking.
Merlin’s Magic Wand (MMW) MMW forms a key element of Merlin’s Corporate Social Responsibility commitment. 
Our very own children’s charity delivers magical experiences around the world to 
children who are disadvantaged through sickness and disability.
Midway or Midway attractions The Midway Attractions Operating Group and/or the Midway attractions within it. Midway 
attractions are typically smaller, indoor attractions located in city centres or resorts.
MT Madame Tussauds attractions. These are part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
New Business Development (NBD) NBD relates to attractions that are newly opened or under development for future opening, 
together with the addition of new accommodation at existing sites. New openings can include 
both Midway attractions and new theme parks. NBD combines with the existing estate to give 
the full estate of attractions.
ROCE Return on Capital Employed. The profit measure used in calculating ROCE is based on 
underlying operating profit after tax. The capital employed element of the calculation is based 
on average net operating assets which include all net assets other than deferred tax, financial 
assets and liabilities, and net debt.
ROIC Return on Invested Capital. Incremental EBITDA divided by the capital invested.
Rooms A single accommodation unit at one of our theme parks, for example a hotel room, lodge or 
‘glamping’ tent.
RPC Revenue per capita, defined as visitor revenue divided by number of visitors.
RTP Resort Theme Parks Operating Group.
SLC SEA LIFE Centre aquarium attractions. These are part of the Midway Attractions 
Operating Group.
Second gate A visitor attraction at an existing resort with a separate entrance and for which additional 
admission fees are charged.
T urkuazoo Turkuazoo Aquarium was a standalone acquisition that has since been relaunched as a 
SEA LIFE Centre. This is part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
Underlying Underlying information presented excludes exceptional items that are classified separately within 
the financial statements.
Visitors Represents all individual visits to Merlin owned or operated attractions.
Wizard Wants to Know (WWTK) WWTK is our annual online employee survey.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
165 NOTES
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
166 Star Wars © & ™ Lucasfilm Ltd.
Shrek, Kung Fu Panda, How To Train Your Dragon © DreamWorks Animation LLC. 
Horrible Histories® is a registered trademark of Scholastic Inc and is used under authorization.  
All rights reserved. Based on the bestselling books written by Terry Deary and illustrated by  
Martin Brown. Illustration © Martin Brown. 
ICE AGE ™ © 2016 Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
LEGO, the LEGO logo, the Brick and Knob configurations, the Minifigure, LEGENDS OF CHIMA, 
NINJAGO and LEGOLAND are trademarks of the LEGO Group ©2016 The LEGO Group.
London Eye conceived and designed by Marks Barfield Architects. Operated by London Eye  
Management Services Limited, a Merlin Entertainments Group Company.
The Madame Tussauds images shown depict wax figures created and owned by Madame Tussauds.
© MARVEL
167
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Designed and produced by LMC Design. Printed in the UK on FSC certified CHORUS SILK.
Registered office
Merlin Entertainments plc
3 Market Close
Poole
Dorset
BH15 1NQ
United Kingdom
Registered number: 08700412
Registered in England and Wales
 
www.merlinentertainments.biz
