 Morgan Advanced Materials plc  Annual Report 201 5
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
APPLICATION ENGINEERING
MATERIALS SCIENCE
CUSTOMER AND END-MARKET FOCUS MORg AN Adv ANc Ed MATERi ALS
MORg AN Adv ANc Ed MATERiALS iS 
c OMMiTTEd TO BU iLdi Ng A SUSTA iNABLE 
c OMPETiTiv E Adv ANTAg E iN ATTRAc Tiv E 
MARKETS WiTH TRULY di FFERENTiATEd 
PROd Uc TS ANd SERvicES UNd ERPiNNEd 
BY WORLd
-
LEAdi Ng TE c HNOLOg Y.
The g roup produces a wide range of specialist, 
high-specification materials that have extraordinary 
attributes and properties.
Engineered into products, they deliver enhanced 
performance, often under extreme conditions.
The g roup’s dynamic, highly skilled people are 
continuously engaged in finding solutions for complex 
and technologically demanding applications, which are 
used all over the world.
in short, the g roup supplies innovative, differentiated 
products made from highly technical advanced materials 
which enable its customers’ products and processes to 
perform more efficiently, more reliably and for longer. OVERVIEW
02 At a glance
04 Financial, regional and operational highlights
05 Chairman’s statement
STRATEGIC REPORT 
07 Chief Executive Officer’s review
10 What Morgan does
14 Group business model
16 Group strategy
17 Key performance indicators
18 Risk management
21 Viability statement
22 Corporate responsibility
36 Review of operations
44 Financial review
GOVERnAn CE
49 Corporate governance report
49 Chairman’s letter to shareholders
50 Board of Directors
60 Report of the Audit Committee
64 Report of the n omination Committee
66 Remuneration Report
89 Other disclosures
93  Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Morgan Advanced Materials plc
FIn An CIAl STATEME n TS
97 Consolidated income statement
98  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
99 Consolidated balance sheet
 100 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
 101 Consolidated statement of cash flows
 102  n otes to the consolidated financial statements
 146 Company balance sheet
 147 Company statement of changes in equity
 148 n otes to the Company balance sheet
 164 Group statistical information
 165 Cautionary statement
 166 Glossary of terms
 167 Shareholder information
01
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Overview OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS AT A Gl An CE
Ou R STREnGT h S
> > >> l eading technology and material science capability 
and process know-how
> > >Application engineering
> > >Customer focus, reputation and brand
> > >Strong market positions
> > >People and culture
Ou R MARKETS
hEA lT h CARE
Morgan Advanced Materials produces 
components used in medical monitoring 
and diagnostic instrumentation and tools 
for treatment and surgery.
PETROCh EMICAl
Morgan Advanced Materials makes 
critical components for tough assignments 
in the global petrochemical industry.
TRAn SPORTATIOn
Morgan Advanced Materials makes 
high-performance products to exacting 
standards for aerospace, automotive, 
marine and rail applications.
El ECTROn ICS
Morgan Advanced Materials makes 
components that help the electronics 
industry in its drive towards higher 
performance and reliability in smaller, 
lighter, more robust products.
En ERGy
Morgan Advanced Materials develops 
products for power distribution and 
generation from renewable and 
traditional sources and insulation 
materials for heat management.
SECu RITy A n D DEFEn CE
Morgan Advanced Materials supplies 
precision-engineered materials, 
components and assemblies to meet the 
exacting standards of the international 
defence and security markets.
In Du STRIAl
Morgan Advanced Materials designs and 
manufactures products for use in a broad 
range of challenging process and 
manufacturing environments.
02 Overview Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 PRIn CIPAl PRODu CTS
1. In Sul ATIn G FIBRE,  
BRICK An D MOnOl IThICS
Extensive range of high-temperature insulation 
products used to reduce energy consumption in 
industrial processes.
2. El ECTRICAl C ARBOn, lI n EAR 
An D ROTARy TRA n SFER SySTEMS
u sed to transfer current and data between stationary 
and rotating or linear moving parts, in motor, 
generator, current collector and rotary signal 
applications within mining, power, transportation 
and industrial markets.
3. SEAl S An D BEARIn GS
Providing improved performance, reliability and 
extended life to pumps and similar equipment used 
in petrochemical, aerospace and water applications.
4. CERAMIC CORES FOR 
In VESTMEn T CASTIn G
Consumable products used to create intricate internal 
cooling cavities in aero engine and industrial gas 
turbine blades.
5. PIEz OEl ECTRIC SEn SORS  
AnD TRAnSD u CERS
Products for measurement duties including level, 
flow, vibration and pressure in aerospace, medical, 
industrial and defence applications.
6. CRu CIBl ES FOR  
METAl S PROCESSIn G
Comprehensive range for optimum performance 
in non-ferrous metal and alloy melting in foundries, 
die-casters and metal processing facilities.
7. PERSOnn El BA llISTIC 
PROTECTIOn
l ightweight armour systems combining advanced 
ceramics with high-technology composites to create 
high-performance products.
Ou R Gl OBAl FOOTPRI n T
£911.8m
TOTAl G l OBAl SAl ES
APPROx IMATEly 8,800 EMPl Oy EES
MAnu FACTu RIn G In 
OVER 30 COunTRIES
SEll In G In TO OVER 
100 COunTRIES
SAl ES By REGIOn (£MIllIO n)
 n orth America £368.4
 Europe  £305.7
 Asia/Rest of World £237.7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
03
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Overview OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS FIn An CIAl , REGIOn Al A n D  
OPERATIOn Al h IGhl IGh TS
FIn An CIAl A n D REGIOn Al h IGhl IGh TS
 
In very challenging markets, revenue on a like-for-like basis decreased 
by 0.8% compared to 2014. 
 
The full-year book-to-bill ratio was 0.99 times, with the outstanding 
order book c5% below that at the end of last year on an organic 
and constant currency basis. 
 
EBITA margin for the full year was 12.0% (2014: 12.8%).  
 
Cash flow from operations was strong at £135.6 million  
(2014: £120.0 million). 
 
n et debt at the year end was £216.0 million (2014: £207.0 million).  
n et debt to EBITDA ratio at the year end was 1.6 times (2014: 1.4 times).
 
The Group has booked a £22.1 million charge before tax in the income 
statement (2014: £51.9 million) in respect of a number of specific adjusting 
items, details of which are provided in the Financial review on page 45. 
Due to the nature of these items they are excluded from the underlying 
profit figures. All but £0.5 million of the 2015 charge relates to non- 
cash items.
 
Proposed final dividend of 7.0 pence per share (2014: final 7.0 pence 
per share), which would result in a full-year dividend of 1 1.0 pence 
(2014: 10.9 pence), a 0.9% increase.
 
In n orth America, the majority of businesses saw a decline in revenue in 
the second-half of 2015 having achieved revenue growth in the first-half. 
For the full year, revenue decreased by 2.3% on a like-for-like basis 
compared to 2014, maintaining mid-teen margins of 14.0% (2014: 14.9%).
 
The Europe region achieved like-for-like revenue growth of 1.7% 
compared to 2014 despite a weaker second-half of the year. Full-year 
reported European EBITA margins declined to 1 1.7% (2014: 12.2%). 
 
The Asia/Rest of World region continued to experience headwinds in 
trading with revenue down 1.5% on a like-for-like basis. China remained 
the principal headwind, with revenue down 1 1.2% year on year. EBITA 
margin at reported rates reduced to 1 1.6% (2014: 12.8%).
 The Group has carried out a review of its strategy and is setting out its 
overall vision and direction and six execution priorities to position Morgan 
to deliver resilient financial performance and faster growth. Further details 
are given in the Chief Executive Officer’s review on pages 7 to 9.
1 2%
EBITA MARGIn 
FOR Th E y EAR
11 .0P
Full -y EAR 
DIVIDEn D
£ 1 35.6M
CASh Fl OW FROM 
OPERATIOn S
04 Overview Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Andrew Shil Ston 
ChAIRMAn
ChAIRMAn ’S STATEMEn T
05
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Overview Th E GROu P h AS DEl IVERED SOl ID 
FIn An CIAl PERFORMA n CE In A 
DIFFICul T TRADIn G En VIROn MEn T. 
Th E REVIEW OF Th E GROu P’S 
STRATEGy, Th E Ch An GES TO Th E 
ORGAn ISATIOn STR u CTu RE, An D 
Th E SETTIn G OF Cl EAR Ex ECu TIOn 
PRIORITIES POSITIOn S Th E GROu P 
WEll TO DEA l WIT h C h All En GIn G 
MARKET COn DITIOn S.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS 2015 was another year when Morgan 
demonstrated the resilience of its current 
portfolio of products and businesses. Despite 
the collapse in the oil price affecting a number 
of our customers and the uncertainties in 
many markets, particularly China, the Group 
delivered a Group EBITA and a cash flow 
from operations very much in line with 
expectations, albeit with an EBITA margin 
a little lower at 12.0% compared to 12.8% 
in 2014. Sales at constant currency were 
broadly the same as in 2014 at £91 1.8 million. 
Cash performance was also good with net 
debt of £216 million at the end of the year 
despite heavy investment in capital expenditure. 
It is proposed that the final dividend remains 
unchanged at 7.0 pence per share, which 
would take the full-year dividend to 1 1.0 
pence, compared with 10.9 pence in 2014.
The Board continues to believe that the 
technology, applications engineering and 
customer relationships the Group possesses 
should enable revenue to grow in years to 
come. It is also recognised that despite the 
significant steps taken to exit low-margin 
businesses, the Group remains too complicated 
and needs to focus on fewer products and 
markets, concentrating management effort 
and financial investment on those that offer 
the greatest opportunities for growth.
It is with great pleasure that the Board 
welcomes Pete Raby as the new Chief 
Executive. As he explains in his review, 
considerable progress has been made in 
defining a new framework for the Group, both 
in terms of addressable markets and changes 
to the way we operate in order to capitalise on 
opportunities. The Board fully supports these 
changes, which build on the solid foundation 
established over the last 10 years, but it will 
take time, particularly with uncertain markets, 
for the benefits to be realised.
Pete Raby became Chief Executive in August 
and for the first seven months of the year 
Kevin Dangerfield was the acting CEO, 
a role he performed very well alongside the 
responsibilities of being the Chief Financial 
Officer. The Board is very grateful for 
these efforts.
The Chief Operating Officer, Andrew h osty, 
left the Group at the beginning of 2016 after 
24 years with the Group, and the Board 
thanks him for his contribution in helping 
to position the Group for growth. We wish 
him well for the future.
Find out more
www.morganadvancedmaterials.com
Other changes to the Board have recently 
been announced with the appointment of 
h elen Bunch, effective 24 February 2016, 
and the stepping down of Victoire de Margerie 
on 4 February due to the growth in her other 
commitments. The Board thanks Victoire for 
her significant contribution to the Group over 
the last four years and is delighted to welcome 
h elen. I believe that the composition and 
operation of the Board allows it to make 
an effective contribution to the progress 
of the Group. 
The changes that Pete Raby is proposing to 
the Group will involve considerable efforts 
and offer new opportunities to many 
employees in the Group. It will also involve 
some roles being eliminated. The Board 
wishes to recognise the impact the new 
organisation will have on everyone and to 
recognise in advance the contribution by 
all employees in making the transition as 
smooth as possible. 
Andrew Shil Ston
ChAIRMAn
ChAIRMAn ’S STATEMEn T
continued
06 Overview Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Pete rA by 
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER
WITh GOOD B u SIn ESSES In ATTRACTIVE MARKETS 
An D COMMITTED EMPl Oy EES, WE h AVE A nu MBER 
OF OPPORTun ITIES TO GROW. GOIn G FORWARD, 
WE WIll FOC u S On O u R CORE STREn GTh S An D 
On DOI n G FEWER Th In GS BETTER, In ORDER TO 
DEl IVER RESIl IEn T FIn An CIAl PERFORMA n CE An D 
FASTER GROWTh.
I am delighted to be reporting to you as the 
Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc. My decision to accept this role 
was based on the challenges and opportunities 
that I thought Morgan would offer and my 
experience over the seven months since 
I joined has affirmed this decision. Morgan 
is a good business with committed employees, 
differentiated technology, strong applications 
engineering capability and a good reputation 
with our customers.
Before I comment on the results for the year 
and expectations for the future I want to take 
the opportunity to thank Kevin Dangerfield 
and Andrew h osty for their contribution in 
2015. Kevin was Interim CEO from the start 
of the year until my arrival in early August and 
led the Group well during that period.
Andrew h osty left the Group at the beginning 
of 2016. In his 24 years with Morgan, most 
recently in the role of Chief Operating Officer, 
Andrew made a considerable contribution 
to the Group. I would like to thank him for his 
commitment and service and wish him well 
for the future. 
Group results
Group revenue for 2015 was £91 1.8 million, 
1.1% below 2014 at reported exchange rates. 
On a like-for-like basis, Group revenue was 
lower by 0.8% – growth in Europe, particularly 
in the Thermal business, was offset by weaker 
conditions in a number of n orth American 
markets and in Asia, where sales in China 
were approximately 10% lower than in 2014. 
l ike-for-like sales in the second-half of 2015 
were 3.1% lower than in the first-half of 
2015. Whilst Asia achieved some revenue 
improvement in second-half, with strong 
growth in Korea and Japan, this was more than 
offset by revenue declines in Europe 
and n orth America, reflecting the wider 
slowdown in those markets. 
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
07
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS The EBITA margin of 12.0% for 2015 
compares with the 2014 margin of 12.8%, 
with the weaker trading conditions impacting 
margins, partially offset by cost reductions.
Group underlying EPS reduced to 20.8 pence 
(2014: 22.1 pence).
During 2015 the Group increased its R&D 
investment to 2.8% of revenue and successfully 
established the new Global Materials Centre 
of Excellence for structural ceramics in 
Stourport, u K. 
This is an important further step in strengthening 
our technology development capability and 
accelerating the development and introduction 
of new products. 
n et capital expenditure of £62.7 million was 
significantly higher than the £32.5 million in 
2014. The Group has continued its investment 
in additional capability and capacity, particularly 
in the Asia/Rest of World region and in the 
insulating ceramic fibre business stream, to 
support future growth. In addition to this, the 
2015 capital expenditure included approximately 
£12 million for the acquisition of the freehold 
of the Swansea, u K facility. 
Operating cash generation was good, with a net 
cash inflow from operating activities of £135.6 
million (2014: £120.0 million). n et debt at the 
year end was £216.0 million (2014: £207 .0 
million). The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the 
year-end remained relatively low at 1.6 times – 
the increase relative to the 1.4 times at the end 
of 2014 was due largely to the high level of 
capital expenditure in 2015, but the Group 
remains well within its banking covenants and 
has good headroom and balance sheet capacity 
for appropriate future investment. 
Group strategy review 
Between September 2015 and February 2016 
we have completed a review of the Group’s 
strategy and have set the overall vision and 
direction for the Group. We have assessed 
our strengths and weaknesses, reviewed 
the market position and outlook for our key 
technologies and products and developed 
a long-term goal for the Group and a set of 
medium-term execution priorities.
Our long-term goal is to build a Group with 
distinctive capabilities and performance in 
three areas:
1. Materials science capability and technology
2. Application engineering capability
3. Customer and end-market focus
We have strengths in these areas today to 
build on, and these capabilities will be our 
focus. Through the application of our skills in 
these areas we will add value as a Group. 
We will apply these skills in markets that are 
growing and where we can operate at scale, 
on a global basis. We will apply these skills to 
solve difficult materials-based problems for our 
customers, ethically and safely, and where they 
value our differentiated solutions. This set of 
capabilities provides a resilient and distinctive 
source of differentiation and is an enduring 
strategic goal for the Group.
To reach this goal we need to develop our 
capabilities further and address performance 
gaps in the business. We have set six execution 
priorities that we will pursue over the next 
three years to strengthen the Group and 
deliver resilient financial performance and 
faster growth:
1. Move to a global business structure
At the same time as the release of the 2015 
full-year results, we have announced a new 
management structure which sees the Group 
being organised on a global business basis, 
with two global divisions and six business units:
 > Thermal Products division. Organised 
in two global business units:
 – Thermal Ceramics
 – Molten Metal Systems
 > Carbon and Technical Ceramics division. 
Organised in three global business units:
 – Electrical Carbon 
 – Seals and Bearings
 – Technical Ceramics 
 > Composites and Defence Systems. 
A single global business unit.
This re-organisation will improve global 
co-ordination across the Group and will 
strengthen accountability within each global 
business unit. There will be a simplified 
approach to global customers and markets, 
increased efficiencies driven through best 
practice sharing and better leverage of R&D 
across regions. There will be greater 
operational focus, including better planning 
and management of our manufacturing 
footprint, better alignment of technology 
development priorities with customer needs 
and growth opportunities in global market 
segments. The Asia/Rest of World region 
is an important growth driver for the Group 
and the investment in capability and capacity 
will continue and there is a dedicated senior 
resource in the structure to drive Asian 
growth. Where appropriate, resources 
will continue to be shared, for example 
in IT and key h R functions, within regions 
rather than diluted or replicated. 
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
continued
08 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 2. Improve our technical leadership 
We will increase our R&D investment to grow 
our technical lead and accelerate new product 
development, reducing time to market. 
We have two successful centres of excellence 
today, Insulating Fibre, part of Thermal 
Ceramics, and Structural Ceramics, part of 
Technical Ceramics, and two more will be 
established, Brazing and Joining, in Technical, 
and one for Carbon Science that will support 
Electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings. 
These centres allow us to concentrate 
development efforts for these materials and 
capabilities. R&D spend was increased to 
2.8% of sales in 2015 and we anticipate 
increasing this by around 1% of sales over 
the next three to five years, funded by savings 
from improved operational execution. We 
will strengthen our stage gate development 
process and ensure it is applied consistently 
across the Group. 
3. Improve our operational execution
We have a number of opportunities to improve 
our operational execution – both our efficiency 
and our effectiveness. The operational 
opportunity varies by business unit and we will 
allocate capital and target specific improvements 
to efficiency and effectiveness on a business-
by-business basis. For example, our Thermal 
Ceramics business will target efficiency 
improvements through a combination of global 
best practice implementation, application of lean 
manufacturing techniques and global sourcing 
of raw materials; the Technical Ceramics 
business will focus on improvements in quality, 
yield, scrap and delivery; and, Electrical Carbon 
will focus on capacity utilisation and efficiency. 
4. Drive sales effectiveness and market focus
Through the change in organisation structure 
we will strengthen accountability for global 
customers and simplify co-ordination for global 
end-markets within the business units. During 
2016 we will be focused on improving a 
number of aspects of our sales process and 
capabilities. We will focus on our sales process 
and its efficiency, the management of key 
customer accounts, the management of our 
distribution channels and deepening our 
understanding of end-markets and their faster 
growing segments. The Group has a good 
relationship with its existing customers but there 
is more to be done to win new customers and 
take our solutions to new markets. 
5. Increase investment in people management 
and development
We are aiming to strengthen our leadership 
capability and deepen functional capabilities 
across the business, including in sales and 
engineering. Senior leaders will be benchmarked 
externally, new talent introduced and future 
leadership candidates identified from within 
the business. Performance management will 
be enhanced for the Group’s top management 
and the structures and targets for incentive 
schemes will be reviewed. The Group will invest 
more in executive training and create clear 
career paths for its technologists and engineers. 
The intake of graduate trainees will be increased 
from 30 to 50 a year over the next four years. 
6. Simplify the business
Through the re-organisation of our business 
we will focus on running each business unit 
on a global basis, looking, over time, to build 
our business units to global scale and exit 
those products and markets where we cannot 
achieve that. 
We will continue to refine our strategy 
during 2016 and in particular will build our 
implementation plans in greater detail and 
refine our approach as we learn from the 
initial implementation work. 
looking forward
With the global market environment 
particularly uncertain as we enter 2016, 
we have planned prudently for the year. 
We will continue to invest in priority 
technologies and capabilities to improve 
the resilience of the Group, improve our 
execution and position us for future growth. 
Pete rA by
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER
09
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS Wh AT MORGAn DOES
 > Ceramic cores for investment casting – 5% 
of Group revenue in 2015 – consumable 
products used to create intricate internal 
cooling cavities in aero-engine and industrial 
gas turbine blades.
 > Piezoelectric sensors and transducers – 
4% of Group revenue in 2015 – products 
for measurement duties including level, 
flow, vibration and pressure in aerospace, 
medical, industrial and defence 
applications. 
 > Crucibles for metals processing – 4% of 
Group revenue in 2015 – comprehensive 
range for optimum performance in 
non-ferrous metal and alloy melting in 
foundries, die-casters and metal 
processing facilities.
 > h igh-technology composites – 3% of 
Group revenue in 2015 – which are 
combined with the Group’s advanced 
ceramics for lightweight armour systems, 
providing ballistic protection in the form of 
personnel body armour or vehicle armour.
In addition to these principal product ranges, 
Morgan also offers application-specific products 
for each of its target markets. These products 
are designed and manufactured to specific 
customer requirements using a wide range 
of structural ceramics, electro ceramics and 
precious metals. 
GROu P ACTIVITIES
Morgan Advanced Materials is a world-leader 
in advanced materials, focused on specialist 
ceramics, carbon and composites. Working at 
the forefront of materials science, the Group 
supplies differentiated products to a range of 
attractive growth markets, satisfying technically 
demanding applications and enabling customers’ 
products to perform more efficiently, reliably 
and for longer in a wide range of markets.
Bu SIn ESS STRu CTu RE
Operating from approximately 80 manufacturing 
facilities, supported by a network of sales offices, 
and employing approximately 8,800 people, 
Morgan Advanced Materials has a significant 
operational presence in all the world’s major 
regions, serving customers in more than 
100 countries.
Through 2015 the Group reported through 
three geographical Regions, n orth America, 
Europe and Asia/Rest of World, each offering 
the full range of Morgan’s product and 
services. The Regional management teams 
collaborate closely in terms of product and 
market development and delivering service 
excellence, providing an effective single point 
of contact for customers. 
PRODu CTS
Morgan Advanced Materials manufactures an 
extensive range of products, satisfying a variety 
of applications across numerous end-markets.
The principal product ranges are:
 > Insulating fibre, brick and monolithics 
– 41% of Group revenue in 2015 – 
an extensive range of high-temperature 
insulation products used to reduce energy 
consumption in industrial processes. 
A Morgan design team will typically 
work with the customer to ensure an 
optimum solution.
 > Electrical carbon, linear and rotary transfer 
systems – 14% of Group revenue in 2015 
– primarily used for transferring electrical 
energy in motor and generator 
applications within mining, transportation 
and power generation markets.
 > Seals and bearings – 8% of Group 
revenue in 2015 – carbon/graphite and 
silicon carbide components which deliver 
improved performance, reliability and 
extended life to pumps and similar 
equipment used in petrochemical, 
aerospace and water applications.
10 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 MARKETS In Du STRIAl
Morgan Advanced Materials designs and 
manufactures products for use in a broad 
spectrum of challenging processes and 
manufacturing environments.
The Group’s advanced materials offer a wide 
range of performance characteristics, including 
superior insulating properties, dimensional 
stability, strength and stiffness.
With these materials, the Group engineers 
components which are highly resistant 
to chemical and physical wear, corrosion 
and extreme heat. These components 
are at the heart of many industrial processes 
where they drive optimised process 
efficiency and productivity, alongside 
reduced waste, improved safety and lower 
environmental impact.
For example, the introduction of a range 
of bespoke caster tips made from a special 
formulation of Morgan’s low biopersistent 
Superwool
®
 fibre range, has resulted in the 
elimination of all RCF (refractory ceramic fibre) 
materials from h ydro’s aluminium production 
plant in n orway – representing a major step 
change in health and safety. Morgan created 
a special formulation of Superwool
®
 fibre 
for this application and even modified its 
production process to eliminate the possibility 
of the ‘shot’ within the fibre creating marks 
on the aluminium being processed.
Meanwhile, Morgan’s relationship with AETC 
l td, one of the world’s premier manufacturers 
of turbine blades for the aerospace and industrial 
gas turbine sectors continues to go from 
strength to strength. n ew programmes are 
seeing Morgan design and test prototype cores 
to prove that they meet profile tolerances 
which can be as tight as +/- 0.08mm. The cores 
are made from Morgan’s proprietary K120 
directionally solidified single crystal material 
which boasts excellent high-temperature 
stability, making it ideal for use with alloys 
requiring high-temperature pre-heats.
TRAn SPORTATIOn
Morgan Advanced Materials makes high-
performance components and sub-assemblies 
to exacting standards for aerospace, automotive, 
marine and rail applications, including carbon 
brushes and collectors for trains and high-
temperature fibre products used for emission 
control in vehicles. 
The Group combines its materials science and 
manufacturing capabilities to offer consistent 
and reliable products in flexible production 
quantities, from small – even one-off – runs 
to high-volume.
Over the years the Group has applied its 
materials know-how to solve engineering 
challenges and enhance performance for air, 
sea and land transport systems. 
Morgan’s latest earth return brush holder 
system for the rail sector is designed to better 
overcome the problems of vibration and 
system movement, and movement between 
the brush and shaft that frequently reduce 
the quality of brush contact impacting 
performance. The unit uses a freshly-designed 
single-piece casing, in contrast to previous 
composite designs, which along with the flange 
and brushes is insulated with a high-strength 
powder coating, and can be fitted to new 
vehicles or retro-fitted as required.
Boasting rugged construction from carbon, 
graphite, and silicon carbon-based materials, 
Morgan’s axial and radial seals for the aerospace 
sector offer supreme reliability in engines, 
airframes and ground-based turbine engines 
operating in severe service conditions. The seals 
are ideal for use in a variety of low and high 
volume sealing applications, including hydraulic 
systems, valve and actuator assemblies. 
Th E GROu P OPERATES 
In A nu MBER OF 
MARKET SECTORS; 
Th E PERCEn TAGE 
OF GROuP REVE nuE 
FROM EACh OF T h ESE, 
TOGETh ER WITh 
Ex AMPl ES OF Th E 
PRODu CTS MORGAn 
Su PPl IES, IS PROVIDED 
On T h E FOll OWIn G 
PAGES.
44%
of 2015 revenue
22%
of 2015 revenue
11
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS PETROCh EMICAl
Morgan Advanced Materials manufactures 
a range of components ideally suited to the 
uniquely demanding operating environments 
found in the global petrochemical industry.
The Group’s products and materials are 
routinely chosen to fulfil critical applications 
on- and off-shore in exploration, drilling and 
downstream processing thanks to their 
resistance to chemical and physical wear, 
corrosion and extreme heat. 
For example, due to their unique 
microstructure, the Group’s zirconia materials 
exhibit a property known as ‘transformational 
toughening’ which makes them exceptionally 
strong and resistant to corrosion and abrasion. 
The Group uses them to engineer hard-
wearing parts for pumps, drilling machinery 
and specialist fluids handling equipment.
Morgan has also responded to the drive to 
reduce cost by designing systems with larger 
pipe diameters which require fewer devices 
overall by enhancing its capability to 
manufacture balls with a bore diameter of 
up to 250mm for severe service valves from 
its acclaimed n ilcra
®
 z irconia-based material 
which delivers exceptional strength and 
toughness together with erosion and corrosion 
resistance. This compares with a previous 
maximum bore diameter of 150mm.
While physical properties are vital, accuracy 
and precision on performance cannot be 
compromised either. Morgan’s new high-
accuracy sensors for the oil and gas extraction 
sector harness the unique capabilities of its 
proprietary piezoelectric materials meaning they 
can provide reliable sensing and monitoring in 
high-temperature environments above 200ºC.
Suitable for applications from custody transfer 
to gas flow monitoring, the sensors draw on 
the proven properties of lead zirconate titanate 
(Pz T). With a compact footprint and boasting 
the extremely high sensitivity required – 
especially in natural gas applications – the 
sensors are capable of measuring both high 
and low flow to extreme accuracies.
El ECTROn ICS
Morgan Advanced Materials is known globally 
for its range of high-purity, high-specification 
components used in semiconductor fabrication 
and electronic products.
The Group exploits the unique properties 
of its advanced materials to help electronics 
manufacturers meet competing demands 
of size, functionality and cost.
Morgan’s design teams work closely with 
customers to design and manufacture intricate 
components, achieving explicit electrical and 
thermal properties within restricted size and 
shape constraints. u sing durable piezoceramics 
and high-quality dielectric materials, the Group 
manufactures products for mobile phones, 
laptops, h D televisions, lighting controls, laser 
instrumentation, microwave and high-voltage 
systems. The Group’s ceramic metallisation 
processes have played a major role in the 
commercialisation of modern communications, 
signalling and control technologies including 
ultra-high frequency signal transmission.
In semiconductor and l ED substrate 
fabrication, the Group’s high-purity materials 
and controlled microstructures have brought 
significant yield improvements in specialist 
processes for ion implantation, epitaxy and 
compound crystal growth.
Morgan’s commitment to this sector is amply 
demonstrated by ongoing investment in 
its capability to manufacture semiconductor 
processing products, meaning it can now 
precision grind products of up to 500mm 
in diameter and 600mm in length and 
manufacture complex brazed assemblies 
incorporating its own metallisation inks.
Morgan’s products for the semiconductor 
industry include end effectors for efficient 
wafer handling, inductively-coupled plasma 
chambers/plasma focus tubes, ring spacers and 
electrostatic chucks (ESCs). Its proven range of 
high-purity materials are eminently suitable for 
use in high vacuum environments because 
they do not outgas.
SECu RITy A n D DEFEn CE
Morgan Advanced Materials supplies precision-
engineered materials, components and 
assemblies to meet the exacting standards of 
the international defence and security markets.
Materials technology and manufacturing 
capability are combined to produce solutions 
that deliver real performance benefits in 
security and defence applications, from military 
hardware to surveillance equipment.
In the area of explosive ordnance disposal 
(EOD), comfort and freedom of movement 
must be combined with optimum protection 
for the wearer.
Morgan’s latest Silverback 4020 Elite EOD 
suit combines new technology, cutting-edge 
materials and premium-quality garment 
construction. Innovations to the suit include 
quick-release technology, which allows the 
user to get out of the suit, unaided, in less than 
20 seconds, while the ergonomics and design 
of the suit afford the user the freedom of 
movement to crouch, crawl and climb as 
required – ideal for when forensic evidence 
needs to be gathered.
Meanwhile its l ASA AC914 and AC915 
lightweight combat helmets harness the 
properties of modern composite materials and 
a configurable suspension to deliver outstanding 
ballistic performance and comfort. Between 
them, the helmets offer unparalleled protection 
against blunt trauma and 9mm rounds, 
alongside exceptional fragmentation protection. 
They come with an optional visor and mandible 
guard to provide even greater high-impact 
protection for the eyes and face.
9%
of 2015 revenue
7%
of 2015 revenue
6%
of 2015 revenue
Wh AT MORGAn DOES
continued
12 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 En ERGy
Morgan Advanced Materials has an enviable 
reputation in components for power 
distribution and generation from both 
renewable and traditional sources, as well 
as insulation materials for heat management.
The Group continues to work on diverse 
energy-related projects from piezoceramics 
for energy harvesting technologies to 
high-quality capacitance for high-voltage 
systems and even specialist fire protection 
systems for offshore wind farms.
Morgan’s latest ultra-wide bandwidth, 
high-sensitivity air-coupled ceramic sensors 
for flow metering offer an increase of 
magnitude in sensitivity compared with 
alternatives. Based on technology similar 
to that which underpins four-dimensional 
imaging, these sensors enable metering 
manufacturers to greatly increase flow 
measurement accuracy at low and high flow 
rates, while also reducing power consumption. 
They are ideal for integration into acoustic 
anemometry systems and smart metering 
systems, as well as air-coupled level 
measurement of liquids and solids. 
In the wind energy sectors, Morgan’s 
market-leading products include a new brush 
gear for users of Vestas V52 to V80 series 
wind turbines. Designed to replace the caliper 
holders fitted as standard on these turbines, 
they offer numerous benefits including 
extended service life, as well as considerably 
longer intervals between brush replacements 
thanks to a carbon brush wear length double 
that of the OEM part. The easy-fit carbon 
brush holder system also means less time spent 
on replacement, reducing maintenance costs. 
hEA lT h CARE
Morgan Advanced Materials produces a broad 
variety of components for use in medical 
monitoring instrumentation as well as in tools 
for treatment and surgery. 
Medical engineering demands the highest 
standards of precision, accuracy, reliability 
and performance. Equipment manufacturers 
and medical professionals choose the Group’s 
materials for their exceptional physical 
characteristics.
Experience over many years has given the 
Group a good understanding of the uniquely 
demanding environment in which equipment 
for the global medical market is developed. 
The Group’s capability in materials innovation 
and quality manufacturing allows Morgan 
to produce parts which are optimised to 
meet precise complex physical and chemical 
specifications. 
Recent innovations include the introduction of 
brazed ceramic-to-metal assemblies for medical 
imaging applications using ceramic insulators. 
The assemblies are manufactured with 
proprietary grades of high-purity alumina 
ceramic with superior electrical and dimensional 
stability across a wide temperature range. The 
assemblies for imaging components include high 
voltage insulators for cardiothoracic (CT) 
scanning equipment, anodes and cathodes, 
filament insulators, getters and headers, as well 
as ceramic components used in vacuum tubes 
for x-ray equipment. Morgan’s materials and 
manufacturing process result in better seals with 
maximum hermeticity for high performance 
and extended life cycle. Advanced ceramics also 
allow higher voltages, which result in higher 
power and improved image resolution.
6%
of 2015 revenue
6%
of 2015 revenue
Morgan has also launched its own range of 
standard brazed ceramic filament supports 
for x-ray and analytical equipment, drawing 
on Morgan’s proven high purity alumina grade 
Sintox FF material. The supports are available 
in standard and custom shapes, in small 
and large volumes, while a variety of braze 
materials can be used, including gold nickel, 
gold copper and silver copper eutectic. 
Custom designs can incorporate variations 
in pin size, form and material.
13
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS GROu P BuSIn ESS MODEl
Su STAInI nG VA lu E GEn ERATIOn
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
APPLICATION ENGINEERNG
CUSTOMER AND END-MARKET FOCUS
MATERIALS SCIENCE
Scalable global business
Serving growing markets
Operating ethically and safely
Providing valued technical differentiation
Leading talent
Efficient and effective operations
Customer focus
                                                                                      Ambition                                          
Accountability                                                                 Integrity                                                                 Responsibility
MORGAn PROVIDES ADVA n CED MATERIAl 
SOlu TIOn S TO A VARIETy OF En D-MARKETS, 
WORKIn G COll ABORATIVEly WIT h C u STOMERS 
WORl DWIDE TO PROVIDE En GIn EERED 
PRODu CTS Th AT SATISFy TEChn ICAlly 
Ch All En GIn G REQu IREMEn TS In DEMAn DIn G 
En VIROn MEn TS.
14 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Morgan Advanced Materials’ business model 
is based on taking the full depth and breadth 
of its advanced materials capabilities to 
selected markets across the globe. The Group 
fully leverages its global infrastructure and 
end-market positions to most effectively 
achieve this. Through 2015 the Group 
reported as three geographical Regions: 
n orth America, Europe and Asia/Rest of 
World. Each serves its local markets with the 
full range of Morgan’s material capabilities. 
Where appropriate, cross-regional collaboration 
takes place to support, for example, key global 
customer accounts, operational benchmarking 
or new product development. As set out in 
the CEO review on pages 7 to 9, Morgan has 
announced a new management structure 
which sees the Group being organised on 
a global business basis from March 2016. 
The Group’s core values are based on a 
commitment to act with integrity when dealing 
with customers, employees, shareholders, 
suppliers and the wider community, so that 
it continues to maintain the trust and 
confidence of those with whom it deals. 
The Group aims to be vigilant and proactive 
in respect of environmental, health and safety 
matters. This common culture is critical to 
the continued growth and development of 
Morgan Advanced Materials. 
The Group is organised and managed to 
ensure absolute clarity as to responsibility and 
accountability with a focus on pushing as much 
decision-making down to the business units as 
possible, within a well-understood strategic 
framework and schedule of authorities. The 
Group’s business model is based on building 
three distinctive core capabilities: materials 
science and technology, application engineering 
and customer and end-market focus. 
materials science and technology
The understanding of and application of 
materials science underpins Morgan’s 
differentiated products and services. Research 
and development is a key part in the 
development and maintenance of the Group’s 
distinctive materials science capabilities. The 
Group’s research and development (R&D) 
activities are led by a Chief Technology Officer, 
who oversees the work of technical resource 
across the globe and ensures a co-ordinated 
and focused approach to the large and critical 
investment that the Group makes in this area.
Due to the importance to Morgan of R&D and 
the global approach to it, a specific review is 
provided on pages 36 and 37 of this Report.
Application engineering
Our application engineering capability is used 
extensively across the Group to develop 
solutions to demanding customer problems. 
It is the combination of the Group’s materials 
science understanding and the ability to 
engineer solutions that differentiates Morgan. 
This capability resides in application engineering 
teams in each of the business units. These 
teams have strong relationships with their 
customers and use their insight into customer 
issues, and their understanding of the 
Group’s core products and technologies 
to design solutions for the customers. 
Customers and end-market focus
At the core of what Morgan does is the 
development of long-term trusted relationships 
with customers, working collaboratively with 
them over time and on multiple initiatives 
to develop materials, components and 
sub-assemblies that address very specific 
needs. The parts that the Group makes often 
play a critical role in its customers’ products, 
helping them to perform more efficiently, 
more reliably or for longer, sometimes in the 
most demanding environments. Relationships 
are built at multiple levels between Morgan 
Advanced Materials and its customers, to 
ensure its materials science and its manufacturing 
know-how are utilised both at the start of its 
customers’ product life-cycle and through the 
ongoing refinement of products and solutions, 
positioning Morgan as the supplier of choice 
for current and next-generation products. 
The Group focuses on growing markets, 
where customers demand product and service 
excellence and where the Group’s technical 
differentiation is valued by customers. 
The Group enjoys a good spread of customers 
in terms of markets and geographies and 
while the loss of certain of these could affect 
the operations of a particular local business, 
none are considered financially essential to 
the Group as a whole. n otwithstanding this, 
the Group devotes significant resources to 
ensuring these relationships continue to 
operate satisfactorily.
Additional information on the markets served 
by the Group and on its products are included 
in What Morgan Does on pages 10 to 13.
o perations
As noted above, the Group has a truly global 
footprint that allows it to effectively serve 
its customer base. u sing that footprint to 
provide excellent service to its customers 
and maximise operational excellence and 
cost-efficiency is a critical element of the 
business model. The spread and number 
of sites allows the Group to be close to its 
customers and to optimise its logistics, 
particularly for the fibre product range.
The Group continues to increase the effective 
use of its low-cost manufacturing footprint, 
through sites in h ungary, Mexico, India and 
China. These sites act as points of supply to their 
immediate geographic regions and also as global 
points of supply where appropriate. Operational 
benchmarking across sites with similar products/
processes is also utilised alongside a suite of 
operational efficiency initiatives.
The quality and reliability of certain raw 
material inputs is critical, and just as the Group 
has developed excellent relationships with 
customers, it also has long-term and effective 
relationships with its key raw material suppliers. 
Wherever possible raw materials are dual-
sourced, or there are actionable plans in place 
for alternative sources should the supply chain 
be disrupted. 
r ole of centre
The Group’s head office is based in Windsor, 
u K and is the location of the Group’s central 
functions comprising approximately 35 people. 
The centre provides the strategic framework 
for the Group and drives strategy execution. 
The centre defines the Group’s Responsible 
Business approach and the processes for 
appropriate business monitoring through 
the business planning and budget cycles. 
The centre is also responsible for external 
investor relations, funding and treasury 
management and other areas where it is 
appropriate for specialist expertise to be 
brought together in one place for the benefit 
of the Group, such as pensions, insurance, 
tax, legal and environmental, health and safety. 
The corporate centre is small and the lines of 
communication with the businesses are short 
and responsive.
15
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS GROu P STRATEGy
Ex ECu TIOn PRIORITIES IMPl EMEn TATIOn
Th E GROu P’S l On G-TERM STRATEGy IS TO Bu Il D Th REE DISTIn CTIVE CORE 
CAPABIl ITIES: MATERIAl S SCIEn CE, APPl ICATIOn En GIn EERIn G An D Cu STOMER An D 
En D-MARKET FOCu S, An D TO APPly T h ESE TO A PORTFOl IO OF SCAl EABl E Gl OBAl 
Bu SIn ESSES Wh ERE TEChn ICAl E x PERTISE An D DIFFEREn TIATIOn ARE VAlu ED TO 
SOl VE Cu STOMERS’ Ch All EnGI nG PROBl EMS.
Th ROu Gh T h IS Th E AIM IS TO STREn GTh En T h E GROu P TO DEl IVER RESIl IEn T 
FIn AnCIA l PERFORMAn CE An D FASTER GROWTh , AT All TIMES OPERATI n G In A n 
ETh ICAl A n D SAFE MAnn ER.
The Group uses the characteristics of a Morgan business as set out above to test new investment opportunities, to screen its existing businesses 
for fit with the Group and to identify areas requiring strategic attention and action.
To support this strategy the Group has set six key execution priorities:
1
 
move to a global business 
structure 
The reorganisation to two global divisions and six global business units will improve 
global co-ordination across and strengthen accountability within each global business unit, 
simplifying the approach to customers and markets and increasing operational focus. 
2 improve technical 
leadership
R&D investment will be increased to extend Morgan’s technical lead and to accelerate 
new product development. Additional Centres of Excellence will be established 
allowing further concentration of development efforts in those areas that can deliver 
the greatest benefit globally to the Group.
3 improve operational 
execution
There are a number of opportunities across the global business units to improve 
operational execution and resource and capital will be allocated to target specific 
improvements to efficiency and effectiveness on a business-by-business basis.
4 drive sales effectiveness 
and market focus 
The Group will focus on improving a number of aspects of its sales capabilities and 
process – focusing on the sales process and its efficiency, the management of key 
customer accounts and distribution channels and deepening the understanding of 
end-markets and of faster growing segments. 
5 increase investment in 
people management and 
development
The Group is aiming to strengthen its leadership capability and deepen functional 
capabilities across the business, including in sales and engineering. Senior leaders will 
be benchmarked externally, new talent introduced and future leadership candidates 
identified from within the business. Performance management will be enhanced for 
the Group’s top management and the structures and targets for incentive schemes will 
be reviewed. The Group will invest more in executive training and create clear career 
paths for its technologists and engineers. The intake of graduate trainees will be 
increased from 30 to 50 a year over the next four years. 
6 Simplify the business Through the re-organisation of the business the Group will focus on running each 
business unit on a global basis. A Morgan business will have sustainable scale in its 
end-market and be scaleable, operating in attractive growing markets where it has 
the ability to add value to our customers. It will have synergies with the rest of the 
portfolio, be organisationally robust and deliver, or be capable of delivering, strong 
financial performance. 
16 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 KPI 2015 2014 Why A KPI? PERFORMAn CE COMMEn TARy
Financial KPis
Revenue growth (1.1)% (3.8)% > Creating consistent long-term 
value for shareholders.
 > Focus on higher growth 
markets.
 > Revenue declined in the year due primarily to weak 
demand in China throughout the year and a softening 
in demand in a number of n orth America end-markets 
in the second-half of the year. 
Group underlying 
operating profit
*
 
margin
11.6% 12.2% > Creating consistent long-term 
value for shareholders.
 > Focus on higher growth 
markets.
 > To have a culture of operational 
excellence and cost-efficiency.
 > Full-year margin comprises a first-half margin of 13.0% 
and a second-half margin of 10.1%, with the second-half 
decline reflecting the lower revenue and a change in 
business mix and the impact of restructuring costs and 
one-off items.
Free cash flow 
before acquisitions 
and dividends
£26.3m £40.1m > Creating consistent long-term 
value for shareholders.
 > The decline compared to 2014 was due to the increase 
in capital expenditure, up from £33.8 million to 
£63.5 million, with significant spend on new facilities 
in Asia and the £12 million acquisition of a u K freehold. 
Effective management of working capital provided 
a cash inflow of £12.1 million. 
Return on  
Operating Capital 
Employed
*
27.1% 27.7% > Creating consistent long-term 
value for shareholders.
 > Small reduction in ROCE in the year; lower EBITA 
more than offset the reduction in the asset base, 
which itself reflected the net effect of the large capital 
expenditure and the even greater improvement in 
working capital.
u nderlying earnings 
per share
*
20.8p 22.1p  > Creating consistent long-term 
value for shareholders.
 > The 5.9% decrease in underlying EPS reflects the 
reduced earnings in the year. 
Dividend per share 11.0p 10.9p > Creating consistent long-term 
value for shareholders.
 > The 2.6% increase in the interim dividend announced 
at the half-year reflected the strong first-half 
performance and expectations at that time. The 
second-half results and the current macro-economic 
make the position more challenging, but the Group is 
confident enough in its current position and its outlook 
to maintain the final dividend at the same level as 2014, 
giving a 0.9% increase in the full-year dividend.
n on-financial KPis
 †
Employee turnover 13.6% 13.8% > To find, keep and develop the 
right people. 
 > This is believed to reflect an appropriate level of churn 
within the employee base.
l ost time accident 
frequency 
(per 100,000 
hours worked) ^
0.45 0.55 > To have a culture of operational 
excellence and cost-efficiency.
 > To find, keep and develop the 
right people.
 > A 17% reduction in this measure and the number of 
lost time accidents was down 20% to 91 (2014: 1 14). 
This reflects the focus placed on health and safety at all 
sites and across all levels of the Group.
Tonnes CO
2
e per 
£m revenue ^
409 431 > To have a culture of operational 
excellence and cost-efficiency.
 > A 5% reduction driven by a large number of production 
improvement projects at sites in all the Group’s regions.
*  Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms on page 166.
†  n on-financial KPIs are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
 ^ l ost Time Accident Frequency and CO 2e information have been subject to assurance by PwC, see page 32 for further details.
KEy PERFORMA n CE In DICATORS
To support the Group’s strategy and to monitor 
performance, the Board of Directors and the 
Executive Committee use a number of financial 
and non-financial key performance indicators 
(KPIs). These KPIs are selected as being 
important to the success of the Group in 
delivering its strategic objectives. Progress 
is assessed by comparison with the Group’s 
strategy, its budget for the year and against 
historic performance. Regional and business 
management use a range of further benchmarks 
and other KPIs as part of their planning and 
performance review processes. In order to 
measure the underlying performance of the 
business, management further analyse the 
headline KPIs to exclude the impact of 
acquisitions and foreign exchange.
The list of KPIs selected is reviewed and 
updated to ensure they remain important to the 
success of the Group. Financial and non-financial 
performance is reviewed in more detail in the 
Corporate responsibility, Review of operations 
and Financial review sections of this Report.
17
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS RISK MAnAGEME n T
The Group has an established risk management 
methodology which seeks to identify, quantify, 
manage and mitigate both existing and 
emerging risks, underpinned by a ‘three 
lines of defence’ model comprising of a 
comprehensive internal control framework, 
monitoring and independent assurance 
processes. The Board considers that 
risk management and internal control 
are fundamental to achieving the Group 
aim of creating long-term sustainable 
shareholder value.
Risks are identified both ‘top down’ and ‘site 
up’ through the Group’s businesses and are 
quantified by assessing their inherent impact 
and mitigated probability to ensure that 
residual risk exposures are fully understood 
and prioritised for control throughout the 
Group. The day-to-day management of 
risk sits within the Group’s internal control 
framework at the level where the impact 
would materialise, with the effectiveness 
of the controls and mitigating actions being 
monitored and assessed through a Group-
wide review process which considers the 
ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness 
of the controls and monitoring and assurance 
outcomes in respect of these risks. Senior 
executives are responsible for the strategic 
management of the Group’s principal risks, 
including related policy, guidelines and process, 
subject to Board oversight.
Throughout 2015, the Board/Audit Committee 
reviewed the status of all principal risks and 
business specific risks with a notable potential 
impact at both Group and Regional levels, 
together with the controls, monitoring and 
assurance processes established to mitigate 
those risks. As a result of these reviews, 
a number of actions were identified to 
improve controls and the mitigation of risk. 
Also in 2015, the Group’s risk management 
methodology and related processes were 
reviewed to ensure alignment with the 
requirements of the revised u K Corporate 
Governance Code, with enhanced risk 
assessment tools and internal reporting 
mechanisms being implemented. 
The following are the Group’s principal risks 
and uncertainties, representing those risks that 
the Board feels could have the most significant 
effect on achieving the Group’s strategy of 
building a sustainable business for the long 
term and delivering strong returns to the 
Group’s shareholders.
RISK MITIGATIOn
Strategy and strategic planning risks
Technical leadership
One of the core competencies that the Group is focused on 
is materials science. This is fundamental to achieving the goal 
of continuing to be one of the world’s very best advanced 
materials companies.
unforeseen/unmitigated technology obsolescence, the emergence of 
competing technologies, the loss of control of proprietary technology 
or the loss of intellectual property/know-how would impact the 
Group’s business and its ability to deliver on its strategic goals.
The Group has a Chief Technology Officer and a dedicated 
technology team which monitors technology and business 
developments globally using technology roadmaps linked to 20 
major technology families to ensure it remains at the leading edge 
of technology development. Two global Material Centres of 
Excellence are now established to focus expertise and resources 
in core technologies, underpinned by a Technical Advisory Board 
comprising some of the world’s leading academics, who provided 
valuable insight, advice and challenge in respect of the Group’s 
technology plans during the year. 
The technology team proactively manages the Group’s technology 
pipeline and R&D investment in new/improving technologies 
as well as providing active management of the technology lifecycle. 
The technology pipeline and key R&D projects are regularly 
reviewed by the Group Executive and the Board.
Where Group products are designed for a specific customer, they 
are developed in tandem with the customer to maintain leading-edge 
differentiated solutions. The Group seeks to secure intellectual 
property protection, where appropriate, for its existing and emerging 
portfolio of products; external advisers manage this protection globally.
18 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 RISK MITIGATIOn
Strategy and strategic planning risks continued
People management and development
A key execution priority for the Group is to increase the investment 
in people management and development, ensuring that the Group 
has strong leadership and deep functional capabilities.
The advanced technological nature of the Group requires people 
with highly differentiated skillsets. Any inability to recruit, retain 
and develop the right people would impact the Group’s ability to 
achieve its strategic goals.
Making Morgan a safe, fulfilling and rewarding Group to work for is 
the primary means of engaging the workforce and managing this risk. 
The Group has an h R Director and a network of h R professionals 
within the business who, along with policies and processes, support 
Morgan’s managers to mitigate the risks relating to its people. 
The h R function covers areas including reward and recognition, 
recruitment, talent management, skills assessment and development, 
performance management and employee consultation.
In 2012 the Group launched its Graduate l eadership Programme 
which continued to run in 2015. The Group continued its global 
leadership programme in conjunction with Cranfield u niversity, 
adding an advanced programme to reach more high-potential 
commercial, functional and technical leaders.
Further detail on People is set out on pages 33 to 35.
o perational risks
Treasury risks 
The Group’s global nature means that it is exposed to uncertainties 
in the financial markets and the banking sector which heighten the 
Group’s funding, foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity 
risks as well as the risk of bank failure impacting the Group’s cash.
The Group’s treasury function operates on a risk averse basis and 
this is enshrined in the Treasury Policy and procedures which specify 
strict controls on the selection of banks, cash management and other 
treasury practices and payments globally. The Group treasury team 
proactively manages and is ultimately responsible for all of the Group’s 
funding, liquidity, cash management, interest rate, foreign exchange, 
counterparty credit and other treasury related risks. Treasury matters 
are regularly reviewed by the Board/Audit Committee.
Further detail on Treasury Policies is set out in the Financial review 
on page 47.
Quality of contracts 
As a global advanced materials business supplying into critical 
applications, the quality of the Group’s contracts must match 
the quality and nature of its products. Ineffective contract risk 
management could result in significant liabilities for the Group 
and damage customer relationships.
The Group has an in-house legal function supplemented by specialist 
external lawyers.
The Group l egal Policy requires in-house legal review of high-value 
or high-risk contracts to ensure they contain appropriate protections 
for the Group. CEO approval is required before any part of the 
business can enter into an unlimited liability contract or one where 
the liability cap exceeds £5 million. In 2015, the CEO approved three 
contracts or tenders with this liability profile, where the underlying 
risks were considered to be within the Group’s risk appetite.
Contract risk management training is provided by the in-house legal 
function and remains part of the Responsible Business Programme 
(RBP) and has been rolled-out in 2015 to further mitigate the risk of 
ineffective contract management. Additionally, a Group wide project 
has been implemented to ensure that appropriate contractual terms 
and conditions are in place across the business. 
To the extent that risk cannot be mitigated through contractual 
arrangements, the Group has insurance cover in place, including 
product liability insurance.
IT risks and cyber risks
In order to meet the Group’s strategic objectives the availability 
and integrity of its underlying IT infrastructure and the successful 
implementation of new core global systems are essential. If a 
critical business system were to fail or core systems development/
implementation were ineffective, the ability of the business to 
deliver on its strategic goals would be impacted.
Information security/cyber risks are dynamic and ever-present 
in the external environment. If the Group lost critical data or 
information, including proprietary information, through inadequate 
data management or compromised information security, the 
business would be impacted and suffer reputational damage.
The Group has an IT policy and guidelines in place as well as 
Group and business IT teams to manage the Group’s infrastructure, 
IT systems roadmap and information security risks. 
During the course of 2015 there has been continued focus on testing 
the global infrastructure, reviewing information security and developing 
the Group’s business continuity plans in relation to IT risk. Good 
progress has also been made in the development and implementation 
of new global systems. An enhanced, globally consistent, training and 
awareness programme is being developed for implementation in 2016.
The Group insurance programme includes business interruption 
insurance.
19
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS RISK MITIGATIOn
o perational risks continued
Product quality, safety and liability 
Products used in applications for which they were not intended 
or inadequate quality control/over-commitment on customer 
specifications could result in products not meeting customer 
requirements, which could in turn lead to significant liabilities 
and reputational damage.
Many of the Group’s products are designed to customer specifications. 
Over 90% of the Group’s manufacturing output is accredited to ISO 
9001 and the Group’s quality management systems and training help 
ensure that Morgan’s products meet or exceed customer requirements 
and national/international standards.
Contracts relating to products used in potential high-risk applications 
are subject to mandatory legal review.
While a number of minor product quality issues were identified 
in 2015, these had no material impact.
The Group insurance programme includes product liability insurance; 
this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Single-point exposures
The Group has a number of potential single point exposure risks, 
which include:
 > Single-point supplier – a significant interruption of a key internal 
or external supply could impact business continuity.
 > Single-point customer – the unmitigated loss of a major 
customer could have an impact on Group profit.
 > Single-point profit – a key site exposed to a strike, a natural 
catastrophe or serious incident, such as fire, could impact 
business continuity. One Group site, h ayward CA, is situated 
in the California earthquake zone.
The Group Executive is responsible for monitoring and managing 
key single-point exposures and has reviewed such exposures during 
2015. The level of business diversification within the Group means 
that such exposures are kept to a minimum. 
l ocal and Regional management of these risks involves monitoring 
and reviewing supply chains (internal and external), dual/multiple 
sourcing of materials or strategic stock, site security and safety 
mechanisms, business continuity plans, and maintaining product 
quality and strong customer relationships.
The Group insurance programme includes business interruption 
cover and specific cover in relation to the impact of an earthquake in 
California; this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Environment, health and safety (EHS) risks
The Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around 
the world. A failure in the Group’s Eh S procedures could lead to 
environmental damage or to injury or death of employees or third 
parties, with a consequential impact on operations and the increased 
risk of regulatory or legal action being taken against the Group. 
Any such action could result in both financial damages and damage 
to reputation.
The Group has a comprehensive Eh S programme managed by the 
Eh S Director, with site-based Eh S officers to implement and monitor 
Eh S compliance at site level. Independent Eh S audits are regularly 
undertaken at site level.
During 2015 the Group completed the rollout of its behavioural 
safety programme ‘thinkSAFE’.
As at 31 December 2015 the Group was managing projects to 
remediate legacy contamination at four former sites and one 
operational site in conjunction with external specialists and relevant 
authorities. The anticipated costs of these projects are provided for 
in the accounts. 
Further detail of the Eh S programme in place to manage these risks 
is available on pages 25 to 31.
Compliance and ethics risks
Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation
The Group’s global operations must comply with a range of national 
and international laws and regulations including those related to 
bribery and corruption, human rights, trade/export compliance and 
competition/anti-trust. 
A failure to comply with any applicable laws/regulations could 
result in civil or criminal liabilities and/or individual or corporate 
fines and could also result in debarment from government-related 
contracts or rejection by financial market counterparties as well 
as reputational damage.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and 
individual behaviour and this commitment is set out in the Group’s 
Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, underpinned by ongoing 
investment in the Responsible Business Programme (RBP).
In addition to Group compliance specialists, all businesses have 
established compliance officer roles, responsible for supporting 
local training and monitoring with trade/export compliance specialists 
in higher risk businesses and jurisdictions. n ine internal compliance 
audits were carried out in 2015. Full information is available on 
pages 22 to 24.
RISK MAnAGEME n T
continued
20 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 RISK MITIGATIOn
external risks
Changing political, economic and social environment
The Group operates in a range of markets and geographies 
around the world and can be affected by political, economic, social 
or regulatory developments or instability for example the European 
referendum, China slowdown or issues stemming from oil and 
natural resources price shocks.
The Group’s broad market/geographic spread helps to mitigate 
the effects of political and economic crises.
Key risks and events are monitored at business and Group levels, 
with contingency plans in place to manage changing situations.
Financial and treasury controls limit exposure to foreign currency, 
interest rate, credit and liquidity risk. Also, the Group seeks to 
maintain a sufficiently robust financial position to ensure that its 
debt ratio is within acceptable market tolerances.
Taxation
The Group operates within and across a range of fiscal jurisdictions 
around the world and can be affected by changes in tax rules, rulings 
or rates. For example, the Group is cognisant of the 2015 OECD 
pronouncement on base erosion profit shifting (BEPS) and its 
potential impact on the taxation of global businesses in the short 
to medium term.
The Group’s tax function, working in conjunction with external 
specialists as required, closely monitors fiscal developments and 
changes such as BEPS, to ensure that the Group’s tax arrangements 
and practices continue to comply with the requirements of all 
relevant jurisdictions whilst enabling efficient management of the 
Group’s tax liability. 
Pension funding risk
The Group participates in defined benefit pension arrangements 
which are exposed to fluctuating interest rates, investment values 
and inflation. This coupled with the increased longevity of members 
could result in funding burdens on the Group in the future.
Active management of the pension scheme assets is the primary 
means of mitigation. This comprises management both internally 
within the Group but also externally through corporate actuaries 
and professional advisers.
 
This is not an exhaustive list of risks and there are many factors that could change including factors outside of the Group’s control. For this 
reason, a fundamental concept underpinning the Group’s approach to risk is that, in addition to the regular review and assessment of risks 
and controls, each business is required to have an up-to-date and tested business continuity plan and to foster a culture of ‘risk-readiness’. 
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C2.2 of the u K Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over 
a three year period, taking into account the Group’s current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented on pages 
18 to 21 of the Annual Report. Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2018.
The Directors have determined that a three year period to 31 December 2018 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability 
statement. This is the period reviewed by the Board in its strategic planning process and is considered to be appropriate given the dynamics 
in the markets in which the Group operate.
To allow the Directors to make this assessment, a business base case has been built up, initially using a detailed bottom up approach and then 
applying what the Directors consider to be an appropriate set of assumptions in respect of growth, margins, working capital flows, capital 
expenditure, dividends and all other matters that could have a significant impact on the financial performance and liquidity of the Group. 
Assumptions have also been made in respect of the Group’s ability to secure additional financing, specifically to replace the Private Placement 
Senior n otes that are due for repayment in 2017, as detailed in note 19 to the Accounts. The resulting base case provides the Directors with 
an EBITA, debt and finance charge headroom relative to current bank covenants.
The Directors have made a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and their potential impact and the adequacy of the 
headroom relative to a severe but plausible combination of these risks. While the review has considered all the principal risks identified 
by the Group, the following were focussed on for enhanced stress testing: technological obsolescence; product quality, safety and liability; 
export compliance; and, the risks from a deep global recession. The geographical and product diversification of the Group’s operations 
helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption or a catastrophic damage to its reputation. Furthermore, the spread of the Group’s 
end-markets is such that it is not reliant on one particular group of clients or sector.
Whilst this review does not consider all of the possible risks that the Group could face, the Directors consider that the approach adopted and 
the work performed is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved and that it allows the Board to confirm that they 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 
31 December 2018.
21
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS “DOIn G Bu SIn ESS Th E RIGh T 
WAy, ETh ICAlly A n D SAFEly , 
IS Fun DAMEn TAl TO T h E WAy 
WE DO Bu SIn ESS. IT IS Th E TOP 
PRIORITy FOR Th E GROu P .”
Pete rA by
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER
VAlu ES, STRATEGy A n D TOn E FROM Th E TOP
CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy IS In TEGRAl TO T h E 
MORGAn GRO u P; IT MEAn S A COMMITMEn T TO 
BEh AVIn G WITh I n TEGRITy A n D h AVIn G A POSITIVE 
IMPACT On EMP l Oy EES, STAKEh Ol DERS An D Th E 
COMMun ITIES In W h ICh T h E GROu P WORKS.
CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy
morgan values
The Core Values Statement is the guiding 
principle for the Group’s global approach 
to corporate responsibility. This underpins 
the Group’s commitment to doing business 
in the right way: limiting the impact of its 
operations on the environment; protecting 
and developing its people; and supporting 
the communities in which the Group works.
morgan strategy
This firm commitment to doing business in the 
right way is integral to the Group in continuing 
to be one of the world’s very best advanced 
materials companies, where corporate 
responsibility is a differentiator. The Group’s 
Responsible Business Programme (RBP), 
Environment, h ealth and Safety (Eh S) 
programme and the approach to Morgan’s 
people, all support the aim of creating 
long-term sustainable shareholder value.
t one from the top
The Board is ultimately accountable for 
corporate responsibility and receives 
regular reports on RBP , Eh S and global 
talent management. 
The senior management team recognises the 
need to lead by example. The Chief Executive 
Officer (CEO) takes the lead on doing business 
in the right way, whilst the Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) is responsible for the Group’s 
approach to Eh S. They are supported by the 
Regional executive teams and functional heads 
with specific responsibility for environment, 
health and safety, legal compliance and human 
resources. Tone from the top was demonstrated 
in 2015 by the attendance of Regional and 
Group executives, as well as a number of the 
non-executive Board Directors, at face-to-face 
RBP training sessions across the Group. 
22 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy
d oing business in the right way
The RBP is the Group-wide ethics and 
compliance programme, launched in 2010, 
providing a policy/compliance framework 
underpinning the Group’s commitment, 
and ensuring a common approach, to doing 
business in the right way.
The core elements of the RBP are policies/
guidance, training/education, compliance 
risk assessments, monitoring and assurance 
through certifications, internal audit and site 
compliance visits.
Policies
The RBP policies are the Ethics, Ethics h otline, 
Competition/Anti-Trust, Trade Compliance 
and Donations and Sponsorships policies. 
These and related manuals and guidelines 
are each available in 13 languages and oblige 
employees to operate in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations, for example 
to comply with rules and internal reporting 
requirements relating to gifts and entertainment 
and donations and sponsorships. 
These policies also apply, to the extent 
appropriate, to Morgan’s business partners 
including agents, joint ventures and third-party 
representatives. In particular, the Responsible 
Business Guide for Representatives summarises 
the ethical principles the Group requires its 
representatives to adhere to in order to act 
on behalf of the Group.
All policies, manuals and guidelines are subject 
to annual review. 
t raining
Raising awareness of and educating employees 
on the Group compliance policies and the 
applicable laws and regulations is a fundamental 
part of the RBP. There are a number of 
challenges in delivering a programme of 
this nature across more than 30 countries, 
including language, culture and logistics.
Feedback is sought from all attendees to ensure 
that the programme develops year on year and 
is relevant to each Region and its employees 
rather than being a ‘one size fits all’ approach. 
Since 2010, annual training has included:
 > el earning modules for human rights, 
anti-bribery and ethics, anti-trust and 
contract risk management, each of 
which requires a 100% test score in 
order to pass.
 > ‘Train the facilitator’ training of local 
managers and site-based compliance 
officers and subsequent cascaded site- 
level training. 
 > Site level training by the Group RBP 
team at higher risk sites.
This has been further supplemented by the 
provision of RBP training in Group induction 
processes; reinforced in 2015 with revised 
guidance and materials for h R teams globally 
to ensure that this is standard practice around 
the Group. 
r isk assessment
Annual compliance risk assessments across 
the Group help to identify those businesses 
which have a higher risk of a compliance 
breach, often associated with high-risk 
territories. These high-risk businesses receive 
additional focus and support including further 
training, guidance and site visits. During 2015, 
certain of the Group’s businesses in China, 
Mexico, the u K, the Middle East, Turkey 
and Guatemala received such support. 
implementation
How are the policies cascaded?
The RBP policies and procedures are mandated 
across the Group and apply to all employees. 
The Group intranet, Morgan et, is the primary 
means of making each of the policies, manuals 
and guidelines available to employees. It is 
acknowledged that not all employees can 
access Morgan et, so hard copies are also 
made available locally. 
Education on the RBP policies is also built into 
each of the RBP el earning modules and all 
face-to-face materials.
How is the training given? 
In 2015, 14 face-to-face ‘train the facilitator’ 
sessions were held in a number of locations 
around the world. These were attended by 290 
people, including local General Managers, and 
both Regional and Group executives. Two of the 
Group’s non-executive Directors also attended 
sessions in l uxembourg and in the u K. 
The focus of the training was anti-bribery, 
competition, contract risk management and 
trade compliance. All training presentations 
and supporting materials were provided 
in 13 languages to facilitate the cascade of 
core elements of this training to more than 
2,000 employees. 
What have the risk assessments shown?
The Group-wide bribery risk assessments, 
run since 2013, take into account a number of 
factors including location of business, location 
of customers, the market sector and whether 
third-party agents were used. The results of 
these assessments at the end of 2014 created 
internal bribery risk rankings that were used 
to focus additional support, monitoring and 
training which was delivered in 2015 to a 
number of the Group’s businesses including 
those in China and South America. A similar 
assessment informs the programme going 
into 2016. 
 
23
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS effectiveness
Annual certification
Regional presidents and all functional heads are 
required on an annual basis to certify that the 
businesses/functions they are responsible for 
have implemented and complied in full with 
the Group policies or declared any exceptions. 
The CEO and the CFO then certify to the 
Board on a Group-wide basis. 
This certification forms an integral part of the 
Group’s system of internal controls. n o material 
exceptions were declared in respect of 2015.
This is further supplemented by annual site-level 
certification, where relevant employees certify 
that they understand and are compliant with the 
RBP and related policies and manuals.
Compliance visits
In 2015 the RBP team made compliance visits 
to higher risk businesses in Mexico, China, the 
u K, Turkey, the Middle East and Guatemala, 
meeting with local management to discuss and 
assess compliance practices, processes and 
issues. These visits are a means of monitoring 
and obtaining assurance on the efficacy of the 
RBP at business level and provide an 
opportunity to support the business through 
local training and face-to-face dialogue. 
Throughout 2015, nine compliance visits were 
carried out, with common issues identified 
including the requirement for (i) RBP induction 
materials to be used universally around the 
Group, and (ii) competitor contact reporting 
requirements to be re-communicated. RBP 
induction materials were reviewed, revised 
and re-issued during 2015 and further training 
on competitor contact awareness and 
reporting is scheduled to take place in the 
first quarter of 2016. 
Internal audit
Internal audit monitors adherence to key RBP 
processes including completion of site-level 
training, RBP in induction processes, compliance 
with key elements of RBP policies and the filing 
of reporting forms. Internal audit also ensures 
that the availability of the Ethics h otline is 
adequately promoted at site level.
During 2015, internal audit identified a number 
of immaterial breaches of (i) competitor contact 
and trade association membership reporting, 
and (ii) timely completion of RBP induction 
training by new employees. These matters 
have been addressed in the compliance visits 
commentary above. 
Ethics Hotline
The Ethics h otline, operated by the 
independent third-party company Expolink, 
was in place throughout the year. It enables 
employees who are aware of, or suspect, 
misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse of 
Group assets or violations of any Group policy 
to report these confidentially without fear 
of retribution should they feel they cannot use 
a local channel. The h otline includes local 
free-phone numbers in each of the countries 
in which the Group operates, with real-time 
translators available as necessary.
Issues raised through the Ethics h otline or via 
other channels are followed up by the Regional 
President or the Company Secretary as 
appropriate. Further investigation may be 
conducted through the Audit Committee as 
required. Where appropriate, disciplinary action 
up to and including dismissal is taken and/or 
additional guidance and training provided.
During 2015, 17 reports were received via 
the h otline in respect of 13 matters (compared 
with 31 reports relating to 14 matters in 2014) 
from the u K, the u S, Germany, Brazil, 
Venezuela, Mexico and Guatemala. Each 
of the calls related to local human resource 
grievances or the style/behaviour of local 
management. The reports were subject 
to investigation, with the results and 
recommendations then presented to the 
Audit Committee for approval. n o material 
issues were discovered.
The Audit Committee annually monitors 
and reviews the effectiveness of the h otline 
and of the follow-up investigation processes 
by considering the number of calls, which 
countries they came from and the results of 
the investigations; for 2015 it was satisfied that 
the h otline and investigation processes were 
operating effectively, but requested that a 
review and refresh of the h otline be carried 
out in 2016.
The RBP going forward
During 2016, the Group plans to further 
develop the RBP in a number of ways including:
 > Introduction of new el earning modules.
 > Introduction of webinar training updates.
 > Further development of third-party risk 
management.
CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy
continued
24 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 En VIROnME n T, hEA l Th A nD SAFETy
MORGAn ADVAn CED MATERIAl S’ En VIROn MEn T, 
h EAl Th A n D SAFETy (Eh S) POl ICy An D IMPl EMEn TATIOn 
PROGRAMMES Su PPORT Th E GROu P’S STRATEGy A n D 
CORE VAlu ES STATEMEn T. Eh S PERFORMAn CE h AS 
A DIRECT An D SIGn IFICAn T EFFECT On OPERATI n G 
PERFORMAn CE An D IS Th EREFORE A KEy FOCu S FOR 
RISK ASSESSMEn T An D OPERATIOn Al MA n AGEMEn T 
ACROSS Th E GROu P .
2015 highlights
 > Reviewed and updated the Group’s Eh S 
strategy, setting out a road map for the 
Group over the period 2015-17.
 > Rolled out Morgan ‘thinkSAFE’, the 
Group’s safety performance improvement 
programme, on a global basis. This 
top-down behaviour-based safety 
programme is led by the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Executive team. 
 > Over 98% of Morgan employees and 
a number of key contractors have 
attended thinkSAFE training – more 
than 1,300 senior operational staff 
and management attended a two-day 
workshop with a further 8,500 employees 
attending a one-day training session. 
These were held in 15 different languages.
 > thinkSAFE ‘safety corners’ installed at 
each Group facility to help build a greater 
awareness of health and safety and to 
provide an interactive focus for safety 
information.
 > Adopted a set of safety-related leading 
indicators to help drive future 
performance across the Group. These 
indicators include the monitoring of visible 
safety leadership activities and near misses. 
 > Participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project 2015 and achieved a disclosure 
score of 97 and a third place ranking in 
the CDP’s FTSE 350 Industrial sector. 
This recognises the depth and quality 
of the climate change data disclosed by 
the Group.
 > h ealth and safety performance improved 
in the year with a 20% reduction in the 
number of l ost Time Accidents to 91 and 
a 17% reduction in the lost time accident 
frequency rate. The percentage of working 
time lost due to accidents and work-related 
ill health was also reduced by 32%. A small 
number of sites reported a disproportionate 
number of l ost Time Accidents in the year 
and Group and local management are 
already taking action to address these. 
 > Environmental performance improved 
with a 5% reduction in CO
2
e intensity, 
a 7% reduction in energy intensity, 
a 5% reduction in water intensity, 
a 1% reduction in waste intensity 
and a 2% improvement in the recycling 
rate from 2014. h owever, the Group 
is behind the rate of improvement 
required to achieve its waste intensity 
reduction target for 2014-16.
Morgan Advanced Materials is committed to 
conducting all of its activities in a manner that 
achieves high standards of health and safety 
for employees and others affected by its 
operations. This commitment is reflected in 
the Group’s core health and safety values set 
out below. They are adopted Group-wide 
and are available in 17 languages. 
 > We are committed to creating a culture 
and environment that is ‘zero harm’ 
with no related accidents or illness due 
to our activities.
 > We encourage and expect our 
employees and contractors to be 
passionate about safety. 
 > We are dedicated to creating a positive 
safety culture based on openness, 
transparency and responsibility.
 > We support a safe working culture 
through investment and training.
 > We engage with our people to 
continuously improve safety knowledge, 
reporting and performance through our 
commitment to our thinkSAFE 
programme.
The Group is also committed to minimising the 
impact of its business on the environment and 
maximising the positive environmental benefits 
of its products. Examples of Morgan’s products 
which help enhance the environment-related 
performance and efficiency of the products 
and operations of the Group’s customers are 
included in pages 2 to 3 and 10 to 13 of this 
Report.
This Report includes a summary of the Group’s 
Eh S Policy and its effectiveness as demonstrated 
through its Eh S KPIs and training and other 
programmes.
u nder The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ report) Regulations 
2013, the Group is required to report its 
annual greenhouse gas emissions for the year 
in its Directors’ report. This information is 
shown on page 90 and includes the CO
2
>
 
due to energy use which is further analysed 
in this section, as well as other sources of 
greenhouse gases.
>   CO
2
e. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent – the amount of 
Carbon Dioxide or the amount of non-CO
2
 greenhouse 
gas with the equivalent global warming potential.
25
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS eh S policy
Morgan’s Eh S policy applies to all Group 
businesses worldwide; it forms the basis for 
Executive and management oversight and 
implementation and has been communicated 
across all sites within the Group. The Policy 
is published on the Group’s website.
eh S policy implementation
Morgan’s Eh S governance procedures are 
centered on its Eh S policy, which forms 
the basis of the Group’s Eh S management 
systems and processes. The policy requires 
high standards of Eh S management at all sites. 
This is implemented through performance 
monitoring, risk assessment and the 
management and mitigation of identified risks 
to help provide continuous improvement 
in Eh S performance in support of the Group’s 
strategic priorities.
The Group is committed to providing effective 
leadership in pursuit of an injury-free and 
environmentally responsible work place and 
the Chief Executive Officer and the operational 
management team are responsible for Eh S 
performance, with each site having a point of 
accountability. There are Eh S leaders in each 
region. This global network of specialists reports 
to their respective regional management team 
and is responsible for improving the standards 
of Eh S management and performance across 
the Group’s businesses. 
As described below, in 2015 the Group again 
commissioned external assurance on selected 
Eh S data from PricewaterhouseCoopers 
ll P (PwC).
Morgan’s Group-level Eh S management 
processes include:
 > The Eh S Compliance Audit Programme, 
which is carried out by external Eh S 
consultants in all regions worldwide. 
This programme reviews the Eh S 
management at each site and helps 
ensure compliance with local regulations 
and good management practice. The Eh S 
Compliance Audit Programme also covers 
the Eh S management systems and the 
Eh S KPIs reported by each site. All of the 
Group’s manufacturing facilities are 
reviewed on a three-year rolling cycle. 
Accordingly, 25 sites were audited during 
2015. The audit reports are reviewed 
by the Director, Environment, h ealth 
and Safety and by the Regional Presidents. 
Action items are tracked through a formal 
follow-up process.
 > Formal training as an integral part of the 
implementation of the Group’s Eh S Policy. 
This is undertaken at a regional level 
according to business-specific risks and 
opportunities, with Group-level support 
and oversight.
 > Monthly performance reporting to Group 
and regional executives against the Group 
KPIs by all Group sites. The data is subject 
to regular review and challenge at Group 
level with reporting of performance to the 
Executive Committee and the Board.
Taking site openings and closures into account, 
in 2015 environmental management systems 
were in place at 98 sites worldwide, including 
47 sites certified to ISO 14001. Additional 
certifications were achieved at sites in the u SA, 
Guatemala and Venezuela in 2015. These new 
certifications are in addition to the ongoing 
programme of re-certifications. Worldwide, 
105 sites have health and safety management 
systems in place, with 15 sites certified to or 
working towards Oh SAS 18001.
eh S policy effectiveness
Morgan Advanced Materials monitors the 
effectiveness of its Eh S policy through the Eh S 
Compliance Audit Programme, the review of 
performance against a series of Group-wide 
KPIs, its external assurance programme and by 
participating in a number of external initiatives 
as further described below. 
The summary charts on pages 27 to 31 
represent the Group’s Eh S performance, 
covering all production sites during the year.
Environmental intensity KPIs are reported 
at constant currency and, where necessary, 
historic Eh S data is updated to reflect changes 
in reporting methodology and to ensure 
year on year consistency.
In 2015, the independent external assurance 
performed by PwC covered the Group’s lost 
time accident frequency rate, CO
2
e intensity, 
energy intensity, waste intensity, water intensity 
and waste recycling rate. The Assurance Report 
from PwC is set out on page 32.
The Group participates in a number of 
external initiatives that help to benchmark 
policy effectiveness and progress. These 
include the Carbon Disclosure Project in 
respect of the Group’s climate change-related 
strategies, risks, management and performance. 
In 2015, Morgan achieved a score of 97 
for disclosure and B for carbon-related 
performance. This reflects the depth and 
quality of climate change data the Group 
has disclosed to investors and the global 
marketplace through CDP . 
Morgan Advanced Materials plc has made 
filings in respect of the Group’s u K facilities 
under the u K government’s Carbon Reduction 
Commitment (Energy Efficiency) Scheme. 
The Group has also made submissions to 
comply with the requirements of Article 8 
of the European u nion’s Energy Efficiency 
Directive that will apply to certain of the 
Group’s businesses in Europe. In the u K, 
this is being implemented by the Energy 
Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) 
introduced by the u K Government’s 
Department of Energy and Climate Change.
CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy
continued
26 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  ^  The 201 1-2015 CO 2e intensity, energy intensity, water intensity and the 2012-2015 waste intensity and waste recycling 
rate information has been subject to assurance by PwC. For further details of the assurance provided see the 
Independent Assurance Report on page 32. Further details of the 2014, 2013, 2012 and 201 1 assurance provided are 
included in the Independent Assurance Reports on page 30 of the 2014 Annual Report, page 31 of the 2013 Annual 
Report, page 25 of the 2012 Annual Report and page 41 of the 201 1 Annual Report.
*  Scope 1 CO 2e emissions from fossil fuel usage and Scope 2 CO 2 using country-specific electricity factors 
as O 2e factors are not consistently available for electricity use in all countries.
† Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
‡  Energy from all sources.
>   CO 2e. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent – the amount of Carbon Dioxide or the amount of non-CO 2 Greenhouse Gas 
with the equivalent global warming potential.
environmental performance
As reported above, the Group is committed 
to environmental responsibility and works 
to minimise the impact of its business on the 
environment and to maximise the positive 
environmental benefit of its products. 
Morgan Advanced Materials plc monitors the 
impact of its operations on the environment, 
as measured by its Scope 1 CO
2
e and Scope 2 
CO
2
 emissions, energy, waste and water 
intensity per £million of revenue. 
The Group sets two-year targets for the 
improvement in these environmental metrics 
and the Group’s 2015 performance is an 
interim report against the current targets 
for the two-year period 2014-16. 
During the year, the Group undertook a 
series of regional environmental programmes 
to address key opportunities and risks. These 
included energy awareness and site-specific 
environmental target setting. These initiatives 
are designed to reduce energy use and 
related CO
2
 emissions and to enhance 
business and environmental performance 
and competitiveness.
These programmes helped place the Group 
ahead of plan to achieve its environmental 
intensity targets for the period 2014-16 in all 
areas apart from waste intensity. These intensity 
targets and KPIs relate environmental impacts 
to revenue and include the impact of the 1.2% 
decrease in revenue at constant currency 
compared to 2014, the baseline year for the 
Group’s intensity targets. 
In absolute terms, total CO
2
e emissions due 
to energy use in 2015 were 372,700 tonnes, 
down by 6% from 397,400 tonnes in 2014. 
Energy use was some 1,222 GWh, down by 
8% from 1,333 GWh in 2014.
Taking into account the decrease in the 
Group’s sales at constant currency compared 
with the baseline year of 2014, CO
2
e intensity ^ 
was down by 5% versus 2014. Thus the 
Group’s 2015 performance is ahead of the 
rate required to achieve its target to reduce 
the CO
2
e emissions intensity due to energy 
use by 5% over the two-year period 2014-16. 
Energy intensity ^ in 2015 was down by 7% 
compared to 2014. All regions achieved 
their energy intensity targets for 2015.
As shown in the five-year performance charts 
on this page energy and CO
2
e intensity has 
been reduced since 201 1 and the Group 
continues to have a number of production 
improvement projects which include energy 
efficiency programmes. These are planned 
to help reduce energy intensity in 2016 and 
beyond and to ensure the Group achieves its 
improvement targets.
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
372,700
CO
2
e
>
 DUE TO ENERGY USE ^*
Tonnes
†
397,400
383,300
393,900
436,500
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
409
CO
2
e
>
 INTENSITY DUE TO ENERGY USE ^*
Tonnes CO
2
e/£m revenue
†
431
423
395
426
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
1,222
ENERGY USE ^
‡
GWh
†
1,333
1,295
1,319
1,439
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
1,340
ENERGY INTENSITY ^
‡
MWh/£m revenue
†
1,445
1,429
1,323
1,403
27
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy
continued
Total waste reported in 2015 was 48,300 
tonnes, down by 2% from 49,400 tonnes 
in 2014. Waste intensity ^ was down by 1% 
versus 2014. Thus the Group is behind the 
planned rate of improvement to achieve its 
target to reduce waste intensity by 5% over 
the two-year period 2014-16. Whilst many 
sites reduced waste and waste intensity during 
the year, the product mix at a small number of 
sites shifted towards products that have higher 
waste intensity. In addition, certain sites 
increased waste output due to one-off waste 
disposal projects. 
The proportion of total waste which was 
recycled ^ was 30% in 2015, up by 2 percentage 
points from 28% in 2014. Thus the Group 
is on plan to achieve its target which is to 
increase the proportion of total waste which 
is recycled over the two years 2014-16.
Total water use in 2015 was 2.34 million m
3
, 
down 7% from 2.50 million m
3
 in 2014. Water 
use intensity ^ was reduced by 5% versus 
2014. This improvement is ahead of the target 
to reduce water intensity by 5% over the two 
years 2014-16. The improvements were led 
by ongoing significant reductions in the water 
intensity at key sites in the Asia/Rest of World 
Region, where water is a limited resource. 
2016 priorities for environmental
 > Develop the energy awareness and 
resilience programme for worldwide 
implementation, focused on the Group’s 
energy intensive operations.
 > Review environmental target setting with 
a view to increasing ownership and 
delivery at both site and regional level.
 > Review opportunities to benchmark sites 
with similar production technologies and 
set site and business improvement plans 
accordingly. 
 > Focus on specific environmental 
improvement projects at sites with 
the biggest environmental impact.
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
48,300
WASTE^
§
Tonnes
†
49,400
44,600
48,700
48,400
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
52.9
WASTE INTENSITY ^
§
Tonnes waste/£m revenue
†
53.6
49.2
48.8
47.1
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
2.34
WATER USE ^
>
million m
3†
2.50
2.27
2.52
2.77
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
2,564
WATER INTENSITY ^
>
m
3
/£m revenue
†
2,710
2,506
2,522
2,705
 ^   T h e 2 01 1 - 2 01 5 C O
2
e intensity, energy intensity, water intensity and the 2012-2015 waste intensity and waste recycling 
rate information has been subject to assurance by PwC. For further details of the assurance provided see the 
Independent Assurance Report on page 32. Further details of the 2014, 2013, 2012 and 201 1 assurance provided are 
included in the Independent Assurance Reports on page 30 of the 2014 Annual Report, page 31 of the 2013 Annual 
Report, page 25 of the 2012 Annual Report and page 41 of the 201 1 Annual Report.
† Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
§ h azardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
>  Water from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.
28 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 MORGAn thinkSAFE OVERVIEW
morGA n thinkSAFe
Portal
incident  
r eporting System
Safety corners
behavioural 
training
thinkSAFE IS A BEh AVIOu RAl BASED PROGRAMME 
Bu Il T AROun D MORGAn’ S SAFETy VA lu ES An D FOu R 
KEy COMPOn En TS
MORGAn thinkSAFE WIll 
PROVIDE Th E Kn OWl EDGE 
An D SKIll S TO En ABl E EVERy 
EMPl Oy EE TO l OOK AT Th EIR 
OWn BE h AVIOu R An D Th AT 
OF Th EIR COll EAGu ES 
TO En Su RE WE CARRy Ou T 
All O u R TASKS In A SAFE 
AnD CO n TROll ED MAnnER .
MORGAn thinkSAFE is the Group’s global 
safety performance improvement programme. 
It is a top-down programme that is led by the 
Chief Executive Officer and the Executive 
team. It has four key components:
 > Behavioural training: this includes two 
key programmes. The leading thinkSAFE 
programme (two-day workshop) 
which covers all leaders, managers and 
supervisors. The main objectives of this 
workshop are to enable leaders to play 
a specific visible safety leadership role and 
that is to influence the attitude to safety 
and behaviour of their direct reports and 
the wider work force. The second 
programme is the thinkSAFE in action 
programme (one-day workshop) which 
is for all the other employees. The main 
objective of this workshop is to help 
employees on how they can be a role 
model for safety and positively contribute 
to a safer environment. 
 > Safety corners: These are installed at 
every site worldwide and are used to build 
greater awareness of health and safety, 
to act as a focal location for safety training, 
and to promote local initiatives. They 
contain the Group’s safety values and 
have a screen that provides access to 
the thinkSAFE Portal.
 > thinkSAFE Portal: is a dedicated area 
on the Group’s intranet providing health 
and safety information, resources and 
learning. It is constantly updated with fresh 
information and has a quarterly safety 
e-brochure in multiple languages. Every 
employee is able to access the Portal 
though the screen in the safety corner 
at their site.
 > Global Incident Reporting system: where 
all lost time incidents are reported and 
shared globally so all employees can learn 
from them. 
Around the world, the regional management 
teams implemented a series of initiatives to 
promote and reinforce the Group-wide 
thinkSAFE programme. These included the 
third annual Safety Week across the Asia 
and Rest of World region and a number of 
region-wide programmes and competitions 
to proactively identify and promote near-miss 
reporting, to identify and manage risks and 
to work towards a zero-harm work place.
29
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy
continued
*  l ost Time Accident (l TA): accident or work-related 
illness which results in one or more days’ lost time.
 ^  The 2013, 2014 and 2015 l ost Time Accident 
Frequency information has been subject to 
assurance by PwC. For further details of the 
assurance provided see the Independent Assurance 
Report on page 32. Further details of the 2014 
assurance provided are included in the Independent 
Assurance Report on page 30 of the 2014 Annual 
Report and further details of the 2013 assurance 
are on page 31 of the 2013 Annual Report.
The Group’s 2015 health and safety 
performance improved compared to 2014 
and so the Group achieved its objective of 
improving performance compared with the 
prior year. Aggregating manufacturing sites and 
sales offices, the Group has over 130 locations 
worldwide and overall the majority performed 
well with no l TAs reported during the year. 
The actions taken in 2015 through roll out 
of the thinkSAFE programme, supported 
by a focus on underperformance identified 
following the adverse safety performance 
reported for 2014, helped to deliver this 
improved performance.
In 2015, the Group’s l TA frequency ^ was 
down 17% at 0.45 per 100,000 hours 
worked (2014: 0.55). The number of l TAs 
reported was down 20% to 91 (2014: 1 14
#
). 
Several sites had no l TAs and other sites 
improved on their accident frequency rates 
from 2014. A small number of sites reported 
a disproportionate number of l TAs in the year 
and Group and local management are already 
taking action to address these.
h ealth and safety performance
Morgan Advanced Materials plc is committed 
to adopting and implementing its health and 
safety core values with the long-term aim 
of an injury-free workplace and to conducting 
all its activities in a manner that achieves high 
standards of health and safety for all employees 
and others affected by its operations. The 
Group’s long-term objective is ‘zero harm’ 
and it seeks to achieve year on year 
improvements in performance as it progresses 
towards this objective.
The Group’s health and safety policy 
statements are clear and communicated 
throughout the Group and health and safety 
metrics receive a high degree of focus at all 
levels of the business. The policy statements 
are supported by site-level assessment and 
monitoring of risks.
In 2015, the Group’s accident prevention and 
training programmes were ongoing, with the 
objective of reducing accident numbers and 
the time lost per lost time accident. Particular 
focus is placed on those sites with below-
average performance, as measured by their 
health and safety KPIs and through the Eh S 
Compliance Audit Programme.
The Group’s health and safety KPIs include 
accident frequencies, causes and related lost 
working time. These are used to monitor the 
effectiveness of the Group’s health and safety 
policies and related systems on a monthly basis. 
In 2015, the independent external assurance 
performed by PwC covered the Group’s l ost 
Time Accident (l TA) frequency rate.
97
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
91
LOST TIME ACCIDENTS ^
Number of LTAs
*
114
114
132
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
0.45
LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY ^
LTAs/100K hours worked
*
0.55
0.46
0.52
0.58
#  The 2014 health and safety report has been revised 
to include three incidents which subsequently resulted 
in lost time and/or lost time accidents which were reported 
to the Group after the 2014 year end.
30 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 *  l ost Time Accident (l TA): accident or work-related 
illness which results in one or more days’ lost time.
†   Total time lost due to health and safety in the 
year divided by the number of lost time accidents 
reported in the year.
Reported lost time due to accidents and 
work-related illnesses as a percentage of 
working time decreased from 0.13% in 2014 
to 0.09% in 2015. As shown in the charts 
opposite, the number of days lost during 2015 
was down by 35%. The number of hours 
worked decreased by 4%. This performance 
reflects the fact that the lost time incidents that 
occur are on average less serious than previously, 
resulting in the decrease in the number of lost 
days. This is in part due to the focus on risk 
and awareness through the increase in near 
miss reporting Group wide. Accordingly, the 
reported average number of days lost per l TA 
reported in the year decreased by 18% from 
28.6 to 23.5 days per l TA. 
The inquest into the previously reported 
employee fatality that occurred in 2012 at the 
Group’s site in Ruabon, u K, returned a formal 
verdict of ‘accidental death’. On 13 n ovember 
2015, Morgan Technical Ceramics l td was 
fined £180,000 plus £23,000 of costs in 
relation to this incident. 
2016 Priorities for h ealth and Safety 
 > To reinforce the Morgan thinkSAFE 
programme with visible safety leadership 
through all levels of the organisation.
 > To further progress the introduction of 
leading indicators as measures and drivers 
of future performance.
 > Introduce a new Eh S framework with 
focus on high severity incident causes 
including working at height, lock out 
tag out, flammable gas safety, guarding 
and driving.
 > Review the audit process for both internal 
and external auditing. 
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
2,135
HEALTH AND SAFETY-RELATED LOST TIME
Days lost due to LTAs
*
3,261
2,650
3,174
2,771
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
23.5
LOST TIME PER LTA
*
†
Days per LTA
*
28.6
27.3
27.8
21.0
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
0.09%
HEALTH AND SAFETY-RELATED LOST TIME
% of total working time
0.13%
0.10%
0.12%
0.10%
31
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS In DEPEn DEn T ASSu RAn CE REPORT
Our work was carried out by an independent 
team with experience in sustainability reporting 
and assurance.
Understanding reporting and measurement 
methodologies
The Selected Information needs to be read and 
understood together with the Reporting Criteria, 
which Morgan is solely responsible for selecting 
and applying. The absence of a significant body of 
established practice on which to draw to evaluate 
and measure non-financial information allows for 
different, but acceptable, measurement techniques 
and can affect comparability between entities 
and over time. The Reporting Criteria used for 
the reporting of the Selected Information are as 
at 31 December 2015.
w ork done
We are required to plan and perform our work in 
order to consider the risk of material misstatement 
of the Selected Information. In doing so, we:
 > made enquiries of Morgan’s management, 
including those with responsibility for Eh S 
management and Group Eh S reporting;
 > evaluated the design of the key structures, 
systems, processes and controls for managing, 
recording and reporting the Selected 
Information. This included analysing 10 sites, 
and visiting 5 of these, selected on the basis of 
their inherent risk and materiality to the group, 
to understand the key processes and controls 
for reporting site performance data to the 
group Eh S team;
 > performed limited substantive testing on a 
selective basis of the Selected Information 
to check that data had been appropriately 
measured, recorded, collated and reported; 
and
 > considered the disclosure and presentation 
of the Selected Information. 
morgan responsibilities 
The Directors of Morgan are responsible for:
 > designing, implementing and maintaining internal 
controls over information relevant to the 
preparation of the Selected Information that is 
free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error; 
 > establishing objective Reporting Criteria for 
preparing the Selected Information;
 > measuring and reporting the Selected 
Information based on the Reporting Criteria; and
 > the content of the Annual Report 2015.
o ur responsibilities
We are responsible for:
 > planning and performing the engagement to 
obtain limited assurance about whether the 
Selected Information is free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
 > forming an independent conclusion, based 
on the procedures we have performed and 
the evidence we have obtained; and
 > reporting our conclusion to the Directors 
of Morgan.
This report, including our conclusions, has been 
prepared solely for the Board of Directors of Morgan 
in accordance with the agreement between us, 
to assist the Directors in reporting Morgan’s Eh S 
performance and activities. We permit this report 
to be disclosed in Annual Report for the year ended 
31 December 2015, to assist the Directors in 
responding to their governance responsibilities 
by obtaining an independent assurance report in 
connection with the Selected Information. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Board of Directors and Morgan for our work 
or this report except where terms are expressly 
agreed between us in writing. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants
l ondon
23 February 2016
1  The maintenance and integrity of Morgan’s website is the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by us does 
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, 
we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have 
occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting 
Criteria when presented on Morgan’s website.
2  We have complied with International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other 
than Audits and Reviews of h istorical Financial Information’ and, 
in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410’Assurance 
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Standards’, issued by the 
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
3  A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope 
than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both 
the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding 
of internal control, and the procedures performed in response 
to the assessed risks.
4   We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics which includes 
independence and other requirements founded on fundamental 
principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and 
due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. We apply 
International Standard on Quality Control (u K & Ireland) 1 and 
accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control 
including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards 
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
o ur conclusion
based on the procedures we have performed 
and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe 
that the Selected information for the year ended 
31 d ecember 2015 has not been prepared, 
in all material respects, in accordance with the 
r eporting Criteria.
This conclusion is to be read in the context of what 
we say in the remainder of our report.
Selected information
The scope of our work was limited to assurance 
over the information marked with the symbol 
^ 
in the Morgan Annual Report for the year ended 
31 December 2015 (the ‘Selected Information’). 
The Selected Information and the Reporting Criteria 
against which it was assessed are summarised 
below. Our assurance does not extend to information 
in respect of earlier periods or to any other 
information included in the Morgan Annual Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
The Selected Information consists of: 
 > CO
2
e and CO
2
e intensity (scope 1 and 
scope 2 emissions due to energy use);
 > Energy and energy intensity;
 > Water and water intensity;
 > Waste and waste intensity;
 > Recycling rate; and
 > n umber of lost time accidents and lost time 
accident frequency rate.
We assessed the Selected Information using 
Morgan’s Reporting Criteria as set out at: 
http://www.morganadvancedmaterials.com/
responsible-business/environment-health-safety/
1
Professional standards applied
2
 and level 
of assurance
3
 
We performed a limited assurance engagement 
in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) and, in 
respect of greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance 
with ISAE 3410.
o ur independence and Quality Control
We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics 
and the International Standard on Quality Control 
(u K & Ireland) 1
4
. 
independent l imited Assurance r eport to the d irectors of morgan Advanced materials plc 
The Board of Directors of Morgan Advanced Materials plc (Morgan) engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below 
and set out in Morgan’s Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
32 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Morgan Advanced Materials plc has c8,800 
employees, working across the globe in all 
major markets and regions. The Group’s 
employees are critical to its success and the 
workforce is built upon people with highly 
unique skills and abilities. Set out below are 
the Group’s people policies, how they have 
been implemented, together with a review 
of their effectiveness.
People Policies and their implementation
The Group supports the u niversal Declaration 
of h uman Rights, and the Group’s human 
rights policy commits the Group to protect the 
rights of everyone who works for it and all 
those who have dealings with it. The principles 
of the policy cover child labour, forced labour, 
health and safety, freedom of association, 
discrimination, discipline, working hours and 
compensation and the policy is published 
on the Group’s website. Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc does not unfairly discriminate and 
respects human rights. Our employee policies 
are set locally to comply with local law within 
the overall Group framework. The Morgan 
Advanced Materials plc Ethics h otline enables 
employees who are aware of or suspect issues 
under the Group’s human rights policy to 
report these confidentially.
talent
One of the Group’s key priorities is to 
recruit, retain and develop our people 
to build commercial, technical and 
operational capabilities. 
The Group has continued to develop and 
implement its talent strategy during 2015, 
building on previous years’ achievements. 
high-quality internal and external appointments 
have been made during 2015 in business 
unit leadership teams. These have included 
appointments in sales, technology innovation, 
commercial leadership and finance. 
Morgan believes it is essential to develop 
its people in order to grow its business. 
Talent reviews and action planning, resulting 
in internal promotions, development 
opportunities and targeted recruitment 
are examples of the initiatives taken this year. 
The Group also continued to prioritise the 
global graduate development programme. 
The bi-annual succession and talent review 
process continues to ensure that planning 
takes place for succession for key roles and 
that future strategic and individual needs 
are assessed. Talent development is also 
focused to emphasise capability in business 
development, sales, technology innovation, 
and commercial leadership.
The Group continues to strengthen existing 
relationships with leading universities working 
in materials science, providing information, 
materials and opportunities for existing 
Morgan employees as well as undergraduate 
and postgraduate students. This includes 
a joint development agreement with The 
u niversity of Manchester, aimed at scaling 
up a new process for manufacturing graphene, 
where a Morgan graduate and another 
Morgan employee are currently seconded. 
recruitment
During 2015, the Group has further developed 
recruitment channels and processes to recruit 
the right people in the most effective ways 
possible. These include developing our online 
presence and assessment processes. We also 
continue to use formal assessments at senior 
levels to help inform recruitment decision-
making. Whether recruiting internally or 
externally, selection is based on many factors 
including relevant education, work experience, 
competencies, potential, and performance 
record. The Group does not unfairly 
discriminate and it respects human rights. 
The Group has operated its global graduate 
programme model for a fourth successive 
year. Graduates initially join our businesses 
in Asia, Europe and n orth America and take 
part in a common development programme 
that builds current and future capability, and 
gives access to international assignments and 
opportunities. The Chief Executive Officer 
and other members of the Group Executive 
personally take part in the development 
programmes. 
The new Chief Executive Officer, Pete Raby, 
was also appointed in 2015.
PEOPl E
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
2.7
TOTAL LOST TIME
% of working time
2.4
3.1
2.7
2.9
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
17.8
TRAINING 
Hours per employee
13.9
15.1
13.3
12.9
2015
2014
2013
201 2
2011
13.6%
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER
% per year
13.8%
13.8%
13.4%
13.7%
CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy
continued
33
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS t raining and development
Overall training hours per employee have 
increased by over 35% to 17.8 hours per 
person. Substantial investment has been 
made during 2015 in Morgan’s thinkSAFE 
programme, which is a behavioural safety 
initiative. It is aimed at making a major shift in 
how all employees think and act on safety at 
work, and also includes modules on effective 
leadership. The Group Executive has been 
personally involved, including at the beginning 
of the rollout of the training, which first took 
place within the Asia region. This has been 
a significant undertaking in 2015 with over 
1,300 leaders, managers and supervisors being 
trained in addition to train-the-trainer sessions 
and workshops for operations employees in 
the year. This programme is covered in further 
detail in the Environment, h ealth and Safety 
section on pages 25 to 32.
Group-wide and regionally-based 
development programmes are provided 
where appropriate. For example, in Asia, 
two development programmes are provided 
at different levels of management to address 
specific needs across that Region. Europe has 
identified the need for specific management 
skills and has piloted a programme for all 
European managers of people which is being 
rolled out across the Region in 2016. 
For the Group, the new global Advanced 
l eadership Programme has been launched, 
for high-potential and high-performing 
managers. This programme complements 
the Senior l eadership Programme, with 
both being run in conjunction with Cranfield 
university’s Centre for Management 
Development. Both programmes require 
participants to undertake cross-functional 
projects on Group-wide commercial issues. 
The Responsible Business Programme (RBP) 
is the Group-wide ethics and compliance 
programme, launched in 2010, with the core 
elements comprising policies, training, risk 
assessments, monitoring and assurance. 
The training content covers human rights, 
anti-bribery and ethics, anti-trust and contract 
risk management and is refreshed on an annual 
basis. This programme is covered in further 
detail on pages 22 to 24.
Should existing employees become disabled, 
the Group’s policy is to provide continuing 
employment and training wherever practicable.
r eward, recognition and awards
The Group recognises the accomplishments of 
its people individually and as teams, and makes 
awards to acknowledge achievement, loyalty, 
and innovation. In 2015, recognition awards 
continued to be made across local businesses 
as well as to senior management, with awards 
linked to business performance. 
The principle of pay for performance is applied 
to the Group’s compensation approach and 
the Company sets compensation levels 
using external benchmarking and relevant 
commercial considerations that are both 
competitive in the countries in which they 
operate and affordable. Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc offers short-term performance 
incentives globally to managers, technical 
and functional experts. Group Executives 
and senior management also have long-term 
incentives tied to personal and commercial 
performance. At plant level, most sites offer 
incentives to their workforce that result in 
payments based on meeting locally-set 
performance targets.
Morgan Advanced Materials plc regularly 
reviews bonus arrangements and benefits 
to ensure they encourage and reward 
commercial and personal performance.
Communication
Morgan again ran its Employee Survey in 2015, 
following the actions planned from the 2014 
results. In particular the Regional businesses 
aimed to improve communication, ensure 
supervisors more frequently recognise good 
work and employees received appropriate 
support to learn new skills. In n orth America 
and Europe this is done through a local 
approach to action planning and each site 
develops its own plans based on local needs. 
Asia took a Regional approach, drawing 
upon feedback and key requirements to 
develop a Regional plan that also works with 
the local sites. 
As a result, across the Group there have been 
increased employee briefings and forums 
covering business results, business strategy, 
business improvement, safety and employee 
survey follow-up. Videos, poster campaigns 
and newsletters have also continued to be 
a strong feature of communication activity 
in 2015. These included quarterly newsletters 
from the Asia Region, which had a particular 
emphasis on safety, and in n orth America 
some local sites now lead meetings with safety 
focused bulletins. 
Morgan Advanced Materials plc continues 
to have formal and informal consultative 
arrangements globally, according to local 
requirements and regulations. The 19th annual 
European Employee Forum was held in June 
2015, and was attended by site employee 
representatives from France, Germany, 
h ungary, Italy and the u nited Kingdom. 
People policy effectiveness
At the end of the year, Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc employed c8,800 people. 
The Group additionally contracted with 
c850 people on short-term arrangements 
to provide the flexibility for the Group’s 
businesses to react quickly to changes in 
market conditions. The Group’s employee 
turnover was 13.6% in 2015, excluding 
disposals (13.8% in 2014). 1.4% of the 
workforce was made redundant during 
the year (1.7% in 2014).
The Group’s geographical spread of people 
is as follows:
Geographical spread
2015 2014
uSA 30% 29%
uK 14% 14%
China 15% 15%
Other Europe 18% 19%
Other n orth America 7% 7%
South America 4% 5%
ROW 12% 11%
breakdown of staff by gender –  
at 31 d ecember 2015
 
t otal workforce 8,809
Male 6,378
72%
Female 2,431
28%
Senior managers – 15
Male 13
87%
Female 2
13%
d irectors – 8
Male 7
87.5%
Female 1
12.5%
l ost time as a proportion of total working time 
increased to 2.7% (2.4% in 2014), with lost 
time due to accidents in the workplace at 
0.09% of total working time (0.1% in 2014). 
During the year, 19 employees around the 
world celebrated 40 years of loyal service 
with Morgan Advanced Materials plc, with 416 
employees celebrating anniversaries of 20, 
25 or 30 years’ service. The Group is pleased 
with the number of employees who remain 
with the Group for significant periods of their 
careers, and whose experience the Group 
has retained. 
CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITy
continued
34 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 RECOGn ITIOn FOR MORGA n DEVE l OPMEn T 
PROGRAMMES PREPARIn G Ou R PEOPl E FOR 
Su CCESS In C u RREn T An D Fu Tu RE ROl ES
 
One of the areas of focus for the Group’s people strategy is on 
building a pipeline of future leaders for the global business. 
We build skills and capabilities that we have recognised are essential 
for the continued performance of the Group’s leaders, we facilitate 
networking opportunities to build the networks people need to find 
answers to complex problems and get people working on projects 
that are genuinely needle-moving for the organisation. 
We have focused on supporting the development of graduates 
and people in the early stages of leadership to accelerate their impact 
and potential to take on new roles, as well as senior leaders whom 
we can challenge and move their thinking to new levels.
MORGAn l EADERSh IP PROGRAMMES
Our graduates, meeting a minimum standard of qualification which 
increasingly includes postgraduate or doctorate qualifications, are 
employed across the world in real jobs which are designed to build 
on the technical skills they developed at university and expose them 
to opportunities both to learn and grow and also to deliver real 
business outcomes.
Middle and senior leaders come from commercial, functional and 
technical backgrounds and from all across the global Morgan business. 
Morgan has won the EEF Regional Award for Talent Management 
three years in a row and has been recognised by our own 
graduates in The Job Crowd awards, moving to second in graduate 
engineering jobs. 
35
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS
“I h AVE l EARn T Th AT Th ERE ARE MAny TA l En TED 
An D DRIVEn I n DIVIDu Al S ACROSS Th E MORGAn 
GROu P . nETWORKI n G WITh EAC h OF T h EM h AS 
BEEn T h E BEST PART OF Th E PROGRAM.”
d eVin St AUFFer
SITE MAnAGER MORGAn IS DEPE n DEn T On A n D DISTIn Gu ISh ED By 
ITS ADVAn CED MATERIAl S SCIEn CE An D PROCESSIn G 
CAPABIl ITIES. Th ESE un DERPIn T h E GROu P’S ABIl ITy 
TO ESTABl ISh l On G-TERM, COll ABORATIVE 
REl ATIOn Sh IPS WITh A DISCER n In G Cu STOMER BASE. 
MORGAn ’S SIGn IFICAn T FOCu S On A n D In VESTMEn T 
In RESEARC h A n D DEVEl OPMEn T All OWS Th E GROu P 
TO MAIn TAIn T h IS MARKET ADVAn TAGE. 
REVIEW OF OPERATIOn S
miKe mUrr Ay 
ChIEF TEChnOl OGy OFFICER
RESEARCh A nD DEVEl OPMEn T
research and development
The long-term profitable strength of Morgan 
Advanced Materials plc depends on constantly 
refreshing the innovation pipeline to anticipate, 
or respond to, market needs. The Group’s 
research and development activities are 
headed and co-ordinated by the Chief 
Technology Officer, Dr Mike Murray, with 
research and development resource deployed 
across the globe. Whilst some Regions or 
businesses may pursue local technology 
initiatives, the focus is primarily on those things 
that can be developed at scale to be rolled out 
across the whole of Morgan’s infrastructure 
and for this reason the Group is presenting 
the technology review in a single place. 
One of the key execution priorities identified 
as part of the review of strategy is to improve 
the technical leadership of Morgan and to 
accelerate new product development. 
The Group’s research and development 
strategy will continue to be governed by 
three key underlying principles: 
 > Establishing Global Material Centres 
of Excellence to build critical mass 
and focused expertise in our core 
technologies. 
 > u sing technology as a key promoter 
for the whole of the Group’s product 
portfolio to the largest or largest 
potential customers.
 > Driving innovation and sales growth and 
targeting our chosen markets through the 
n ew Business Development Pipeline 
(n BDP) and our technology roadmaps.
The Group’s commitment to technology is 
demonstrated by the Group’s total research 
and development spend in 2015 of £25.4 
million equal to 2.8% of sales, representing 
a significant increase compared to the 2014 
spend of £21.7 million, 2.3% of sales and the 
Group anticipates increasing this by a further 
1% of sales over the next three to five years. 
Centres of excellence
There has been a growing recognition of 
the benefits of consolidating research and 
development efforts and this is reflected in 
the move towards Global Materials Centres 
of Excellence. The intent is that these Centres 
will be the acknowledged leaders in the 
materials science and product development 
of the Group’s key technologies, maintaining 
Morgan as one of the very best advanced 
materials companies in the world. Regional 
management, who are closest to their 
customers, interact with the Centres to ensure 
that their efforts and focus retain a very strong 
commercial direction. The demand placed 
on the Centres is that they will provide 
differentiated materials technology that is 
scaleable across the Morgan Group and that 
delivers quantifiable benefits and value for 
the Group’s customers. 
The largest Global Materials Centre of 
Excellence is for the Insulating Fibre business 
and this is based in Bromborough in the u K. 
In 2015, the Group opened a new Centre 
for Structural Ceramics that is based at the 
Stourport-on-Severn facility in the u K. 
This Centre ensures that Morgan maintains 
its position at the leading edge of advanced 
ceramics science and manufacturing technology. 
The Insulating Fibre Centre is a state-of-the-art 
facility employing 25 dedicated scientists focused 
on the continued development of Morgan’s fibre 
product range. Morgan’s market-leading low 
bio-persistent Superwool
®
 fibre technology 
and product range continue to be developed 
with patented materials science. Morgan is now 
extending the operational temperature range, 
allowing it to provide customers with superior 
insulation performance, improved fire protection 
and weight-saving opportunities in more 
applications. There has been particular success 
across a range of end-markets such as iron 
and steel, aluminium processing, automotive 
and passive fire protection. 
36 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 The Structural Ceramics Centre in Stourport 
oversees the major materials science 
developments for the Group, allowing greater 
global leverage on major scaleable programmes. 
The facility will focus on leading-edge ceramic 
materials developments to support both 
current and new markets. The initial focus 
has been on major opportunities that have 
been identified in the medical, aerospace 
and environmental sectors, whilst a focus on 
new emerging markets and technologies also 
ensures that Morgan Advanced Materials plc 
stays at the forefront of materials science. 
This will include enhancing the Group’s 
network of global technology partners to 
ensure it is positioned to work with the 
world’s best academics and research institutes.
Two more Centres of Excellence are planned, 
one for Brazing and Joining, in support of the 
Technical Ceramics business, and one for 
Carbon science, that will support the Electrical 
Carbon and Seals and Bearings businesses. 
The Group will continue to assess the benefits 
of the formation of more Global Materials 
Centres of Excellence. 
These Centres are supported by the Morgan 
Technology Advisory Board, which is made up 
of some the world’s leading academics, to help 
ensure the Group maintains and develops its 
leading edge in new and emerging materials 
science around the globe.
Supporting morgan’s unified approach 
to its markets
The Group’s materials technology is and will 
remain a unifying feature across its organisation 
structure. Major technology initiatives are 
effectively co-ordinated and new products 
effectively rolled out across the global 
customer base ensuring that maximum value is 
derived from the investment made in product 
and process development. During 2015, many 
meetings have been held with the Group’s 
major existing and potential customers, where 
the Group’s senior commercial and technology 
management have successfully presented the 
Group’s product and technology portfolio in 
a single, consistent way, allowing the full range 
of the Group’s capabilities to be demonstrated. 
There has been excellent engagement from 
a number of these customers and this initiative 
has now effectively been built in to the way the 
Group does business and is expected to bring 
further benefits in 2016 and beyond. 
d riving innovation and growth
The Group uses a consistent, systematic process 
for managing new business development across 
the whole Morgan Group. This approach allows 
the Group to identify the largest and most 
profitable growth opportunities and allows 
decisions to be effectively made in terms of 
deployment of resource on those opportunities. 
As part of the increasing focus on technology 
and innovation, the Group created a Morgan 
Technical Advisory Board. The Group identified 
world-leading academics from around the globe 
who are recognised as subject-matter experts 
for a number of Morgan’s key technology 
families. This provides a sounding board 
for Morgan’s plans for technical development 
of ceramic, carbon and polymer composite 
products and processes and keeps Morgan 
Advanced Materials plc abreast of the latest 
developments in materials science and 
advises on new areas where there may 
be opportunities for the Group. 
As part of this approach, Morgan is working 
with the world’s best research centres around 
the globe, ensuring that we maintain and 
develop our leading edge in materials science 
in new and emerging applications. One such 
collaboration was formalised when Morgan 
Advanced Materials plc announced a new joint 
development agreement with The university 
of Manchester, aimed at scaling up a new 
process for manufacturing graphene – a one-
atom thick carbon allotrope first isolated at the 
university 10 years ago and for which a n obel 
Prize was awarded. The world’s thinnest 
material and a potent conductor, graphene 
is also extremely lightweight, chemically inert 
and has a large surface area which means, 
with further research and testing, that it could 
change the way we think about electrical and 
chemical engineering. 
Some of the specific areas of technology-led 
success in the Group in 2015 are:
 > A new high-performance nitrite-bonded 
silicon carbide material kiln furniture 
suitable for use at temperatures of up to 
1,500ºC (2,732ºF).The material, known 
as h alsic-n, combines the properties 
of proven materials such as silicon carbide 
(SiC) and silicon nitride (Si3n 4) in a 
microstructure which delivers strength, 
excellent refractory properties and 
resistance to oxidation and thermal shock. 
Thermocouple protection tubes made 
from h alsic-n are ideal for the melting 
of non-ferrous metals such as aluminium 
and magnesium, where its strong 
metal-repelling characteristics help ensure 
long service life and optimum 
performance.
 > The development of its WDS
®
 
u ltraShell™ microporous insulation, 
whose superior insulating properties make 
it ideal for energy sector applications 
demanding hot piping, including power 
plants, refineries, and renewable energy 
facilities. Morgan’s Porextherm WDS
®
 
u ltraShell™ solution enables the 
construction of smaller, lighter, and more 
cost-effective double wall ‘pipe in pipe’ hot 
piping applications. WDS
®
 u ltraShell™ 
insulation offers the low thermal 
conductivity needed in hot piping 
applications to ensure that materials inside 
are insulated from ambient conditions, 
in addition to protecting workers from 
burns due to contact with non-insulated 
hot piping.
 > A new lighter weight metallised current 
collector strip (pantograph) for rail 
transportation, which enhances rail system 
reliability and extends service life by about 
35%. The new collector strips boast an 
arc protection system, which maximises 
collector strip life, reducing maintenance 
and running costs for rail contractors. 
The system also provides improved 
service for passengers, since the collector 
strips require less frequent replacement, 
drastically reducing downtime. The new 
lighter metallised collector strips are 
the latest addition to Morgan’s line of 
performance carbon and metallised 
carbon current collector strips for metro 
systems, high-speed trains, trams and 
trolley buses.
 > After continued research and development 
in its technical ceramics manufacturing 
capabilities, Morgan now has the capability 
to manufacture balls with a bore diameter 
of up to 250mm in diameter for severe 
service valves from its acclaimed n ilcra
®
 
z irconia-based material. Previously, valve 
balls have only been available in bore 
diameter sizes of up to 150mm but the 
trend in process industries to reduce cost 
by designing systems with larger pipe 
diameters which require fewer devices 
overall has led Morgan to create a 
capability to manufacture balls in this larger 
size. The product is ideal for use with flow 
control valves operating in industries such 
as mineral processing, oil and gas, and pulp 
and paper. n ilcra
®
 delivers exceptional 
strength and toughness together with 
erosion and corrosion resistance and is 
therefore frequently used in place of 
conventional materials such as metal alloys 
to provide longer component lifetimes. 
The material’s properties make it ideal 
for use with slurries generated in mineral 
processing as well as abrasive rock particles 
and sand encountered in oil and gas 
extraction and processing. This, and its 
ability to withstand high actuation torques 
applied during valve operation, has led 
to n ilcra
®
 being regularly specified by 
the world’s five largest valve OEMs for 
more than 25 years.
37
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS REVIEW OF OPERATIOn S
continued
Footprint
As at 31 December 2015 the n orth America 
Region comprises 23 operating sites employing 
approximately 3,200 people. The principal 
manufacturing sites are in the u SA, Canada 
and Mexico. The Mexican operations are used 
to satisfy both the local market and, more 
importantly and increasingly, as an effective 
low-cost point of supply to the u SA and to 
other Morgan businesses across the world. 
The Region also has a comprehensive network 
of sales offices allowing immediate access to 
and facilitating direct working with end-users. 
Some sales, particularly for the insulating fibre 
and crucibles product ranges, are made 
through a well-established distributor network.
Performance
Revenue for the n orth America Region 
for the year was £368.4 million, representing 
an increase of 4.3% compared with 
£353.1 million in 2014. At constant currency, 
year on year revenue decreased by 2.3%. 
Revenue in the second-half of 2015 was 6.7% 
lower than the first-half at constant currency.
EBITA for the Region was £51.5 million (2014: 
£52.5 million) with the margin maintained in 
the mid-teen range at 14.0% (2014: 14.9%). 
h IGhl IGhTS
 > The majority of businesses in the Region 
saw a decline in revenue in the second-half 
of 2015 having achieved revenue growth 
in the first-half. For the full year, revenue 
decreased by 2.3% at constant currency 
compared to 2014. 
 > Region continues to deliver Group-leading 
mid-teen margins.
business description
For Morgan Advanced Materials plc, the n orth 
America Region comprises the uSA, Canada 
and Mexico. 
The financials of the n orth America Region 
comprise those of all the businesses that are 
located within those countries, including 
the sales made directly to and profits from 
third-party customers outside of the Region. 
Sales made to Morgan companies outside 
of the Region are not included in n orth 
America’s reported revenue but the profit 
made on these inter-Regional sales is included 
in n orth America’s results. 
The n orth America Region offers the full 
Morgan product range and the vast majority 
of revenue is from products made within the 
Region. n orth America has a number of 
important primary processing sites that provide 
Morgan businesses across the world with base 
materials, semi-finished and sometimes 
finished products, particularly in the electrical 
brush and seals and bearings businesses. 
As shown in the chart to the left, n orth 
America serves all of the Group’s chosen 
end-markets. Of the three Regions, it currently 
has the greatest proportion of revenue from the 
higher margin end-markets such as aerospace, 
included in transportation, and healthcare.
n ORTh AMERICA
2015
2014
368.4
REVENUE
£m
353.1
2015
2014
51.5
REGIONAL EBITA
*
£m
52.5
NORTH AMERICA
2015 % OF REVENUE
Energy 6%
Transportation 31%
Security and defence 6%
Healthcare 7%
Electronics 14%
Petrochemical 6%
Industrial 30%
*  Definitions of the measures can be found in the 
 Glossary of terms.
38 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 business review
The n orth America Region experienced a 
weak second-half of 2015 across the majority 
of its businesses compared to the first-half, 
resulting in a 2.3% decrease in constant 
currency revenue year on year. Thermal 
Ceramics for the year was marginally down 
on 2014 by 1.0%, with the second-half down 
9.8% compared to the second-half of 2014. 
The decline in large project orders coupled 
with a reduction in orders in automotive, 
oil and gas and general industrial applications 
were the major reasons for this decline. The 
Technical Ceramics business continued to 
experience a mixed trading landscape with 
flat revenue half-on-half with some positive 
growth from consumer electronics offset 
by declines in other parts of the business. 
The Certech business, which supplies ceramic 
cores used in the manufacture of turbine blades, 
has continued to improve its operational 
yields in 2015, with EBITA margins improving, 
however yields and operational performance 
need to improve further in 2016 in order to 
achieve acceptable profit levels. Seals and 
Bearings was negatively impacted by oil and 
gas in the second-half as well as a general 
slowdown in trading and a further reduction 
in body armour revenue to a very low level 
of business. 
The order book in n orth America has 
declined each month through the second-half 
of 2015 with the full-year book-to-bill ratio 
at December 2015 at 0.98 times.
The n orth America Region incurred £0.9 million 
of restructuring costs and other one-off items 
in the year (2014: £0.8 million) relating 
to headcount reductions at a number of sites.
During the year there was a review of the 
carrying value of assets that support the vehicle 
and personal protection and high-temperature 
furnace-lining businesses in n orth America. 
Both of these businesses saw significant growth 
and investment in previous years but more 
recently they have been in decline. The 
expected future cash flows from these 
businesses have been compared with the book 
value of the property, plant and equipment that 
is dedicated to them and it has been 
determined that a total impairment charge of 
£5.9 million is required. An income tax credit 
of £2.1 million was recognised in respect of 
the impairment charge. The £5.9 million of 
impairment loss forms part of the total plant and 
equipment impairment loss of £6.6 million and 
has been reported as a specific adjusting item.
39
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS REVIEW OF OPERATIOn S
continued
Footprint
As at 31 December 2015 the Europe Region 
comprises 25 operating sites and employs 
approximately 2,700 people. The principal 
manufacturing sites are in the u K, France, 
Germany, l uxembourg, Italy and h ungary.
The Region also has a number of sales offices 
providing Regional coverage and customer 
proximity, allowing the Region’s people to 
work directly with end-users. Some use is also 
made of well-established distribution networks.
Performance
Revenue for the Europe region for the year 
was £305.7 million, representing a decrease of 
6.1% compared to 2014. At constant currency 
and adjusting for the impact of acquisitions and 
exits, the increase was 1.7%.
EBITA for the region decreased to £35.8 
million (2014: £39.8 million), with the full-year 
margin reduced to 1 1.7% (2014: 12.2%).
h IGhl IGhTS
 > Full-year like-for-like sales growth 
of 1.7% compared to 2014 despite 
a weaker second-half of the year. 
 > Full-year EBITA margin declined to 
1 1.7% (2014: 12.2%). 
business description
For Morgan, the Europe Region is defined 
as the u K, Continental Europe and Russia, 
but excludes Turkey, which is reported in Asia/
Rest of World. The financials of Europe 
comprise all of the Morgan Advanced 
Materials’ businesses that are located within 
the Europe Region. It includes the sales 
made directly to and profits from third-party 
customers outside the Region. Sales made to 
Morgan companies outside the Region are not 
included in Europe’s reported revenue but the 
profit made on these inter-Regional sales is 
included in Europe’s results. 
The Europe Region offers the full Morgan 
product range and the vast majority of 
revenue is from products made within the 
Region. Certain specific grades of material and 
some finished products are sourced from the 
n orth America and Asia/Rest of World Regions. 
As shown in the chart to the left, Europe 
serves all of the Group’s chosen end-markets. 
The Region has a broad spread of end-market 
exposure. The security and defence revenue 
is primarily from the Composites and Defence 
Systems (C&DS) business. 
Eu ROPE
2015
2014
305.7
REVENUE
£m
325.7
2015
2014
35.8
REGIONAL EBITA
*
£m
39.8
EUROPE
2015 % OF REVENUE
Energy 4%
Transportation 14%
Security and defence 12%
Healthcare 6%
Electronics 2%
Petrochemical 8%
Industrial 54%
*  Definitions of the measures can be found in the 
 Glossary of terms.
40 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 business review
The Thermal Ceramics business achieved 
good organic revenue growth of 10.7% at 
constant currency compared to 2014, with 
large project orders from n orth America and 
the Middle East the main drivers for this. The 
other businesses in Europe had a much more 
mixed performance, as the second-half of 
2015 saw declines in demand across many 
end markets. Revenue growth in Seals and 
Bearings was close to 2% for the full year but 
the second-half was marginally weaker than 
the second-half of 2014, reflecting the impact 
of oil and gas market declines. The Electrical 
Carbon business was down 3.5% year on year 
at constant currency reflecting softer general 
industrial demand. Technical Ceramics’ 
revenue in the period fell 3.0% at constant 
currency, with end-market conditions generally 
soft, but particularly in the piezoceramics 
product range that serves the aerospace, 
automotive, marine and medical markets. 
The C&DS business saw a further decline 
in second-half revenue with this business 
continuing to operate in a difficult u K defence 
market whilst still looking to develop new 
business to increase its international and wider 
commercial exposure. 
The order book in Europe has declined 
through the second-half of 2015 with the 
full-year book-to-bill ratio at December 2015 
at 0.98 times.
The Europe Region incurred £1.2 million of 
restructuring costs and other one-off items 
in the year (2014: £1.2 million) relating to 
headcount reductions at a number of sites.
As a result of the continued reduction in 
demand on C&DS from u K MoD, the review 
of the carrying value of the remaining 
intangible assets of C&DS resulted in a further 
impairment charge of £5.8 million, relating to 
a full impairment of the customer relationships. 
Following this impairment charge, the carrying 
value of the C&DS intangibles was £9.8 million, 
all in respect of technology and trademarks. 
This was supported by the current expectations 
of the future trading performance of the C&DS 
business. An income tax credit of £1.0 million 
was recognised in respect of the impairment 
charge. This has been reported as a specific 
adjusting item.
In April 2006, the Group acquired a 51% 
shareholding in Morgan Thermal Ceramics 
Sukhoy l og l imited l iability Company 
(‘Sukhoy’), a fibre business based near 
yekaterinburg, Russia. The results and assets 
of Sukhoy have previously been consolidated 
on the basis that the Group was satisfied that it 
exercised management control. During 2015, 
there has been a deterioration in the relationship 
between Morgan and the minority partner. As 
a result, it became clear to the Group towards 
the end of 2015 that it no longer had effective 
control of the business and that it was no 
longer appropriate to consolidate. Based 
on the recent financial performance and the 
Group’s view of the future prospects of the 
retained investment that the Group holds it 
was concluded that the value of the Group’s 
investment in Sukhoy is nil. As a result the 
Group has recognised a £2.8 million charge in 
business exit costs in the 2015 accounts which 
has been reported as a specific adjusting item.
As reported in the 2014 Annual Report 
and Accounts, in January 2015 the Group 
completed the sale of a Thermal Ceramics 
business in Wissembourg, France. The Group 
incurred a loss on the disposal of £6.1 million 
in 2015, in addition to the £1.9 million of 
business exit costs recognised in the 2014 
accounts, both of which were reported as 
specific adjusting items. 
41
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS Performance
Revenue for the Asia/Rest of World Region 
for the year was £237.7 million, representing 
a decrease of 2.1% compared with £242.9 
million in 2014. On a like-for-like basis, 
revenue decreased by 1.5%.
EBITA for the Region was £27.5 million 
(2014: £31.2 million), a margin of 1 1.6% 
(2014: 12.8%). 
business review
Trading conditions in the Region have been 
mixed throughout the year. China revenue 
fell by 1 1.2% compared to 2014 on a constant 
currency basis. The Chinese domestic market 
has been weak through 2015 across the 
industrial markets served with large project 
orders particularly impacted. Indian revenue 
was down by 3.0%, whilst the first-half of 2015 
was encouraging, the second-half saw general 
weakness across industrial markets. South East 
Asia, including Korea, continued to achieve 
revenue growth, up 13.3% year on year 
on a constant currency basis. Other parts 
of the Region were mixed, the Middle East 
flat year on year, while the South American 
business continued to experience very weak 
economic conditions. The Molten Metal 
Systems business with approximately 50% 
of its revenue in the Region, continued to 
experience weak demand in Asia offset by 
improved demand in the Middle East. l ower 
revenue in China and reduced profitability 
in South America were the two main 
contributors to the margin reduction in 2015.
The order book in Asia/Rest of World overall 
was steady through the second-half of 2015 
with the full-year book-to-bill ratio at 
December 2015 at 1.04 times.
The Region incurred £0.1 million of 
restructuring costs and other one-off items 
in the year (2014: £3.6 million) relating to the 
net of the charge for headcount reductions 
at a number of sites (£0.6 million) and the gain 
on the sale of properties (£0.5 million).
h IGhl IGhTS
 > The Region experienced headwinds 
in trading with revenue down 1.5% on 
a like-for-like basis. China remained the 
principal headwind with revenue down 
1 1.2% year on year.
 > EBITA margin at reported rates reduced 
to 1 1.6% (2014: 12.8%). 
business description
For Morgan Advanced Materials plc, the 
Asia/Rest of World Region comprises Asia, 
Australasia, India, Africa, the Middle East 
including Turkey, and South America. The 
financials of the Region comprise those of all 
the businesses that are located within those 
countries, including the sales made directly to 
and profits from third-party customers outside 
the Region. Sales made to Morgan companies 
outside the Region are not included in Asia/
Rest of World’s reported revenue but the 
profit made on these inter-Regional sales 
is included in Asia/Rest of World’s results. 
The Asia/Rest of World Region offers the 
full Morgan product range. The Region has 
significant manufacturing capability and capacity 
for insulating fibre, including Superwool
®
, and 
firebrick and some capacity for electrical brush 
material, however it does source a large 
amount of material, semi-finished and finished 
products from Morgan businesses in n orth 
America and Europe, either finishing locally 
or selling finished products to end customers. 
As shown in the chart to the left, the Asia/Rest 
of World Region serves all the Group’s chosen 
end-markets. The majority of revenue in the 
Region is currently from industrial markets, 
but there is a significant opportunity to drive 
a positive mix shift through increased sales 
to markets such as aerospace and healthcare.
Footprint
As at 31 December 2015 the Asia/Rest of 
World Region comprised 24 operating sites 
employing approximately 2,750 people. The 
principal manufacturing sites are located in 
China, India, South Korea, Australia, Japan, 
Brazil and Argentina. These manufacturing 
sites are supported by a network of sales and 
application engineers to ensure that customers 
are well supported across this large Region 
with the appropriate Morgan resource. 
Where appropriate, use is also made of 
third-party distributors. 
ASIA/REST OF WORl D
REVIEW OF OPERATIOn S
continued
2015
2014
237.7
REVENUE
£m
242.9
2015
2014
27.5
REGIONAL EBITA
*
£m
31.2
ASIA/REST OF WORLD
2015 % OF REVENUE
Energy 12%
Transportation 17%
Security and defence 1%
Healthcare 2%
Electronics 3%
Petrochemical 14%
Industrial 51%
*  Definitions of the measures can be found in the 
 Glossary of terms.
42 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 The strategic objective to drive the 
performance of the Electrical Carbon and 
Seals and Bearings businesses to mid-teen 
margins and beyond has resulted in the 
Group undertaking a significant rationalisation 
of the carbon material footprint. This started 
in 2014 in Europe with the downsizing of 
activities at the Swansea, u K site and has 
continued in 2015 with the decision to and 
the announcement of the cessation of carbon 
material manufacturing at the Shanghai, China 
site. These operations will be consolidated 
into other Group locations, mainly the u SA. 
This decision has resulted in a charge of £1.5 
million in 2015, £0.7 million of which relates 
to the impairment loss on plant and equipment 
and the balance to site clean-up costs and 
other write-offs. £0.4 million is expected to 
be settled in cash in 2016. An income tax 
credit of £0.2 million was recognised in respect 
of these restructuring costs. These costs have 
been reported as specific adjusting items. 
PRIORITIES An D Ou Tl OOK
As a result of the decision to move to a new 
organisation structure the priorities and 
outlook are provided at a Group level rather 
than by Region.
Priorities
The Group’s priorities have been set out in the 
Chief Executive Officer’s review on pages 7 
to 9 of this Annual Report. The medium- 
to longer-term vision is for Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc to be renowned for world-class 
materials science, application engineering and 
customer focus, and for these to underpin the 
delivery of resilient financial performance and 
faster growth. The six execution priorities set 
the immediate focus of Group, Divisional and 
Global Business u nit management for 2016.
The move to the new global structure has 
been announced today, but significant planning 
has taken place and the Group’s most 
immediate priority is to ensure that the 
transition goes as smoothly as possible and 
that there is minimal disruption to the Group’s 
day-to-day operations, both in terms of the 
Group’s sites and employees and their 
interaction with customers and suppliers. 
The focus of the Divisional, Global Business 
unit and functional management teams will 
immediately be on the successful execution 
of the technology, operational, sales and 
people priorities set out on pages 8 and 9. 
Whilst these priorities may vary in terms 
of relative importance across the individual 
Global Businesses they will provide the key 
principles for all of Morgan’s businesses and 
management and the metrics against which 
performance will be measured and assessed.
Attention will also be given to and resource 
deployed to ensure that the Group is simplified 
and that the whole of the Morgan portfolio 
of businesses satisfies the characteristic set out 
in the Group strategy on pages 8 and 9. 
o utlook
The Group’s book-to-bill (ie orders received 
compared with sales made) was 0.99 times 
and the Group’s outstanding order book at the 
end of 2015 was approximately 5% lower than 
at the end of 2014. 
The book-to-bill profile has been mixed across 
the Group’s regions and businesses but there 
has been an underlying trend of softening 
market conditions through much of the 
second-half of 2015, though this appears to 
have flattened out towards the end of the year. 
The Group remains cautious about the macro- 
economic conditions for 2016 and the Group’s 
priorities are heavily focused on realising 
benefits from operational improvements, 
whilst ensuring an appropriate level of 
investment in R&D, sales effectiveness 
and people development to make the best 
of the current environment and to position 
the Group for growth when wider market 
conditions improve. 
43
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS FIn An CIAl REVIEW
A SOl ID SET OF RESul TS In VER y Ch All En GIn G 
MARKET COn DITIOn S. 
KeVin dA nG er Field
Ch IEF FIn An CIAl OFFICER
Revenue EBITA EBITA margin
Results before specific adjusting items
*
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m 2015 2014
n orth America 368.4 353.1 51.5 52.5 14.0% 14.9%
Europe 305.7 325.7 35.8 39.8 11.7% 12.2%
Asia/Rest of World 237.7 242.9 27.5 31.2 11.6% 12.8%
Regional EBITA
*
911.8 921.7 114.8 123.5
unallocated central costs
*
(5.2) (5.5)
Group EBITA
*
109.6 118.0 12.0% 12.8%
Restructuring costs and other one-off items
*
(3.6) (5.6)
Group underlying operating profit
*
 106.0 112.4 11.6% 12.2%
* Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms.
introduction
Reference is made to ‘u nderlying operating 
profit’
*
 and ‘u nderlying earnings per share 
(EPS)’. EPS is defined in the Glossary of terms 
on page 166. These measures of earnings are 
shown because the Directors consider that 
they give a better indication of underlying 
performance.
In the consolidated income statement the 
Group presents specific adjusting items 
totalling £22.1 million and the associated 
tax credit of £3.3 million separately (2014: 
£51.9 million and £5.5 million). In the section 
below results are shown before these specific 
adjusting items.
Group revenue and operating profit
Group revenue was £91 1.8 million 
(2014: £921.7 million), a decrease of 1.1% 
on a reported basis compared with 2014.
Group EBITA
*
 was £109.6 million 
(2014: £1 18.0 million) representing 
a margin of 12.0% (2014: 12.8%).
Group underlying operating profit
*
 was 
£106.0 million (2014: £1 12.4 million). 
u nderlying operating profit margin was 
1 1.6%, compared to 12.2% for 2014.
Group operating profit (after specific adjusting 
items) was £82.9 million (2014: £54.3 million). 
Operating profit margin was 9.1%, compared 
to 5.9% for 2014.
44 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 r estructuring costs and other  
one-off items
The £3.6 million (2014: £5.6 million) of net 
restructuring costs and other one-off items 
relate to a number of rationalisation actions 
in the second-half of 2015, mainly in Asia 
and Europe.
Specific adjusting items
In the consolidated income statement the 
Group presents specific adjusting items 
separately. In the judgment of the Directors, 
due to the nature and value of these items 
they should be disclosed separately from the 
underlying results of the Group to allow the 
reader to obtain a proper understanding of the 
financial information and the best indication 
of underlying performance of the Group. 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Specific adjusting items
Restructuring costs 1.5 16.3
Business exit costs 2.8 1.9
Impairment of property, 
plant and equipment 5.9 –
Transaction-related costs – 1.2
Settlement of prior period 
anti-trust litigation – 3.6
Impairment of intangible 
assets 5.8 26.9
n et loss on disposal of 
business 6.1 2.0
22.1 51.9
Income tax credit from 
specific adjusting items (3.3) (5.5)
18.8 46.4
Restructuring costs
As reported in 2014, the strategic objective to 
drive the performance of the Electrical Carbon 
and Seals and Bearings businesses to mid-teen 
margins and beyond has resulted in the Group 
undertaking a significant rationalisation of the 
carbon material footprint. This started in 2014 
with the downsizing of activities at the 
Swansea, u K site. This footprint rationalisation 
has continued in 2015 with the decision to and 
the announcement of the cessation of carbon 
material manufacturing at the Shanghai, China 
site. These operations will be consolidated into 
other Group locations, mainly the u SA. This 
decision has resulted in a charge of £1.5 million 
in 2015, £0.7 million of which relates to the 
impairment loss on plant and equipment and 
the balance to site clean-up costs and other 
write-offs. £0.4 million is expected to be 
settled in cash in 2016. An income tax credit 
of £0.2 million was recognised in respect of 
these restructuring costs. The £0.7 million of 
impairment loss forms part of the total plant 
and equipment impairment loss of £6.6 million.
Business exit costs
The business exit costs in the year relate to the 
deconsolidation of Morgan Thermal Ceramics 
Sukhoy l og l imited l iability Company 
(‘Sukhoy’) and the subsequent remeasurement 
to fair value of the retained investment. 
In April 2006 the Group acquired a 51% 
shareholding in Sukhoy, a fibre business based 
near yekaterinburg, Russia. The results and 
assets of Sukhoy have previously been 
consolidated on the basis that the Group was 
satisfied that it exercised management control. 
During 2015 there has been a deterioration 
in the relationship between Morgan and 
the minority partner, exacerbated by the 
increasingly difficult market conditions 
in Russia. As a result, it became clear to the 
Group towards the end of 2015 that it no 
longer had effective control of the business 
and that it was no longer appropriate to 
consolidate. Based on the recent financial 
performance and the Group’s view of the 
future prospects of the business it was 
concluded that the value of the Group’s 
investment in Sukhoy is nil. As a result the 
Group has recognised a £2.8 million charge 
in business exit costs in the 2015 accounts.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The impairment of property, plant and 
equipment for the year ended 31 December 
2015 is as a result of a review of the carrying 
value of assets that support the Group’s n orth 
America vehicle and personal protection and 
high-temperature furnace-lining businesses. 
Both of these businesses saw significant growth 
and investment in previous years but more 
recently they have been in decline. The Group 
has compared its expected future cash flows 
from these businesses with the book value 
of the property, plant and equipment that is 
dedicated to them and determined that a total 
impairment charge of £5.9 million is required. 
An income tax credit of £2.1 million was 
recognised in respect of the impairment 
charge. The £5.9 million of impairment loss 
forms part of the total plant and equipment 
impairment loss of £6.6 million.
Impairment of intangible assets
As a result of the continued reduction in 
demand on C&DS from u K MoD, the review 
of the carrying value of the remaining intangible 
assets of C&DS resulted in a further impairment 
charge of £5.8 million, relating to a full 
impairment of the customer relationships. 
Following this impairment charge, the carrying 
value of the C&DS intangibles was £9.8 million, 
all in respect of technology and trademarks. 
This was supported by the current expectations 
of the future trading performance of the C&DS 
business. An income tax credit of £1.0 million was 
recognised in respect of the impairment charge. 
Loss on disposal of business
As reported in the 2014 Annual Report and 
Accounts, on 30 January 2015 the Group 
completed the sale of a Thermal Ceramics 
business in Wissembourg, France. This 
business manufactures low-temperature fibre 
boards used mainly in the building industry. 
The Group has incurred a loss on the disposal 
of this business of £6.1 million in 2015, 
in addition to the £1.9 million of business 
exit costs recognised in the 2014 accounts. 
45
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS Foreign currency impact
The principal exchange rates used in the 
translation of the results of overseas 
subsidiaries were as follows:
Average rate year-end rate
2015 2014 2015 2014
uSD 1.5280 1.6476 1.4739 1.5593 
€ 1.3772 1.2413 1.3569 1.2886
The potential impact of changes in foreign 
exchange rates is given in note 19 on page 128.
Amortisation of intangible assets
The Group amortisation charge was £7 .1 million 
(2014: £8.2 million).
Finance costs
The net finance charge was £18.1 million 
(2014: £20.8 million), comprising the net bank 
interest and similar charges of £12.2 million 
(2014: £15.8 million), gain from financial 
instruments of £1.0 million (2014: £0.7 million) 
and the finance charge under IAS 19 (revised), 
being the interest charge on pension scheme 
net liabilities, which was £6.9 million (2014: 
£5.7 million). The impact of potential changes 
in interest rates on profit or loss is stated in 
note 19 on page 127.
taxation
The Group taxation charge, excluding 
specific adjusting items, was £24.2 million 
(2014: £24.7 million). The effective tax rate, 
excluding specific adjusting items, was 29.8% 
(2014: 29.6%). 
earnings per share
u nderlying earnings per share was 20.8 pence 
(2014: 22.1 pence), and basic earnings per 
share was 1 1.9 pence (2014: 2.7 pence). 
Details of these calculations can be found 
in note 9 on page 1 13.
d ividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend, 
subject to shareholder approval, of 7 .0 pence 
per share on the Ordinary share capital of the 
Group, payable on 27 May 2016 to Ordinary 
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 6 May 2016. Together with the 
interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share paid 
on 27 n ovember 2015, this final dividend, 
if approved by shareholders, brings the total 
distribution for the year to 1 1.0 pence per share 
(2014: 10.9 pence).
A five-year summary of the Group’s financial 
results is set out on page 164 of this Report.
Cash flow
Cash flow from operations was £135.6 million 
(2014: £120.0 million). Free cash flow before 
acquisitions and dividends was £26.3 million 
(2014: £40.1 million). Dividend payments 
increased to £31.4 million (2014: £30.2 million).
n et debt
*
 at the year end was £216.0 million 
(2014: £207 .0 million), representing a net debt
*
 
to EBITDA
*
 ratio of 1.6 times (2014: 1.4 times).
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash flow from 
operations
*
135.6 120.0
n et capital expenditure (62.7) (32.5)
Restructuring costs and 
other one-off items (5.5) (12.1)
n et interest paid (11.2) (15.3)
Tax paid (29.9) (20.0)
Free cash flow  
before acquisitions 
and dividends 26.3 40.1
Cash flows in respect of 
acquisitions/disposals (1.1) (22.4)
Dividends paid (31.4) (30.2)
Purchase of own shares 
for share incentive 
schemes (2.9) (2.3)
Exchange movement and 
other items 0.1 (5.7)
Movement in net debt
*
  
in period (9.0) (20.5)
Opening net debt
*
(207.0) (186.5)
Closing net debt
*
(216.0) (207.0)
*   Definitions of the measures can be found in the 
Glossary of terms.
Commitments for property, plant and 
equipment and computer software for which 
no provision has been made are set out 
in note 24 on page 144.
Capital structure
At the year end total equity was £186.4 million 
(2014: £187.7 million) with closing net debt
*
 of 
£216.0 million (2014: £207.0 million).
n on-current assets were £501.6 million 
(2014: £495.0 million) and total assets were 
£857.0 million (2014: £889.0 million).
Details of undiscounted contracted maturities 
of financial liabilities and capital management 
are set out in note 19 on page 126.
There have been no significant post-balance 
sheet events.
Capital structure is further discussed in 
note 19 on page 129 under the heading 
Capital management.
Pensions
The Group operates a number of pension 
schemes throughout the world, the majority 
of which are of a funded defined benefit type. 
The largest of these are located in the u K 
and the u SA with the majority of others 
in Continental Europe. 
The IAS 19 (revised) Employee Benefits charges 
are summarised in the table below.
 2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Operating costs:
– Service cost (4.3) (4.2)
– Administration costs (2.2) (1.7)
Total operating costs (6.5) (5.9)
Net finance charge (6.9) (5.7)
Total IAS 19 charge (13.4) (11.6)
The Group pension deficit has decreased by 
£7 .3 million since last year end to £204.5 million 
on an IAS 19 (revised) basis. The u K defined 
benefit pension schemes deficit marginally 
decreased by £1.4 million to £1 17 .4 million 
(2014: £1 18.8 million) and the u S deficit 
decreased by £3.7 million to £55.1 million 
(2014: £58.8 million). 
FIn An CIAl REVIEW
continued
46 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 t reasury policies
The following policies were implemented and 
in place across the Group throughout the year. 
The manager of each business unit is required 
to confirm compliance as part of the year-
end process.
Financial Risk Management and 
Treasury Policy
Group Treasury works within a framework of 
policies and procedures approved by the Audit 
Committee. It acts as a service to Morgan 
Advanced Materials’ businesses, not as a profit 
centre, and manages and controls risk in the 
treasury environment through the establishment 
of such procedures. Group Treasury seeks to 
align treasury goals, objectives and philosophy 
to those of the Group. It is responsible for 
all of the Group’s funding, liquidity, cash 
management, interest rate risk, foreign 
exchange risk and other treasury business. 
As part of the policies and procedures, there 
is strict control over the use of financial 
instruments to hedge foreign currencies and 
interest rates. Speculative trading in derivatives 
and other financial instruments is not permitted.
Foreign exchange risks
Due to the international reach of the Group, 
currency transaction exposures exist. The 
Group has a policy in place to hedge all material 
firm commitments and a large proportion 
of highly probable forecast foreign currency 
exposures in respect of sales and purchases 
over the following 12 months, and achieves 
this through the use of the forward foreign 
exchange markets. A significant proportion of 
the forward exchange contracts have maturities 
of less than one year after the balance sheet 
date. The Group continues its practice of not 
hedging income statement translation exposure.
There are exchange control restrictions 
which affect the ability of a small number of 
the Group’s subsidiaries to transfer funds to 
the Group. The Group does not believe such 
restrictions have had or will have any material 
adverse impact on the Group as a whole or 
the ability of the Group to meet its cash flow 
requirements.
Currency translation risks are controlled 
centrally. To defend against the impact of 
a permanent reduction in the value of its 
overseas net assets through currency 
depreciation, the Group seeks to match the 
currency of financial liabilities with the currency 
in which the net assets are denominated. 
This is achieved by raising funds in different 
currencies and through the use of hedging 
instruments such as swaps, and is implemented 
only to the extent that the Group’s gearing 
covenant under the terms of its loan 
documents, as well as its facility headroom, 
are likely to remain comfortably within limits. 
In this way, the currency of the Group’s financial 
liabilities becomes more aligned to the currency 
of the trading cash flows that service them.
Interest rate risk
The Group seeks to reduce the volatility in its 
interest charge caused by rate fluctuations. This 
is achieved through a combination of fixed rate 
debt and interest rate swaps. The proportions 
of fixed and floating rate debt are determined 
having regard to a number of factors, including 
prevailing market conditions, interest rate cycle, 
the Group’s interest cover and leverage 
position and any perceived correlation 
between business performance and rates.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the 
Group if a customer or counterparty to a 
financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations. The Group is exposed to credit 
risk on financial instruments such as liquid 
assets, derivative assets and trade receivables. 
Cash balances held by companies representing 
over 75% of the Group’s revenue are managed 
centrally through a number of pooling 
arrangements. Credit risk is managed by 
investing liquid assets and acquiring derivatives 
in a diversified way from high-credit-quality 
financial institutions. Counterparties are 
reviewed through the use of rating agencies, 
systemic risk considerations, and through 
regular review of the financial press. Credit risk 
is further discussed in note 19 on page 125.
Capital investment
The Group has well-established formal 
procedures for the approval of investment 
in new businesses and for capital expenditure 
to ensure appropriate senior management 
review and sign-off.
Tax risks
The Group periodically assesses its liabilities 
and contingencies for all tax years open to audit 
based upon the latest information available. 
The Group records its best estimate of these 
tax liabilities, including related interest charges. 
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax 
contingencies due to changes in tax laws. 
Whilst management believes it has adequately 
provided for the probable outcome of these 
matters, future results may include favourable 
or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated 
tax liabilities in the period the assessments are 
made, or resolved, or when the statute of 
limitation lapses. The final outcome of tax 
examinations may result in a materially different 
outcome than that assumed in the tax liabilities.
Borrowing facilities and liquidity
All of the Group’s borrowing facilities are 
arranged by Group Treasury with Morgan 
Advanced Materials plc as the principal obligor. 
In a few cases operating subsidiaries have 
external borrowings but these are supervised 
and controlled centrally. Group Treasury seeks 
to obtain certainty of access to funding in the 
amounts, diversity of maturities and diversity 
of counterparties as required to support the 
Group’s medium-term financing requirements 
and to minimise the impact of poor credit 
market conditions.
The Group’s debt and maturity profile is 
provided in notes 18 and 19 on pages 123 to 1 31.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with 
the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 7 to 47 . The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities, are described 
earlier in this Financial review. In addition, note 
19 includes the Group’s policies and processes 
for managing financial risk; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group meets its day-to-day working 
capital requirements through local banking 
arrangements underpinned by the Group’s 
£200 million unsecured multi-currency 
revolving credit facility maturing October 2019. 
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking 
account of reasonably possible changes in 
trading performance and exchange rates, show 
the Group operating comfortably within its debt 
financial covenants for the next 12 months.
The current economic climate continues to 
have an impact on the Group, its customers 
and suppliers. The Board fully recognises the 
challenges that lie ahead but, after making 
enquiries, and in the absence of any material 
uncertainties, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for a period of 18 months 
from the date of signing of this Annual Report 
and Accounts. Accordingly, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Annual Report and Accounts.
KeVin dA nG er Field
Ch IEF FIn An CIAl O FFICER
 
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 
7 to 47, has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board
PAUl b o Ulton
COMPAny S ECRETARy & G En ERAl C Oun SEl
23 February 2016
47
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS CONTENTS
49 Corporate governance report
49 Chairman’s letter to shareholders
50 Board of Directors
60 Report of the Audit Committee
64 Report of the Nomination Committee
66 Remuneration report
89 Other disclosures
93  Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Morgan Advanced Materials plc
GOVERNANCE
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNu AL REpORT 2015
GOv Er NaNCE 48 CORpORATE GOVERNANCE
Dear Shareholder
As Chairman, I am pleased to comment on some of the significant governance matters that the Board has approved, discussed or 
overseen during the year as follows: 
 > Since August 2015, when he commenced his role, the induction of pete Raby as Chief Executive Officer. Collectively, the Board has 
focused on providing support to pete Raby as he familiarises himself with the business and sets the agenda for the year to come.
 > Supporting the Chief Executive Officer with the strategic review which commenced in the third quarter of 2015. In addition to a full 
day on strategy at the Board meeting in June 2015, the Board had dedicated discussions on progress with the strategic review at its 
meetings in November and December 2015 and February 2016. 
 > Selection and appointment of Helen Bunch as a non-executive Director. As announced on 22 January, Helen Bunch will be appointed 
as a non-executive Director with effect from 24 February 2016. Helen Bunch brings particular experience of driving business 
performance and building businesses in new markets from her roles at ICI and Wates, and will offer the Board a valuable external 
executive perspective. We look forward to welcoming Helen to the Board. With the changes to the Board over the last three years, 
progress has been made in ensuring that future refreshment will be planned to ensure continuity of knowledge and experience.
 > Further work on talent and succession planning, an area of focus identified in the 2014 Board evaluation process. The way the Board 
implemented this recommendation is explained further below in the section on performance evaluation. 
 > The Board conducted an externally facilitated Board performance evaluation during 2015. The review provided a number of useful 
insights to the Board and its Committees on potential areas for improvement in their effectiveness.
 > Supporting the Audit Committee’s review of internal controls and risk management processes, which is described in more detail 
in the Report of the Audit Committee.
 > Board visits to different sites which afforded Directors a close insight into our businesses. In March 2015, the Board visited the Seals 
and Bearings site in Capellen, Luxembourg. The meeting in September 2015 was held at the Technical Ceramics site in Southampton, 
u K. In November 2015, the Board spent two days in the u SA and visited the Thermal site in Augusta. These visits were organised 
around scheduled Board meetings and incorporated a meeting with the local management teams as well as a tour of the operations.
I am looking forward to working with the Directors during 2016 to further develop our effectiveness as a Board.
aNDr Ew Shil STON
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS 
49
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD OF DIRECTORS
aNDr Ew Shil STON
NON-Ex ECu TIVE CHAIRMAN (AGED 60)
Appointed: May 2012 (Chairman Designate; 
August 2012, Chairman).
Career history: Having joined Rolls-Royce Holdings 
plc in 2002, Andrew was Finance Director from 
2003 until his retirement in 201 1 and prior to this 
he was the Finance Director at Enterprise Oil plc. 
Andrew was previously a non-executive Director 
of Cairn Energy plc, where he chaired the Audit 
Committee. 
Additional appointments: Senior Independent 
Director of Bp p.l.c.; non-executive Director of 
Circle Holdings plc.
Committees: Nomination (Chair) and 
Remuneration.
PETE r aby
CHIEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER (AGED 48)
Appointed: August 2015.
Career history: pete joined Morgan Advanced 
Materials in August 2015 as Chief Executive Officer. 
Before joining Morgan Advanced Materials, pete was 
president of the Communications and Connectivity 
sector of Cobham plc. pete held a number of senior 
positions at Cobham over a nine-year period. prior 
to Cobham, pete was a partner at McKinsey & 
Company, specialising in the aerospace, defence and 
power and gas sectors. pete has a phD in satellite 
navigation and an M.Eng from the Department of 
Electronic and Electrical Engineering at the 
u niversity of Leeds.
Additional appointments: None.
Committees: Nomination.
KEviN Da NGErfiE l D
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (AGED 49)
Appointed: August 2006.
Career history: Kevin joined Morgan Advanced 
Materials in July 2000 as Deputy Group Financial 
Controller before being promoted to Group 
Financial Controller. He was appointed to the Board 
on becoming Chief Financial Officer in August 2006. 
Before joining Morgan Advanced Materials, Kevin 
worked for London International Group plc and 
Virgin Retail Europe Limited. He qualified as a 
chartered accountant with pricewaterhouseCoopers.
Additional appointments: Non-executive Director 
of e2v technologies plc.
DOu GlaS CaSTE r C bE
SENIOR INDEpENDENT DIRECTOR (AGED 62)
Appointed: February 2014.
Career history: Bringing to the Board broad 
experience as an electronics systems engineer and 
company director, Douglas started his career with 
the Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before moving 
to Schlumberger in 1986 and then to Dowty as 
Engineering Director of Sonar & Communication 
Systems in 1988. In 1992, he became Managing 
Director of that business and, after participating 
in the management buy-out that formed u ltra 
Electronics, joined the Board in October 1993. 
In April 2000, he became Managing Director of 
u ltra’s Information & power Systems division. 
In April 2004 he was appointed Chief Operating 
Officer and became Chief Executive in April 2005. 
He was appointed deputy Chairman in April 2010 
and became Chairman of u ltra in April 201 1. 
Additional appointments: Chairman of u ltra 
Electronics Holdings plc and Chairman of Metalysis 
Limited.
Committees: Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration (Chair).
 a N D r E w S h il S T O N
CHAIRMAN
PETE raby
CHIEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER
KEviN Da NGErfiE l D
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
DOu GlaS CaSTE r
SENIOR INDEpENDENT DIRECTOR
50 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 aND r Ew rE y NOl DS SmiTh
NON-Ex ECu TIVE DIRECTOR (AGED 49)
Appointed: May 2013.
Career history: Andrew is the Chief Executive of 
Smiths Group plc, having taken up the position 
in September 2015. Before joining Smiths Group, 
Andrew held a number of senior positions at GKN 
plc across its automotive businesses before 
becoming Chief Executive, Automotive at GKN plc, 
having been a member of the Board since 2007. 
prior to GKN, he held various general management 
and functional positions at Ingersoll Rand, Siebe plc. 
and Delphi Automotive Systems. Andrew is a 
former Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing Council 
and a former member of the Ministerial Advisory 
Group for Manufacturing.
Additional appointments: Chief Executive of Smiths 
Group plc.
Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
aND r Ew rE y NOl DS SmiTh
NON-Ex ECu TIVE DIRECTOR
rO b rO wl Ey
NON-Ex ECu TIVE DIRECTOR
rO b rO wl Ey
NON-Ex ECu TIVE DIRECTOR (AGED 66)
Appointed: February 2014.
Career history: Rob joined Reuters in 1978 where 
he held various senior management positions, 
including Finance Director from 1990 to 2000. 
He retired as a director of Reuters Group plc 
in December 2001. Rob was previously Deputy 
Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc, and a non-
executive Director of Intu properties plc, 
prudential plc and Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
Additional appointments: Non-executive Director, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior 
Independent Director of Taylor Wimpey plc; 
non-executive Director, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Senior Independent Director of 
Moneysupermarket.com Group pLC; non-
executive Director and Senior Independent 
Director of Greene King plc; non-executive 
Director and Chairman of Audit and Risk & Security 
Committee of Camelot u K Lotteries Limited.
Committees: Audit (Chair), Nomination  
and Remuneration.
51
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORpORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
Statement of compliance with the u K Corporate 
Governance Code
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 the Company has 
been in compliance with the relevant provisions of the September 2014 
version of the u K Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) which 
applies to the 2015 financial year, with the exception of the annual 
bonus plan which does not include malus and clawback provisions. The 
Remuneration Committee has made a decision to introduce malus and 
clawback into the annual bonus plan in respect of bonus earned for the 
2016 financial year which, subject to the performance measures being 
met, is due to be paid in March 2017. 
As reported in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 60 to 63, 
the Group has not put the external audit contract out to tender during 
the last 10 years in accordance with provision C.3.7 of the Code. 
The external auditor was last appointed in 2001. The Board has 
decided to take advantage of the Financial Reporting Council (FRC)’s 
current guidance on transitional arrangements which allow the Group 
to defer a formal third-party tender process until at least the end of the 
current external audit engagement partner’s tenure in 2018. Further 
information on the timing of a competitive tender process is set out 
on page 63 of the Report of the Audit Committee. 
The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Effectiveness, 
Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders. This 
statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles 
of the Code. It should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report 
on pages 7 to 47 and the other sections of the Directors’ report on 
pages 49 to 92.
The Code is published by the FRC and is available on its website 
www.frc.org.uk.
l eadership
The role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders 
for the long-term success of the Company. The Board is satisfied it has 
met the Code’s requirements for its effective operation. It has set the 
Company’s strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at its 
dedicated strategy meeting in June and are subject to an ongoing 
in-depth review following the appointment of pete Raby as Chief 
Executive Officer, and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent 
and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed. 
The Board sets the Company’s values and standards, which are 
contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics policy, both of 
which are referred to on pages 22 to 24 of the Strategic Report.
Matters reserved
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board 
including setting the Group’s strategic aims and objectives, approving 
significant contractual commitments (including the acquisition or 
disposal of companies/businesses, and treasury and intellectual property 
transactions), the review of the effectiveness of risk management 
processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility. The 
schedule of matters reserved is available to view on the Company’s 
website. The Board intends to review the schedule of matters reserved 
and limitations of authority within the Group to ensure they remain 
appropriate following the strategic review.
Delegation of authority
The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to three 
committees, namely the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. The memberships, roles and activities of these 
committees are described in separate reports: the Report of the Audit 
Committee is set out on pages 60 to 63; the Report of the Nomination 
Committee is set out on pages 64 and 65; and the Remuneration 
report is set out on pages 66 to 88. The full terms of reference of 
the Board committees are available upon request and are also available 
on the Company’s website.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group and 
operational matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief 
Financial Officer. The executive Directors together with the Group 
Human Resources Director, the Company Secretary & General 
Counsel, the Director of Strategic programmes, the Chief Technology 
Officer, the Marketing Director and the Director of Finance form the 
Executive Committee.
The Board has delegated authority for certain other matters including 
routine approvals to a General purposes Committee, which meets 
as required and at which a non-executive Director must be present.
Board meetings
In 2015, the Board met formally on eight occasions. An indication of the 
matters dealt with at these meetings is set out below. 
The June 2015 meeting included a dedicated session on Group strategy, 
which pete Raby attended prior to the commencement of his 
employment with the Company, with a specific focus on strategy and 
the long-term development of the Group. During this extended 
meeting, the Board assessed the Group’s current portfolio of businesses, 
the performance of each of the technology families and the technology 
and innovation pipeline. It also considered the key drivers of future 
organic growth, assessed the competitor landscape and held detailed 
reviews of certain businesses. 
This has been followed by a further in-depth review of strategy which 
commenced on pete Raby’s appointment in August.
52 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Summary of the Board’s work during the year:
 > Commenced a review of business and future technology strategy 
 > Approval of the appointment of pete Raby as Chief Executive Officer
 > Deciding that the role of Chief Operating Officer was no longer 
required and the termination arrangements for Andrew Hosty
 > Receipt of in-depth business briefings from each of the Regional 
presidents
 > Review and approval of the Group’s half-year results, trading 
statements and preliminary announcement of the final results
 > Approval of the 2016 budget 
 > Review of Group and Regional business plans with a three-year 
horizon
 > Approval of major capital expenditure and review of major capital 
investment projects
 > Review of the Group’s principal risks
 > Review of pensions liability position
 > Review of environmental and health and safety performance 
and monitoring the roll-out of ‘thinkSAFE’, the behaviour-based 
safety programme, and introduction of a new online incident 
reporting system
 > Review of opportunities in the emerging technology of additive 
manufacturing
 > Review of intellectual property and know-how 
 > Consideration of major shareholders’ views on the Group’s 
performance and prospects
 > Review of the senior management talent pipeline
 > Review of the Group’s IT strategy and performance, including 
progress on implementation of an enterprise resource planning 
system in the u SA
 > Review of the Group’s treasury arrangements, including treasury risk
 > Review of outcomes of the Board performance evaluation and 
agreeing actions for further improvement.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly 
established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the 
Board, including: setting the Board’s agenda and ensuring sufficient time 
is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic issues; 
promoting a culture of open debate and constructive challenge; 
facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive Directors; 
and ensuring constructive relationships between executive and 
non-executive Directors. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible 
for the management of the Group, including the delivery of the Group’s 
business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing 
the Executive Committee and ensuring the implementation of the 
Group’s policies.
Following Mark Robertshaw’s departure as Chief Executive Officer 
on 31 December 2014, Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer, 
additionally served as interim Chief Executive Officer from 1 January 
2015 until the recruitment of a replacement. pete Raby joined as Chief 
Executive Officer on 1 August 2015 and Kevin Dangerfield resumed 
his position of Chief Financial Officer only from that time.
On 2 October 2015, it was announced that the Regional presidents 
would report with immediate effect directly to the Chief Executive 
Officer and as a consequence the role of Chief Operating Officer 
was no longer required. Andrew Hosty remained on the Board and 
continued to report directly to the Chief Executive Officer, providing 
advice on a review of business and future technology strategy, until his 
departure on 8 January 2016.
 
Attendance at meetings
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below. 
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be 
recorded in the Board minutes. An appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy is in place.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Director
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible 
to attend Attended
Andrew Shilston
*
8 8 – – 4 4 3 3
pete Raby
†
3 3 – – – – 1 1
Kevin Dangerfield 8 8 – – – – – –
Andrew Hosty
~
8 7 – – – – – –
Douglas Caster
*
8 8 5 5 4 4 3 3
Victoire de Margerie
*#
8 8 5 3 4 4 3 3
Andrew Reynolds Smith
*
8 8 5 5 4 4 3 3
Rob Rowley
* ^ 8 8 5 5 4 3 3 2
*  Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
†  Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2015.
~  Andrew Hosty was unable to attend the Board meeting in September 2015 due to illness.
#  Victoire de Margerie was unable to attend the June and September Audit Committee meetings due to prior commitments.
 ^ Rob Rowley was unable to attend the February Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings due to a prior commitment.
53
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chairman
On appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2012, Andrew Shilston met 
the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, 
subject to annual re-election in accordance with the Code. The 
independence, commitment and effectiveness of any non-executive 
Director who has served for two three-year terms is subject to 
rigorous review prior to reappointment for a further three-year term. 
Douglas Caster became Senior Independent Director on 1 January 
2015 on the departure of Andrew Given on 31 December 2014.
Victoire de Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February 
2016 due to other commitments.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE
%
As at 31 December 2015
Serving first three-year term 60%
Serving second three-year term 40%
Serving third three-year term 0%
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE
%
As at 31 December 2014
Serving first three-year term 50%
Serving second three-year term 33%
Serving third three-year term 17%
 
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the 
executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the 
year. In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other 
non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
Effectiveness
Board balance and independence
The size, structure and composition of the Board were reviewed 
during the year, taking into account succession planning and the need 
to progressively refresh the membership of the Board. 
pete Raby was appointed to the Board as an executive Director on 
1 August 2015. Further information on the process used to appoint the 
new Chief Executive Officer is included in the Nomination Committee 
Report on pages 64 and 65.
Mindful of the need to continuously review and update the knowledge, 
skills and experience on the Board, as announced on 22 January 2016, 
Helen Bunch will be appointed to the Board as a non-executive 
Director with effect from 24 February 2016.
As at 23 February 2016, the Board comprises Andrew Shilston, 
Chairman; pete Raby, Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Dangerfield, 
Chief Financial Officer; and three independent non-executive 
Directors, namely Douglas Caster, Andrew Reynolds Smith and 
Rob Rowley. Biographies of the Directors in post at the date of this 
Report, including details of their other main commitments, are set 
out on pages 50 and 51.
Throughout the year the Company complied with the requirement 
of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, 
should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board 
to be independent. In addition to the factors set out in the Code, 
the Board’s assessment of a non-executive Director’s independence 
and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any 
relationships with major suppliers and with charities receiving material 
support from the Company.
54 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 BOARD BALANCE
%
As at 31 December 2015
Executive Directors  38%
Independent 
non-executive Directors 50%
Chairman 12%
BOARD BALANCE
%
As at 31 December 2014
Executive Directors  33%
Independent 
non-executive Directors 56%
Chairman 11%
 
Commitment
prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the 
Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm that 
they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments 
to the Company. For example, during the year, Rob Rowley indicated 
that he wished to accept a non-executive Director role at Camelot u K 
Lotteries Limited. prior to accepting the position, he confirmed that he 
would continue to have sufficient time to dedicate to his role at Morgan 
Advanced Materials plc and the Board concluded that acceptance 
would not compromise his independence or impede the time available 
to carry out his duties for the Company. 
There was no change to the Chairman’s other significant commitments 
during the year. 
Information and support
The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring 
the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information to 
enable it to discharge its duties. Board papers are generally made available 
electronically five working days before each meeting. Non-executive 
Directors also receive updates and information between formal 
Board meetings. 
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations 
are observed. A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in connection 
with their duties as Directors.
Induction and professional development
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining 
the Board. A new Director’s experience and background is taken into 
account in developing a tailored programme. Before and after his 
appointment to the Board on 1 August 2015, pete Raby received 
comprehensive briefings to supplement the information on the Group’s 
business provided during recruitment. The briefing included further 
information on the business and its products and markets, brokers’ 
reports on the Group, the Company’s corporate governance structure 
and processes and key Group policies. The intensive induction 
programme included meetings with investors and analysts, briefings 
from other executives and functional heads on governance, responsible 
business, key risks, human resources and environment, health and 
safety, together with numerous visits to operational sites globally and 
meetings with Regional and operational management and personnel.
The Chairman considers the individual training and development 
needs of each Director. The Company Secretary keeps the suitability 
of external courses under review and facilitates the ongoing training 
and development of all Directors as necessary. During the year 
Directors received a dedicated briefing on thinkSAFE and two 
non-executive Directors attended separate Responsible Business 
programme training sessions.
Non-executive Directors have access to management and employees 
at all levels and are encouraged to visit operational sites. In addition to 
visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one 
Board meeting is held at an operating facility. In 2015 Board visits were 
made to two overseas sites, in Luxembourg and Augusta, u SA, and to 
the Southampton site in the u K.
55
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORpORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
Performance evaluation
As anticipated in the 2014 Annual Report, the Board conducted an 
externally facilitated Board performance evaluation during 2015. prior 
to this, the most recent externally facilitated evaluation was in 201 1; 
given the significant Board changes during 2014, the Board had decided 
to defer the external evaluation to 2015 when Board dynamics had 
settled and the new members of the Board would have had more 
time in post and more relevant knowledge and experience with the 
Company on which to base their contributions to allow a more 
meaningful evaluation. 
The aim of the external evaluation of the Board’s performance and 
that of its Committees and individual Directors was to identify ways 
to improve effectiveness. 
The 2015 process was led by the Chairman and carried out by 
Jack Telfer of Auxesis Consulting. Jack Telfer is not involved in any 
other business relationship with the Company and is independent.
The process for the evaluation of the Board as a whole and its 
Committees was as follows:
 > Completion by all Board members, with the exception of 
pete Raby as he had only recently joined the Board, of tailored 
questionnaires which took into account the output from the 2014 
performance evaluation process, the current dynamic of the Board, 
the work of the Board during 2015 and its areas of focus.
 > Report produced summarising the results of the questionnaires.
 > Jack Telfer met with each of the Board members, with the 
exception of Andrew Hosty who stepped down from the Board 
on 8 January 2016. 
 > Jack Telfer presented the findings to the Chairman initially and 
then to the full Board which had a full discussion on the results 
and subsequently agreed an action plan.
The main aspects of the Board’s work which the Board believes offer 
scope for further development relate to driving the Group’s strategic 
review and ensuring that the Board works effectively in a time of 
significant change, and include:
 > Strategy – challenging, supporting and monitoring the development 
and execution of the ongoing strategic review, with the need to 
increase the frequency of discussions on strategy and to effectively 
monitor execution against it.
 > Business leadership – an increasing focus on talent management 
as a fundamental part of executing the Group’s strategic priorities.
 > Board dynamics – a focus on ensuring that the Board operates 
effectively, with the right mix of skills, against a background of 
continuing Board evolution and a period of significant change in 
the business.
Alongside the Board and Committee evaluation, each Director 
completed an individual questionnaire which invited them to reflect 
on their own performance and contribution to the Board. The 
responses were reviewed by the Chairman and Jack Telfer, with 
any development needs being discussed with individual Directors.
Actions were taken during the year to implement the recommendations 
made following the 2014 Board performance review and, in the case 
of the articulation of strategy and focus on business leadership, the work 
is ongoing.
56 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 RECOMMENDATION FROM THE 2014 BOARD pERFORMANCE REVIEW AND ACTION 
IMpLEMENTED Du RING 2015
r ecommendations from 2014 a ction taken/progress made during 2015
Strategy – The need to better articulate the Group’s long-term 
strategy and sustainable growth drivers externally, whilst using 
shareholder comments and external views to challenge Board views. 
In 2015, the Board discussed strategy on four separate occasions 
including at the annual strategy session in June. On his appointment, 
pete Raby, supported by executive management, commenced a 
strategic review.
In reviewing the strategy, the Board has considered the views 
of investors and other relevant third parties.
The articulation of strategy forms part of the ongoing review of 
business and future technology strategy. 
Business leadership – There should be a continuing and 
increasing focus from the Board on business leader succession/ 
talent management as well as on ensuring the continued 
development of leaders with the necessary skills to execute 
the Group’s long-term strategy. A greater Board exposure 
to key Regional executives was required to facilitate this.
The Board considered a summary report on talent at its July meeting 
and conducted an in-depth review of executive talent and succession 
planning at its meeting in November 2015. The Board reviewed 
progress that had been made against targeted improvement in the 
areas of senior succession strength in both leadership and functional 
capabilities, talent management and recruitment. The Board will 
continue to review the talent strategy in line with the broader 
strategic review. 
As part of their respective annual presentations to the Board, each 
of the Regional presidents gives an account of the talent in their 
respective organisations. The overseas Board site visits represent 
an opportunity for the Directors to meet and engage with local 
executive management.
The Board received updates on the Group’s new global Advanced 
Leadership programme, which complements the existing Senior 
Leadership programme and Graduate programme. 
Management reporting – Improvements are required to 
ensure the Board receives the right balance of information from 
management, delivered in a clear and concise way. 
Executive management has made changes to the formatting of 
certain papers. The format of Group financial information has 
been improved and additional narrative incorporated to highlight 
key points. As a result of the review of internal control and risk 
management procedures, a number of reports prepared by 
management for the Audit Committee have been revised, in 
particular in relation to the reporting of risk and reporting on key 
judgments made by management when preparing the final and 
half-year results. 
 
57
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORpORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
The non-executive Directors, led by Douglas Caster, the Senior 
Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to evaluate 
the Chairman’s performance during the year, taking into account the 
views of the executive Directors. 
Conflicts of interest
The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid 
conflicts of interest. Accordingly the Directors are required to: 
 > Disclose proposed outside interests before they are accepted in 
order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict. 
 > Disclose without delay any situation which gives rise to an actual 
or potential conflict.
The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any 
conflicts disclosed and authorisations annually. Should an actual or 
potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether to authorise 
the situation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association 
and, if so, the terms of any authorisation. In the event of an actual conflict 
arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman (the Chairman 
would notify the Senior Independent Director) and the Director would 
be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision. 
Andrew Reynolds Smith, non-executive Director, was appointed 
CEO of Smiths Group plc in September 2015. As Morgan’s Seals 
and Bearings business is a supplier to John Crane, a division of Smiths 
Group, there is a conflict of interest. The Board authorised the 
situational conflict, subject to the Company Secretary ensuring 
Andrew Reynolds Smith does not receive information relating to 
the Seals and Bearings business and that he is excluded from any 
discussion or decision relating to Seals and Bearings.
a ccountability
Financial reporting
In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that the 
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy as required by the Code. 
A summary of the statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report and the Financial statements is set out on pages 
91 and 92 and the going concern statement is set out in the Strategic 
Report on page 47.
Business model and strategy
Details of the Group’s business model, how it is working to generate 
and sustain long-term value and details of the Board’s strategy for 
ensuring the Group meets its objectives are set out in the Strategic 
Report on pages 7 to 47.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a 
sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment 
and the Group’s assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system. 
The Group’s system of internal control has been in place for the year 
under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness 
of the internal control system annually and did so during the year. 
The system of internal control accords with the FRC’s guidance on the 
internal control requirements of the Code (formerly known as the 
‘Turnbull guidance’). This review covered all material controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management 
systems. The Audit Committee and Board receive regular risk 
management reports covering the full range of risks faced by the Group 
and together they ensure there are adequate systems in place and that 
they are effective.
The Directors believe that the Group’s system of internal financial 
controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance in the 
following areas: that the assets of the Group are safeguarded; that 
transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely 
manner; and that such controls would prevent and detect, within a 
timely period, material errors or irregularities. The system is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to address key business and 
financial risks. The internal control framework complements the 
Group’s management structure. 
The main features of the Group’s systems for internal control and for 
assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are 
summarised as follows:
 > Control environment  
The Group’s management processes include delegated authorities 
and the segregation of duties with documented policies and 
manuals. These cover financial procedures, environmental, health 
and safety practice and other areas. In addition, there is a schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board. The Group’s Core Values 
Statement, Ethics policy and other supporting policies and 
procedures set out the Group’s commitment to the highest 
standards of corporate and individual behaviour and provide 
guidance for employees. The Group’s Responsible Business 
programme includes relevant training and reporting and is part of 
the control framework. The Ethics Hotline is available to employees 
in this regard. The Regional presidents and other senior operational 
and functional management make an annual statement of 
compliance to the Board confirming that, for each of the businesses 
for which they are responsible, the financial statements are fairly 
presented in all material respects, appropriate systems of internal 
controls have been developed and maintained and the businesses 
comply with Group policies and procedures. In addition, the Audit 
Committee receives an annual presentation on internal controls 
from each of the Regional Finance Directors.
58 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  > F ina n c i al r ep or t in g  
Risk management systems and internal controls are in place in 
relation to the Group’s financial reporting processes and the 
process for preparing consolidated accounts. These include policies 
and procedures which require the maintenance of records which 
accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), 
and the review and reconciliation of reported data. As noted 
above, representatives of the business are required to certify that 
their reported information gives a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the business and its results for the period. The Audit 
Committee is responsible for monitoring these risk management 
systems and internal controls.
 > performance monitoring  
There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive 
Committee. A comparison of forecast and actual results is 
considered, including cash flows and comparisons against budget 
and the prior year. Regional management teams also meet regularly 
to review performance. In addition, regular site visits are made by 
members of the Executive Committee.
 > Risk management  
The Board has undertaken a robust annual assessment of the 
Group’s principal risks. The identification, assessment and reporting 
of risks is an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with 
operating management and steps are taken to mitigate and manage 
all material risks including those relating to the Group’s business 
model, solvency and liquidity. The Board, either directly or through 
the Audit Committee, receives updates on risks from both Regional 
and Group perspectives. Both the Group Executive Committee 
and Regional Executive Committees additionally cover risk issues 
at their meetings. The Group’s risk management system, as set 
out in the Risk management section on pages 18 to 21, supports 
the going concern statement on page 47 and the viability statement 
on page 21.
 > Risk factors  
The Group’s businesses are affected by a number of factors, 
many of which are influenced by macro-economic trends and are 
therefore outside the Company’s immediate control, although, 
as described above and in the Strategic Report, the identification 
and management of such risks is carried out systematically. These 
are further discussed in the Risk management section on pages 
18 to 21.
 > Internal audit  
The Group’s internal audit function reviews internal control and risk 
management processes. The Audit Committee approves the plans 
for internal audit reviews and receives reports accordingly. Actions 
resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed with management 
and the Audit Committee monitors progress against outstanding 
actions. The Internal Auditor has direct access to the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee.
r elations with shareholders
During 2015, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors attended 
results presentations and other investor events. This provided the 
opportunity to meet institutional shareholders and other attendees 
and to develop an understanding of their views.
Following the announcement of the Group’s results and after other 
significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed 
and any feedback is made available to the Board. In addition, the Board 
is provided with brokers’ reports and feedback from any shareholder 
meetings on a regular basis.
The Remuneration Committee consulted shareholders in January 
2016 on changes to the Directors’ remuneration policy due to be 
introduced during 2016.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section 
of the Company’s website includes details of Regulatory News 
announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other 
relevant Company and shareholder information.
Constructive use of the AGM
The AGM is normally attended by all members of the Board and by 
a representative of the external auditor. At the AGM held in May 2015, 
the Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer made a 
short business presentation. Shareholders are invited to ask questions 
during the meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors 
and other members of senior management before and after the formal 
meeting. The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are released 
to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Group’s website 
as soon as practicable after the meeting. Noting the vote on the 
Annual Report on Remuneration was 57.36% in favour at the 2015 
AGM, the Remuneration Committee contacted major shareholders 
to identify their concerns, and the Board then considered how best 
to address them.
Information on share capital and other matters
The information about share capital required to be included in 
this statement can be found on pages 90 and 91 in the Other 
disclosures section.
59
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS rO b rO wl Ey 
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
REpORT OF THE Au DIT COMMITTEE
Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2015. 
It has been a busy year for the Committee as we respond to the 
continuing challenges of ensuring consistent and robust financial controls 
across a global business and address the changes in governance and 
reporting requirements, most notably this year the introduction of 
the viability statement as set out on page 21 of this Report and the 
adoption of FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ in respect of 
the Company Balance Sheet as set out on page 146. 
The main purpose of the Audit Committee continues to be to assist the 
Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting 
and corporate control. I would like to highlight a number of key areas 
of focus for the Committee in 2015, as follows:
 > During 2015, we continued to monitor our internal controls closely 
and received a series of presentations from the Regions on their 
internal controls and risk management, more latterly in a new 
proforma presentation format which facilitates ease of comparison 
across Regions. The presentations were delivered by the Regional 
Finance Directors, accompanied by their respective Regional 
president, which gave the Committee the opportunity to ask 
questions face-to-face and gain a real insight into the internal control 
environment and risk management approach of each Region. 
Where issues were reported the Committee gave full 
consideration to the cause, potential or actual impact and the 
response by management.
 > The Committee monitored the implementation of the changes 
required by provisions in the u K Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code) which applied to the 2015 financial year on the robust 
assessment of risk including solvency and liquidity, ongoing 
monitoring of systems, the new going concern and material 
uncertainties disclosure and the business viability statement. 
The Committee considered the control framework and processes 
required to enable the Board to make the relevant statements 
in the 2015 Annual Report. 
 > Throughout 2015, the Committee received progress updates 
on a review by management of the Group’s approach to risk 
management and internal controls. The review resulted in 
implementation of certain changes to the control framework and 
processes and will continue to evolve as changes are embedded 
into the businesses.
 > Reviewed the key accounting judgments made by executive 
management, taking into account the views of the external auditor. 
The key areas of significant judgment were in respect of specific 
adjusting items, goodwill impairment testing, provisions and 
contingent liabilities and tax balances, and further details on these 
in relation to the 2015 Financial statements are set out on page 62 
of this Report.
I continue to be satisfied that the Committee is working well, 
is contributing effectively to the governance framework and is 
properly discharging its responsibilities.
rO b rO wl Ey
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
THIS REpORT GIVES AN OVERVIEW OF 
THE RESpONSIBILITIES OF THE Au DIT 
COMMITTEE AND HOW IT DISCHARGED 
THESE Du RING 2015, TOGETHER WITH 
INFORMATION ON ITS MEMBERSHIp 
AND GOVERNANCE.
rob rowley (Chairman) 
Douglas Caster
v ictoire de margerie
*
a ndrew r eynolds Smith 
*   Stepped down from the Committee on resignation as a Director  
on 4 February 2016. 
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive 
Directors and Rob Rowley, the Chairman of the Committee, 
has the requisite financial experience.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
60 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 meetings
The Audit Committee met five times during the year. At the end of 
most meetings the non-executive Directors who are members of the 
Committee also meet the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit 
and the Responsible Business programme & Risk Manager without 
the executive Directors or other members of management present. 
Between meetings the Chairman of the Audit Committee keeps in 
contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, 
the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor and the Head of Internal 
Audit as necessary.
information and support
The Committee may request the attendance at meetings of any Director 
or employee as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
The Committee identifies and ensures that it receives the information 
it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities. This is complemented 
by annual presentations made by the Regional presidents and Regional 
Finance Directors on the internal control environment and risk 
management within their respective Regions. Training and development 
information is made available to the members of the Audit Committee 
when appropriate.
a udit Committee terms of reference
The Audit Committee has a clear set of responsibilities and these are 
set out in its terms of reference and agreed by the Board. These terms 
of reference were reviewed and updated as necessary during the year 
to ensure that they are wholly compliant with the September 2014 
version of the u K Corporate Governance Code which applied to the 
2015 financial year. They are available on the Company’s website and 
are summarised below:
 > Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board 
with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the 
Financial statements of the Group, preliminary announcements 
of results, half-year reports and any formal announcements relating 
to the Group’s financial performance, and reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgments contained in them.
 > Reviewing accounting policies used by the Group and their 
consistent application across the Group.
 > Reviewing whether the Group has followed appropriate accounting 
standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking 
into account the views of the external auditor.
 > Reviewing, prior to approval by the Board, the assessment of 
whether it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the financial statements and the 
identification of material uncertainties to the ability to do so over 
a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval.
 > Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and 
advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy.
 > Agreeing the processes to enable the ongoing monitoring and 
review of the scope, adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls and risk management systems.
 > Carrying out, at least annually, a review of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk management systems, including procedures for 
identifying and assessing principal risks to the Group’s business and 
the management and mitigation of those risks.
 > Reviewing, prior to approval by the Board, the assessment of 
whether there is a reasonable expectation, taking the Group’s 
position and principal risks into account, that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period covered by that assessment, prior to approval by 
the Board. 
 > Reviewing and monitoring the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements 
and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
 > Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function, approving the remit of the function and ensuring 
it has adequate standing and is free from management or other 
restrictions.
 > Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders 
for their approval at the AGM, in relation to the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the external auditor and the 
approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
external auditor.
 > Subject to the current transitional provisions, ensuring that the audit 
services contract is put out to competitive tender every 10 years 
and supervising any such process and overseeing the selection 
process for a new auditor.
 > Reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity.
 > Reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of 
the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant 
u K professional and regulatory requirements.
 > Developing and implementing the policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account 
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services by the external auditor.
 > Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of 
which it considers that action or improvement is needed and 
making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee has the authority, in accordance with its terms of 
reference, to investigate any matters and may obtain external advice 
at the cost of the Company, but did not do so during the year. 
main areas of work in 2015
During 2015, in addition to the areas of work outlined in the Chairman’s 
letter above, the Committee:
 > Reviewed the Group’s 2015 half-year and full-year statements prior 
to Board approval.
 > Made a recommendation to the Board that it is appropriate to 
prepare the accounts for the year on a going concern basis.
 > Reviewed the new requirements in relation to the viability statement 
(see statement on page 21 of the Strategic Report) and agreed 
an appropriate time period for that statement and a reasonable 
financial ‘base case’ for that period, together with an in-depth 
evaluation of the risks affecting the financial viability of the Company 
over that timeframe, all for recommendation to the Board.
 > Reviewed the scope of the external audit, and confirmed the 
external auditor’s terms of engagement and fee structure.
 > Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and all 
aspects of the service provided by the external auditor.
 > Monitored the level of non-audit work of the external auditor, 
which in 2015 included services amounting to £0.3 million, 
mainly in connection with tax services.
 > Reviewed the controls and assurance processes that are in place 
to mitigate the Group’s key risks. 
 > Reviewed the effectiveness of, and received reports from 
management on, the Group’s internal audit and risk management 
systems and updates to the Group’s governance, risk and 
compliance plans. 
61
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REpORT OF THE Au DIT COMMITTEE
continued
 > Reviewed and approved the plans, work and overall effectiveness 
of the internal audit function, monitored its progress against the 
plan and ensured that the appropriate resource was deployed 
within the function. 
 > Reviewed the systems of internal controls of, and risks managed in, 
the Regions.
 > Reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing process and related 
procedures and policies.
 > Reviewed material litigation.
 > Reviewed compliance with and implementation of the Group’s 
policies.
 > Reviewed the status of the Group’s export controls compliance 
programme.
 > Considered the alternatives to and the impact of FRS 101 ‘Reduced 
Disclosure Framework’ before endorsing the decision to adopt it.
 > Reviewed implementation of major new operational and 
accounting software in North America.
Public reporting
The Committee, as requested by the Board, considered the Code 
requirement for the Board to make a statement on whether the 
Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable. 
The Committee approached this as follows:
 > Considered the questions which need to be answered in order to 
evaluate whether the Annual Report and Accounts meets the fair, 
balanced and understandable test.
 > Reviewed the methodology used to construct the narrative 
sections of the Annual Report.
 > Reviewed the disclosure judgments made by the authors of each 
section and considered the balance of good and bad news in the 
Annual Report.
 > Received confirmation from external advisers that all regulatory 
requirements are satisfied.
 > Received confirmation of verification of content from the authors 
of each section.
 > Received confirmation from the Chief Financial Officer that the 
narrative reports and Financial statements are consistent.
 > Reviewed a first draft of the Annual Report and Accounts prior 
to the financial year end.
 > Made a recommendation to the Board to assist the Board in 
determining whether it is able to make the statement on whether 
the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and 
understandable.
The significant areas of judgment considered by the Committee 
in relation to the 2015 Financial statements, and how these were 
addressed, were as follows: 
 > Specific adjusting items 
In the Consolidated Income Statement the Group has again 
presented specific adjusting items separately in order to provide 
the best indication of the underlying performance of the Group, 
and details of the nature and quantum of the individual items 
are provided in note 6 to the Financial statements. The Audit 
Committee fully considered this principle and the individual items 
and, taking into account guidelines issued by the FRC and peer 
group disclosure of similar items, concluded that it is the best way 
to present the Group’s results.
 > Intangible asset impairment testing 
Specific attention was again given to the intangible asset carrying 
value of the Composites and Defence Systems (C&DS) cash- 
generating unit. Based on the performance of the business during 
2015 and latest expectations for the future, which were particularly 
informed by the reduced demand from the u K MoD, it was 
considered appropriate and prudent to record an impairment 
charge of £5.8 million against the customer relationship intangible 
asset, which has been reported as a specific adjusting item. 
The latest financial projections and other assumptions support 
the valuation of the remaining intangible assets. Further information 
on the goodwill generally and the sensitivities associated with the 
impairment calculations are given in note 1 1.
 > provisions and contingent liabilities  
The level of provisioning for known and contingent liabilities, including 
those arising from trading, environmental issues and litigation, is an 
issue where management and third-party judgments are important. 
These are addressed through the Committee and the Board 
discussing with various members of senior management the key 
judgments made, supported, where appropriate, by relevant 
external advice. KpMG LLp also reports regularly on all material 
provisions and contingent liabilities. The Group recorded redundancy 
and restructuring provisions in the ordinary course of business 
totalling £4.1 million, which are charged against underlying earnings 
but are disclosed separately to provide investors with additional 
information to assist in their assessment of the Group’s performance. 
 > Tax balances  
Accounting for current and deferred tax involves a range of 
judgments. The Committee and the Board address these issues 
through reporting from the Chief Financial Officer and the 
Director of Group Tax, supported as necessary by external 
professional advice. 
The Committee reviewed the content of the Annual Report and 
Accounts and advised the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy.
62 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 a udit Committee and the external auditor
The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KpMG LLp that 
its general procedures and practices support the auditor’s independence 
and objectivity in relation to non-audit services. After considering such 
procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditor’s 
objectivity and independence were safeguarded despite the provision 
of non-audit services by KpMG LLp.
To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, 
the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditor is in summary as follows:
 > Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external 
auditor, including: the review of their own work; they may not make 
management decisions; their work must not create a mutuality of 
interest; and they may not put themselves in the position of advocate.
 > Any permissible non-audit work proposed to be placed with the 
external auditor with a fee between £50,000 and £200,000 must 
be approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
projects in excess of £200,000 must be approved in advance by the 
Audit Committee. Work which includes multiple phases is treated as 
a single project for approval purposes.
 > The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-
audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit 
work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
During the year the proportion of the auditor’s fees for non-audit work 
relative to the audit fee was 16% (2014: 20%).
The Committee’s policy is to undertake an annual review of the 
effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external 
auditor’s performance and independence before determining whether 
to undertake a formal review of the auditor including a re-tender 
presentation, or whether to put the Group’s audit work out to full third-
party tender. 
The external auditor has processes in place to safeguard its 
independence and has written to the Committee confirming that, 
in its opinion, it is independent. The Group last changed its auditor 
in late 2001. The external auditor rotated the partner responsible for 
the Group’s audit work in 2008 and 2013. The Code requires that 
FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to 
tender at least every 10 years. The Company notes the guidance 
issued by the FRC on transitional arrangements on tendering which 
permit KpMG LLp to continue in office until 2018 without an audit 
tender. Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and 
all aspects of the service provided by the auditor, and taking account 
of the assurance given by the auditor as to its independence, the 
Committee recommended to the Board that the Group’s external audit 
work should be put out to third-party tender no earlier than 2018 
when the current audit engagement partner is due to rotate and no 
later than 2023, which is the latest date by which the Company must 
change its auditor as permitted by the Eu Audit Regulation’s transitional 
arrangements. The Company has complied with the provisions of the 
Competition & Markets Authority’s Order on statutory audit services. 
63
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chairman’s introduction
2015 was once again an important year for the Committee with 
a number of changes to the Board. 
In January 2015, the Committee concluded the search for a new 
Chief Executive Officer following Mark Robertshaw’s departure at the 
end of 2014, with the announcement that pete Raby would be joining 
Morgan as Chief Executive Officer on 1 August 2015. 
Recognising the importance of ongoing refreshment of the Board and 
continual review of the skills and experience on the Board to meet the 
needs of the Company, and following the experience of 2014 when 
three long-serving non-executive Directors stepped down from the 
Board, the Committee commenced a process to recruit an additional 
non-executive Director. The search concluded with the appointment, 
announced on 22 January 2016, of Helen Bunch as non-executive 
Director with effect from 24 February 2016.
The Committee has spent a great deal of its time during 2015 evaluating 
the Board’s succession needs, working closely with executive search 
agents to evaluate the skills and experience required to balance the 
Board and, following the creation of a candidate specification, reviewing 
long- and short-lists of candidates.
Looking ahead, the Nomination Committee will continue to review 
skills requirements against long-term strategy, and take into account 
the outcomes of the strategic review.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments 
to the Board which is described in more detail below. Appointments 
are made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for 
diversity, including gender.
a NDr Ew Shil STON
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
meetings
The Committee met formally three times during 2015. In addition, 
a number of working groups of members of the Committee met 
between scheduled meetings to progress the recruitment of the 
Chief Executive Officer and to recruit a new non-executive Director.
information and support
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any 
other Director or member of management, for all or part of any 
meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
Nomination Committee terms of reference
The Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed during the year. 
The terms of reference are available to view on the Company’s website.
REpORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
a NDr Ew Shil STON 
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
THE MAIN ROLE OF THE NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE IS TO LEAD THE pROCESS 
FOR BOARD AppOINTMENTS AND 
TO MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO 
THE BOARD ON THE AppOINTMENT 
OF NEW DIRECTORS.
a ndrew Shilston (Chairman)
Douglas Caster
v ictoire de margerie
*
Pete r aby
**
a ndrew r eynolds Smith
rob rowley 
*   Stepped down from the Committee on resignation as a Director  
on 4 February 2016.
**   Joined the Committee on appointment as a Director on 1 August 2015.
 
A majority of members of the Committee are independent 
non-executive Directors.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
64 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 main areas of work during 2015
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership 
needs of the Group. The work of the Committee in discharging those 
responsibilities in respect of 2015 included:
 > Concluding the selection process in relation to the appointment 
of a new Chief Executive Officer. 
 > Led the search for a new non-executive Director, resulting in the 
selection and recommended appointment of Helen Bunch as 
announced on 22 January 2016 and who will be appointed to the 
Board with effect from 24 February 2016.
 > Considering the reappointment of the non-executive Directors 
at the conclusion of their specified time in office and the Directors’ 
annual re-election at the 2015 AGM. 
 > Reviewing, for recommendation to the Board, the Board’s policy 
on diversity.
a ppointments to the board
The Board discussed the Group’s approach to talent management and 
succession planning at senior levels in July and November 2015 and 
noted progress to date in increasing succession strength. Succession 
planning for appointments to the Board and for senior management 
will be a continued area of focus for the Committee in 2016.
The process to recruit pete Raby, Chief Executive Officer, 
is described below:
 > The skills and attributes required of an incoming Chief Executive 
Officer were discussed and a job specification was agreed.
 > Following a selection exercise in which a number of external search 
agents were considered and three firms were interviewed, Spencer 
Stuart was appointed and briefed. Spencer Stuart has signed up 
to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms which 
includes provisions on diversity. Spencer Stuart has no other 
connection with the Company other than conducting psychometric 
testing for senior executives in 2013. 
 > The Committee agreed that the Chairman of the Committee, 
the Senior Independent Director and Victoire de Margerie should 
continue to progress the search between formal meetings of the 
Committee. 
 > The search was conducted globally and a long-list of candidates was 
considered, including external and internal, international and female 
candidates. The search agent travelled to meet candidates outside 
the u K. 
 > Short-listed candidates were then interviewed by all members of 
the Nomination Committee. Spencer Stuart then conducted an 
independent assessment and references were taken up before the 
decision was made and announced on 30 January 2015 to appoint 
pete Raby as Chief Executive Officer, commencing his role on 
1 August 2015.
The process for appointing Helen Bunch as a non-executive Director 
is described below:
 > Following consideration of a number of leading firms, the 
Committee appointed Spencer Stuart as external search agent. 
Spencer Stuart has signed up to the voluntary code of conduct for 
executive search firms which includes provisions on diversity. As 
mentioned previously, Spencer Stuart has no other connection 
with the Company other than conducting psychometric testing for 
senior executives in 2013. 
 > In the light of its discussions on the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity on the Board, the Committee considered 
and formulated a candidate specification for the role.
 > The external search agent produced a long-list of candidates for 
the role.
 > Interviews were held with a short-list of candidates and members 
of the Nomination Committee participated in interviews with the 
preferred candidates.
 > The Committee selected its preferred candidate based on objective 
criteria and recommended their appointment to the Board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors 
are available for inspection. Non-executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time 
to meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant 
commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with 
an indication of the time involved. The Board is informed of any 
subsequent changes with additional commitments disclosed before they 
are accepted. The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors 
do not include a notice period.
board Diversity Policy 
The Board firmly believes in the value of diversity of perspective, 
including background, nationality, experience and gender, at all levels of 
the Company as well as on the Board. As is not unusual in engineering 
or manufacturing businesses, diversity in gender is the hardest to achieve. 
It is very gratifying, however, to see that at the graduate recruitment level 
the Group is now having great success in attracting good candidates of 
both sexes and many nationalities. In 2015, 41% of the graduate intake 
(2014: 32%) were female. At the senior level, 13% (2014: 5%) of senior 
managers and one of the Board Directors are female.
New appointments to the Board are made on merit, with a focus on 
international and industrial experience, but diversity of perspective and 
the mix of skills around the Board table are also taken into account when 
selecting potential candidates. During the selection process for new 
non-executive Directors, the Committee has, and will, continue to use 
a search agent who has signed up to the voluntary code of conduct 
which ensures that diversity is considered when developing a candidate 
pool. The brief to the search agent is to put forward a long-list of 
candidates from a wide range of backgrounds to ensure that the best 
candidate is selected.
When monitoring the development of leadership and considering the 
succession planning for executive management, the Board will take into 
account the need for talented leaders with the skills needed to lead a 
global company with a growing presence in the key world economies 
and manage the associated macro economic challenges.
The Board will continue to monitor whether it is taking diversity into 
account when planning executive succession and appointing new Board 
members, with the Board effectiveness evaluation process also 
addressing diversity.
The Board has discussed whether a quota for female Directors should be 
introduced by a certain date, but feels this is unrealistic given the current 
gender composition of senior executives, the nature of the business and 
the competition for female non-executive Directors.
65
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
I am pleased to present the Remuneration report for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. In last year’s report, my first as Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee, I said that I was keen to ensure 
that the remuneration policy would be appropriate and relevant 
throughout the range of market conditions the Group faces, and 
that the remuneration policy and performance targets must ensure 
proper incentivisation of management to achieve Group strategies 
for growth whilst being aligned with the short- and long-term 
interests of shareholders. The Committee has also been mindful 
of shareholder feedback on the simplification of remuneration 
generally, and on the use of share matching plans more specifically. 
With this in mind I wrote to our largest shareholders in January 2016 
to consult on proposed changes to the remuneration policy, approval 
for which will be sought at the 2016 Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
I also wrote to consult on 2016 incentive targets. The Group has 
a new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) who is taking a critical look 
at the Company’s portfolio and strategy, and the Remuneration 
Committee is therefore seeking to develop a remuneration policy 
that will offer incentives to support strategy development and 
execution, to maximise returns to shareholders. The feedback 
we have received on our overall proposals at the time of writing 
has been generally positive.
In summary, the proposals are as follows:
 > The Bonus Deferral Share Matching plan (BDSMp) will no 
longer be offered. This scheme offered up to a 3x match on 
up to 50% of earned bonus (ie a maximum opportunity of 
150% of salary) based on earnings per share (EpS) performance 
over a three-year period. We will continue to disclose our bonus 
targets at the end of the relevant financial year (to the extent 
they are no longer deemed to be commercially sensitive) 
consistent with best practice. 
 > Malus and clawback will also apply to both the cash and share 
component of bonus awards for the 2016 financial year onwards.
 > Going forward, the annual bonus opportunity will be increased 
from 100% to 150% of salary, but executive Directors will 
be required to defer 33% of any bonus earned into Company 
shares for a further three-year period. 
 > The normal annual award opportunity under the Long-Term 
Incentive plan (LTIp), which will be the sole long-term incentive, 
will also be increased from 100% to 150% of salary (the 
maximum annual award limit will be increased from 200% 
to 250% of salary), but the vesting outcome at threshold 
performance will be reduced to 25% (formerly 30%).
 > Executive Directors’ minimum shareholding guideline will be 
increased to 200% of salary.
As a result of these changes, the overall fair value of the proposed 
package for executive Directors is broadly similar to the package 
under the current remuneration policy.
At the time of writing, the Group has also announced a consultation 
with the members of the senior section of the defined benefit 
pension scheme on proposals for its closure to future accrual. 
One of the two executive Directors will be impacted by this if 
the proposals are approved.
In reviewing 2015, some bonus will be paid for 2015 performance 
due to the good performance on cash generation and the good 
progress made on personal objectives (especially on technology 
roadmaps) which have provided a sound foundation for the strategic 
review. However, the 2013 LTIp awards will lapse in early 2016. 
The relative total shareholder return (TSR) component of the LTIp 
has not vested for each of the last four cycles, despite Morgan’s strong 
absolute TSR performance over the past seven years (c16% pa).
The Committee decided that, considering the overall performance 
of the Group in 2015, there should be no base pay increases 
for the CEO and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), and there will 
also be no increase to the 2016 fees for the Chairman and non-
executive Directors.
The difficult market conditions and the achievability of incentive 
targets have again caused us to reflect on their motivational impact 
on retaining and attracting key executive talent. We have therefore 
reconsidered performance measures and incentive targets to ensure 
they are aligned with our strategic aims, motivate and reward 
management for delivering sustainable above-peer performance, 
and support retention.
For the 2016 cycle, it is proposed that the return on capital employed 
(ROCE) performance range remains unchanged (27-33%). To help 
ensure the relative TSR element of the LTIp balances relevance and 
robustness, it is proposed to split the TSR element equally between 
two comparator benchmarks: the constituents of the FTSE All-Share 
Industrials Index, as currently, and a tailored group of international 
sector comparators. The constituents of this sector benchmark 
are shown on page 82 of this Remuneration report.
Following a review of the EpS performance range against multiple 
relevant reference points (including the Group’s strategic plan, 
external market factors and broker forecasts), we propose revising 
the EpS performance range to 4%-1 1% pa, which we consider to 
be appropriately stretching for this 2016 cycle. 
Over the last 12 months, we have engaged with our shareholders, 
and we value the views and feedback we have received. As 
mentioned above I have consulted with those with the largest 
shareholdings about our remuneration policy and annual incentive 
arrangements. I have also followed up with those of the largest 
shareholders who voted against the Annual Report on Remuneration 
last year.
A STATEMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS FROM  
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMu NERATION COMMITTEE
66 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 During the year, the Committee met four times, and its activities 
included:
 > A review of the Group’s overall remuneration policy to support 
the Group’s business strategy.
 > A review of external benchmarking of executive remuneration 
packages.
 > Determination of the remuneration packages for the executive 
Directors and other Group executives, including for pete Raby, 
the new CEO, and in relation to Andrew Hosty’s cessation of 
employment.
 > A review of whether the measures for the bonus and share 
incentive schemes remain appropriate.
 > Determination of appropriate performance targets for bonus 
and share incentive schemes.
 > Determination of whether targets for the bonus and share 
incentive schemes were achieved.
 > A review of proposed arrangements should the senior 
section of the defined benefit pension scheme be closed 
to future accrual.
This Report is intended to be consistent with the current reporting 
regulations for executive remuneration. I hope we have been successful 
in achieving the clarity and transparency that will be of help to our 
shareholders. 
DOu GlaS CaSTE r
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMu NERATION COMMITTEE
Compliance statement
This Report covers the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee and remuneration 
policy of Morgan Advanced Materials plc. 
The Company has complied with the principles and provisions relating to Directors’ remuneration in the u K Corporate Governance Code with 
one exception, and this Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The one exception is that the annual bonus plan does not currently include malus 
and clawback provisions. However, the Remuneration Committee has approved the introduction of malus and clawback provisions for the 2016 
financial year and onwards. The Directors’ remuneration policy has been updated as set out in this Report, and these changes are proposed to 
take effect from the date this policy is approved. Therefore, in accordance with Section 439A of the Companies Act, both a binding resolution on 
the remuneration policy and an advisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 6 May 2016.
r emuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines and agrees with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration, including pension 
rights and any compensation payments, of the Group’s executive Directors and the Chairman. The Committee’s terms of reference are available 
on the Group’s website.
The Remuneration Committee consults the CEO and invites him to attend meetings when appropriate. The Director of Human Resources 
attends meetings of the Committee by invitation. The Committee also had access to advice from the CFO. The Company Secretary acts as 
secretary to the Committee. No executive Director or other attendee is present when his own remuneration is being discussed.
Membership of the Committee is shown on page 75.
1. POli Cy r EPOr T
Key principles of the executive Directors’ remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that all the remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to promote the long-term 
success of the Company by ensuring that we are able to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre 
to create value for shareholders. 
The policy of the Committee is to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity is performance-related, with an 
appropriate balance between short- and long-term performance, and is based on the achievement of measurable targets that are relevant to and 
support the business strategy. 
The Remuneration Committee will keep remuneration policy under periodic review to ensure it remains aligned with the Group’s strategy, 
and in line with the principles set out in the u K Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors’ remuneration. This includes ensuring that 
performance-related elements are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied, as well as reflecting the guidance of institutional investors and 
their representative bodies.
67
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
pu RpOSE AND  
LINK TO STRATEGy OpERATION OppORTu NITy
pERFORMANCE 
METRICS
f ixed pay
base salary
provides the fixed element of the 
remuneration package. Set at 
competitive levels against the market.
Base salaries are generally reviewed each 
January, with reference to the salary 
levels at companies of similar sector, size 
and complexity. The Committee also 
considers individual contribution and the 
range of salary increases applying across 
the Group when determining increases.
Base salary increases are applied in line 
with the outcome of the annual review. 
Salaries in respect of the year under 
review (and for the following year) 
are disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Salary increases for executive Directors 
will normally be within the range of 
increases for the general employee 
population over the period of this policy. 
Where increases are awarded in excess 
of those for the wider employee 
population, for example in instances of 
sustained strong individual performance, 
if there is a material change in the 
responsibility, size or complexity of the 
role, or if an individual was intentionally 
appointed on a below-market salary, 
the Committee will provide the rationale 
in the relevant year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration. 
Not applicable.
Pension
provides post-retirement benefits for 
participants in a cost-efficient manner.
Defined benefit scheme subject 
to a notional earnings cap with 
an above-the-cap allowance for 
executive Directors who joined the 
Company before 1 August 201 1.
Defined contribution scheme (and/
or a cash allowance in lieu thereof) 
for executive Directors who joined 
the Company after 1 August 201 1.
Opportunities vary depending on the 
scheme in which an executive Director 
participates. Details are set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration on 
page 78.
Above-the-cap pension allowances will 
be established in line with our principle 
to be broadly cost-neutral.
For new hires, defined contributions 
(or cash in lieu thereof) will be up to 
20% of salary. 
Not applicable.
benefits
Designed to be competitive in the 
market in which the individual is 
employed.
Can include company car/car allowance, 
health insurance and, where 
appropriate, relocation allowances 
and other expenses.
Benefits values vary by role and are 
reviewed periodically relative to market.
It is not anticipated that the cost of 
benefits provided will change materially 
year on year over the period for which 
this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion 
to approve a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (eg relocation expenses, 
expatriation allowances etc) or in 
circumstances where factors outside the 
Group’s control have changed materially 
(eg market increases in insurance costs).
Benefits in respect of the year under 
review are disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration. 
Not applicable.
Summary of morgan a dvanced materials plc’s remuneration policy for executive Directors
This section of the Report sets out a revised remuneration policy for executive Directors and non-executive Directors. This policy is subject 
to a binding vote at the 2016 AGM and, if approved at the AGM, will come into effect on that date. The policy will be put to shareholders again 
no later than the 2019 AGM. A summary of the key changes from the policy approved at the 2014 AGM (which was and which has been in 
operation since that date) is set out in the notes to the future remuneration policy table on page 70.
68 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 pu RpOSE AND  
LINK TO STRATEGy OpERATION OppORTu NITy
pERFORMANCE 
METRICS
variable pay
a nnual bonus
Incentivises the achievement of 
specific goals over the short term 
that are also aligned to the long-term 
business strategy.
performance measures are set by the 
Committee at the start of the year 
and are weighted to reflect a balance 
of financial and strategic objectives. 
At the end of the year, the Remuneration 
Committee determines the extent 
to which these have been achieved.
To the extent that the performance 
criteria have been met, up to 67% of 
the earned annual bonus is paid in cash. 
The remaining balance is deferred 
into shares and released after a further 
period of three years, subject to 
continued employment only.
Cash and deferred share bonuses 
awarded for performance in 2016 
onwards will be subject to malus and 
clawback for a period of three years from 
the end of the relevant performance 
year. Further details of our clawback 
policy are set out at the end of this table. 
u p to 150% of salary.
The payout for threshold performance 
may vary year on year, but will not 
exceed 25% of the maximum 
opportunity.
Bonuses for the executive Directors 
may be based on a combination of 
financial and non-financial measures. 
The weighting of non-financial 
performance will be capped at 30% 
of the maximum opportunity.
Further details are set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration 
on pages 76, 77 and 81. 
l ong-Term incentive Plan (l TiP)
Aligns the interests of executives 
and shareholders by delivering shares 
to executive Directors and other 
senior executives as a reward for 
outstanding long-term performance.
The Remuneration Committee has the 
ability each year to grant an award under 
the LTIp.
The award levels and performance 
conditions on which vesting depends are 
reviewed prior to the start of each award 
cycle to ensure they remain appropriate.
For awards made in 2016 onwards, 
vested shares may also be subject to a 
post-vesting holding period. Details of 
any such holding period will be disclosed 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration 
for the year in which the relevant award 
is made.
Awards are subject to malus and/or 
clawback for a period of five years from 
the date of grant. Further details of our 
clawback policy are set out at the end 
of this table. 
The LTIp provides for a conditional 
award of shares up to an annual limit 
of 250% of salary.
25% of an award vests for achievement 
of the threshold level of performance.
The vesting of awards is usually 
subject to:
 > continued employment.
 > the Group’s performance over 
a three-year performance period, 
currently a combination of TSR, 
EpS and ROCE.
The Committee has discretion to 
extend the performance period and 
adjust the measures, their weighting, 
and performance targets prior to the 
start of each cycle to ensure they 
continue to align with the Group’s 
strategy.
Further details of the measures 
attached to the LTIp awarded in the 
year under review (and the coming 
year) are set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration on pages 80 and 82. 
Sharesave
A voluntary scheme open to all 
u K employees which aligns the 
interests of participants with those 
of shareholders through any 
growth in the value of shares. 
An HMRC-approved scheme where 
employees may save up to a monthly 
savings limit out of their own pay 
towards options granted at up to 
a 20% discount. Options may not 
be exercised for three years.  
u p to the savings limit as determined by 
HMRC from time to time, across all 
Sharesave schemes in which an individual 
has enrolled.
None.
69
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
malus and clawback policy
Malus and clawback will apply on the annual bonus and LTIp (as set out on page 69) in cases of misconduct or material misstatement in the 
published results of the Group or where, as a result of an appropriate review of accountability, a participant has been deemed to have caused in 
full or in part a material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour. Cash bonuses will 
be subject to clawback, with deferred shares subject to malus over the deferral period. LTIp awards will be subject to malus over the vesting 
period and clawback from the vesting date to the fifth anniversary of grant.
Changes from the 2014 shareholder-approved remuneration policy for executive Directors
The changes from the previous policy are as summarised in the table below: 
Element proposed 2016 policy 2014 policy
a nnual bonus Maximum opportunity of 150% of salary.
Mandatory deferral of at least 33% of earned bonus 
into shares for three years.
policy on clawback incorporated into policy. 
Maximum opportunity of 100% of salary. 
Voluntary deferral of up to 50% (75% in exceptional 
circumstances) of earned bonus into shares for 
three years (and with a matching opportunity under 
the BDSMp).
l ong-Term incentive Plan  
(lT iP)
Maximum award limit: 250% of salary.
25% of an award vests at threshold. 
performance period of at least three years.
Flexibility to introduce a holding period in future years. 
policy on clawback incorporated into policy. 
Maximum award limit: 200% of salary.
30% of an award vests at threshold.
performance period of three years.
No holding period.
bonus Deferral Share  
matching Plan (bDSmP)
No new awards will be made under this plan, 
but outstanding awards will vest in accordance 
with the BDSMp Rules and subject to the 
performance conditions. 
Deferred shares eligible for up to a maximum 
3-for-1 matching opportunity subject to three-year 
EpS compound annual growth rate (CAGR) 
exceeding 20% pa.
Payments under existing awards
The Company will honour any commitment entered into, and Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award granted, prior to the 
approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this Report (ie before 6 May 2016), even if these commitments and/or awards 
fall outside the above policy. The Company will also honour any commitment entered into at a time prior to an individual becoming a Director if, 
in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. Details of these 
awards are, and will be, disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Difference in policy between executive Directors and other employees
The remuneration policy for other employees is based on principles broadly consistent with those described in this Report for the executive 
Directors. Annual salary reviews across the Group take into account business performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels 
for similar roles in comparable companies. All executives are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme. Opportunities and performance 
measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individual’s role. Other senior executives participate in the LTIp on similar terms 
to the executive Directors, although award sizes may vary according to each individual, and by organisational level. Below this level, executives are 
eligible to participate in the LTIp and other share-based incentives, by annual invitation. 
u se of discretion
To ensure fairness and align executive Director remuneration with underlying individual and Group performance, the Committee may exercise its 
discretion to adjust, upwards or downwards, the outcome of any short- or long-term incentive plan payment (within the limits of the relevant plan 
Rules) for corporate or exceptional events including, but not limited to: corporate transactions, changes in the Group’s accounting policies, minor 
or administrative matters, internal promotions, external recruitment, terminations, etc. Any adjustments in light of corporate events will be made 
on a neutral basis, ie to not be to the benefit or detriment of participants.
Any use of discretion by the Committee during the financial year will be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
70 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Performance measure selection
The Committee considers carefully the selection of performance measures at the start of each performance cycle, taking into consideration the 
macro-economic environment as well as specific Group strategic objectives. 
Annual bonus measures are selected to closely reinforce the Group’s short-term KpIs. Because these can change from year to year (in line with 
the remuneration policy), the rationale for the selection of bonus measures for each year has been moved to the Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIp performance measures are reviewed periodically to ensure they continue to align with the Company’s strategy, as well as provide an 
appropriate balance between growth and returns, internal and external performance, and absolute and relative performance.
For 2016 awards, the TSR element of the LTIp will be split into two parts. One half of the TSR element will vest subject to the Group’s performance 
relative to the existing TSR benchmark comprising the c1 10 constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index. This benchmark is robust to M&A 
activity and comprises companies that are subject to the same market influences as Morgan Advanced Materials plc. The remaining half of the 
TSR element will vest subject to Morgan’s performance relative to a TSR benchmark comprising 17 listed international carbon, ceramics and other 
materials companies. This benchmark was selected to complement the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index with a group of companies that better 
reflect Morgan’s business, the markets in which Morgan operates and the geographical footprint of the Group. For each part of the TSR award, 
the vesting performance range is calibrated to be stretching and in line with common market practice for FTSE TSR-based long-term incentives.
EpS targets are set taking account of multiple relevant reference points, including internal forecasts, external expectations for future EpS performance 
at both Morgan Advanced Materials plc and its closest sector peers, and typical EpS performance ranges at other FTSE 350 companies. LTIp EpS 
performance ranges are set to represent demanding and challenging performance targets over the three-year performance period.
ROCE targets are set using a similar approach referring to external reference points and reflecting the returns required to meet and exceed the 
Group’s internal strategic plan.
Share ownership guidelines
In order to encourage alignment with shareholders, individual shareholding guidelines are operated for executive Directors. u nder such 
guidelines, executive Directors are encouraged to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 200% 
of basic salary (previously 150% for the CEO and 100% for other executive Directors). 
Current executive Director shareholdings are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 84.
External appointments
With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Group, executive Directors may accept external 
appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received. Details of external directorships held by executive 
Directors along with fees retained are provided on page 81.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis
The graphs below provide detailed illustrations of the potential future reward opportunity for executive Directors, and the potential mix between 
the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios; ‘Below threshold’, ‘Target’ and ‘Stretch’. These have been 
updated to illustrate the potential opportunity under the 2016 packages proposed for executive Directors.
£578k 100%
£1,107k 52% 32% 16%
£1,988k 30% 35% 35%
PETE RABY (CEO)
Stretch
Target
Below
threshold
£’000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
£417k 100%
£779k 53% 31% 16%
£1,384k 30% 35% 35%
KEVIN DANGERFIELD (CFO)
Stretch
Target
Below
threshold
£’000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
Fixed pay (base salary, pension and benefits)
Annual bonus LTIP
71
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy which is proposed to apply in 2016, applied to the annual base salary in 
force at 1 January 2016. For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2016 (before 
mandatory deferral into shares). The LTIp is based on the face value of awards to be granted in 2016 (150% of salary). It should be noted that any 
awards granted under the LTIp in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant. This illustration is intended to provide 
further information to shareholders on the relationship between executive pay and performance. The value of the LTIp assumes no increase in 
the underlying value of the shares, and actual amounts delivered will be further influenced by changes in factors such as the Company’s share price 
and the value of dividends paid. The following assumptions have been made in compiling the above charts:
Scenario Annual bonus LTIp Fixed pay
Stretch Maximum annual bonus. performance warrants full vesting 
(100% of the award).
Latest disclosed  
base salary,  
pension and benefits.
Target On-target annual bonus. performance warrants threshold 
vesting (25% of the award).
below threshold No annual bonus payable. Nil vesting.
Details of executive Directors’ service contracts
The executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Morgan Advanced Materials plc. Contracts may be terminated on 
12 months’ notice given by the Company or on six months’ notice given by the executive Director concerned. Kevin Dangerfield’s contract ends 
on his anticipated normal retirement date. The following table shows the date of the contract for each executive Director who served during the year:
Date of service  
agreement
Notice period
Executive Director position Date of appointment From employer From employee
pete Raby CEO 1 August 2015 30 January 2015 12 months 6 months
Kevin Dangerfield CFO 4 August 2006 15 August 2008 12 months 6 months
Andrew Hosty
*
COO 28 July 2010 17 August 2010 12 months 6 months
* Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016.
Exit payments policy
The Group’s policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements comprising base salary and any other 
statutory payments only. In the event that the employment of an executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in 
accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Group may terminate the employment of an executive Director by making a payment in lieu of notice equal to base salary, together with the 
fair value of any other benefits to which the executive is contractually entitled under his service agreement, for the duration of the notice period.
The Remuneration Committee will exercise discretion in making appropriate payments in the context of outplacement, settling legal claims or 
potential legal claims by the departing executive Director, including any other amounts reasonably due to the executive Director, for example, 
to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to 
enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
On termination of an executive Director’s service contract, the Remuneration Committee will consider the departing Director’s duty to mitigate 
his loss when determining the timing of when any payment in lieu of notice will be made. There is no automatic entitlement to bonus or the 
vesting of long-term incentives on termination. However, the table on the following page summarises the policy on how awards under the annual 
bonus, LTIp and BDSMp will normally be treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to Committee discretion:
72 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Treatment of awards on cessation of employment and a change of control
Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting/payment Time of vesting
Annual bonus
All reasons The Committee may determine that a bonus is payable on cessation of employment, and the Committee 
retains discretion to determine that the bonus should be paid wholly in cash. The amount of bonus payable 
will be determined in the context of the time served during the performance year, the performance of the 
Group and of the individual over the relevant period, and the circumstances of the Director’s loss of office. 
If Group or individual performance has been poor, or if the individual’s employment has been terminated in 
circumstances amounting to misconduct, no bonus will be payable. 
 Mandatory deferred bonus share awards
Injury, disability, death, 
redundancy, retirement, 
or other such event as the 
Committee determines 
Awards will normally vest in full (ie not pro-rated for time). At the normal vesting date, 
unless the Committee decides 
that awards should vest earlier 
(eg in the event of death).
Change of control Awards will normally vest in full (ie not pro-rated for time). Awards 
may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, 
where appropriate. 
On change of control.
All other reasons Awards normally lapse. Not applicable.
LTIP awards and BDSMP matching awards
Injury, disability, death, 
redundancy, retirement, 
or other such event as the 
Committee determines 
Awards will normally be pro-rated for time and will vest based on 
performance over the original performance period (unless the Committee 
decides to measure performance to the date of cessation).
At the normal vesting date, 
unless the Committee decides 
that awards should vest earlier 
(eg in the event of death).
Change of control LTIp awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest subject to performance 
over the performance period to the change of control. 
LTIp awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement 
awards, where appropriate.
BDSMp matching awards will normally vest subject to performance over the 
performance period to the change of control and will be pro-rated for time. 
On change of control.
All other reasons Awards normally lapse. Not applicable. 
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, where permitted by the scheme rules, to alter these default provisions on a case-by-case basis, 
following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
73
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
a pproach to recruitment remuneration 
External appointment
In cases of hiring or appointing a new executive Director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all existing components  
of remuneration, as follows:
pay element policy on recruitment Maximum
Salary Based on: the size and nature of the responsibilities of the proposed role; 
current market pay levels for comparable roles; the candidate’s experience; 
implications for total remuneration; internal relativities; and the candidate’s 
current salary.
–
pension Option to join the defined contribution scheme, and/or to receive 
a cash allowance.
–
Benefits As described in the policy table and may include, but are not limited to, 
car, medical insurance, and relocation expenses and/or allowances.
–
Sharesave New appointees will be eligible to participate on identical terms to all other 
u K employees.
In line with HMRC limits.
Annual bonus As described in the policy table and typically pro-rated for proportion of 
year served; performance measures may include strategic and operational 
objectives tailored to the individual in the financial year of joining.
150% of salary.
LTIp New appointees may be granted awards under the LTIp on similar terms 
to other executives.
250% of salary.
Other The Remuneration Committee may make an award under a different 
structure under the relevant Listing Rule to replace incentive arrangements 
forfeited on leaving a previous employer. Any such award would have a 
fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, taking into account 
relevant factors including performance conditions, the likelihood of those 
conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining. 
Details of any such award will be disclosed in the first Annual Report on 
Remuneration following its grant.
–
Internal promotion to the Board
In cases of appointing a new executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees 
detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to executive Director, the Company will 
continue to honour these arrangements even if there are instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing executive 
Director remuneration policy at the time of promotion.
Chairman and non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy
purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity performance metrics
Annual fee
To attract and retain high-calibre 
non-executive Directors. 
Annual fees paid to the Chairman 
and non-executive Directors are 
reviewed periodically. An additional 
fee is payable for the Senior 
Independent Director, and also in 
respect of Committee chairmanship.
Currently paid 100% in cash.
Annual fees are applied in line  
with the outcome of the review.
None.
74 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company. They do have letters of appointment. The non-executive 
Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans. The dates relating to the appointments of the Chairman and 
non-executive Directors who served during the reporting period are as follows:
Non-executive Director position Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Date of re-election
Andrew Shilston Chairman 8 May 2012 30 March 2012 8 May 2015
Douglas Caster Non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 8 May 2015
Victoire de Margerie
*
Non-executive Director 8 May 2012 1 March 2012 8 May 2015
Andrew Reynolds Smith Non-executive Director 10 May 2013 14 February 2013 8 May 2015
Rob Rowley Non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 8 May 2015
* Victoire de Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February 2016.
Consideration of employment conditions
The Group seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies – including trade unions and works councils – 
as part of its broader employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each 
case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates. In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee also 
considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, but the Committee does not currently consult with employees specifically 
on executive remuneration policy and framework. prior to the annual salary review, the Remuneration Committee is briefed by the Director of 
Human Resources about pay increase data that individual business units will consider when deciding local pay awards for their specific businesses 
and countries. This also forms part of the considerations for determining executive Director remuneration. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee considers shareholder views received during the year and at the AGM each year, as well as guidance from investor representative 
bodies more broadly, in shaping remuneration policy. The Committee keeps the remuneration policy under regular review, to ensure it continues 
to reinforce the Group’s long-term strategy, and aligns executive Directors with shareholders’ interests. It is the Remuneration Committee’s policy 
to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes to its executive remuneration policy.
2. aNN ual r EPOr T ON r Emu NEra TiON
The following section provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year.
r emuneration Committee membership in 2015
The Remuneration Committee is currently composed of four non-executive Directors. Each of the non-executive Directors is regarded by the 
Board as independent, except the Chairman of the Company who was considered independent upon appointment. The Remuneration Committee 
met four times during the year. Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the Corporate governance report on page 53.
Committee members:
Douglas Caster (Chairman)
Andrew Shilston Rob Rowley
Victoire de Margerie
*
 Andrew Reynolds Smith
* Victoire de Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February 2016.
Summary of shareholder voting at the a Gm
The following table shows the results of the latest binding vote on the remuneration policy (at the 2014 AGM) and advisory vote on the 2014 
Annual Report on Remuneration (at the 2015 AGM).
Resolution For Against Withheld
*
Remuneration report (at 2015 AGM) 57.36% 42.64% 2,226,102
Remuneration policy (at 2014 AGM) 97.84% 2.16% 421,245
*  Votes ‘withheld’ are not votes in law and, therefore, have not been included in the calculation of the proportion of votes ‘for’ or ‘against’ the resolution.
The Company has always been proactive in engaging with its major shareholders, as well as discussing and considering issues raised by 
shareholders at its AGMs. Noting the outcome of the vote on the Remuneration report at the 2015 AGM, the Remuneration Committee 
contacted major shareholders to discuss their concerns, which included the ‘good leaver’ treatment of the previous CEO and the continued 
use of the BDSMp. Following a review of remuneration in light of these comments, the Board has been consulting major shareholders 
in early 2016 on proposed changes to the package (as set out in the policy report) to address this feedback.
75
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
Single total figure of remuneration for executive Directors
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015  
and the prior year.
pete Raby Kevin Dangerfield Andrew Hosty
*
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
1. Salary £195,833 – £403,438 £315,000 £380,833 £346,800 
2. Benefits £5,531 – £12,641 £12,562 £12,676 £12,562 
3. Bonus £97,721 – £197,281 £205,380 £186,227 £224,380
4. BDSMp – – –  –  –  – 
5. LTIp – – –  –  – – 
6. pension £39,167 – £81,373 £92,220 £81,228 £94,883
7. Other £450,000 – – £1,800 – £1,440
Total £788,252 – £694,733 £626,962 £660,964 £ 680,065
*  Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016.
The figures have been calculated as follows:
1.  Base salary: amount earned for the year. pete Raby joined Morgan Advanced Materials plc on 1 August 2015. For Kevin Dangerfield and 
Andrew Hosty, salary includes base pay plus an additional temporary allowance paid between January 2015 and July 2015 prior to the new 
CEO commencing employment (as disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration).
2.  Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year. Includes private medical insurance and a company car (or car allowance).
3.  Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year. The maximum opportunity in 2015 for each executive Director was 
100% of the total salary earned during the 2015 year.
4.  BDSMp: the estimated value on 31 December 2015 of 2013 BDSMp matching shares (and dividend equivalents) vesting in 2016 subject to 
performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2015. The 2014 value represents the actual value (including dividend 
equivalents) of 2012 BDSMp matching shares at vesting (on 21 March 2015).
5.  LTIp: the estimated value on 31 December 2015 of 2013 LTIp shares vesting in 2016 subject to performance over the three-year period ended 
31 December 2015. The 2014 value represents the actual value of 2012 LTIp shares at vesting (on 27 February 2015).
6.  pension: in respect of pete Raby, the figure is a cash allowance in lieu of pension. In respect of Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty, the figure 
is 20x the increase in the value of their accrued benefit (net of inflation) over the year, less Directors’ contributions, plus the value of any 
Company contribution.
7.  Other: for Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty, comprises the value of Sharesave options granted in the year, based on the embedded value 
at grant (20% of the grant-date share price multiplied by the number of options granted). Full details of executive Director Sharesave options 
are available on pages 86 to 88 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
  For pete Raby in 2015, reflects the value at grant of the one-off awards on recruitment disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration. 
This value comprises a one-off cash award of £50,000 and a restricted share award with a face value on grant of £400,000. please see page 80 
for further details of this award.
incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2015
Annual bonus in respect of 2015 performance
Targets for the annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the short- and long-term requirements of the Group. 
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid. This approach is intended to align executive reward with shareholder return 
by rewarding the achievement of ‘stretch’ targets.
For 2015, the bonus targets for the CEO, CFO and COO were split between Group EBITA before restructuring (weighted 40%), cash generation 
(weighted 40%) and individual strategic personal objectives (weighted 20%). The targets were set to incentivise the executive Directors to deliver 
stretching profit and cash performance for the Group. 
In addition to the achievement of the targets set, in considering any awards to be made, the Committee also takes into account the quality of the 
overall performance of the Group.
The table on the following page sets out retrospectively the assessment of performance relative to the 2015 bonus targets for the CEO, CFO and 
COO. Actual bonus payments are shown in the single total figure of remuneration table above.
76 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Annual bonus in respect of 2015 performance continued
performance range
performance measure
% of
 maximum bonus
Threshold
(0% payout)
Maximum
(100% payout)
Actual
performance
 outcome
% payout of
element
% salary 
earned
Group EBITA 40% £115.4m £126.0m
Below
threshold 0% 0%
Cash generation 40% £136.0m £150.0m £146.8m 77.1% 30.9%
personal objectives
pete Raby 20%
please see narrative below
for further details on objectives and 
performance against these
95.0% 19.0%
Kevin Dangerfield 20% 90.0% 18.0%
Andrew Hosty 20% 90.0% 18.0%
% of salary earned
Overall outcome
 Maximum bonus
(% salary)
Group
EBITA
Cash
generation personal
Total
outcome
Total 
payable
pete Raby 100% 0% 30.9% 19.0% 49.9% £97,721
Kevin Dangerfield 100% 0% 30.9% 18.0% 48.9% £197,281
Andrew Hosty 100% 0% 30.9% 18.0% 48.9% £186,227
Note: For both the EBITA and cash generation metrics, there was a straight-line payout between the threshold and maximum figures and all figures were calculated using 2015 
budgeted exchange rates.
pete Raby’s personal objectives after joining in the third quarter of 2015 included developing a forward vision for the Group as a basis for the 
strategic review, achieving the implementation of the Group-wide safety programme against agreed targets, completing an initial review of 
leadership capability and implementing agreed changes.
Kevin Dangerfield’s personal objectives, as acting CEO and as CFO, were: to deliver a sound half-year financial performance; to develop 
technology roadmaps for all the Group’s major technology areas; to achieve the implementation of the Group-wide safety programme against 
agreed targets; and to deliver organic growth against agreed targets. His objectives as CFO for the fourth quarter were also to support the 
strategic review of the Group. The organic growth target was not met.
Andrew Hosty’s personal objectives were: to deliver the benefits of the restructuring of the carbon portfolio; to review, agree and implement 
plans for the ongoing RCF to Superwool
®
 product transition; to make improvements to the operating effectiveness and reorganization of specified 
business units; and to deliver organic growth against agreed targets. From the third quarter, his objectives were to advise the new CEO on future 
technology strategy and its implications for the strategic review. The organic growth target was not met.
2013 BDSMP award vesting 
The performance period for the 2013 BDSMp (in which Andrew Hosty was the only executive Director to participate) ended on 31 December 
2015. Over the period, Morgan Advanced Materials plc’s EpS growth was below the threshold annual growth rate of 8% pa. Accordingly, Andrew 
Hosty’s matching share award of 22,422 shares (and any associated matching dividend shares) will lapse in full on 25 March 2016.
Director
Investment
 shares
*
Maximum
 potential
 matching
 shares
Matching
 dividend
 shares
Match 
earned
Matching
 shares
 released
Matching
 dividend
 shares
 released
Matching
 shares 
lapsed
Matching
 dividend
 shares 
lapsed Date of vesting
Andrew Hosty
†
7,474 22,422 – – – – 22,422 – 25 March 2016
*   Calculated using the award price of £2.8640 (the market value of one Morgan Advanced Materials plc Ordinary share on 22 March 2013, the dealing day immediately preceding 
the grant date). Shares in this table are stated on a pre-tax basis. Shares awarded on a pre-tax basis are subject to tax when sold.
†  Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016.
77
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
2013 LTIP award vesting 
Awards granted to executive Directors in 2013 were subject to relative TSR performance, EpS growth and Group average ROCE over a three-year 
period ended 31 December 2015. The EpS target (applying to one-third of each award) required three-year EpS growth of 8% pa for 30% of that 
element to vest, rising to full vesting for EpS growth of 15% pa or higher. Over the period Morgan Advanced Materials plc’s actual EpS growth was 
below threshold and accordingly none of the award will vest under this criterion.
The TSR target (applying to one-third of each award) required Morgan Advanced Materials plc’s three-year TSR performance to rank at median 
against constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced Materials plc’s 
TSR ranked at or above the upper quartile against this Index. Morgan Advanced Materials plc’s TSR was 16.9%, which was below median versus 
the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index. Accordingly, none of the award will vest under this criterion.
The Group average ROCE target (applying to the remaining one-third of each award) required three-year Group average ROCE of 33% for 30% 
of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for Group average ROCE of 37% or higher. Morgan Advanced Materials plc’s Group average ROCE 
was 27.4%, which was below the 33% threshold for this part of the award, and therefore none of the award will vest under this criterion.
This combined performance resulted in none of the 2013 LTIp awards vesting and these will lapse in full. Details of the awards to executive 
Directors are set out in the table below:
Director
Maximum
 potential LTIp
 award
*
Maximum
 potential
 LTIp-CSOp
 award
LTIp award
 vested
LTIp-CSOp
 award vested
LTIp-CSOp
 award
 exercised
†
Date of vesting
Kevin Dangerfield 100,147 1,981 – – – 20 May 2016
Andrew Hosty 101,233 10,750 – – – 20 May 2016
*  Calculated using the award price of £2.7906 (the average share price over the five dealing days from 13 May 2013 to 17 May 2013).
†  From the vesting date, participants have seven years to exercise LTIp-CSOp awards.
The interest in the 2013 LTIp retained by Mark Robertshaw (who left the Company on 31 December 2014) will not vest and will lapse in full.
Pension
In the year under review, two of the three executive Directors participated in the Morgan Group Senior Staff pension and Life Assurance Scheme 
(the Senior Scheme) which is a contributory, HMRC-registered, defined benefit, funded occupational pension scheme. With effect from 6 April 
2006 the basis of the scheme switched from final salary to career average and the normal pension age increased by five years. Its main features 
are now: 
 > A normal pension age of 65.
 > pension at normal pension age based on two-thirds of career average pensionable salary, for those with at least 20 years’ (26 years and eight 
months for joiners since 2006) potential service to age 65 on joining. 
 > Life assurance of four times basic salary.
 > Dependants’ pension on death.
pensionable salary in the Senior Scheme is the member’s basic salary restricted to an earnings cap of £1 17,375 for Kevin Dangerfield and £128,200 
for Andrew Hosty. 
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Additional information
Executive Director
2015 
Value of increase 
in scheme benefit
 less Directors’
contributions 
£000
2014 
Value of increase 
in scheme benefit
 less Directors’ 
 contributions
 £000
Accrued pension
 31 December
 2015 
£000 pa
Accrued pension
 31 December
 2014 
£000 pa
Kevin Dangerfield 27 41 49 46
Andrew Hosty 23 39 62 59
pete Raby joined the Company on 1 August 2015 and is not accruing benefits within the Senior Scheme. He receives a cash allowance in lieu of 
pension of 20% of basic salary.
78 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive Directors
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive Director for the year ended 31 December 
2015 and the prior year. 
A Shilston D Caster
>
 2015 2014 2015 2014
1. Fee £178,500 £175,000 £63,000 £46,333
2. Benefits – – – –
3. pension – – – –
4. Bonus – – – –
5. BDSMp – – – –
6. LTIp – – – –
7. Other – – – –
Total £178,500 £175,000 £63,000 £46,333
V de Margerie A Reynolds Smith R Rowley
 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
1. Fee £46,196 £46,000 £47,000 £48,715 £55,000 £44,681
2. Benefits – – – – – –
3. pension – – – – – –
4. Bonus – – – – – –
5. BDSMp – – – – – –
6. LTIp – – – – – –
7. Other £5,329
*
– – – – –
Total £51,525 £46,000 £47,000 £48,715 £55,000 £44,681
> Appointed Senior Independent Director in January 2015.
*  payments made on behalf of Victoire de Margerie by the Company in respect of u K tax filings.
Scheme interests awarded in 2015
2015 BDSMP awards 
In March 2015, Kevin Dangerfield deferred 25% of his 2014 bonus into shares under the BDSMp, which was equivalent to 16.3% of 2014 salary 
and was granted a maximum matching award of shares under the BDSMp equivalent to three times his investment. The three-year performance 
period over which EpS performance will be measured began on 1 January 2015 and will end on 31 December 2017. This award will normally 
be eligible to vest on 23 March 2018. 
Investment shares Matching shares 
Executive Director Number
as % 2014
bonus Number Face value Earliest date of vesting
Kevin Dangerfield 14,775
*
25%
*
44,325 £154,030 23 March 2018
*   Calculated using the award price of £3.475 (the market value of one Morgan Advanced Materials plc Ordinary share on 20 March 2015, the dealing day immediately preceding the 
grant date).
The performance conditions attached to this award are as follows:
EpS performance  
(compound annual growth)
Vesting of matching shares  
(as a multiple of investment shares)
20% pa 3x match
16% pa 2x match
12% pa 1x match
– 
<
 8% pa Zero
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between these points. 
3.0x
2.0x
1.0x
0.0x
8% 12% 16% 20%
BDSMP matching shares
Matching shares
Three-year EPS growth (pa)
79
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
2015 LTIP awards
In 2015, pete Raby, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty were granted awards as follows:
Number of LTIp
 shares granted Executive Director
Number of
 LTIp-CSOp
 shares granted
Value of awards at grant 
Date of vesting £
as % of
 salary
pete Raby 127,543
*
8,696
*
470,000 100%
†
3 August 2018
Kevin Dangerfield 95,715
‡
– 315,000 100%
~
27 February 2018
Andrew Hosty 95,715
‡
– 315,000 90.83%
~
27 February 2018
*   Calculated using the award price of £3.4498 (the average share price over the five dealing days from 27 to 31 July 2015).
†  Based on annualized salary on recruitment.
‡ Calculated using the award price of £3.291 (the average share price over the five dealing days from 20 to 26 February 2015).
~ Calculated using 2014 salary.
The Committee discusses and reviews the performance criteria for new three-year LTIp awards before they are granted. For the awards 
granted in 2015, the Committee considered the balance of measures in light of the Group’s business plan and shareholder feedback, and decided 
to maintain the equal (one-third) weighting of the three performance criteria introduced in 2012. The following targets were agreed:
TSR against FTSE All-Share Industrials Index
% of award 
that vests EpS growth
% of award 
that vests Group ROCE
% of award 
that vests
upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 33% 33.33%
Median 10% 6% pa 10% 27% 10%
Below median Nil < 6% pa Nil < 27% Nil
2015 recruitment award to Pete r aby
On 3 August 2015, an award over 1 14,351 Ordinary shares in the Company (valued on the date of award at £400,000, calculated using the share 
price on 3 August 2015 of £3.4980) was made to pete Raby. This award was granted in accordance with Morgan’s policy on recruitment, and was 
made in recognition of the fair value of incentive awards which he forfeited on leaving his former employer. The award will vest in two tranches, 
on the dates given below, subject to pete Raby not having resigned or been dismissed in specified circumstances. There are no performance 
conditions attaching to this award. The structure of this recruitment award broadly mirrors that of the award forfeited on his joining Morgan.
Number of shares  
subject to award Vesting date
57,176 31 December 2016
57,175 31 December 2017
pete Raby was also paid a one-off cash sum of £50,000 on 3 August 2015, to reflect the fair value of the bonus opportunity forfeited on leaving 
his former employer and the cost of his relocation. No further relocation allowances will be payable.
Exit payments made in year
The auditors are required to report on this information.
No exit payments were made to Directors in the year under review. 
80 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Terms of a ndrew h osty’s redundancy
Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016 as a result of the role of COO being made redundant. Details of payments due to him on 
cessation of employment were published on 2 October 2015. In accordance with the terms of his service agreement, the Company agreed 
to make three equal payments to Andrew Hosty in lieu of notice for the remainder of his contractual notice period, comprising base salary, 
the cash equivalent of pension contributions and other benefits. The first of these payments was made on his termination date and the last 
will be made no later than September 2016. If Andrew Hosty obtains an alternative remunerated position prior to 1 October 2016 the 
Company will be entitled to make a corresponding reduction to these payments. The Company paid overall outplacement fees of £39,000 
on Andrew Hosty’s behalf. Andrew Hosty’s gross payment in lieu of notice was therefore reduced by £19,000 in response to the fact that 
the Company incurred outplacement fees in excess of the amount of £20,000 previously agreed with Andrew Hosty. Because his termination 
was as a result of redundancy, the Committee agreed to apply the good leaver provisions set out in the remuneration policy (pro-rated for time, 
and subject to performance measures, as approved by shareholders) for his retained share awards. Details of these unvested awards are shown 
in the corresponding tables on page 87.
Payments to past Directors
The auditors are required to report on this information.
No payments were made to past Directors in the year, other than the cash settlement of the bonus for the 2014 financial year (paid to 
Mark Robertshaw in March 2015) previously disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
External appointments 
Details of external appointments held by executive Directors and the fees retained in 2015 are provided in the table below:
Executive Director Company Role Fees retained
Kevin Dangerfield e2v Technologies plc Non-executive Director £47,500
Andrew Hosty Consort Medical plc Non-executive Director £38,500 
British Ceramic Research Ltd
†
 Non-executive Director £4,000
†  Andrew Hosty resigned from his post as non-executive Director of British Ceramic Research Ltd in June 2015.
implementation of remuneration policy for 2016
Base salary
Executive Directors’ salaries will not be increased in 2016. The table below shows the base salaries in 2015, and which will continue to apply from 
1 January 2016:
Base salary at:
Executive Director position 1 January 2016 1 January 2015 Increase
pete Raby CEO £470,000 £470,000
*
0%
Kevin Dangerfield CFO £322,500 £322,500 0%
Andrew Hosty
†
COO £354,000 £354,000 0%
*  Effective from appointment on 1 August 2015.
†  Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016.
The Committee wishes to draw shareholders’ attention to pete Raby’s salary. Although we believe that this appropriately reflects his recent 
appointment as CEO, we are committed to rewarding future performance and potential. The Committee may therefore wish to increase 
his salary in future years – by more than the average increase for the general employee population, if necessary – to reflect his performance 
in the role (and in line with our remuneration policy).
Annual bonus in respect of 2016 performance
The maximum bonus opportunity has been increased to 150% of salary. In addition, 33% of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for 
a further three-year period.
The bonus measures are unchanged from 2015. For 2016, cash generation will be weighted at 40% of the total bonus opportunity. Cash 
generation is defined as EBITA plus depreciation and adjusted for the impact of working capital movements. The EBITA measure will also be 
weighted at 40%, with the remaining 20% of the bonus opportunity continuing to be based on strategic personal objectives. The Committee 
believes that the cash generation target incentivises management to maintain focus on operating efficiency in difficult markets, as generating cash 
continues to be an important aspect of Group performance. The equal weighting with profit helps reinforce the Board’s strategy of targeting 
sustainable, steady profit growth over the medium to long term. 
The actual performance targets set at the beginning of the performance period are not disclosed as they are considered commercially sensitive 
at this time, given the close link between performance measures and the Group’s longer-term strategy. This is particularly relevant in the context 
of some of the Group’s close and unlisted competitors who are not required to disclose such information, and for whom the assumptions 
in our targets would provide valuable information in the current trading year. We will disclose these targets retrospectively, a practice we have 
implemented since 2013, at such time as these targets have become less commercially sensitive, and within three years of the end of the 
performance year.
81
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
2016 LTIP awards 
The Committee intends to grant LTIp awards shortly after the 2016 AGM under the proposed future remuneration policy, which is subject 
to shareholder approval at that meeting. If approved by shareholders, it is proposed that awards with face values of 150% of salary be made to 
the executive Directors, which will vest subject to the achievement of three-year performance targets. The performance measures and their 
weightings will remain unchanged from those attached to the 2015 LTIp awards (see pages 71 and 80) although, as explained in the introduction 
to this Report, some changes to the target ranges are proposed:
 > The EpS performance range to be 4%-1 1% pa, to align with the Group’s long-term strategic plan, analyst forecasts and external expectations 
for the performance of markets in which Morgan operates and competes. This range, set taking into account Morgan’s strategic plan as well 
as broker forecasts for Morgan and its peers, is considered by the Committee to be appropriate, but still very stretching, in the prevailing 
macro-economic environment.
 > To help ensure the relative TSR element of the LTIp balances relevance and robustness, it is proposed to split the TSR element equally 
between two comparator benchmarks: the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index, as currently, and the following tailored group 
of international sector comparators: BASF, British polythene Industries, Carborundum, Ibiden, Imerys, Krosaki Harima, LyondellBasell, 
Magnesita, Mersen, Minerals Technologies, RHI, SGL Carbon, Sumitomo Chemical, Toyo Tanso, Worley parsons, Vesuvius and Victrex. 
Each TSR element will operate independently, with vesting determined based on Morgan’s TSR rank relative to constituents of each TSR 
benchmark. The performance range will remain median to upper quartile.
 > The ROCE performance range remains unchanged at 27%-33%, to support the Group’s strategy for sustainable long-term growth over 
the next three years whilst continuing to represent an appropriately demanding target.
 > For all three measures, awards will continue to vest on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum, with 25% of each element 
(2015 awards: 30%) vesting at threshold.
Pension
At the time of preparing this Report, the Company is consulting with members of the Morgan Group Senior Staff pension and Life Assurance 
Scheme (the Senior Scheme) on proposals to close the Senior Scheme to future accrual. pete Raby is not impacted by these proposals, as he is 
in receipt of a pension cash allowance only. Kevin Dangerfield is a member of the Senior Scheme. Any decisions taken by the Board following 
the consultation and any consequent implications for Kevin Dangerfield’s pension arrangements will be set out in the 2016 Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Chairman and non-executive Director fees
The Chairman’s and non-executive Directors’ fees were reviewed in December 2015. There will be no change to these fees for 2016. Fees will 
be reviewed again in December 2016. The following fees will again apply in 2016:
Role Fee pa
Chairman £178,500
Non-executive Director £47,000
Committee chairman (additional fee) £8,000
Senior Independent Director (additional fee) £8,000
Percentage change in CEO remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration (2015 on 2014) compared to the average percentage change in 
remuneration for other u K-based employees. The u K employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as the CEO is based 
in the u K (albeit with a global role and responsibilities) and pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market conditions. 
Although similar remuneration principles apply across the wider Group, pay decisions for this subset are impacted by similar external market 
forces (eg wage inflation, local practice with respect to the provision of benefits, etc).
CEO % change in 
2015 (vs 2014)
for other 
employees Elements of remuneration 2015
*
2014
†
% change
Base salary received during the year £470,000 £ 507,500 -7.4% 1.5%
Taxable benefits (excluding pension) £13,274 £13,462 -1.4% -3.7%
Annual bonus £234,530 £330,890 -29.1% -23.2%
*  pete Raby commenced employment on 1 August 2015. The above figures have been annualized.
†  The figures for 2014 relate to Mark Robertshaw, the previous CEO. Mark Robertshaw left the Group on 31 December 2014.
82 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 r elative importance of spend on pay
The graphs below show shareholder distributions (ie dividends and share buybacks) and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years 
ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, and the percentage change year on year.
a dvisers
Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2010 as its executive remuneration adviser and was retained during the most recent financial year. 
In 2015, Kepler, now a brand of Mercer, provided independent advice on performance measurement, the setting of incentive targets, TSR analysis 
and the structure of long-term incentives, and provided market data in respect of senior executive remuneration and non-executive Director fees. 
Kepler reports directly to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and does not provide any other material services to the Group 
(nor does Kepler’s parent company, Mercer), and is considered to be independent. The Committee also received remuneration advice from 
Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street in relation to the appointment of the new CEO.
Kepler and Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street are signatories to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
Fees paid during the year to advisers for advice to the Remuneration Committee, charged on a time and materials basis, were as follows:
Adviser Fees (incl. expenses, excl. VAT)
Kepler £61,405
Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street £3,500
Comparison of Company performance
The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2015, of £100 invested in Morgan Advanced Materials plc’s shares on 31 December 2008 
compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 350 Index. The FTSE 350 Index – of which the Company is a 
constituent – has been chosen to replace the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index going forward because it is more widely followed by the u K’s 
investment community and more easily tracked over time.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Data source: Datastream
Financial year ending 31 December
FTSE 350 Index
Morgan Advanced Materials plc
£289
£197
£35m
£30m
£25m
£20m
£15m
£10m
£5m
£0m
£30.2m
4.0% change
£31.4m
2014 2015
SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS
£350m
£300m
£250m
£200m
£150m
£100m
£50m
£0m
£294.3m
1.8% change
£299.7m
2014 2015
TOTAL EMPLOYEE PAY EXPENDITURE
83
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
The table below details the CEO’s ‘single figure’ of remuneration over the same seven-year period.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
CEO M Robertshaw M Robertshaw M Robertshaw M Robertshaw M Robertshaw M Robertshaw p Raby
CEO single figure £676,512 £1,045,984 £3,371,302 £1,285,556 £648,932 £ 1,001,448 £788,252
Annual bonus (% max) 20% 100% 100% 0% 0% 65% 50%
BDSMp vesting (% max) n/a 0% 60% 100% 0% 0% n/a
LTIp vesting (% max) n/a 0% 100% 50% 0% 0% n/a
Directors’ interests in shares
Shares owned outright
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The shares held by each person who was a Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc as at 31 December 2015 (together with shares held by 
their connected persons) in the Ordinary share capital of the Company:
As at 
1 January 2015
or date of joining
As at 
31 December 2015
As at 
23 February 2016
*
Executive Directors
pete Raby
†
– 10,928 10,928
Kevin Dangerfield 273,306 289,933      289,933
Andrew Hosty
>
144,988 138,368 n/a
Non-executive Directors   
Andrew Shilston 30,000 70,000 70,000
Douglas Caster –
~
–
~
–
~
Victoire de Margerie
**
2,000 2,000 n/a
Andrew Reynolds Smith 5,000 5,000 5,000
Rob Rowley –
~
5,000 5,000
*  The date of this Report.
†  pete Raby joined the Board on 1 August 2015.
>  Andrew Hosty stepped down from the Board on 8 January 2016.
~ Directors’ qualifying shareholding requirement removed when the Company’s current Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
** Victoire de Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February 2016.
As at 7 March 2016, Douglas Caster’s holding was 18,000 shares. Helen Bunch, appointed non-executive Director on 24 February 2016, does not 
hold shares in Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Executive Directors’ shareholding guidelines
The table below shows the shareholding of each executive Director against their respective shareholding guideline as at 31 December 2015.
Shareholding
 guideline
(% 2015 salary)
Shares 
owned
 outright
Shares 
subject to
 performance
*
performance-
 tested but 
unvested 
 shares
†
Shares subject 
to BDSMp 
 deferral
‡
Options 
vested but
 unexercised
§
Current 
 shareholding 
(% 2015 salary)
>
Guideline 
met?
pete Raby
**
150%  10,928 136,239 114,351 – – 6% Building
Kevin Dangerfield 100% 289,933 228,708 102,128 7,830 3,515 228% yes
Andrew Hosty 100% 138,368 188,816 134,405 3,961 3,653 100% yes
* 2014 and 2015 LTIp and LTIp-CSOp awards and 2014 and 2015 BDSMp matching awards.
†  2013 LTIp and LTIp-CSOp awards and 2013 BDSMp matching awards for the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2015. The 2013 LTIp will lapse on 20 May 2016 
and the 2013 BDSMp will lapse on 25 March 2016.
‡ Estimated net number of shares voluntarily deferred under the BDSMp.
§ Options granted under the Sharesave scheme for Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty.
>  Based on an executive Director’s 2015 salary and the share price at 31 December 2015, comprising shares owned outright and shares subject to deferral (estimated net number 
of shares voluntarily deferred under the BDSMp).
** pete Raby joined the Board on 1 August 2015. His performance-tested but unvested share award relates to the recruitment share award made on 3 August 2015.
84 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 u nless otherwise stated, figures given in the tables on pages 85 to 87 are for shares or interests in shares.
Pete r aby
*
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 August 
2015
*
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
2015 – 127,543 – – 127,543 344.98p – 01.01.15 – 31.12.17
2015 
Funding
– 8,696 – – 8,696 344.98p – 01.01.15 – 31.12.17
Share options
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 August 
2015
*
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
Subject to performance 
conditions
2015 LTIp-
 CSOp – 8,696 – – 8,696 344.98p – 01.01.15 – 31.12.17
Recruitment award
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 August 
2015
*
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
Subject to continued 
service only 2015 – 114,351 – – 114,351 349.80p – –
Total interests in share plans
As at 1 August 2015
*
As at 31 December 2015
– 259,286
>
*  pete Raby joined the Board on 1 August 2015.
> Includes a funding award of 8,696 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOp and therefore not transferable to pete Raby.
85
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
Kevin Dangerfield
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 January 
2015
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
No further performance 
conditions, lapsed
2012 80,101 – – 80,101 – 355.80p – 02.01.12 – 31.12.14
No further performance 
conditions, not yet 
released 
2013
#
100,147 – – – 100,147 279.06p – 01.01.13 – 31.12.15
2013 
Funding
#
1,981 – – – 1,981 279.06p – 01.01.13 – 31.12.15
Subject to performance 
conditions
2014 81,436 – – – 81,436 338.34p – 01.01.14 – 31.12.16
2014
 Funding
7,232 – – – 7,232 338.34p – 01.01.14 – 31.12.16
2015 – 95,715 – – 95,715 329.10p – 01.01.15 – 31.12.17
Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 January 
2015
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
No further performance 
conditions, released/
lapsed
2012
 Investment
1 1,346 – 1 1,346 – – 330.50p 329.90p
02.01.12 – 31.12.14
2012
 Matching
34,038 – – 34,038 – 330.50p –
2012
 Dividend
†
– 1,199 1,199 – – Various
‡
329.90p
Subject to performance 
conditions
2015
 Investment
– 14,775 – – 14,775 347.50p –
01.01.15 – 31.12.17
2015
 Matching
– 44,325 – – 44,325 347.50p –
Share options
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 January 
2015
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
Subject to performance 
conditions
2013 LTIp-
 CSOp
#
1,981 – – – 1,981 279.06p – 01.01.13 – 31.12.15
2014 LTIp- 
CSOp
7,232 – – – 7,232 338.34p – 01.01.14 – 31.12.16
Subject to continued 
service only
2014
 Sharesave
3,515 – – – 3,515 256.00p – 01.12.14 – 30.1 1.17
Total interests in share plans
As at 1 January 2015 As at 31 December 2015
329,009
>
358,339
>
#  The 2013 LTIp will not vest and will lapse in full.
†  Dividend shares received on 2012 Investment shares.
‡   The price used for BDSMp dividend shares is the closing share price of one Morgan Advanced Materials plc Ordinary share trading on the London Stock Exchange on the dividend 
payment date.
>  Includes a funding award of 9,213 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOp and therefore not transferable to Kevin Dangerfield.
86 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 a ndrew h osty
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 January 
2015
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
No further performance 
conditions, lapsed
2012 87,830 – – 87,830 - 355.80p – 02.01.12 – 31.12.14
No further performance 
conditions, not yet 
released
2013
#
101,233 – – 101,233 279.06p – 01.01.13 – 31.12.15
2013
Funding
#
10,750 – – 10,750 279.06p – 01.01.13 – 31.12.15
Subject to performance 
conditions
2014 93,101 – – – 93,101 338.34p – 01.01.14 – 31.12.16
2015 – 95,715 – – 95,715 329.10p – 01.01.15 – 31.12.17
Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 January 
2015
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
No further performance 
conditions, released/
lapsed
2012
 Investment
44,988 – 44,988 – – 330.50p 345.75p
02.01.12 – 31.12.14
2012
 Matching
134,964 – – 134,964 – 330.50p –
2012
 Dividend
†
– 4,766 4,766 – – Various
‡
345.75p
No further performance 
conditions, not yet 
released
2013
 Investment
7,474 – – – 7,474 286.40p –
01.01.13 – 31.12.15
2013
 Matching
#
22,422 – – 22,422 286.40p –
Share options
Status at 31 December 2015 plan
As at 
1 January 
2015
Allocations
 during 
the year
Released
 during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
As at 
31 December
 2015
Market price 
at date of
 allocation
Market price
 on date of
 release performance period
No further performance 
conditions, not yet 
released
2013 LTIp-
 CSOp
#
10,750 – – – 10,750 279.06p – 01.01.13 – 31.12.15
Subject to continued 
service only
2011
 Sharesave
3,380 – 3,380 – – 213.00p 349.00p 01.12.1 1 – 30.1 1.14
2012
 Sharesave
841 – – – 841 214.00p – 01.12.12 – 30.1 1.15
2014
 Sharesave
2,812 – – – 2,812 256.00p – 01.12.14 – 30.1 1.17
Total interests in share plans
As at 1 January 2015 As at 31 December 2014
520,545
>
345,098
>
# The 2013 LTIp and 2013 BDSMp matching share award will not vest and both will lapse in full.
†  Dividend shares received on 2012 Investment shares.
‡   The price used for BDSMp dividend shares is the closing share price of one Morgan Advanced Materials plc Ordinary share trading on the London Stock Exchange on the dividend 
payment date. 
> Includes a funding award of 10,750 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOp and therefore not transferable to Andrew Hosty.
87
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMu NERATION REpORT
continued
Details of plans
LTIP
plan Details
2013 – 2015
Awards granted to executive Directors in 2013 and 2014 are subject to relative TSR, EpS and ROCE. The EpS target 
(applying to a third of each award) requires three-year EpS growth above a threshold of 8% pa of that element to vest, 
commencing at 30% vesting for that element, and rising to full vesting for EpS growth of 15% pa or higher. The TSR target 
(applying to another third of each award) requires Morgan Advanced Materials’ three-year TSR performance to rank at 
median against the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced 
Materials’ TSR ranks at or above the upper quartile against the companies in this Index. For the 2013 and 2014 awards, the 
ROCE element has been set for a 33-37% pa range, vesting on a straight-line basis, with 30% of the measure vesting at the 
33% threshold. ROCE is measured as the average annual ROCE over the three-year performance period for the 2013 
cycle, and as the ROCE in the final year of the performance period for the 2014 cycle. The 2015 awards were on the same 
basis as the 2014 awards described above, except that the EpS target range was 6%-15% pa and the ROCE target range 
was 27%-33% in the final year of the performance period.
Bonus Deferral Matching Plan
plan Details
2013 – 2015
Deferral of bonus on a gross basis. Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 2013, 2014 and 2015 are subject to 
three-year EpS growth. The EpS target requires three-year EpS growth above a threshold of 8% pa before any matching, 
12% pa for a 1x match, 16% pa for a 2x match, and 20% pa or higher for a 3x match.
 
There is straight-line vesting between these points.
Share options
plan Details
LTIp – CSOp
LTIp 2013: For the CFO and former COO, awards were structured as an Approved performance Share plan (ApSp) and 
comprise three elements: (i) HMRC-approved options (CSOp) over shares to the value of up to £30,000 with an exercise 
price of 279.06 pence per share; (ii) an LTIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares to the value of the remainder 
of the award above this limit; and (iii) a funding award, also in the form of a conditional award of free shares, over such 
numbers of shares whose value at exercise at the approved option equals up to £30,000. For the CEO, the 2013 award 
was structured as an LTIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
The provisions of these CSOp options, funding awards and LTIp awards was linked so that the maximum aggregate number 
of shares that could be acquired on exercise of LTIp and CSOp awards (the funding award being used to pay the exercise 
price arising on exercise of the CSOp) was limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the 
awards equal to 100% of Kevin Dangerfield’s 2012 base salary and 100% of Andrew Hosty’s 2012 base salary. Vested 
funding awards were not transferable to the participant.
LTIp 2014: The CFO’s award was structured as an ApSp as described above. For the former COO, the 2014 award was 
structured as an LTIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
LTIp 2015: The CEO’s award was structured as an ApSp as described above. For the CFO and former COO, the 2015 
award was structured as an LTIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
2013 Sharesave
HMRC-approved all-employee Sharesave scheme. Exercise price set at 20% discount to share price on date of grant. 
Options vest after three years of continuous service and must be exercised within six months of vesting. Details of options 
held by Directors under Sharesave are outlined in the individual Director shareholding tables above.
2014 Sharesave
2015 Sharesave
Other transactions involving Directors are set out in note 26 (Related parties) to the Financial statements. 
This Report was approved by the Board on 23 February 2016.
Signed on behalf of the Board
DOu GlaS CaSTE r
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMu NERATION COMMITTEE
88 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 OTHER DISCLOSu RES
The Directors’ Report is required to be produced by law. The u KLA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs) and Listing Rules (LRs) also 
require the Company to make certain disclosures.
pages 48 to 92 inclusive (together with the sections of the Annual 
Report incorporated by reference) constitute a Directors’ Report that 
has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable law, 
and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that Report are 
subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
The Company
Legal form of the Company
Morgan Advanced Materials plc is a company incorporated in England 
and Wales with company number 286773.
Name change
The Company changed its name to Morgan Advanced Materials plc 
(from The Morgan Crucible Company plc) on 27 March 2013.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s 2016 AGM will be held on Friday 6 May 2016 at 
The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED. 
A Circular incorporating the Notice of AGM accompanies this 
Annual Report.
Statutory disclosures 
Amendment of the Articles of Association
The Company’s constitution, known as the Articles of Association 
(Articles), is essentially a contract between the Company and its 
shareholders, governing many aspects of the management of the 
Company. It deals with matters such as the rights of shareholders, 
the appointment and removal of directors, the conduct of the 
board and general meetings and communications by the Company. 
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders and are available on the Company’s 
website at www.morganadvancedmaterials.com.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The Articles provide that the Company may by ordinary resolution at 
general meeting appoint any person to act as a Director, provided that 
notice is given of the resolution identifying the proposed person by 
name and that the Company receives written confirmation of that 
person’s willingness to act as Director if he has not been recommended 
by the Board. The Articles also empower the Board to appoint as a 
Director any person who is willing to act as such. The maximum 
possible number of Directors under the Articles is 15. The Articles 
provide that the Company may by special resolution, or by ordinary 
resolution of which special notice is given, remove any Director before 
the expiration of his period of office. The Articles also set out the 
circumstances in which a Director shall vacate office. The Articles 
require that at each annual general meeting any Director who was 
appointed after the previous annual general meeting must be proposed 
for election by the shareholders. Additionally, any other Director who 
has not been elected or re-elected at one of the previous two annual 
general meetings must be proposed for re-election by the shareholders. 
The Articles also allow the Board to select any other Director to be 
proposed for re-election. In each case, the rules apply to Directors 
who were acting as Directors on a specific date selected by the Board. 
This is a date not more than 14 days before, and no later than, the date 
of the notice of the annual general meeting.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the Directors will 
stand for election or re-election on an annual basis in compliance with 
the provisions of the u K Corporate Governance Code. Details of the 
career history of Directors in post as at the date of this Report, and the 
Board Committees on which they serve, can be found on pages 50 
and 51.
Results and dividends 
The total profit (profit attributable to owners of the parent and 
non-controlling interests) for the year ended 31 December 2015 
was £38.1 million (2014: £12.3 million). profit before taxation for 
the same period was £59.0 million (2014: £31.5 million). Revenue 
was £91 1.8 million (2014: £921.7 million) and operating profit was 
£82.9 million (2014: £54.3 million). Basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations was 1 1.9 pence (2014: 2.7 pence). Capital and 
reserves at the end of the year were £186.4 million (2014: £187.7 
million). The total profit of £38.1 million will be transferred to equity.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate 
of 7.0 pence per share on the Ordinary share capital of the Company, 
payable on 27 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 6 May 2016. Together with the interim dividend of 
4.0 pence per share paid on 27 November 2015, this final dividend, 
if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year 
to 1 1.0 pence per share (2014: 10.9 pence).
Directors
All those who served as Directors at any time during the year 
under review are listed on pages 50 and 51, with the exception of 
Andrew Hosty and Victoire de Margerie, who resigned from the 
Board on 8 January 2016 and 4 February 2016 respectively.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the Company’s Articles, u K legislation and any directions 
given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed 
by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors’ interests
Details of Directors’ interests (and their connected persons’ beneficial 
interests) in the share capital of the Company are listed on page 84. 
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into separate indemnity deeds with each 
Director containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined in 
Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, under which the Company 
has agreed to indemnify each Director in respect of certain liabilities 
which may attach to each of them as a Director or as a former Director 
of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. The indemnity deeds were 
in force during the financial year to which this Directors’ Report relates 
and are in force as at the date of approval of the Directors’ Report.
Information required by LR 9.8.4R
Information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.4R is as follows. 
On 3 August 2015, an award over 1 14,351 Ordinary shares in the 
Company (value at date of award of £400,000, calculated using the 
share price on 3 August 2015 of £3.4980) was made to pete Raby. 
This award was granted in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.2(2) and 
was made in recognition of the loss of incentive awards which he 
forfeited on leaving his former employer. The award will vest in two 
tranches, on the dates given below, subject to pete Raby not having 
resigned or been dismissed in specified circumstances. There are no 
performance conditions attaching to this award.
Number of shares  
subject to award Vesting date
57,176 31 December 2016
57,175 31 December 2017
89
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER DISCLOSu RES
continued
Human resources 
Details of the Group’s human resources policies and employee 
involvement are set out on pages 33 to 35.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) 
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Research and development
During the year, the Group invested £25.4 million (2014: £21.7 million) 
in research and development. The Group did not capitalise any 
development costs in 2015 (2014: nil).
Details of the Group’s research and development during the year are 
set out on pages 36 and 37.
Greenhouse gas emissions
u nder the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations) the Group is required to 
report its annual greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO
2
e) in its Directors’ Report.
Morgan has published information on its emissions due to the 
combustion of fossil fuels and the electricity purchased by the Company 
for its own use in its annual EHS report since 2004 and in its Annual 
Report since 2005. Since 201 1 the Group’s CO
2
e emissions due to 
energy consumption have been externally assured by pwC (see pwC’s 
2015 Assurance Report on page 32). The Group has participated in the 
Carbon Disclosure project (CDp) since 2006 and in 2015 achieved a 
score of 97B, reflecting the depth and quality of climate change 
data Morgan has disclosed to investors and the global marketplace 
through the CDp.
The Regulations require the Group to disclose its emissions due to the 
combustion of biomass and due to process and fugitive emissions which 
are in addition to the emissions due to energy use reported on page 27 
in the Corporate responsibility section of this Annual Report. 
2015
Tonnes CO 2e
2014
Tonnes CO 2 e
Emissions from combustion of fuels 
and operation of facilities
*
Combustion of fossil fuels ^ 133,100 152,900
Operation of facilities, including process 
emissions
†
30,200 35,900
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own consumption
‡
purchased electricity ^ †
239,600 244,500
Intensity measurement
§
Tonnes CO
2
e due to fossil fuels and 
purchased electricity per £m revenue ^ 409 431
Tonnes GHGs per £m revenue 447 473
CO 2e is the amount of CO 2 and the amount of non-CO 2 greenhouse gas with the 
equivalent global warming potential.
Data is rounded to the nearest 100 tonnes of CO 2e.
*  Excludes emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles estimated at approx. 
2,200 tonnes CO 2e in 2015 (2014: 2,300).
 ^  The 2015 and 2014 information regarding CO 2e due to energy use has been subject  
to assurance by pwC. See the Independent Assurance Report on page 32 of this 
Annual Report and on page 30 of the 2014 Annual Report for further details.
†  Electricity from renewable sources at zero tonnes CO 2 per kWh. Emissions increase  
by 4,400 tonnes at grid-average rates (2014: 3,100 tonnes).
‡ Excludes steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China and one in Europe.
§ Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
As required under the Regulations, the above report includes the 
material emission sources from the operations and activities covered by 
the Group’s Financial statements. As noted, the reports exclude 
emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles and emissions 
relating to steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China and one 
in Europe, which are in total estimated to account for less than 1% of 
total emissions. The Directors consider that these sources of emissions 
are not material to the total of the emissions.
The Group’s reporting methodology is based on the Greenhouse Gas 
protocol with emission factors for standard grid electricity by country 
and year from the International Energy Agency together with other 
factors as published by the u K Department of Environment, Food 
and Rural Affairs in order to calculate the CO
2
e emissions included 
in this Report.
Political donations
No political donations have been made. Morgan Advanced Materials plc 
has a policy of not making donations to any political party, representative 
or candidate in any part of the world.
Financial instruments 
Details of the Group’s use of financial instruments, together with 
information on policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash flow, 
credit, interest rate and currency risks, can be found in note 19 on 
pages 124 to 131. All information detailed in this note is incorporated 
into the Directors’ Report by reference and is deemed to form part 
of the Directors’ Report.
Share capital and related matters
Share capital
The Company’s share capital as at 31 December 2015 is set out in note 
17 on pages 121 to 123. The Company’s Ordinary shares represent 
99.85% of the total issued share capital, with the 5.5% Cumulative 
First preference shares representing 0.04% and the 5.0% Cumulative 
Second preference shares representing 0.1 1%. The rights and 
obligations attaching to the Company’s Ordinary shares, and restrictions 
on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in the Articles. 
Shareholders’ rights
The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled: to receive dividends, when 
declared; to receive the Company’s reports and accounts; to attend 
and speak at general meetings of the Company; to appoint proxies; and 
to exercise voting rights. 
Details of the structure of the Company’s preference share capital and 
the rights attaching to the Company’s preference shares are set out in 
note 17 on pages 122 and 123. 
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with 
regard to control of the Company. The Company is not aware of any 
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Share allotment and repurchase authorities
The Directors were granted authority at the 2015 AGM to allot shares 
in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any 
securities into shares in the Company up to (a) a nominal amount of 
£23,780,832 and (b) a nominal amount of £47,561,664 in connection 
with a rights issue (such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted 
under (a)). This authority is due to lapse at the 2016 AGM. At the 2016 
AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant a similar allotment authority.
90 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors’ 
powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash up to an aggregate 
nominal amount representing approximately 10% of the issued share 
capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of the 2016 
Notice of AGM, of which up to 5% of the issued share capital would 
be for use only in connection with acquisitions and specified capital 
investments.
The Directors did not seek an authority at the 2015 AGM to 
repurchase shares in the capital of the Company. As at 31 December 
2015, there was no such authority in place. The Directors do not 
intend to seek an authority to repurchase shares at the 2016 AGM.
Employee share and share option schemes 
The Company operates a number of employee share and share 
option schemes. Ninety-six employees hold awards under the 
Morgan Advanced Materials plc Long-Term Incentive plan, including 
share options held under the Approved performance Share plan, 
17 employees hold awards under the Morgan Advanced Materials 
Bonus Deferral Share Matching plan and 592 employees participate 
in the Company’s u K Sharesave scheme. Details of outstanding share 
awards and share options are given in note 20 on page 137.
All the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating to a 
change of control. Outstanding options and awards would normally 
vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to being 
pro-rated for time and to the satisfaction of any performance conditions 
at that time.
The Trustees of The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) 
have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to voting any shares 
held in the Trust at any general meeting. Their policy is not to vote 
the shares. If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares, 
the Trustees will have absolute and unfettered discretion on whether 
to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares held by them.
Major shareholdings
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified of the 
following, in accordance with DTR 5, from holders of notifiable 
interests representing 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share capital 
of the Company:
Number of
Ordinary shares %
*
prudential plc group of companies (M&G) 31,389,883 10.99
Ax A Investment Managers SA 23,560,970 8.63
Ameriprise Financial Inc., and its group 17,271,161 6.05
Harris Associates 14,410,180 5.04
Black Creek Investment Managers Inc. 14,320,390 5.01
FIL Limited 14,065,279 4.92
Schroders plc 12,304,156 4.31
*  percentages are shown as a percentage of the Company’s issued share capital as at 
31 December 2015, with the exception of Ax A Investment Managers SA which is 
shown as a percentage of the Company’s issued share capital at the time the holding 
was disclosed.
Note: As at 7 March 2016, there were no changes to the substantial shareholdings shown 
in the above table, with the exception of Black Creek Investment Management Inc. which 
notified the Company on 13 January 2016 that it had increased its interest to 17,325,087 
shares representing 6.07% of the issued share capital.
Transactions, contractual arrangements and  
post-balance sheet events
Significant agreements – change of control
The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various 
financial institutions. These facility agreements generally include change 
of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the 
Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
The most significant of such agreements are the u K £200 million 
multi-currency revolving facility agreement, which was signed on 
17 October 2014, and the privately placed Note purchase and 
Guarantee Agreements signed on 15 December 2007 and 30 June 
2010, for which the outstanding loan amounts are u SD250 million 
and €20 million respectively.
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter 
or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following 
a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture 
agreements. No such individual contract is considered to be significant 
in terms of its potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Post-balance sheet events
There have been no material events since the year end. 
r eporting, accountability and audit
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and parent Company Financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
Company Financial statements for each financial year. u nder that 
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu and applicable law 
and have elected to prepare the parent Company Financial statements 
in accordance with u K Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(u K Generally Accepted Accounting practice). 
A new u K GAAp accounting framework introduced by the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC) became mandatorily effective for the financial 
statements of u K companies in 2015. u nder this new framework, 
the Company is required to prepare parent Company Financial 
statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 on one 
of the new bases permitted by the FRC.
The Company has chosen to adopt FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’, which enables the Company to take advantage of 
the permitted election to utilise the disclosure exemptions allowed 
under FRS 101. The consolidated Financial statements of the Group 
on pages 97 to 145 are prepared in accordance with Eu -adopted 
International Financial Accounting Standards (IFRSs) and are unaffected 
by this new accounting framework. The Company proposes 
to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 
in its future Financial statements.
u nder Company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period.
91
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In preparing each of the Group and parent Company Financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 > Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
 > Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
 > For the Group Financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu .
 > For the parent Company Financial statements, state whether 
applicable u K Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
Company Financial statements.
 > prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its Financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.
u nder applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that 
law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the u K governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions 
are set out on pages 50 and 51, confirm that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
 > The Group’s Financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu , give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; and
 > The management report (comprising the Directors’ Report and 
the Strategic Report) includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report
The Board has prepared a Strategic Report which provides an 
overview of the development and performance of the Group’s business 
in the year ended 31 December 2015.
For the purposes of DTR 4.1.5R(2) and DTR 4.1.8, this Directors’ 
Report on pages 49 to 92 and the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 47 
comprise the management report, including the sections of the Annual 
Report and Financial statements incorporated by reference.
Each Director holding office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
Report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware, and that he 
has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make 
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
The Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the Remuneration 
Report were approved by the Board on 23 February 2016.
For and on behalf of the Board
Paul bO ul TON
COMpANy S ECRETARy & G ENERAL COu NSEL
23 February 2016
Morgan Advanced Materials plc 
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1Lp  
Registered in England, No. 286773
OTHER DISCLOSu RES
continued
92 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 OPiNiONS a ND CONClu SiONS ari SiNG  
frO m Our au DiT
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise 
the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows, the parent company Balance Sheet and the related notes. 
In our opinion: 
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
 > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European u nion (IFRSs as adopted by the Eu ); 
 > the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with u K Accounting Standards, including 
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and 
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks 
of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were:
 > Impairment assessment of Intangible assets  
(Customer Relationship £30.5 million, Technology £12.9 million)
Refer to page 62 (Audit Committee report), pages 102 to 105 
(accounting policy note) and pages 1 15 to 1 17 (financial disclosures)
The risk: The Group has generated significant intangible assets on 
acquisitions, whose recoverability is dependent on the ability of the 
businesses to which it relates to generate sufficient future economic 
benefits. There is a risk that this will not be the case which would 
result in an impairment being required. The most significant risks of 
impairment in this category relate to certain customer relationships 
within the Group balance (£30.5 million) and technology assets in 
Composites and Defence Systems (C&DS) (£9.7 million). The C&DS 
customer relationship asset (£5.8m) has been impaired in full in the 
year reflecting a level of decline in sales and orders from the u K MoD 
customer. The carrying value of the technology intangible, which has 
not been impaired in the year, is dependent on the business being able 
to generate additional revenue outside of its traditional customer base. 
The risk associated with the carrying value of the remaining customer 
relationship which has not been impaired in the year is dependent on 
the Group retaining its customer base.
Impairment reviews are performed by the Group when there is an 
indication that the carrying values may not be supported. The 
impairment reviews are based on discounted cash flow projections 
reflecting a number of assumptions and estimates which require 
judgment and are inherently uncertain. 
Our response: Our audit procedures included testing of the controls 
designed and applied to provide assurance that the projected future 
economic benefits are sufficient to support intangible asset carrying 
values. Our challenge of the key assumptions (relating to operating 
cashflows during the projection period, long term growth rates and 
discount rates) in the impairment calculations were based on our 
assessment of the historical accuracy of the Group’s impairment 
calculations. We compared the Group’s assumptions regarding key 
inputs such as projected economic growth, competition, cost inflation 
and discount rates to externally derived data as well as our own 
assessments. We tested the principles and mathematical integrity of 
the Group’s discounted cash flow model and assessed the sensitivity 
of the impairment calculations to changes in the key assumptions. 
We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures relating 
to the intangible asset including the impairment charge recognised 
in the period.
 > Recognition of provisions and contingent liabilities (£12.0 million)
Refer to page 62 (Audit Committee report), pages 102 to 105 
(accounting policy note) and page 143 (financial disclosures)
The risk: provisions are held in respect of closure and restructuring 
costs, environmental issues and other matters including the settlement 
of European class actions. The application of accounting standards 
to determine whether a provision should be recorded and, if so, 
the amount, is inherently subjective. 
Our response: Our audit procedures included a critical assessment of 
the extent to which the Group’s estimates are a balanced assessment 
of the latest available information and the accuracy and reliability of the 
sources of that information. We considered the appropriateness of the 
assumptions by reference to third party confirmations and legal advice, 
where available, and considered whether our understanding of the 
business gained throughout the audit process corroborated the 
provisions recorded, or indicated that further challenge was warranted. 
We considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect 
of provisions and contingent liabilities. We also assessed whether the 
Group’s disclosures about provisions and the treatment of movements 
on provisions in the income statement for the year were appropriate. 
 > Measurement of tax balances and contingencies (£12.3 million)
Refer to page 62 (Audit Committee report), pages 102 to 105 
(accounting policy note) and pages 1 18 to 1 19 (financial disclosures)
The risk: The Group is subject to income taxes in a large number 
of jurisdictions. The level of current tax and deferred tax recognised 
requires judgments as to the likely outcome of decisions to be made by 
the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in 
which the Group operates. There is a risk that the Group’s judgments 
do not adequately reflect the latest available, reliable information or an 
appropriate application of relevant tax legislation, and are either under 
or overstated as a result.
Our response: Our audit procedures included challenging the 
appropriateness of the Group’s assumptions and estimates in relation 
to tax assets and liabilities, by critically assessing the range of possible 
amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, likely settlements based 
on the latest correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and the 
complexity of the relevant tax legislation. We involved our tax specialists 
in analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine tax 
provisions because they have relevant experience of the application 
of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and 
courts. We also assessed whether the Group’s tax disclosures are 
appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
 > Presentation of specific adjusting items (£22.1 million pre-tax)
Refer to page 62 (Audit Committee report), pages 102 to 105 
(accounting policy note) and pages 109 to 1 1 1 (financial disclosures)
The risk: The Group separately presents certain income and 
expenditure as ‘specific adjusting items’ on the face of the income 
statement. ‘Specific adjusting items’ are not defined by IFRSs, as 
adopted by the European u nion, and therefore judgment is required 
by the directors to identify such items as ‘specific adjusting items’ 
INDEpENDENT Au DITOR’S REpORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS pLC ONLy
93
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy on a consistent basis. 
Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of material ‘specific 
adjusting items’ may distort the reader’s view of the financial result 
in the year.
Our response: Our audit procedures included making enquiries of the 
directors. We inspected and challenged the nature of items included 
within ‘specific adjusting items’ and agreed their respective amounts to 
supporting documentation, and to third party correspondence where 
appropriate. We assessed the consistency of the items classified as 
‘specific adjusting items’ year on year and in accordance with the 
Group’s accounting policy; and we considered the adequacy of the 
Group’s disclosures about the items included within this caption in note 
6 (specific adjusting items) and the related accounting policies for these 
categories on pages 102 to 105.
3.  Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 
£3.5 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit 
before taxation, normalised to exclude this year’s specific adjusting items 
as disclosed in note 6 of £22.1 million, of which it represents 4.3%. 
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected 
misstatements exceeding £0.175 million, in addition to other audit 
misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Group’s 88 reporting components, we subjected 26 to audits 
for Group reporting purposes and 18 to specified risk-focused audit 
procedures. Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by 
component auditors at the key reporting components in the following 
countries: u K, u SA, China, South Korea, France, and Italy and by the 
Group audit team in the u K. In addition, specified audit procedures 
were performed by component auditors in selected geographic 
locations such as u SA, India, Germany and Brazil.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 
following percentages of the group’s results:
Group
revenue
Group
operating
profit
Group total
 assets
Audits for Group 
reporting purposes 56% 71% 54%
Audit procedures over 
significant accounts 27% 22% 28%
Total 83% 93% 82%
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. The Group audit team 
approved the component materialities, which ranged from £0.1 million 
to £3.5 million, having regard to the size and risk profile of each 
component. The work on 43 of the 44 components was performed by 
component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team. 
The Group audit team visited the following locations: u K, u SA, 
Germany, China and Brazil. Telephone meetings were also held with 
the auditors and local management at these locations and the majority 
of the other locations that were not physically visited. At these visits and 
meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were 
discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group 
audit team was then performed by the component auditor. 
4.  Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies a ct 2006 
In our opinion: 
 > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements. 
5.  w e have nothing to report on the disclosures  
of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 > the directors’ viability statement page 21, concerning the principal 
risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors’ 
assessment and expectations of the group’s continuing in operation 
over the three years to 2018; or 
 > the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the 
use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
6.  w e have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 
which we are required to report by exception 
u nder ISAs (u K and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 > we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 
we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement that 
they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken 
as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy; or
 > the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
u nder the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
 > the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 > certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
u nder the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 > the directors’ statement, in relation to going concern set out on 
page 47 and the longer-term viability set out on page 21; and 
 > the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 49 to 52 
relating to the company’s compliance with the 1 1 provisions of 
the 2014 u K Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. 
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
94 Governance Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement  
set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of accounts 
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely 
to the Company’s members as a body and subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published 
on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should 
be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
aNTh ONy Sy KES 
SENIOR STATu TORy Au DITOR 
for and on behalf of KpMG LLp, Statutory Auditor  
Chartered Accountants  
15 Canada Square  
London, E14 5GL  
23 February 2016
95
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Governance OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS
97 Consolidated income statement
98  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
99 Consolidated balance sheet
 100 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
 101 Consolidated statement of cash flows
 102  Notes to the consolidated financial statements
 146 Company balance sheet
 147 Company statement of changes in equity
 148 Notes to the Company balance sheet
 1 64 Group statistical information
 1 65 Cautionary statement
 1 66 Glossary of terms
 1 67 Shareholder information
fi Na NCial S tateme Nt S
fi Na NCial ST aTEmENTS 96 Note
Results
before specific
adjusting items
2015
£m
Specific
adjusting items
*
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Results
before specific
 adjusting items
2014
£m
Specific
adjusting items
*
2014
£m
total
2014
£m
Revenue 3 911.8  – 911.8 921.7  – 921.7 
Operating costs before restructuring costs, 
other one-off items and amortisation of 
intangible assets 4 (802.2) – (802.2) (803.7) – (803.7)
Profit from operations before 
restructuring costs, other one-off items 
and amortisation of intangible assets 109.6  – 109.6 118.0  – 118.0 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
 Restructuring costs 4 & 6 (4.1) (1.5) (5.6) (5.9) (16.3) (22.2)
 Business exit costs 6 – (2.8) (2.8) – (1.9) (1.9)
 impairment of property, plant and equipment 6 – (5.9) (5.9) –  –  – 
 t ransaction-related costs 6 –  –  –  – (1.2) (1.2)
 Settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation 6 –  –  –  – (3.6) (3.6)
 Gain on disposal of properties 4 0.5  – 0.5 0.3  – 0.3 
Profit from operations before 
amortisation of intangible assets 3 106.0 (10.2) 95.8 112.4 (23.0) 89.4 
a mortisation of intangible assets 4 (7.1) – (7.1) (8.2) – (8.2)
impairment of intangible assets 6 – (5.8) (5.8) – (26.9) (26.9)
Operating profit 3 98.9 (16.0) 82.9 104.2 (49.9) 54.3 
f inance income 2.5  – 2.5 2.1  – 2.1 
f inance expense (20.6) – (20.6) (22.9) – (22.9)
Net financing costs 7 (18.1) – (18.1) (20.8) – (20.8)
Net loss on disposal of business 6 – (6.1) (6.1) – (2.0) (2.0)
Share of profit of associate (net of income tax) 12 0.3  – 0.3  –  –  – 
Profit before taxation 81.1 (22.1) 59.0 83.4 (51.9) 31.5 
income tax expense 8 (24.2) 3.3 (20.9) (24.7) 5.5 (19.2)
Profit for the period 56.9 (18.8) 38.1 58.7 (46.4) 12.3 
Profit for period attributable to:
 Owners of the parent 52.3 (18.4) 33.9 54.8 (47.0) 7.8 
 Non-controlling interests 4.6 (0.4) 4.2 3.9 0.6 4.5 
56.9 (18.8) 38.1 58.7 (46.4) 12.3 
Basic earnings per share 9
Continuing operations 11.9p 2.7p
Diluted earnings per share
Continuing operations 11.9p 2.7p
Dividends
 interim dividend  – pence 4.00p 3.90p
  – £m 11.4 1 1.1 
 Proposed final dividend  – pence 7.00p 7.00p
  – £m 20.0 20.0
* Details of ‘Specific adjusting items’ are given in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
t he proposed final dividend is based upon the number of shares outstanding at the balance sheet date.
CONSOli Date D iNCOme Stateme Nt
for the year ended 31 December 2015
97
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS CONSOli Date D Stateme Nt O f CO mPReHeNSiVe iNCOme
for the year ended 31 December 2015
t ranslation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
fair
value
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
total
parent
comprehensive
income
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
total
comprehensive
income
£m
2014
Profit for the period –  –  – 7.8 7.8 4.5 12.3 
Items that will not be reclassified 
subsequently to profit or loss:
Remeasurement loss on defined  
benefit plans –  –  – (75.2) (75.2) – (75.2)
t ax effect of components of other 
comprehensive income not reclassified –  –  – 10.0 10.0  – 10.0 
 –  –  – (65.2) (65.2) – (65.2)
Items that may be reclassified 
subsequently to profit or loss:
f oreign exchange translation differences (6.6) –  –  – (6.6) (0.4) (7.0)
Net gain on hedge of net investment in 
foreign subsidiaries 7.9  –  –  – 7.9  – 7.9 
Cash flow hedges:
 t ransferred to profit or loss – (0.1) –  – (0.1) – (0.1)
1.3 (0.1) –  – 1.2 (0.4) 0.8 
Total comprehensive income,  
net of tax 1.3 (0.1) – (57.4) (56.2) 4.1 (52.1)
2015
Profit for the period –  –  – 33.9 33.9 4.2 38.1 
Items that will not be reclassified 
subsequently to profit or loss:
Remeasurement gain on defined benefit 
plans –  –  – 1.3 1.3  – 1.3 
t ax effect of components of other 
comprehensive income not reclassified –  –  – (0.9) (0.9) – (0.9)
 –  –  – 0.4 0.4  – 0.4 
Items that may be reclassified 
subsequently to profit or loss:
f oreign exchange translation differences (5.0) –  –  – (5.0) 0.6 (4.4)
Net gain on hedge of net investment in 
foreign subsidiaries 2.0  –  –  – 2.0  – 2.0 
Cash flow hedges:
 Change in fair value – (0.1) –  – (0.1) – (0.1)
(3.0) (0.1) –  – (3.1) 0.6 (2.5)
Total comprehensive income,  
net of tax (3.0) (0.1) – 34.3 31.2 4.8 36.0
98 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 CONSOli Date D Bala NCe SHeet
as at 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014
Restated
*
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 256.7 241.0 
intangible assets 11 229.8 235.3 
investments 12 5.4 6.2 
Other receivables 5.3 4.0 
Deferred tax assets 13 4.4 8.5 
Total non-current assets 501.6 495.0 
inventories 14 129.2 126.6 
Derivative financial assets 2.0 6.0 
t rade and other receivables 15 174.4 193.9 
Cash and cash equivalents 16 49.8 63.0 
a ssets classified as held for sale 6 – 4.5 
Total current assets 355.4 394.0 
Total assets 857.0 889.0 
Liabilities
interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 257.4 232.9 
employee benefits 20 204.5 211.8 
Provisions 21 1.6 2.6 
Non-trade payables 22 0.7 0.8 
Deferred tax liabilities 13 2.3 2.4 
Total non-current liabilities 466.5 450.5 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts 18 8.4 37.1 
t rade and other payables 22 168.6 165.1 
Current tax payable 14.4 26.3 
Provisions 21 10.4 20.2 
Derivative financial liabilities 2.3 0.8 
l iabilities classified as held for sale 6 – 1.3 
Total current liabilities 204.1 250.8 
Total liabilities 670.6 701.3 
Total net assets 186.4 187.7 
Equity
Share capital 17 71.8 71.8 
Share premium 111.7 111.7 
Reserves 36.0 39.1 
Retained earnings (69.7) (71.4)
Total equity attributable to equity owners of parent Company 149.8 151.2 
Non-controlling interests 36.6 36.5 
Total equity 186.4 187.7 
* 2014 has been restated for the reclassification of current tax payable and deferred tax assets and liabilities, as detailed in notes 13 and 22.
t he financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 f ebruary 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
PETE Raby
CHief e xe CutiV e Offi CeR
KEviN Da Ng ERfiE l D
CHief f iNa NCial Offi CeR
99
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS CONSOli Date D Stateme Nt O f CH a NGeS iN eQuit Y
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
t ranslation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
fair
value
reserve
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
total
parent
equity
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 
2014 71.8 111.7 (14.8) 0.6 (1.0) 6.0 35.7 11.4 16.7 238.1 36.0 274.1 
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 7.8 7.8 4.5 12.3 
Other comprehensive 
income –  – 1.3 (0.1) –  –  –  – (65.2) (64.0) (0.4) (64.4)
Transactions with 
owners:
Dividends –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (30.2) (30.2) (4.8) (35.0)
equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 1.8 1.8  – 1.8 
Own shares acquired for 
share incentive schemes –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (2.3) (2.3) – (2.3)
a djustment arising from 
change in non-controlling 
interest –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 1.2 1.2 
Balance at 31 
December 2014 71.8 111.7 (13.5) 0.5 (1.0) 6.0 35.7 11.4 (71.4) 151.2 36.5 187.7 
Balance at 1 January 
2015 71.8 111.7 (13.5) 0.5 (1.0) 6.0 35.7 11.4 (71.4) 151.2 36.5 187.7 
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 33.9 33.9 4.2 38.1 
Other comprehensive 
income –  – (3.0) (0.1) –  –  –  – 0.4 (2.7) 0.6 (2.1)
Transactions with 
owners:
Dividends –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (31.4) (31.4) (3.8) (35.2)
equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 1.7 1.7  – 1.7 
Own shares acquired for 
share incentive schemes –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (2.9) (2.9) – (2.9)
a djustment arising from 
change in non-controlling 
interest –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (0.9) (0.9)
Balance at 31 
December 2015 71.8 111.7 (16.5) 0.4 (1.0) 6.0 35.7 11.4 (69.7) 149.8 36.6 186.4 
Details of the reserves are provided in note 17.
100 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 CONSOli Date D Stateme Nt O f C a SH fl OWS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating activities
Profit for the period 38.1 12.3 
a djustments for:
 Depreciation 4 27.1 27.8 
 amortisation 4 7.1 8.2 
 Net financing costs 7 18.1 20.8 
 l oss on disposal of business 6 6.1 2.0 
 Share of profit from associate (net of income tax) 12 (0.3) – 
 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.4) – 
 income tax expense 8 20.9 19.2 
 Non-cash operating costs relating to restructuring 4 0.2 2.0 
 Non-cash specific adjusting items included in operating profit 15.5 38.0 
 equity-settled share-based payment expenses 4 1.4 1.7 
Cash generated from operations before changes in working capital and provisions 133.8 132.0 
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 15.5 (2.8)
increase in inventories (4.7) (9.5)
increase in trade and other payables 1.9 3.1 
Decrease in provisions and employee benefits (16.4) (15.0)
Cash generated from operations 130.1 107.8 
a cquisition-related costs – (0.3)
interest paid (13.4) (17.2)
income tax paid (29.9) (20.0)
Net cash from operating activities 86.8 70.3 
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (63.5) (33.8)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.8 1.3 
Sale of investments – 0.9 
interest received 2.2 1.9 
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed (0.1) (0.6)
a cquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired – (20.7)
l oan made to associate – (1.5)
l oan made to purchaser of business (1.5) – 
investment made by non-controlling interests 0.5  – 
f orward contracts used in net investment hedging 4.9 0.9 
Deferred consideration received on disposal of subsidiary – 0.7 
Net cash from investing activities (56.7) (50.9)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares for share incentive schemes (2.9) (2.3)
Repayment of borrowings 16 (8.5) (1.2)
Payment of finance lease liabilities 16 (0.2) (0.1)
f inance leases acquired 16 – 1.2 
Dividends paid (31.4) (30.2)
Net cash from financing activities (43.0) (32.6)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (12.9) (13.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 63.0 76.0 
effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (0.3) 0.2 
Cash and cash equivalents at period end 16 49.8 63.0 
a reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings is shown in note 16.
101
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
1. aCCO u NTiNg PO li CiES, ESTima TES a ND ju Dgm ENTS
a ccounting policies
morgan a dvanced materials plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated in the u K.
t he Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’), and include the 
Group’s interest in associates. t he parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not 
about its Group. t hese consolidated financial statements have been drawn up to 31 December 2015. t he Group maintains a 12-month calendar 
fiscal year ending on 31 December. 
t he Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with international f inancial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the eu (‘adopted if RSs’). t he Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
f inancial Reporting Standard 101 (Reduced Disclosure f ramework); these are presented on pages 146 to 163.
Where possible the Group has set out individual accounting policies in the note to the consolidated financial statements most relevant to that 
accounting policy.
except for the changes set out in the ‘a doption of new and revised Standards’ section, the accounting policies set out below have been applied 
consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
(a) Measurement convention
t he financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: 
derivative financial instruments and financial instruments available-for-sale. 
(b) Functional and presentation currency
t he Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency.
(c) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. t he Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. t he financial statements of subsidiaries are 
included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases.
(ii) acquisitions
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred 
to the Group. t he Group measures goodwill as the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred, including the amount of any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree, less the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, 
including contingent liabilities as required by if RS 3.
Consideration transferred includes the fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred by the Group to the previous owners of the acquiree, 
equity interests issued by the Group, contingent consideration, and share-based payment awards of the acquiree that are replaced in the business 
combination. a ny contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of 
contingent consideration that is not classified as equity is recognised in the income statement. 
t ransaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, such as finder’s fees, legal fees, due diligence fees and other 
professional and consulting fees, are expensed as incurred.
(iii) associates
a ssociates are those entities in which the Company has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant 
influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. a ssociates are accounted for 
using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
(iv) t ransactions eliminated on consolidation
intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements. u nrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated against the investment to the extent 
of the Group’s interest in the associate. u nrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no 
evidence of impairment. 
102 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 1. aCCO u NTiNg PO li CiES, ESTima TES a ND ju Dgm ENTS continued
(d) Foreign currency
(i) f oreign currency transactions
t ransactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. 
f oreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates 
the fair value was determined.
(ii) f inancial statements of foreign operations
t he assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to pounds 
sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. t he revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to pounds 
sterling at an average rate for the period where this approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. f oreign 
exchange differences arising on retranslation since the adoption of if RS are recognised directly in Other Comprehensive income (OCi). 
(e) Impairment
t he carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there 
is any indication of impairment. if any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated (see (i) below).
a n impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to 
cash-generating units (group of units) and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. 
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in OCi and there is objective evidence that the 
asset is permanently impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in OCi is recognised in profit or loss. a significant or 
prolonged decline in an available-for-sale financial asset’s fair value below its cost is objective evidence of impairment. t he amount of the 
cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on 
that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
t he recoverable amount of the Group’s investments in receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate (ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets). 
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted. t he recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. in assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. f or an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
(ii) Reversals of impairment
a n impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost and other assets not listed below is reversed if the subsequent increase 
in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. 
a n impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through profit or loss. if the 
fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the 
impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in profit or loss.
a n impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. 
a n impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(f) Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods in the course of ordinary activities is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net 
of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates. Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred 
to the customer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably, there is 
no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. if it is probable that discounts will 
be granted and the amount can be measured reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction of revenue as the sales are recognised.
(g) Dividends
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared and approved.
103
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 1. aCCO u NTiNg PO li CiES, ESTima TES a ND ju Dgm ENTS continued
a ccounting estimates and judgments
Judgments made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and 
estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed below.
management discussed with the a udit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and 
estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. t he following accounting estimates are subject to significant uncertainty:
Recognition of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill
Note 1 1 contains information about intangible assets recognised on acquisition in the prior year. t hese primarily relate to technology and 
trademarks and customer relationships, which are supported by long-term relationships with key customers. t he Group has estimated that the 
customer relationships have an economic life of 15-20 years. Such methods require the use of estimates which may produce results that are 
different from actual future outcomes.
Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill
t he Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. t his process relies on the use of estimates of the future profitability 
and cash flows of its cash-generating units which may differ from the actual results delivered. in addition, the Group reviews whether identified 
intangible assets have suffered any impairment. Note 1 1 contains information about the assumptions relating to goodwill impairment tests, 
including a sensitivity analysis.
Specific adjusting items
Specific adjusting items are items of financial performance which the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of the consolidated 
income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group. Determining whether an item is part of 
specific adjusting items requires judgment and whether it meets the Group’s definition as detailed in the accounting policy.
Provisions
Note 21 contains information about provisions. Provisions for closure and restructuring costs, environmental issues and settlement of litigation are 
judgmental by their nature. a mounts provided are the Group’s best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
Taxation
t he level of current tax and deferred tax recognised is dependent on the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and on subjective judgments 
as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the Group operates. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised based on management’s assessment of the extent to which they are recoverable.
Credit risk
Note 19 contains information about the Group’s exposure to credit risk, including a sensitivity analysis. t he Group establishes both specific and 
general allowances for impairment losses against receivables. t he general loss allowance is estimated based on historical data of payment statistics 
for similar financial assets.
Pension assumptions
t he principal actuarial assumptions applied to pensions are shown in note 20, including a sensitivity analysis. t he actuarial evaluation of pension 
assets and liabilities is based on assumptions in respect of inflation, future salary increases, discount rates, returns on investments and mortality 
rates. Relatively small changes in the assumptions underlying the actuarial valuations of pension schemes can have a significant impact on the net 
pension liability included in the balance sheet.
Going concern
t he Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 7 to 47. t he financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are described 
earlier in the f inancial review. in addition, note 19 includes the Group’s policies and processes for managing financial risk; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
t he Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through local banking arrangements underpinned by the Group’s £200 million 
unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility maturing October 2019. t he Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance and exchange rates, show the Group operating comfortably within its debt financial covenants for the 
next 12 months.
t he current economic climate continues to have an impact on the Group, its customers and suppliers. t he Board fully recognises the challenges 
that lie ahead but, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. a ccordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the a nnual 
Report and a ccounts.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
104 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 1. aCCO u NTiNg PO li CiES, ESTima TES a ND ju Dgm ENTS continued
a doption of new and revised Standards
t he Group did not adopt any new and revised Standards during the year ended 31 December 2015.
New standards and interpretations 
a number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective, and have not been applied 
in preparing the Group financial statements. t hose which may be relevant to the Group are set out below. t he Group has not applied these 
standards early and, with the exception of if RS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, does not expect the application of these standards to 
have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements. t he impact of if RS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is not currently known 
or reasonably estimable.
if RS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and introduces a new revenue 
recognition model that recognises revenue either at a point in time or over time. t he model features a contract-based five-step analysis of 
transactions to determine whether, how much and when revenue is recognised. 
if RS 9 Financial Instruments is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and reduces the number of primary measurement 
categories for financial assets to two: amortised cost and fair value.
if RS 16 Leases is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and introduces a single, on-balance sheet accounting model that is 
similar to current finance lease accounting. t he impact of if RS 16 Leases is not currently known or reasonably estimable.
t hese standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
2. aC qui SiTiONS a ND DiSPOSal S
t here were no acquisitons made in 2015. On 30 January 2015, the Group disposed of its t hermal Ceramics business in Wissembourg, f rance. 
t he assets and liabilities disposed of were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2014, as described in note 6 in the a nnual Report 2014.
£m
Property, plant and equipment 2.5
intangible assets 0.1
inventories 1.9
t otal assets classified as held for sale 4.5
t rade and other payables 0.6
employee benefits 0.7
t otal liabilities classified as held for sale 1.3
Net assets of disposal group 3.2
Deferred consideration 3.2
t he Group incurred a £1.9 million loss of business exit costs and incurred a loss on the disposal of this business of £6.1 million in 2015. t he Group 
also made a loan of £1.5 million to the purchasers of the Wissembourg business. t his is shown in ‘loan made to purchaser of business’ in the 
consolidated statement of cash flows. 
105
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 3. SEgm ENT REPORTiNg
a ccounting policies
t he Group has identified three reportable operating segments. t hese have been identified on the basis of internal management reporting 
information that is regularly reviewed by the Group’s Board of Directors (the Chief Operating Decision maker) in order to allocate resources and 
assess performance.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
u nallocated items comprise mainly investments and related income, loans and borrowings and related expenses, corporate assets and head office 
expenses, and income tax assets and liabilities.
t he Group comprises the following three reportable operating segments: North a merica, europe and a sia/Rest of World.
t he information presented below represents the operating segments of the Group.
North a merica europe a sia/Rest of World Consolidated
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
Restated
*
£m
Revenue from external customers 368.4 353.1 305.7 325.7 237.7 242.9 911.8 921.7 
Regional EBITA
 1
51.5 52.5 35.8 39.8 27.5 31.2 114.8 123.5 
u nallocated costs (5.2) (5.5)
Group EBITA
 2
109.6 118.0 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items (0.9) (0.8) (1.2) (1.2) (0.1) (3.6) (2.2) (5.6)
u nallocated restructuring costs and other one-off items (1.4) – 
Underlying operating profit
 3
106.0 112.4 
a mortisation of intangible assets (3.3) (3.4) (2.7) (3.8) (1.1) (1.0) (7.1) (8.2)
Operating profit before specific adjusting items 98.9 104.2 
Specific adjusting items included in operating profit
 4
(16.0) (49.9)
Operating profit 82.9 54.3 
Finance income 2.5 2.1 
Finance expense (20.6) (22.9)
Loss on disposal of business (6.1) (2.0)
Share of profit of associate (net of income tax) 0.3 – 
Profit before taxation 59.0 31.5 
Segment assets 305.8 300.1 252.9 283.1 233.3 225.3 792.0 808.5 
u nallocated assets 65.0 80.5 
Total assets 857.0 889.0 
Segment liabilities 106.5 108.9 212.1 217.1 56.4 53.2 375.0 379.2 
u nallocated liabilities 295.6 322.1 
Total liabilities 670.6 701.3 
Segment capital expenditure 21.1 13.9 23.2 9.8 19.2 10.1 63.5 33.8 
Total capital expenditure 63.5 33.8 
Segment depreciation 11.5 11.2 8.5 9.3 7.1 7.3 27.1 27.8 
Total depreciation 27.1 27.8 
1. Segment profit is defined as Regional eBita , which is segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
2. Group eBita is defined as operating profit before specific adjusting items, restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
3. u nderlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets.
4. Details of ‘specific adjusting items’ are given in note 6 to the financial statements. 
t he above measures of profit are shown because the Directors use them to measure the underlying performance of the business, as referred to in the Strategic Report section 
of the a nnual Report. 
* 2014 has been restated for the reclassification of current tax payable and deferred tax assets and liabilities, as detailed in note 13.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
106 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 3. SEgm ENT REPORTiNg continued
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group recognised impairment losses totalling £5.9 million in the North a merica reportable 
operating segment, which has been recognised in the ‘impairment of property, plant and equipment’ line of the income statement, impairment 
losses totalling £5.8 million in the europe reportable operating segment, which has been recognised in the ‘impairment of intangible assets’ line 
of the income statement and impairment losses totalling £0.7 million in the a sia/Rest of World reportable operating segment, which has been 
recognised in ‘restructuring costs’ line of the income statement. See notes 6, 10 and 1 1 for further details.
During the year ended 31 December 2014 the Group recognised impairment losses totalling £28.6 million in the europe reportable operating 
segment. Of this amount £26.9 million has been recognised in the ‘impairment of intangible assets’ line of the income statement and £1.7 million 
has been recognised in the ‘Business exit costs’ line of the income statement (with a further £0.2 million of related disposal costs). See note 6 for 
further details.
in the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group incurred £1.5 million of restructuring costs in specific adjusting items in the a sia/Rest of World 
reportable operating segment. in the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group incurred £16.3 million of restructuring costs in specific adjusting 
items in the europe reportable operating segment. See note 6 for further details.
Revenue from external customers
Non-current assets (excluding  
tax and financial instruments)
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
uS a 323.8 308.2 186.5 176.2 
China 75.7 83.8 56.8 53.2 
Germany 64.6 68.6 44.5 47.6 
u K (the Group’s country of domicile) 64.0 72.3 129.7 130.5 
france 29.9 36.2 17.3 13.1 
Other a sia, a ustralasia, middle east and a frica 162.9 155.9 30.4 30.9 
Other europe 130.8 133.2 18.4 20.4 
Other North a merica 32.2 31.8 5.4 6.3 
South a merica 27.9 31.7 8.2 8.3 
911.8 921.7 497.2 486.5
Revenue from external customers is based on geographic location of the end-customer. Segment assets are based on geographical location of the 
assets. No customer represents greater than 10% of revenue.
Segment revenue by product
2015
£m
2014
£m
industrial 398.3 412.1 
t ransportation 197.9 184.9 
Petrochemical 79.5 89.4 
energy 61.7 65.5 
Security and defence 58.6 64.8 
electronics 63.7 53.7 
Healthcare 52.1 51.3 
911.8 921.7
intercompany sales to other segments
North a merica europe a sia/Rest of World
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
intercompany sales to other segments 30.1 26.6 17.8 19.0 10.3 9.4 
107
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 4. OPERaTiNg COSTS b EfORE SPEC ifi C a Dju STiNg iTE mS
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress 4.3 2.7 
Raw materials and consumables 219.0 228.8 
Other external charges 153.9 156.7 
t otal 377.2 388.2 
employee costs:
 Wages and salaries 237.6 235.4 
 equity-settled share-based payments 1.4 1.7 
 Social security costs 46.4 44.3 
 Other pension costs 14.3 12.9 
t otal 299.7 294.3 
Depreciation 27.1 27.8 
Rentals under operating leases:
 Hire of plant and machinery 3.4 2.8 
 Other operating leases 7.2 6.2 
t otal 10.6 9.0 
Other operating charges and income:
 Net foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.9 
 Other operating income and charges 87.5 83.5 
t otal 87.6 84.4 
t otal operating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 802.2 803.7 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
 employment termination costs 3.1 3.5 
 Write-off of assets 0.2 2.0 
 Other reorganisation, rationalisation and closure costs 0.8 0.4 
 Profit on disposal of properties (0.5) (0.3)
t otal 3.6 5.6 
a mortisation of intangible assets 7.1 8.2 
t otal operating costs before specific adjusting items 812.9 817.5
t here were no further employment termination costs recognised within specific adjusting items in the year ending 31 December 2015. in the 
year ending 31 December 2014 a further £3.9 million of employment termination costs were recognised in restructuring costs within specific 
adjusting items.
t he Group recognised £25.4 million in expense in respect of research and development (2014: £21.7 million).
a summary of the audit and non-audit fees in respect of services provided by the auditor charged to operating profit in the year ended  
31 December 2015 is set out below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
f ees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.4 0.4 
f ees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
 t he auditing of accounts of any subsidiaries of the Company 1.5 1.6 
 a udit-related services – – 
 t axation compliance services 0.2 0.3 
 Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 
2.2 2.4
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
108 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 5. STaff N umb ERS
t he average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year, analysed by geographical area and reporting 
segment, was as follows:
Number of employees
2015 2014
Reportable operating segments
North a merica 3,310 3,209
europe 2,770 2,894
a sia/Rest of World 2,868 2,928
Corporate 13 13
8,961 9,044
6. SPECifi C a Dju STiNg i TEmS
a ccounting policies
t he Group separately presents specific adjusting items (non-underlying) in the consolidated income statement which, in the Directors’ judgment, 
need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size and incidence in order for users of the consolidated financial statements to obtain a proper 
understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business. in the years ending 31 December 2015 and 31 December 
2014 business exit costs, impairment of plant, property and equipment, transaction-related costs, settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation 
and impairment of intangible assets are included as specific adjusting items as they meet this criteria.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Specific adjusting items:
 Restructuring costs 1.5 16.3 
 Business exit costs 2.8 1.9 
 impairment of property, plant and equipment 5.9  – 
 t ransaction-related costs – 1.2 
 Settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation – 3.6 
 impairment of intangible assets 5.8 26.9 
 Net loss on disposal of businesses 6.1 2.0 
t otal specific adjusting items before income tax credit 22.1 51.9 
 income tax credit from specific adjusting items (3.3) (5.5)
t otal specific adjusting items after income tax credit 18.8 46.4
2015
Restructuring costs
a s reported in 2014, the strategic objective to drive the performance of the electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings businesses to mid-teen margins 
and beyond has resulted in the Group undertaking a significant rationalisation of the carbon material footprint. t his started in 2014 with the downsizing 
of activities at the Swansea, u K site. t his footprint rationalisation has continued in 2015 with the decision to and the announcement of the cessation  
of carbon material manufacturing at the Shanghai, China site. t hese operations will be consolidated into other Group locations, mainly the u Sa . t his 
decision has resulted in a charge of £1.5 million in 2015, £0.7 million of which relates to the impairment loss on plant and equipment and the balance 
to site clean-up costs and other write-offs. £0.4 million is expected to be settled in cash in 2016. a n income tax credit of £0.2 million was recognised 
in respect of these restructuring costs. t he £0.7 million of impairment loss forms part of the total plant and equipment impairment loss of £6.6 million. 
Business exit costs
t he business exit costs in the year relate to the deconsolidation of morgan t hermal Ceramics Sukhoy l og l imited l iability Company (‘Sukhoy’) 
and the subsequent remeasurement to fair value of the retained investment. 
in a pril 2006 the Group acquired a 51% shareholding in Sukhoy, a fibre business based near Yekaterinburg, Russia. t he results and assets of 
Sukhoy have previously been consolidated on the basis that the Group was satisfied that it exercised management control. During 2015 there 
has been a deterioration in the relationship between morgan and the minority partner, exacerbated by the increasingly difficult market conditions 
in Russia. a s a result, it became clear to the Group towards the end of 2015 that it no longer had effective control of the business and that it was 
no longer appropriate to consolidate. Based on the recent financial performance and the Group’s view of the future prospects of the business 
it was concluded that the value of the Group’s investment in Sukhoy is nil. a s a result the Group has recognised a £2.8 million charge in business 
exit costs in the 2015 accounts. 
109
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 6. SPECifi C a Dju STiNg iTE mS continued
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
t he impairment of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 December 2015 is as a result of a review of the carrying value of 
assets that support the Group’s North a merica vehicle and personal protection and high-temperature furnace-lining businesses. Both of these 
businesses saw significant growth and investment in previous years but more recently they have been in decline. t he Group has compared  
its expected future cash flows from these businesses with the book value of the property, plant and equipment that is dedicated to them and 
determined that a total impairment charge of £5.9 million is required. a n income tax credit of £2.1 million was recognised in respect of the 
impairment charge. t he £5.9 million of impairment loss forms part of the total plant and equipment impairment loss of £6.6 million, as shown  
in note 10.
Impairment of intangible assets 
a s a result of the continued reduction in demand on C&DS from u K moD, the review of the carrying value of the remaining intangible assets  
of C&DS resulted in a further impairment charge of £5.8 million, relating to a full impairment of the customer relationships. f ollowing this 
impairment charge, the carrying value of the C&DS intangibles was £9.8 million, all in respect of technology and trademarks. t his was supported 
by the current expectations of the future trading performance of the C&DS business. a n income tax credit of £1.0 million was recognised 
in respect of the impairment charge. Refer to note 1 1 for more details of the impairment charge.
Net loss on disposal of business 
a s reported in the 2014 a nnual Report and a ccounts, on 30 January 2015 the Group completed the sale of a t hermal Ceramics business in 
Wissembourg, f rance. t his business manufactures low-temperature fibre boards used mainly in the building industry. t he Group has incurred  
a loss on the disposal of this business of £6.1 million in 2015, in addition to the £1.9 million of business exit costs recognised in the 2014 accounts. 
2014
Restructuring costs
a s part of the strategic objective to drive the performance of the electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings businesses to mid-teen margins 
and beyond the Group is undertaking a significant rationalisation of the carbon material footprint. Specifically, the cessation of carbon material 
manufacturing and a number of other finishing operations at the Swansea, u K site. t hese operations are being consolidated into other Group 
locations, mainly the u Sa and Hungary. t his has resulted in a charge of £16.3 million in 2014, which is predominantly in respect of property 
related provisions, redundancy costs and asset write-offs. a n income tax credit of £1.2 million has been recognised in respect of these items. 
Business exit costs
in January 2015 the Group completed the sale of a t hermal Ceramics business in Wissembourg, f rance. t his business manufactures low-
temperature fibre boards used mainly in the building industry. t he Group has incurred a £1.9 million loss on disposal of this business and has 
booked an impairment charge in 2014 to reflect this. a n income tax credit of £0.2 million has been recognised in respect of this item.
t he assets and liabilities that were intended to be disposed of were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2014 and were as follows:
2014
£m
Property, plant and equipment 2.5 
intangible assets 0.1 
inventories 1.9 
Total assets classified as held for sale 4.5 
t rade and other payables 0.6 
employee benefits 0.7 
Total liabilities classified as held for sale 1.3 
Net assets of disposal group 3.2
Transaction-related costs
t ransaction-related costs consist of £0.6 million of adviser costs incurred in relation to dealing with the proposal made by Vesuvius plc to acquire 
the Group, £0.4 million of legal and due diligence fees on the purchase of Porextherm Dämmstoffe GmbH and £0.2 million of legal fees relating  
to the establishment of a new joint venture in China. a n income tax credit of £0.1 million has been recognised in respect of these items.
Settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation
During the year the Group has fully and finally settled a number of the european a nti-t rust actions relating to pre-2000 cartel activity and has a 
provision adequate to cover the remaining claim and the related legal fees. t he net charge to the income statement in the year in relation to this  
is £3.6 million. 
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
110 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 6. SPECifi C a Dju STiNg iTE mS continued
Impairment of intangible assets
a s a result of the continued reduction in demand on C&DS from u K moD, the review of the carrying value of the intangible assets and goodwill 
of C&DS has resulted in an impairment charge of £26.9 million. f ollowing this impairment charge, the carrying value of the C&DS intangibles and 
goodwill is £17.2 million. t his is supported by the current expectations of the future trading performance of the C&DS business. a n income tax 
credit of £2.1 million has been recognised in respect of the impairment charge. Refer to note 1 1 for more details of the impairment charge.
Net loss on disposal of businesses
t he net loss on disposal of businesses for the year ended 31 December 2014 consisted of two business disposals:
a) u K f ired Shapes business
On 3 a pril 2014 the Group sold its u K f ired Shapes business to Jemmtec l imited in exchange for a 35% shareholding in Jemmtec l imited, a fired 
ceramics shapes business. t he profit recognised on disposal of the business was £1.3 million. a ssets disposed of consisted of £0.9 million of property, 
plant and equipment, £0.8 million of inventory and £0.2 million of goodwill. Based on the management structure of Jemmtec l imited the Group has 
determined that it does not have control of Jemmtec l imited and is therefore accounting for its 35% shareholding in Jemmtec as an associate.
b) morgan am &t Hairong Co. l imited
On 20 June 2014 the Group disposed of the whole of the share capital of morgan am &t Hairong Co. l imited (‘Hairong’) for £0.3 million 
consideration. t he loss recognised on disposal of this shareholding was £3.3 million. Prior to the acquisition the immediate parent company of 
Hairong was morgan am &t (Shanghai) Co., l td, in which the Group holds a 70% shareholding. t he adjustment to the non-controlling interest 
component of equity due to this transaction was £1.2 million. a n income tax credit of £1.9 million has been recognised in respect of this item.
7. NET fiN a NCE iNCOmE a ND ExPENSE
a ccounting policies
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds 
invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement, net interest on ia S 19 pension assets and interest 
on ia S 19 obligations. interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method. 
Borrowing costs (interest and other costs) are capitalised when they are incurred on raising specific funds to finance a major capital project which 
will be a significant productive asset, or to the extent that funds borrowed generally are used for the purposes of obtaining a qualifying asset.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Recognised in profit or loss
a mounts derived from financial instruments 1.0 0.7 
interest income on bank deposits measured at amortised cost 1.5 1.4 
f inance income 2.5 2.1 
interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (13.7) (17.2)
Net interest on ia S 19 obligations (6.9) (5.7)
f inance expense (20.6) (22.9)
Net financing costs recognised in profit or loss (18.1) (20.8)
Recognised directly in equity
Cash flow hedges:
 effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.1) – 
 t ransferred to profit or loss – (0.1)
effective portion of change in fair value of net investment hedge 2.0 7.9 
f oreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (5.0) (6.6)
(3.1) 1.2
111
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 8. Taxa TiON – iNCOmE Tax E x PENSE
a ccounting policies
income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in OCi, in which case it is recognised in OCi.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. t he following temporary differences are not provided for: 
the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences 
relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. t he amount of deferred tax 
provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be 
utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Taxation – income tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 22.2 23.6 
a djustments for prior years (4.9) (1.3)
17.3 22.3 
Deferred tax expense/(credit)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.6 (3.1)
t otal income tax expense in income statement 20.9 19.2
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2015
£m
2015
%
2014
£m
2014
%
Profit before tax 59.0 31.5 
income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 11.9 20.2 6.8 21.6 
Non-deductible expenses 6.7 11.4 10.9 34.6 
t emporary differences not equalised in deferred tax (0.3) (0.5) (0.3) (1.0)
a djustments in respect of prior years (3.0) (5.1) (0.8) (2.5)
Recognition of previously unrecognised temporary differences 1.7 2.9 1.1 3.5 
Other (including the impact of overseas tax rates) 3.9 6.6 1.5 4.8 
20.9 35.5 19.2 61.0 
Income tax recognised directly in equity
t ax effect on components of other comprehensive income:
 Deferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes and share schemes 0.9 (10.0)
t otal income tax recognised directly in equity 0.9 (10.0)
t he effective rate of tax before specific adjusting items is 29.8% (2014: 29.6%).
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
112 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 9. Ea RNiNg S PER Sha RE
Earnings per share from continuing operations
t he calculation of basic/diluted earnings per share from continuing operations at 31 December 2015 was based on the following:
2015 2014
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company from 
continuing operations 33.9 33.9 7.8 7.8 
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares
issued Ordinary shares at the beginning of the period (millions) 285.4 285.4 285.4 285.4 
effect of shares held by t he morgan General employee Benefit t rust (millions) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3)
Dilutive effect of share options/incentive schemes (millions) n/a 0.4 n/a 0.5 
Basic/diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period (millions) 285.1 285.5 285.1 285.6 
Earnings per share from continuing operations (pence) 11.9p 11.9p 2.7p 2.7p
u nderlying earnings per share
t he calculation of basic/diluted underlying earnings per share at 31 December 2015 was based on the following:
2015 2014
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Underlying operating profit and share of profit of associate before 
specific adjusting items and amortisation, less net financing costs, 
income tax expense and non-controlling interests 59.4 59.4 63.0 63.0 
Basic/diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period – 
calculated as above (millions) 285.1 285.5 285.1 285.6 
Earnings per share before specific adjusting items and amortisation 
of intangible assets (pence) 20.8p 20.8p 22.1p 22.1p
 10. PROPERTy, P la NT a ND Equi PmENT
a ccounting policies
(i) Owned assets
items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, or at deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses. 
t he cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. 
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant 
and equipment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying 
amount of the asset. Gains and losses on the disposal of property are recognised in ‘Restructuring costs and other one-off items’ in the income 
statement. Gains and losses on the disposal of plant and equipment are recognised in ‘Operating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off 
items and amortisation of intangible assets’ in the income statement.
(ii) Leased assets
l eases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. l eased 
assets acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, 
plant and equipment. l and is not depreciated. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date. 
t he estimated useful lives are as follows:
 > Buildings 50 years
 > Plant and equipment and fixtures 3-20 years 
113
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS  10. PROPERTy, P la NT a ND Equi PmENT continued
Property, plant and equipment
l and and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
and fixtures
£m
total
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2014 155.5 527.6 683.1 
a dditions 5.5 26.3 31.8 
a cquisition of subsidiary 0.1 12.1 12.2 
Disposals (0.4) (15.5) (15.9)
t ransfer to assets classified as held for sale (7.0) (11.3) (18.3)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.3 5.7 6.0 
Balance at 31 December 2014 154.0 544.9 698.9 
Balance at 1 January 2015 154.0 544.9 698.9 
a dditions 18.6 39.4 58.0 
Disposals (3.7) (14.3) (18.0)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.4 5.9 6.3 
Balance at 31 December 2015 169.3 575.9 745.2 
Depreciation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 January 2014 57.6 384.1 441.7 
Depreciation charge for the year 4.7 23.1 27.8 
a cquisition of subsidiary – 6.5 6.5 
impairment loss 1.7 1.4 3.1 
Disposals (0.5) (11.4) (11.9)
t ransfer to assets classified as held for sale (3.4) (10.7) (14.1)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.8 4.0 4.8 
Balance at 31 December 2014 60.9 397.0 457.9 
Balance at 1 January 2015 60.9 397.0 457.9 
Depreciation charge for the year 4.7 22.4 27.1 
impairment loss 7.4 6.6 14.0 
Disposals (2.3) (13.4) (15.7)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.8 4.4 5.2 
Balance at 31 December 2015 71.5 417.0 488.5 
Carrying amounts
a t 1 January 2014 97.9 143.5 241.4 
a t 31 December 2014 93.1 147.9 241.0 
At 31 December 2015 97.8 158.9 256.7
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
114 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  10. PROPERTy, P la NT a ND Equi PmENT continued
a ssets pledged as security for liabilities
a t 31 December 2015 no assets (2014: £nil) are subject to registered debentures to secure bank loans and other liabilities (see note 18). t here 
were no borrowings drawn on these debentures (2014: £nil).
in march 2015, morgan acquired the freehold of the morgan electrical Carbon site in Swansea, u K. t he site was being occupied on a long lease 
and due to the downsizing of operations on the site and the desire to consolidate the remaining footprint morgan decided to purchase the site, 
make the required site changes and then look to sell the freehold of the site. t he terms of the agreement to acquire the site had been agreed and 
committed to at the time of signing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 and a provision was recorded, in Closure and 
Restructuring Provisions, to reflect the difference between the purchase price and the expected on-sale of the site value. With the actual purchase 
of the site taking place in 2015, the cost of the freehold has been recorded as an addition to l and and buildings and an impairment loss recorded 
to bring the value down to the expected net realisable value, with the offsetting release from the provision. 
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group recognised impairment losses in relation to Plant and equipment and fixtures totalling 
£5.9 million in the North a merica reportable operating segment, which has been recognised in the ‘impairment of property, plant and 
equipment’ line of the income statement, and impairment losses totalling £0.7 million in the a sia/Rest of World reportable operating segment, 
which has been recognised in ‘restructuring costs’ line of the income statement. See note 6 for further details.
1 1. iNTa Ngibl E a SSETS
a ccounting policies
(i) Goodwill
a ll business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the 
acquisition and the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment.
(ii) Research and development
expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised 
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient 
resources to complete development, use and sale of products or processes. t he expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct 
labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
(see below) and impairment losses. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses.
(iv) Amortisation
a mortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives 
are indefinite. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date. 
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. t he estimated useful lives are as follows:
 > Capitalised development costs 3 years
 > Computer software 3-10 years 
 > Customer relationships 15-20 years
 > t echnology and trademarks 15-20 years
 > Order book a mortised over the period in which the associated orders are fulfilled
115
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS  1 1. iNTa Ngibl E a SSETS continued
intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Order book
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
t echnology 
and trademarks
£m
Capitalised 
development 
costs
£m
Computer 
software
£m
total
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2014 185.2  – 73.9 22.6 0.6 16.0 298.3 
a dditions (externally purchased) 6.8 0.2 3.2 3.5  – 4.2 17.9 
Disposals (1.8) – (0.4) (3.0) – (4.1) (9.3)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 1.7  – 2.0  –  –  – 3.7 
Balance at 31 December 2014 191.9 0.2 78.7 23.1 0.6 16.1 310.6 
Balance at 1 January 2015 191.9 0.2 78.7 23.1 0.6 16.1 310.6 
a dditions (externally purchased) –  –  –  –  – 4.6 4.6 
Disposals –  – (2.1) (1.6) – (0.8) (4.5)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 1.7  – 2.1 (0.2) – 0.1 3.7 
Balance at 31 December 2015 193.6 0.2 78.7 21.3 0.6 20.0 314.4 
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 January 2014 1.6  – 25.0 9.8 0.6 11.8 48.8 
a mortisation charge for the year – 0.2 4.2 1.4  – 2.4 8.2 
impairment losses for the year 16.4  – 10.5  –  –  – 26.9 
Disposals (1.7) – (0.4) (3.0) – (4.2) (9.3)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.1  – 0.7  –  – (0.1) 0.7 
Balance at 31 December 2014 16.4 0.2 40.0 8.2 0.6 9.9 75.3 
Balance at 1 January 2015 16.4 0.2 40.0 8.2 0.6 9.9 75.3 
a mortisation charge for the year –  – 3.7 1.7  – 1.7 7.1 
impairment losses for the year –  – 5.8  –  –  – 5.8 
Disposals –  – (2.0) (1.5) – (0.8) (4.3)
effects of movement in foreign exchange –  – 0.7  –  –  – 0.7 
Balance at 31 December 2015 16.4 0.2 48.2 8.4 0.6 10.8 84.6 
Carrying amounts
a t 1 January 2014 183.6  – 48.9 12.8  – 4.2 249.5 
a t 31 December 2014 175.5  – 38.7 14.9  – 6.2 235.3 
At 31 December 2015 177.2  – 30.5 12.9  – 9.2 229.8
impairment test for cash-generating units containing goodwill
in accordance with the requirements of ia S 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected 
to benefit from the synergies of the business combination that gave rise to the goodwill.
Goodwill is attributed to each cash-generating unit as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
North a merica 77.9 77.3 
europe 53.8 53.7 
a sia/Rest of World 45.5 44.5 
C&DS – –
177.2 175.5
each cash-generating unit is assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment. 
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
116 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  1 1. iNTa Ngibl E a SSETS continued
a s part of the annual impairment test review the carrying value of goodwill has been assessed with reference to its value in use, reflecting the 
projected discounted cash flows of each cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated.
t he key assumptions used in determining value in use relate to growth rates and discount rates.
t he cash flow projections in year one are based on budgeted operating cash flow projections in year one. t he key assumptions that underpin 
these cash flow projections relate to sales and operating margins, which are based on past experience, taking into account the effect of known 
or likely changes in market or operating conditions.
Growth rates for the period not covered by budgets are specific to each cash-generating unit, ranging from 1.6% to 5.5% (2014: 1.5% to 5.5%). 
t he growth rates are also used to calculated a terminal value. t hese growth rates reflect the products, industries and countries in which the 
operating segments operate. t hese medium- to long-term growth rates have been reviewed by management during 2015 and are considered 
to be appropriate.
in 2015, the Group has used the following pre-tax discount rates for calculating the terminal value of each of the cash-generating units: North 
a merica: 14.9%, europe: 12.6%, a sia/Rest of World: 14.1%, Composites and Defence Systems: 12.0% (2014: 15.0%, 12.0%, 14.8%, 14.0%). 
t hese discount rates have been used as the Group believes they suitably approximate the rates used by end-market participants. 
t he Directors have considered the following individual sensitivities and are confident that no impairment would arise for each of the North 
a merica, europe and a sia/Rest of World cash-generating units in any of the following three circumstances:
 > if the pre-tax discount rate was increased to 28% (2014: 30%); or
 > if no growth was assumed for years two to five and in the calculation of terminal value; or
 > if the cash flow projections of all businesses were reduced by 25% (2014: 25%).
a s a result of the continued reduction in demand from u K moD, the review of the carrying value of the remaining intangible assets of C&DS 
resulted in a further impairment charge of £5.8 million with a recoverable amount of nil at the end of the year (2014: £5.8 million), resulting 
in a full impairment of the customer relationship. t he recoverable amount is considered to be the value-in-use and the discount rate used 
in management’s review in the year was 12.0% (2014: 14.0%). t he asset was previously reported under the europe cash generating unit. 
f urther details are given in note 6. 
During the year ended 31 December 2014 the Group recognised an impairment loss of £16.4 million on goodwill and £10.5 million on customer 
relationships in relation to C&DS cash-generating unit. t he Group also disposed of £1.7 million of goodwill, £0.4 million of customer relationships 
and £3.0 milion of technology and trademarks as part of the disposal of morgan am &t Hairong l td during the year ended 31 December 2014. 
a ll of these had nil net book value at the date of disposal.
f or the year ended 31 December 2014, additions to goodwill, order book, customer relationships, technology and trademarks were from the 
acquisition of Porextherm Dämmstoffe GmbH.
12. iNv ESTmENTS
a ccounting policies
Investments in debt and equity securities
investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant 
gain or loss being recognised directly in OCi (in the fair value reserve), except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as 
debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses. When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised 
directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest 
method is recognised in profit or loss.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current investments
equity securities available-for-sale 0.5 1.6 
investment in associates 4.9 4.6 
5.4 6.2
Equity securities available-for-sale
t he equity securities available-for-sale represent an investment in a mutual fund. a 10% increase in the unit price would increase the fair value of 
the investments by £nil (2014: £0.1 million).
117
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS  1 2. iNv ESTmENTS continued
investment in associates
Details of the Group’s material associate at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Name of associate Principal activity
Place of incorporation and  
principal place of business
Proportion of ownership interest/ 
voting rights held by the Group
2015 2014
Jemmtec l imited manufacture of fired refractory shapes united Kingdom 35% 35%
t he above associate has been accounted for using the equity method in these consolidated financial statements.
t he Group did not receive dividends from any of its associates during 2015 and 2014.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s material associate is set out below. t he summarised financial information below has 
been prepared in accordance with if RSs (adjusted by the Group for equity accounting purposes).
Jemmtec l imited
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current assets 6.1 7.6
Non-current assets 10.0 9.7
Current liabiliites 2.7 5.4
Non-current liabilities 2.7 2.1
Revenue 12.5 10.5
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 0.9 (0.1)
Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest recognised in the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements:
Jemmtec l imited
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net assets of associate 10.7 9.8
Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in the associate 3.7 3.4
Goodwill 0.2 0.2
Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in the associate 3.9 3.6
t he aggregate of the Group’s share of profit and total comprehensive income for associates that are not individually material was £nil (2014: £nil). 
t he carrying value included in investment in associates in relation to associates that are not individually material was £1 million (2014: £1 million).
 13. RECOg NiSED DEf ERRED Tax a SSETS a ND liabiliT iES
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets
2015
£m
a ssets
2014
Restated
*
£m
Liabilities
2015
£m
l iabilities
2014
Restated
*
£m
Net
2015
£m
Net
2014
Restated
*
£m
Property, plant and equipment –  – (18.0) (17.6) (18.0) (17.6)
intangible assets –  – (13.9) (15.8) (13.9) (15.8)
employee benefits 26.6 29.4  –  – 26.6 29.4 
Provisions 5.5 7.6  –  – 5.5 7.6 
t ax value of loss carried forward recognised 0.9 1.0  –  – 0.9 1.0 
Other items 1.0 1.5  –  – 1.0 1.5 
Offset (29.6) (31.0) 29.6 31.0  –  – 
4.4 8.5 (2.3) (2.4) 2.1 6.1
*  f ollowing a review of the presentation of tax balances the prior year deferred tax asset and liability balances have been re-presented to reflect management’s view of a more likely 
basis for recovery of the assets and settlement of the liabilities. t he re-presentation results in a decrease of the prior year deferred tax asset of £31.0 million and an equal decrease  
to the prior year deferred tax liability. t herefore there is no effect on the prior year net asset position.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
118 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  13. RECOg NiSED DEf ERRED Tax a SSETS a ND liabiliT iES continued
u nrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Deductible temporary differences 147.7 147.2 
t ax losses 102.7 107.2 
Capital losses 79.0 82.0 
329.4 336.4
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in relation to these temporary differences due to uncertainty surrounding future utilisation.
movements in temporary differences during the year
Balance
31 December 
2013
£m
 On acquisition
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
directly 
in equity
£m
Balance
31 December 
2014
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised 
directly 
in equity
£m
Balance
31 December 
2015
£m
Property, plant and 
equipment (16.3) – (1.3) – (17.6) (0.4) – (18.0)
intangible assets (16.3) (1.7) 2.2  – (15.8) 1.9  – (13.9)
employee benefits 22.5  – (3.1) 10.0 29.4 (1.9) (0.9) 26.6 
Provisions 5.1  – 2.5  – 7.6 (2.1) – 5.5 
t ax value of loss carried 
forward recognised 0.6  – 0.4  – 1.0 (0.1) – 0.9 
Others (0.9) – 2.4  – 1.5 (1.0) 0.5 1.0 
(5.3) (1.7) 3.1 10.0 6.1 (3.6) (0.4) 2.1
Deferred income tax of £2.5 million is provided on the potential unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings.
 1 4. iNv ENTORiES
a ccounting policies
inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of 
business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. 
t he cost of inventories is based on the first-in-first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them 
to their existing location and condition. in the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of 
overheads based on normal operating capacity.
inventories
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 37.0 35.0 
Work in progress 36.4 39.5 
f inished goods 55.8 52.1 
129.2 126.6 
t he Group holds consignment inventory amounting to £13.7 million (2014: £17.2 million) which is not reflected in the balance sheet. t he majority 
of this balance is for precious metals, which are held on consignment by a subsidiary and for which it is invoiced only when the material is required.
During the year provisions of £3.3 million were made against inventories and recognised in operating costs (2014: £3.2 million) and £0.2 million 
(2014: £0.4 million) has been recognised in business exit costs within specific adjusting items (see note 6).
119
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS  15. TRa DE a ND OTh ER RECEivabl ES
a ccounting policies
t rade and other receivables are initially stated at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less impairment losses.
Trade and other receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
t rade receivables due from associate 1.3 2.1 
Other trade receivables 154.6 168.4 
t rade receivables 155.9 170.5 
l oan made to associate 1.8 1.5 
Other non-trade receivables and prepayments 16.7 21.9 
174.4 193.9
t he Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 19.
 16. Ca Sh a ND Ca Sh E quival ENTS
a ccounting policies
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Short-term deposits include demand deposits and short-term highly liquid 
investments with maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant 
risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included 
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Group statement of cash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank balances 38.8 49.1 
Cash deposits 11.0 13.9 
Cash and cash equivalents 49.8 63.0 
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net debt
*
2015
£m
2014
£m
Opening borrowings (270.0) (262.5)
Net decrease in borrowings 8.5 1.2 
Payment of finance lease liabilities 0.2 0.1 
f inance leases acquired as part of acquisition of subsidiary – (1.2)
effect of movements in foreign exchange on borrowings (4.5) (7.6)
Closing borrowings (265.8) (270.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 49.8 63.0 
Closing net debt (216.0) (207.0)
* Net debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
120 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  17. Ca PiTal a ND RESERv ES
a ccounting policies
(i) Ordinary share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
(ii) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the 
Company’s option. Dividends on Preference share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
(iii) Repurchase of share capital and own shares held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust (‘the Trust’)
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, is net 
of any tax effects, and is recognised as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares and the purchase of own shares by the t rust are presented 
as a deduction from total equity.
Translation reserve
t he translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, 
as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary and forward contracts used for net 
investment hedging.
h edging reserve
t he hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related 
to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
f air value reserve
t he fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments until the investment is derecognised.
Special reserve
a Special Resolution to cancel the Share Premium a ccount was passed at the a nnual General meeting of the Company held on 1 1 June 1993. 
t his cancellation was confirmed by an Order of the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, on 14 July 1993. t he amount of £88.9 million 
standing to the credit of the Share Premium a ccount on 14 July 1993 was transferred to the special reserve against which goodwill on consolidation 
could be written off. t his reserve, together with the amounts standing to the credit of the Share Premium a ccount on 12 October 1990 of 
£71.5 million, on 19 June 1987 of £38.9 million and on 27 July 1989 of £12.3 million which were transferred following previous Orders of the High 
Court, becomes distributable to the extent of subsequent increases in issued share capital and share premium account, which has since occurred.
Capital redemption reserve
t he capital redemption reserve arose when the Company redeemed Preference shares wholly out of distributable profits.
Other reserves
t he other reserves include the £10.8 million increase in the year ended 3 January 2010 in the fair value of the Group’s original 49% interest 
in Clearpower l imited from the date of its original acquisition to 5 January 2009 excluding goodwill and to the extent not previously recognised 
as the Group’s share of the results of Clearpower l imited. 
Retained earnings
t he Company has acquired own shares to satisfy the requirements of the various share option incentive schemes. a t 31 December 2015 706,952 
shares were held by t he morgan General employee Benefit t rust and are treated as a deduction from equity (2014: 375,203). Nil treasury shares 
were held by the Company (2014: nil). a ll rights conferred by those shares are suspended until they are reissued.
121
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS  17. Ca PiTal a ND RESERv ES continued
Dividends
t he following Ordinary dividends were declared and paid by the Company:
Per share total
2015
Pence
2014
Pence
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013 final – 6.70 – 19.1 
2014 interim – 3.90 – 1 1.1 
2014 final 7.00 – 20.0 –
2015 interim 4.00 – 11.4 –
t otal 11.00 10.60 31.4  30.2 
in addition to the above, the Company also declared and paid dividends on the 5.5% Cumulative f irst Preference shares and 5.0% Cumulative 
Second Preference shares.
a fter 31 December 2015 the following dividends were proposed by the Directors for 2015. t hese dividends have not been provided for and 
there are no income tax consequences.
£m
7.0 pence per qualifying Ordinary share 20.0 
5.5% Cumulative f irst Preference shares –
5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares –
20.0
t he proposed 2015 final dividend is based upon the number of shares outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Called-up share capital
2015
£m
2014
£m
Equity share capital
f ully paid: 285,369,988 (2014: 285,369,988) issued Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 71.4 71.4 
71.4 71.4 
Preference share capital
125,327 issued 5.5% Cumulative f irst Preference shares of £1 each, fully paid 0.1 0.1 
31 1,954 issued 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each, fully paid 0.3 0.3 
t otal Preference share capital 0.4 0.4 
Total share capital 71.8 71.8
Number of shares in issue
Ordinary shares Preference shares
2015 2014 2015 2014
in issue at beginning and end of period 285,369,988 285,369,988 437,281 437,281
a s at the date of this report 285,369,988 Ordinary shares have been issued (2014: 285,369,988).
t he holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings 
of the Company.
Details of options outstanding in respect of Ordinary shares are given in note 20.
t he 5.5% Cumulative f irst Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each confer on the holders 
thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June and 31 December 
respectively in every year. t he f irst and Second Cumulative Preference shares shall not entitle the holders thereof to attend or vote at any general 
meeting unless either:
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
122 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  17. Ca PiTal a ND RESERv ES continued
(i)  the meeting is convened to consider any resolutions for reducing the capital, or authorising any issue of debentures or debenture stock, or 
increasing the borrowing powers of the Board under the a rticles of a ssociation of the Company, or winding up, or sanctioning a sale of the 
undertaking, or altering the a rticles in any manner affecting their respective interests, or any other resolutions directly altering their respective 
rights and privileges; or
(ii)  at the date of the notice convening the general meeting the Preference dividend is upwards of one month in arrears from the payment date 
of any half-yearly instalment.
On a return of capital on a winding-up the assets of the Company available for distribution shall be applied:
f irst, in payment to the holders of the f irst Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate of 5.5% pa.
Second, in payment to the holders of the Second Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate of 
5.0% pa.
t hird, in repaying the capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Ordinary shares.
f ourth, any surplus shall be distributed rateably amongst the holders of the Ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal amount paid up on their 
respective holdings of shares in the Company.
 18. iNTEREST-bEa RiNg l Oa NS a ND bORROwi Ng S
t his note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings which are measured  
at amortised cost. f or more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 19.
a ccounting policies
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised  
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Finance lease payments
l eases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset had been 
purchased outright. a ssets acquired under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital elements of the leasing 
commitments are shown as obligations in creditors. Depreciation is charged on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or over the lease term 
if shorter. minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. t he finance charge 
is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Borrowing facilities and liquidity
a ll of the Group’s borrowing facilities are arranged by Group t reasury with morgan a dvanced materials plc as the principal obligor. in a few cases 
operating subsidiaries have external borrowings but these are supervised and controlled centrally. Group t reasury seeks to obtain certainty of 
access to funding in the amounts, diversity of maturities and diversity of counterparties as required to support the Group’s medium-term financing 
requirements and to minimise the impact of poor credit market conditions.
interest-bearing loans, borrowings and overdrafts
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current liabilities
Senior Notes 184.6 176.1 
Bank and other loans 72.2 55.8 
Obligations under finance leases 0.6 1.0 
257.4 232.9 
Current liabilities
Senior Notes – 31.3
Bank and other loans 8.0 5.5
Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.3
8.4 37.1
123
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 18. iNTEREST-bEa RiNg l Oa NS a ND bORROwi Ng S continued
Terms and debt repayment schedule
t he terms and conditions of outstanding loans are given in note 19 in the l iquidity risk section.
f inance lease liabilities
f inance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Minimum
lease
payments
2015
£m
Interest
2015
£m
Principal
2015
£m
minimum
lease
payments
2014
£m
interest
2014
£m
Principal
2014
£m
l ess than one year 0.4 – 0.4 0.3 – 0.3 
Between one and five years 0.7 0.1 0.6 1.1 0.1 1.0 
more than five years – – – – – – 
1.1 0.1 1.0 1.4 0.1 1.3
Bank and other loans did not include any loans secured on the assets of the Group (2014: £nil).
a s at 31 December 2015 the Group had available headroom under the bank syndication of £128.0 million (2014: £146.6 million).
19. f iNa NCial R iSK ma Nag EmENT
t his note presents information about the Group’s exposure to a variety of financial risks: credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, and the Group’s 
management of capital. f urther quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
a ccounting policies
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
f inancial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity (ie forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet the 
following two conditions:
(i)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial 
liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and
(ii)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation 
to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed 
amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
t o the extent that this definition is not met the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes the 
legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium 
account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
f inance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses. f inance payments associated with financial 
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
f inancial Risk management and Treasury policy
Group t reasury works within a framework of policies and procedures approved by the a udit Committee. it acts as a service to morgan a dvanced 
materials’ businesses, not as a profit centre, and manages and controls risk in the treasury environment through the establishment of such procedures. 
Group t reasury seeks to align treasury goals, objectives and philosophy to those of the Group. it is responsible for all of the Group’s funding, 
liquidity, cash management, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and other treasury business. a s part of the policies and procedures, there 
is strict control over the use of financial instruments to hedge foreign currencies and interest rates. Speculative trading in derivatives and other 
financial instruments is not permitted.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
124 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 19. f iNa NCial R iSK ma Nag EmENT continued
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. 
t he Group is exposed to credit risk on financial instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and trade receivables. 
t he carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. t he maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
Carrying amount
2015
£m
2014
£m
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 0.5 1.6 
t rade and other receivables 155.9 170.5 
Cash and cash equivalents 49.8 63.0 
Derivatives 2.0 6.0 
208.2 241.1
a vailable-for-sale financial assets
t he Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only investing in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a sound credit rating.  
Given these high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
Trade and other receivables
t he Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. t he demographics of the Group’s 
customer base, including the default risk of the industries and countries in which customers operate, has less influence on credit risk.
management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed 
on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. t he Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
t he Group serves thousands of customers. many of these have purchased the same product for several years and in some cases decades. 
Others have modified and enhanced designs or adopted the same components into new products, extending the lifecycle of the components 
that the Group supplies. t he Group’s level of customer retention is very high, particularly with its major accounts, and, although the top 20 
ranking will alter from year to year, many of the names remain consistent over time. 
t he Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and 
investments.
t he ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross
2015
£m
Impairment
2015
£m
Gross
2014
£m
impairment
2014
£m
Not past due 122.4 (0.6) 134.6 (0.2)
Past due 0-30 days 20.9 (0.3) 19.5 (0.1)
Past due 31-60 days 5.1 (0.1) 6.7 (0.2)
Past due 61-90 days 5.0 (2.4) 12.0 (3.5)
Past due more than 90 days 15.9 (10.0) 9.9 (8.2)
169.3 (13.4) 182.7 (12.2)
t he only movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables was an increase of £1.2 million (2014: decrease of £0.9 million).
a specific impairment allowance may be created in respect of an individual trade receivable for which full recovery is doubtful. a s at 31 December 
2015 and 31 December 2014 there were no specific impairment allowances that were significant to the Group.
t he allowances in the accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery 
of the amount owing is possible; at the point the amount is considered irrecoverable it is written off against the financial asset directly.
Cash, cash equivalents and derivatives
Cash balances held by companies representing over 75% of the Group’s revenue are managed centrally through a number of pooling 
arrangements. Credit risk is managed by investing liquid assets and acquiring derivatives in a diversified way from high-credit-quality financial 
institutions. Counterparties are reviewed through the use of rating agencies, systemic risk considerations and through regular review of the 
financial press. 
125
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS  19. f iNa NCial R iSK ma Nag EmENT continued
l iquidity risk
l iquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled  
by cash. t he Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities 
when due, under both normal and stressed conditions.
t he Group seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible, cost-effective borrowing structure. t he policy is to ensure that the Group 
has sufficient liquidity available to meet all foreseeable needs.
t he following are the undiscounted contracted maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments:
2015
Effective
interest
rate
Year of
maturity
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
 – 
4.32% euro Senior Notes 2017 4.32% 2017 14.9 15.9 0.7 15.2  –  – 
6.12% u S Dollar Senior Notes 2017 6.12% 2017 118.8 133.3 7.3 126.0  –  – 
6.26% u S Dollar Senior Notes 2019 6.26% 2019 50.9 63.6 3.1 3.2 57.3  – 
Bank and other loans 1.26% up to 2019 80.2 80.2 8.0 0.6 71.6 
Obligations under finance leases 4.56% up to 2019 1.0 1.1 0.4 0.3 0.4  – 
t rade and other payables 96.1 96.1 96.1  –  –  – 
Derivative financial liabilities
f orward exchange contracts  
as cash flow hedges 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.1  –  – 
f orward exchange contracts  
as fair value hedges 0.7 0.7 0.1 0.6  –  – 
f orward exchange contracts  
as net investment hedges 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.2  –  – 
364.2 392.5 117.0 146.2 129.3 –
2014
effective
interest
rate
Year of
maturity
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
l ess than 
1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
more than 
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
3.65% euro Senior Notes 2015 3.65% 2015 31.3 31.9 31.9  –  –  – 
4.32% euro Senior Notes 2017 4.32% 2017 15.7 17.4 0.7 0.7 16.0  – 
6.12% u S Dollar Senior Notes 2017 6.12% 2017 112.3 132.9 6.9 6.9 119.1  – 
6.26% u S Dollar Senior Notes 2019 6.26% 2019 48.1 63.1 3.0 3.0 57.1  – 
Bank and other loans 1.16% up to 2019 61.3 61.3 8.5 0.3 52.5 
Obligations under finance leases 4.78% up to 2019 1.3 1.4 0.4 0.3 0.7  – 
t rade and other payables 93.0 93.0 93.0  –  –  – 
Derivative financial liabilities
f orward exchange contracts  
as cash flow hedges 0.7 0.7 0.7  –  –  – 
f orward exchange contracts  
as fair value hedges 0.1 0.1 0.1  –  –  – 
f orward exchange contracts  
 as net investment hedges –  –  –  –  –  – 
363.8 401.8 145.2 11.2 245.4  – 
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
126 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  19. f iNa NCial R iSK ma Nag EmENT continued
Cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges 
t he following table indicates the periods in which cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to occur. t his is matched with the 
periods in which cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to impact profit or loss.
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
l ess than 1
year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5
years
£m
more than 5
years
£m
f orward exchange contracts – a ssets 1.2 54.7 52.1 2.6  –  – 
f orward exchange contracts – l iabilities (0.6) (53.9) (51.2) (2.7) –  – 
Total 2015 0.6 0.8 0.9 (0.1) –  – 
f orward exchange contracts – a ssets 1.3 58.5 48.3 10.2  –  – 
f orward exchange contracts – l iabilities (0.7) (57.7) (48.0) (9.7) –  – 
t otal 2014 0.6 0.8 0.3 0.5  – -
market risk
market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices, will affect the Group’s income 
or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. t he objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
t he Group buys and sells derivatives in the ordinary course of business for hedging purposes, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage 
market risks. a ll such transactions are carried out in accordance with the t reasury Policy, which has been approved by the a udit Committee. 
Generally the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in profit or loss.
interest rate risk
t he Group seeks to reduce the volatility in its interest charge caused by rate fluctuations. t his is achieved through a combination of fixed rate debt and 
interest rate swaps. t he proportions of fixed and floating rate debt are determined having regard to a number of factors, including prevailing market 
conditions, interest rate cycle, the Group’s interest cover and leverage position and any perceived correlation between business performance and rates.
a t the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
fixed rate instruments carrying 
amount
Variable rate instruments carrying 
amount
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
f inancial assets – 25.7 49.8 63.0 
f inancial liabilities (226.9) (209.4) (40.3) (84.1)
(226.9) (183.7) 9.5 (21.1)
t he fixed rate financial liabilities predominantly comprise the currency equivalent of £184.6 million (2014: £207.4 million) of Senior Notes as well 
as the currency equivalent of £40.5 million (2014: £nil) of euro payables under cross-currency swaps at a negative rate of 0.15%. t he average cost 
of the Group’s fixed rate instruments is 4.9% (2014: 5.7%). 
a n increase of 100 basis points in interest rates on the variable element of the Group’s net debt at the reporting date would have increased profit 
by £0.1 million (2014: £0.5 million). a decrease of 100 basis points would have increased profit by £0.3 million (2014: £0.2 million). t his analysis 
assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. 
f oreign currency risk
Due to the international reach of the Group, currency transaction exposures exist. t he Group has a policy in place to hedge all material firm 
commitments and a large proportion of highly probable forecast foreign currency exposures in respect of sales and purchases over the following 
12 months, and achieves this through the use of the forward foreign exchange markets. a significant proportion of the forward exchange 
contracts have maturities of less than one year after the balance sheet date. t he Group continues its practice of not hedging income statement 
translation exposure.
t here are exchange control restrictions which affect the ability of a small number of the Group’s subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Group.  
t he Group does not believe such restrictions have had or will have any material adverse impact on the Group as a whole or the ability of the 
Group to meet its cash flow requirements.
t he table overleaf, shows the Group’s currency exposures, being exposures on currency transactions that give rise to net currency gains and 
losses recognised in the income statement. Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated 
in the functional currency of the operating company involved, other than certain non-GBP borrowings treated as hedges of net investments 
in overseas entities.
127
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS  19. f iNa NCial R iSK ma Nag EmENT continued
Functional currency of Group operations
2015 2014
GBP
£m
USD
£m
€
£m
GBP
£m
uSD
£m
€
£m
t rade receivables 1.8 7.6 9.8 2.2 4.5 21.1 
Cash and cash equivalents 1.0 3.3 (2.9) 0.5 1.0 (5.9)
t rade payables (1.3) (8.7) (2.1) (2.4) (9.2) (3.2)
Net balance sheet exposure 1.5 2.2 4.8 0.3 (3.7) 12.0 
t he amounts shown in the table take into account the effect of the forward contracts entered into to manage these currency exposures.
in respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than the currency of the reporting unit, the Group ensures that the net 
exposure is kept to an acceptable level, by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances.
t he Group classifies its forward exchange contracts hedging forecasted transactions as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. t he fair 
value of forward exchange contracts used as hedges of forecasted transactions at 31 December 2015 was an asset of £0.6 million (2014: asset  
of £0.6 million).
t he contractual cash flows associated with the forward exchange contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges are shown in the section  
on liquidity risk. t he impact on profit or loss is expected to occur at the same time as the associated cash flows.
Currency translation risks are controlled centrally. t o defend against the impact of a permanent reduction in the value of its overseas net assets 
through currency depreciation, the Group seeks to match the currency of financial liabilities with the currency in which the net assets are denominated. 
t his is achieved by raising funds in different currencies and through the use of hedging instruments such as swaps, and is implemented only to the 
extent that the Group’s gearing covenant under the terms of its loan documents, as well as its facility headroom, are likely to remain comfortably 
within limits. in this way, the currency of the Group’s financial liabilities becomes more aligned to the currency of the trading cash flows that 
service them.
t he Group’s currency split of total borrowings after the impact of net investment hedges was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
GBP (39.2) 6.3 
uSD 186.7 160.3 
€ 57.3 82.2 
Chinese Renminbi 31.7 – 
Japanese Yen 15.2 7.5 
Other 8.6 5.8 
260.3 262.1 
t he Group’s sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015 is as follows:
Based upon the currency profile of the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities, if GBP had strengthened by 10%, reported net financial liabilities 
would have decreased by £20.9 million (2014: £21.6 million). Conversely, if GBP had weakened by 10%, reported net financial liabilities would 
have increased by £25.1 million (2014: £26.3 million). a ssuming the change occurred on the balance sheet date, there would be no impact on 
reported profit. 
t he amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are forward-looking estimates of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions 
occur. a ctual results in the future may differ materially from those projected results due to developments. t he impact of a weakening in GBP 
on the Group’s financial assets and liabilities would be more than offset in equity and income by its impact on the Group’s overseas net assets 
and earnings respectively.
Based on the 2015 results, if in isolation the u SD average exchange rate for 2015 were 10% weaker, reported revenue and profit before tax 
would be £34.8 million (2014: £33.0 million) and £2.9 million (2014: £4.3 million) lower.
Based on the 2015 results, if in isolation the eu R average exchange rate for 2015 were 10% weaker, reported revenue and profit before tax 
would be £20.5 million (2014: £21.3 million) and £2.8 million (2014: £2.7 million) lower.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
128 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  19. f iNa NCial R iSK ma Nag EmENT continued
Other market price risk
equity price risk arises from available-for-sale equity securities held for meeting partially the unfunded portion of the Group’s defined benefit 
pension obligations. t he primary goal of the Group’s investment strategy is to maximise returns in order to meet partially the Group’s unfunded 
defined benefit obligations.
Capital management
t he Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base (total equity) so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. t he Board uses a number of measures, identified as key performance indicators (KPis), to ensure the continued 
success of the Group. t he main KPi for the Group is the underlying operating profit margin. t he aim is to achieve mid-teen margins in good times 
and double-digit margins when the environment is more challenging.
t he Board encourages employees of the Group to hold the Company’s Ordinary shares. t he Group operates a number of employee share 
and share option schemes. f rom time to time the Company purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends 
on market prices. Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Group’s various share option incentive schemes.
t he Board seeks to maintain a balance between the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position, and the higher returns that 
might be possible with higher levels of borrowings.
t he Group monitors capital using the following indicators:
Debt to adjusted capital
2015
£m
2014
£m
t otal interest-bearing loans and borrowings 259.4 265.5 
l ess: cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts (43.4) (58.5)
Net debt
*
216.0 207.0 
t otal equity 186.4 187.7 
l ess: amounts accumulated in equity relating to cash flow hedges (0.4) (0.5)
a djusted capital 186.0 187.2 
Debt to adjusted capital ratio 1.2 1.1
Net debt
*
 to EBITDA
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net debt
*
216.0 207.0
Operating profit before specific adjusting items, restructuring costs and other one-off items 102.5 109.8 
Depreciation and amortisation 34.2 36.0 
eBit Da 136.7 145.8 
Net debt
*
 to eBit Da ratio 1.6x 1.4x
Interest cover
eBit Da 136.7 145.8 
Net finance costs (excluding ia S 19 pension charge) 11.2 15.1 
interest cover 12.3x 9.7x
*  Net debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
t here were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
129
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS  19. f iNa NCial R iSK ma Nag EmENT continued
f air values
t he fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
Carrying 
amount
2015
£m
Fair value
2015
£m
Carrying 
amount
2014
£m
f air value
2014
£m
Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost
3.65% euro Senior Notes 2015 – – (31.3) (31.6)
4.32% euro Senior Notes 2017 (14.9) (15.5) (15.7) (16.6)
6.12% u S Dollar Senior Notes 2017 (118.8) (125.5) (112.3) (121.6)
6.26% u S Dollar Senior Notes 2019 (50.9) (56.0) (48.1) (53.5)
Bank and other loans (80.2) (80.2) (61.3) (61.3)
Obligations under finance leases (1.0) (1.0) (1.3) (1.3)
t rade and other payables (96.1) (96.1) (93.0) (93.0)
l oans and receivables 155.9 155.9 170.5 170.5 
Cash and cash equivalents 49.8 49.8 63.0 63.0 
(156.2) (168.6) (129.5) (145.4)
Available-for-sale financial instruments
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 0.5 0.5 1.6 1.6 
Derivatives and other items at fair value
f orward exchange contracts used for hedging 0.5 0.5 1.4 1.4 
Cross-currency swaps used for hedging (0.8) (0.8) 3.8 3.8 
(156.0) (168.4) (122.7) (138.6)
t he following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the  
preceding table.
Equity securities
f air value is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives
f orward exchange contracts are marked to market either using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting 
the current spot rate. 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings
f air value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows. t he interest rates used to determine the fair value  
of loans and borrowings are 1.6 – 3.5% (2014: 1.8 – 3.8%) and finance leases 4.56% (2014: 4.78%).
f inance lease liabilities
t he fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements.  
t he estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables/payables
f or receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. a ll other receivables/
payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and loans and receivables
t he Group has disclosed the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, current loans and receivables and current payables at their carrying amount, 
given their notional amount is deemed to be their fair value. 
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
130 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  19. f iNa NCial R iSK ma Nag EmENT continued
f air value hierarchy
t he table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. t he different levels have been defined as follows:
 > l evel 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
 > l evel 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within l evel 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie as prices) 
or indirectly (ie derived from prices)
 > l evel 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
31 December 2015 31 December 14
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
l evel 1
£m
l evel 2
£m
total
£m
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 0.5 – 0.5 1.6 – 1.6
Derivative financial assets – 2.0 2.0 – 6.0  6.0 
0.5 2.0 2.5 1.6 6.0 7.6 
Derivative financial liabilities – (2.3) (2.3) – (0.8) (0.8)
t he table below analyses financial instruments disclosed at fair value, by valuation method.
31 December 2015 31 December 14
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
l evel 1
£m
l evel 2
£m
total
£m
3.65% euro Senior Notes 2015 – – –  – (31.6) (31.6)
4.32% euro Senior Notes 2017 – (15.5) (15.5) – (16.6) (16.6)
6.12% u S Dollar Senior Notes 2017 – (125.5) (125.5) – (121.6) (121.6)
6.26% u S Dollar Senior Notes 2019 – (56.0) (56.0) – (53.5) (53.5)
Obligations under finance leases – (1.0) (1.0) – (1.3) (1.3)
 – (198.0) (198.0) – (224.6) (224.6)
t here have been no transfers between level 1 and level 2 during 2015 and 2014 and there were no level 3 financial instruments in either 2015 
and 2014.
20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS
a ccounting policies
(i) Defined contribution plans 
f or defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to either publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans, and the Group 
has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. 
(ii) Defined benefit plans
a defined benefit plan is any retirement plan which is not a defined contribution plan. t ypically, defined benefit plans defined an amount of 
retirement benefit that an employee will receive, usually depending on one or more factors such as age, years of service and earnings. 
t he Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future 
benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present 
value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. t he discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on aa -credit-rated bonds that have 
maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. t he calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit 
credit method. 
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of the present value of economic benefits available 
in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. a n economic benefit is available to the Group 
if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities. Remeasurement gains and losses, differences between the interest 
income and actual returns on assets, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in OCi in the year in which they arise.
(iii) Long-term service benefits
t he Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. t he obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method, 
or similar approximation, and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. t he discount rate is the yield 
at the balance sheet date on aa -credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. 
131
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
(iv) Share-based payment transactions
t he grant date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in 
equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards. t he amount recognised as an expense is adjusted 
to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market performance conditions are met, such that the amount 
ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions 
at the vesting date.
Employee benefits
t he Group operates a number of defined benefit arrangements as well as defined contribution plans. t he defined benefit plans are primarily in 
the u K, u Sa and e urope and predominantly provide pensions based on service and career-average pay. in addition post-retirement medical plans 
are operated in the u Sa .
t he Group have considered third-party powers and do not believe the t rustees have any powers that would prevent the Group obtaining a refund 
of any surplus on wind-up of the Scheme following gradual settlement of the plan obligations. a s such the Group’s interpretation is that the current 
version of if RiC 14 does not have an impact and, as a result, any ia S 19 surplus can be recognised as an asset and it is not necessary to recognise 
additional liabilities in respect of contribution agreements reached with the pension scheme t rustees.
UK schemes
in the u K, the Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, the morgan Pension Scheme, and the morgan Group Senior Staff Pension 
and l ife a ssurance Scheme (‘the u K Schemes’). t he two u K Schemes provide a benefit based upon an employee’s total service, and their career 
average earnings (including allowance for Consumer Price inflation), although historically benefits were based upon an employee’s final salary. 
Once in payment, pensions receive increases as set out in the rules, at either a fixed level, or in line with the Retail Price index. t he overall 
duration of the u K Schemes is around 18 years.
t he u K Schemes’ assets are held in trustee-administered funds governed by u K regulations, as is the nature of the relationship between the 
Group and the t rustees. Responsibility for the governance of the u K Schemes – including investment decisions and contribution schedules – lies 
with the Board of t rustees who must consult with the Company on such matters. t he Board of t rustees must be composed of representatives 
of the Company, plan participants and an independent trustee, in accordance with the u K Schemes governing documents. 
f unding legislation in the u K requires that schemes are fully funded on a scheme-specific basis as measured, and this must be assessed at least 
every three years. t o the extent that there is a deficit against this measure, a payment schedule must be agreed such that the deficit is removed 
over a period of time, typically around 10 years.
t he most recent full actuarial valuation of the u K Schemes were undertaken as at march 2013 and resulted in combined assessed deficits of 
£82 million. On the basis of these full valuations, the t rustees of the u K Schemes, having consulted with the Group, agreed past service deficit 
recovery payments totalling £7.3 million a year in 2015/16, increasing with 2.75% pa until 2023 and contributions in respect of future service as 
accrued. New full valuations are due with effective dates of march 2016 and the outcome of those consultations will determine the Group’s future 
contribution requirements, with any new deficit arising needing to be met through the payment of additional contributions.
t he u K Schemes were closed to new entrants on 1 a ugust 201 1, with any new employees receiving benefits through the morgan Group 
Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution arrangement.
US schemes
in the u Sa , the Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes (‘the u S Schemes’). t he majority of these are qualified 
arrangements for tax purposes, although the Group also operates a Supplemental executive Retirement Plan SeRP) which is not tax approved. 
With the exception of the SeRP , the u S Schemes are all frozen, with employees accruing benefits within a 401k arrangement. 
t he u S Schemes provide a benefit based upon an employee’s service and earnings. t he benefits are level both prior to, and whilst in, payment. 
Overall, the u S Schemes’ duration is around 1 1 years. 
t he qualified u S Schemes’ assets are held in a trust separately from the Group’s assets. f or the SeRP the Group holds an asset to meet the 
obligations however, due to its nature this is accounted for as a Group asset, rather than an asset of the SeRP . Responsibility for the governance  
of the u S Schemes, including investment decisions and contribution schedules, lies with a management committee, all of whose members are 
appointed by the Group. 
t he funding requirements in the u Sa , eRiSa , require schemes to be fully funded at all times, and if not to target full funding within a period of 
seven years.
t he most recent full actuarial valuation of the u S Schemes were undertaken as at 1 January 2015 for those plans in deficit these deficits totalled 
£10.5 million. On the basis of these valuations, the Group made a £9.2 million payment in 2015 and is expected to make payments of £7.1 million 
in 2016, both amounts being in excess of the minimum required contributions. t he Group is then expected to make payments totalling at least 
£6.8 million over the following five years.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
132 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
European schemes
in europe, the Group operates a number of retirement schemes, with the bulk of the obligations relating to arrangements for employees  
in Germany. in line with local practice these arrangements are not funded in advance, with benefits being met by the Group as they fall due. 
Pension plans and employee benefits
2015
UK
£m
2015
USA
£m
2015
Europe
£m
2015
Rest of 
the World
£m
2015
Total
£m
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations – (8.3) (27.2) (1.9) (37.4)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (500.9) (170.6) (1.5) (13.0) (686.0)
f air value of plan assets 383.5 123.8 0.4 11.2 518.9 
Net obligations (117.4) (55.1) (28.3) (3.7) (204.5)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
a t 1 January 2015 (512.4) (178.8) (32.1) (14.0) (737.3)
Current service cost (2.5) – (0.6) (1.2) (4.3)
interest cost (18.2) (7.1) (0.5) (0.3) (26.1)
Remeasurement gains/(losses)
Changes in financial assumptions 6.7 6.6 1.9  – 15.2 
Changes in demographic assumptions –  –  – (0.2) (0.2)
experience adjustments on benefit obligations 8.8 2.1 (0.2) 0.2 10.9 
Benefits paid 17.6 8.3 1.2 0.8 27.9 
Contributions by members (0.9) –  –  – (0.9)
exchange adjustments – (10.0) 1.6 (0.2) (8.6)
At 31 December 2015 (500.9) (178.9) (28.7) (14.9) (723.4)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
a t 1 January 2015 393.6 120.0 0.5 11.4 525.5 
interest on plan assets 14.1 4.9  – 0.2 19.2 
Remeasurement losses (16.1) (7.5) – (1.0) (24.6)
Contributions by employer 9.4 7.9 1.1 1.2 19.6 
Contributions by members 0.9  –  –  – 0.9 
Benefits paid (17.6) (8.3) (1.2) (0.8) (27.9)
a dministrative expenses (0.8) –  –  – (0.8)
exchange adjustments – 6.8  – 0.2 7.0 
At 31 December 2015 383.5 123.8 0.4 11.2 518.9 
a ctual return on assets (2.0) (2.6) – (0.8) (5.4)
Pension plans and employee benefits
2015
UK
£m
2015
USA
£m
2015
Europe
£m
2015
Rest of 
the World
£m
2015
Total
£m
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost and past service cost (2.5) – (0.6) (1.2) (4.3)
a dministrative expenses (0.8) –  –  – (0.8)
Net interest on net defined benefit liability (4.1) (2.2) (0.5) (0.1) (6.9)
Total expense (7.4) (2.2) (1.1) (1.3) (12.0)
in addition to the above, the Group directly incurred £1.4 million (2014: £0.9 million) of administrative expenses in relation to the u Sa schemes, 
which have been recognised in overheads outside of the pension liability.
133
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
t he ia S 19 expense in relation to the Group’s defined benefit arrangements is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income 
statement:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating costs (5.1) (5.0)
Net finance expense (6.9) (5.7)
t otal expense (12.0) (10.7)
On 30 January 2015, the Group disposed of its t hermal Ceramics business in Wissembourg, f rance. £0.7 million of employee benefits related  
to Wissembourg and were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2014, as described in note 6.
Statement of financial position reconciliation
2015
£m
2014
£m
a t 1 January 2015 (211.8) (144.6)
Pension expense (12.0) (10.7)
Contributions 19.6 19.5 
Other comprehensive income 1.3 (75.2)
t ransfer to liabilities classified as held for sale – 0.7 
exchange adjustments (1.6) (1.5)
At 31 December 2015 (204.5) (211.8)
t he Group expects to contribute £19.7 million to these arrangements in 2016.
UK
£m
USA
£m
Europe
£m
Rest of 
the World
£m
Total
£m
estimate of employer contributions to be paid into the plans during the 
12-month period beginning 1 January 2016 9.5 8.0 1.0 1.2 19.7
t he fair values of the plan assets were as follows:
2015
UK
£m
2015
USA
£m
2015
Europe
£m
2015
Rest of 
the World
£m
2015
Total
£m
equities and growth assets 161.7 38.1 – – 199.8 
Bonds 31.6 60.1 – – 91.7 
matching insurance policies 177.1 – 0.3 4.0 181.4 
Other 13.1 25.6 0.1 7.2 46.0 
t otal 383.5 123.8 0.4 11.2 518.9
t he assumptions used are best estimate assumptions chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not be borne out 
in practice. t he principal assumptions are the discount rate and inflation assumptions which are long term and measured on external factors, 
based upon each plan’s duration. in addition to these, the mortality assumption in the u K and u Sa is material to the cost of the promised 
benefits. in both the u K and europe, the assumed increases in salaries and pensions in payment are derived from assumed future inflation.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
134 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
a ctuarial assumptions were:
2015
UK
%
2015
USA
%
2015
Europe
%
2015
Rest of 
the World
%
Discount rate 3.70 4.50 2.30 2.90
inflation (u K: RPi/CPi) 3.00/1.80 n/a 1.70 n/a
Salary increase n/a n/a 2.20 5.00
Pensions increase 2.90/3.10/3.70 n/a 1.70 n/a
mortality – post-retirement:
l ife expectancy of a male aged 60 in accounting year 26.6 26.2 23.6 n/a
l ife expectancy of a male aged 60 in accounting year + 20 28.2 28.0 26.4 n/a
t he actual liability in respect of global employee benefits will not be known until the last payments have been made. in placing a current estimate 
on the Group’s past service benefit obligations, a number of assumptions about the future are required. f or defined benefit schemes, the Directors 
make annual estimates and assumptions in respect of discount rates, future changes in salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life expectancy. 
in making these estimates and assumptions, the Directors consider advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
t he accounting assumptions noted above are used to calculate the year-end net pension liability in accordance with the relevant accounting 
standard, ia S 19 (revised) Employee Benefits. Changes in these assumptions have no impact on the Group’s cash payments to their arrangements. 
t he payments due are calculated based on local funding requirements, or in the case of the Group’s unfunded arrangements on the incidence 
of benefit payments falling due.
t he sensitivities of the Group’s net balance sheet to the principal assumptions are:
Change in assumption
2015
Increase effect 
on deficit
£m
2014
increase effect 
on deficit
£m
Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% 9.8 9.9 
inflation increase by 0.1% 4.4 5.1 
mortality – post-retirement Pensioners live 1 year longer 17.1 16.2 
exchange rates GBP weakens against u SD by 10% 6.1 6.5 
GBP weakens against eu R by 10% 3.1 3.6
t hese sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the net balance sheet in isolation, and assuming no other changes in market 
conditions at the accounting date. t his is unlikely in practice – for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement  
in the value of the assets held by the Group’s schemes.
135
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
Pension plans and employee benefits
2014
uK
£m
2014
uS a
£m
2014
europe
£m
2014
Rest of 
the World
£m
2014
total
£m
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations – (8.7) (30.5) (1.6) (40.8)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (512.4) (170.1) (1.6) (12.4) (696.5)
f air value of plan assets 393.6 120.0 0.5 11.4 525.5 
Net obligations (1 18.8) (58.8) (31.6) (2.6) (211.8)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
a t 1 January 2014 (441.5) (141.9) (28.5) (13.1) (625.0)
Current service cost (2.4) – (0.6) (1.2) (4.2)
interest cost (19.5) (6.7) (0.9) (0.4) (27.5)
Remeasurement losses
Changes in financial assumptions (65.1) (16.6) (6.2) (0.1) (88.0)
Changes in demographic assumptions – (13.1) –  – (13.1)
experience adjustments on benefit obligations (0.9) 2.5 0.1 (0.3) 1.4 
Benefits paid 18.1 7.4 1.4 1.1 28.0 
Contributions by members (1.1) –  –  – (1.1)
t ransfer to liabilities classified as held for sale –  – 0.7  – 0.7 
exchange adjustments – (10.4) 1.9  – (8.5)
At 31 December 2014 (512.4) (178.8) (32.1) (14.0) (737.3)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
a t 1 January 2014 366.5 102.6 0.5 10.8 480.4 
interest on plan assets 16.4 5.1  – 0.3 21.8 
Remeasurement gains 19.4 5.1  –  – 24.5 
Contributions by employer 9.1 7.7 1.4 1.3 19.5 
Contributions by members 1.1  –  –  – 1.1 
Benefits paid (18.1) (7.4) (1.4) (1.1) (28.0)
a dministrative expenses (0.8) –  –  – (0.8)
exchange adjustments – 6.9  – 0.1 7.0 
At 31 December 2014 393.6 120.0 0.5 11.4 525.5 
a ctual return on assets 35.8 10.2  – 0.3 46.3 
Pension plans and employee benefits
2014
uK
£m
2014
uS a
£m
2014
europe
£m
2014
Rest of 
the World
£m
2014
total
£m
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost and past service cost (2.4) – (0.6) (1.2) (4.2)
a dministrative expenses (0.8) –  –  – (0.8)
Net interest on net defined benefit liability (3.1) (1.6) (0.9) (0.1) (5.7)
Total expense (6.3) (1.6) (1.5) (1.3) (10.7)
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
136 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
Risks
t hrough its defined benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below.
t he balance sheet net pension liability is a snapshot view which can be significantly influenced by short-term market factors.
t he calculation of the surplus or deficit depends, therefore, on factors which are beyond the control of the Group – principally the value at the 
balance sheet date of equity shares in which the scheme has invested and long-term interest rates which are used to discount future liabilities.  
t he funding of the scheme is based on long-term trends and assumptions relating to market growth, as advised by qualified actuaries and 
investment advisers.
Investment returns:   t he Group’s net balance sheet, and contribution requirements are heavily dependent upon the return on the assets 
invested in by the schemes.
Longevity:   t he cost to the Group of the pensions promised to members is dependent upon the expected term of these 
payments. t o the extent that members live longer than expected this will increase the cost of these arrangements.
Inflation rate risk:   in the u K, the pension promises are, in the main, linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
t he above risks have been mitigated for a large proportion of the u K Schemes’ population through the purchase of an insurance policy, the 
payments from which exactly match the promises made to employees. Remaining investment risks have also been mitigated to some extent  
by diversification of the return-seeking assets and backing uninsured pensioner liabilities by bonds and swaps.
in addition, the ia S 19 defined benefit obligation is linked to yields on aa -rated corporate bonds, however the majority of the Group’s arrangements 
invest in a number of other assets which will move in a different manner from these bonds. t herefore, changes in market conditions may lead to 
volatility in the net pension liability on the Group’s balance sheet and in other comprehensive income, and to a lesser extent in the ia S 19 pension 
expense in the Group’s income statement. 
Defined contribution plans
t he Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. t he total expense relating to these plans in the current year was 
£7.8 million (2014: £7.0 million). t he Group expects to contribute £8.8 million to these arrangements in 2016.
Share-based payments
t he Group operates various share option programmes that allow Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. u nder the morgan 
a dvanced materials plc l ong-t erm incentive Plan (lti P) and t he morgan a dvanced materials Bonus Deferral Share matching Plan (BDSmP) 
awards of shares are made to various key executives. u nder the executive Share Option Scheme 2004 (eSOS 2004) share options were granted 
by the Company. t he Company also maintains a u K all-employee Sharesave scheme (‘employee Sharesave Scheme 2004’). t he grant date fair 
value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. t he amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of 
share options for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are met.
t he fair value of the options and awards under each scheme have been measured using the following models:
lti P , BDSmP , eSOS 2004 monte Carlo model
employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 modified binomial model
t he following options and awards were outstanding at 31 December 2015 in respect of Ordinary shares:
exercise / a ward
price(s)
Number
of shares outstanding
Normal exercise dates ranging
from to
employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 214.00p-264.00p 1,824,398 1 December 2015 31 may 2019
eSOS 2004 171.90p – 23 may 2008 23 may 2015
BDSmP 0.00p-347.50p 753,286 23 march 2016 24 September 2018
lti P 0.00p 3,341,939 21 may 2016 28 f ebruary 2025
137
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
Performance metrics for l TiP, bDSmP and ESOS 2004
t he key performance metrics used in the plans are:
 > t otal Shareholder Return (t SR) – the return (expressed as a percentage) on a notional investment in one share in the Company expressed  
as follows: 
(a) the average share price over the last three months of the performance period; plus  
(b) the net dividends per share paid during the performance period reinvested in company shares at the ex-dividend date; divided by  
(c) the average share price over the three months preceding the performance period.
 > earnings Per Share (ePS) – (for the lti P and BDSmP) profit before taxation less the charge for non-controlling interests in any financial 
year of the Group, adjusted by the Remuneration Committee to exclude the effect of amortisation of intangible assets, charges related 
to ia S 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and the effect of any other special items which the Remuneration Committee 
does not, in its discretion, consider to reflect underlying operating performance, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue 
during the relevant financial years (defined on a pre-taxation basis).
 > Group earnings Before interest, t ax and a mortisation (eBita ) – the Group’s revenue for any financial year less operating expenses, but 
measured before the impact of taxation, net financing costs and the effect of amortisation of intangible assets. t he Remuneration Committee 
may also make further adjustments to exclude items which it does not, in its discretion, consider to reflect the underlying operating 
performance of the Group during the relevant financial years.
 > Group Return on Capital employed (ROCe) – eBita , divided by the capital employed at the end of the relevant financial year.
 > Group average Return on Capital employed (ROCe) – eBita , divided by the average of the capital employed at the end of the relevant 
financial years.
 > Divisional eBita for the lti P & BDSmP calculations – Divisional revenue for the relevant financial years less operating costs (including 
restructuring costs and other one-off items), but measured before the impact of taxation, net financing costs and the effect of amortisation 
of intangible assets at reported exchange rates. t he Remuneration Committee may also make further adjustments to exclude items which 
it does not, in its discretion, consider to reflect the underlying operating performance of the Division during the relevant financial years.
 > Divisional average ROCe – Divisional earnings before net financing costs, taxation and amortisation of intangible assets (eBita ), divided by 
the average of the Capital employed by the Division at the end of the relevant financial years.
f or the t SR elements of the plans, for performance between median and upper quartile, awards are made on a straight-line, pro-rata basis. 
Similarly for ePS, Group eBita , Group average ROCe, Divisional eBita and Divisional average ROC e metrics, for performance between the 
identified trigger points, awards are made on a straight-line, pro-rata basis.
Share Plans terms and conditions
t he terms and conditions of all awards and grants made that were outstanding on or after 1 January 2014:
Grant date/employees entitled
Number of 
instruments granted Vesting conditions
Contractual 
life of option
a wards granted to senior employees in 2015 under the BDSmP 499,634 
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2015 under the lti P 1,168,758 
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2014 under the BDSmP 105,726 
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2014 under the lti P 1,182,302 
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2013 under the BDSmP 194,944 
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2013 under the lti P 1,332,099 
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2012 under the BDSmP 1,740,554 
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2012 under the lti P 1,251,358 
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 3 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2005 under the eSOS 2004 2,097,000
t hree years of service plus 
satisfaction of performance metrics 10 years
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
138 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
Performance metrics for l TiP 
t he performance metrics for lti P awards are set annually. t he Company has given an undertaking to shareholders that awards will only vest if 
there is also an improvement in underlying financial performance. a wards will only vest therefore if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that 
the Group’s and/or Division’s (pre-2012 lti P awards only) underlying financial performance over the performance period justifies vesting. 
201 1 l TiP a wards
f or lti P awards granted to the CeO, Cf O and non-Divisional employees in 201 1, the extent to which 50% of the awards vest depends on the 
Company’s t SR ranking against an appropriate comparator group over the period from 3 January 201 1 to 31 December 2013. t he extent to 
which the other 50% of these awards vest depends on the growth in the Group’s ePS compared with RPi between the 2010 base financial year 
and the 2013 financial year:
t SR element ePS element
t SR against ft Se a ll-Share  
industrials index % of award that vests ePS growth % of award that vests
upper quartile 50% 15% pa 50%
median 15% 8% pa 15%
Below median Nil < 8% pa Nil
t o support the two-Divisional structure introduced in July 2010, the 201 1 lti P awards for senior Divisional executives were tailored to the value 
creation of each Division. u nder these awards, the Divisional element is split into Divisional eBita growth and Divisional average ROC e. Vesting 
under the Divisional element only occurs when Divisional performance exceeds the threshold performance metrics under both measures. Once 
the Divisional performance metrics exceed the threshold, the two elements are then measured independently. 
f or the lti P award granted to the COO (who, at the time of the award, was CeO morgan Ceramics) in 201 1, t SR ranking (as for CeO, Cf O  
and non-Divisional employees) and Divisional performance between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year, were awarded  
on an equal basis:
t SR element Divisional element
t SR against ft Se a ll-Share 
industrials index % of award that vests Divisional eBita growth % of award that vests Divisional average ROCe % of award that vests
upper quartile 50% 18% pa 25% 40.7% 25%
median 15% 12% pa 7.5% 35.7% 7.5%
Below median Nil < 12% pa Nil < 35.7% Nil
f or lti P awards granted to other executives in the former morgan Ceramics Division in 201 1, 100% of awards are based on morgan Ceramics 
Divisional performance, between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year:
Divisional eBita growth % of award that vests Divisional average ROCe % of award that vests
18% pa 50% 40.7% 50%
12% pa 15% 35.7% 15%
< 12% pa Nil < 35.7% Nil
f or the lti P award granted to the former CeO morgan engineered materials in 201 1, t SR ranking (as for CeO, Cf O and non-Divisional 
employees) and Divisional performance between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year, were awarded on an equal basis:
t SR element Divisional element
t SR against ft Se a ll-Share 
industrials index % of award that vests Divisional eBita growth % of award that vests Divisional average ROCe % of award that vests
upper quartile 50% 15% pa 25% 36.1% 25%
median 15% 10% pa 7.5% 33.7% 7.5%
Below median Nil < 10% pa Nil < 33.7% Nil
f or lti P awards granted to other executives in the former morgan engineered materials Division in 201 1, 100% of awards are based on morgan 
engineered materials Divisional performance, between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year:
Divisional eBita growth % of award that vests Divisional average ROCe % of award that vests
15% pa 50% 36.1% 50%
10% pa 15% 33.7% 15%
< 10% pa Nil < 33.7% Nil
139
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
2012 l TiP a wards 
t o support the ‘One morgan’ organisation structure, the performance metrics for the 2012 lti P awards were reviewed during 2013.
t here were no changes to the performance conditions of the lti P awards granted to the CeO, Cf O and non-Divisional employees in 2012.  
t he extent to which 33% of the awards vest depends on the Company’s t SR ranking against an appropriate comparator group over the period 
from 2 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. t he extent to which 33% of these awards vest depends on the compound annual growth in the 
Group’s ePS between the 201 1 base financial year and the 2014 financial year. t he extent to which 33% vest depends on the Group’s average 
ROCe for the financial years ending 31 December 2012, 2013 and 2014:
t SR element Group element
t SR against ft Se a ll-Share 
industrials index % of award that vests ePS growth % of award that vests Group average ROCe % of award that vests
upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 37% 33.33%
median 10% 8% pa 10% 33% 10%
Below median Nil < 8% pa Nil < 33% Nil
f or the 2012 lti P award made to the COO (who, at the time of the award, was CeO morgan Ceramics), it was decided that the morgan 
Ceramics Divisional performance metrics attached to his 2012 lti P award be replaced by Group performance metrics, aligned with those 
attached to the 2012 lti P awards awarded to the other executive Directors, as set out above.
f or the 2012 lti P awards granted to other executives in the former morgan Ceramics and morgan engineered materials Divisions in 2012, it was 
decided that a single set of Group performance metrics should apply to these participants. t he single set of Group performance metrics blends 
the performance metrics originally set for the two Divisions over the performance period (as set out below). t he Group performance metrics are 
split into compound annual growth eBita and Group average ROC e. Vesting only occurs when Group performance exceeds the threshold 
performance metrics under both measures. Once the Group performance metrics exceed the threshold, the two elements are then measured 
independently:
Compound annual growth eBita % of award that vests Group average ROCe % of award that vests
15% pa 50% 40.9% 50%
5.6% pa 15% 38.5% 15%
< 5.6% pa Nil < 38.5% Nil
t he changes to the performance conditions attaching to the 2012 lti P awards did not result in a change in the fair value at the measurement date. 
Details of the original 2012 lti P performance metrics for other executives in the former morgan Ceramics and morgan engineered materials 
Divisions are set out below:
f or the COO (who, at the time of the award was CeO morgan Ceramics), 1/3 of the award was to vest on relative t SR, with the remaining 2/3 
to vest on a divisional eBita / ROC e matrix. f or the eBita /ROCe element, there would have been no vesting unless eBita growth in m organ 
Ceramics was at least 6% p.a. and ROCe is 41% in 2014; full vesting would have occurred for eBita growth of 15% p.a. and ROC e of 43.5%.
f or lti P awards granted to executives in the former morgan Ceramics Division in 2012, 100% of awards were based on morgan Ceramics 
Divisional performance, between the 201 1 base financial year and the 2014 financial year:
Divisional eBita % of award that vests Divisional average ROCe % of award that vests
15% pa 50% 43.5% 50%
6% pa 15% 41% 15%
< 6% pa Nil < 41% Nil
f or lti P awards granted to executives in the former morgan engineered materials Division in 2012, 100% of awards were based on morgan 
engineered materials Divisional performance, between the 201 1 base financial year and the 2014 financial year:
Divisional eBita % of award that vests Divisional average ROCe % of award that vests
15% pa 50% 37.10% 50%
5% pa 15% 34.70% 15%
< 5% pa Nil < 34.7% Nil
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
140 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
2013 and 2014 l TiP a wards
f or lti P awards granted to all participants in 2013, the extent to which 33% of the awards vest depends on the Company’s t SR ranking against 
an appropriate comparator group over the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015. t he extent to which 33% of these awards vest 
depends on the growth in the Company’s ePS between the 2012 base financial year and the 2015 financial year. t he extent to which 33% vest 
depends on the Group’s average ROCe for the financial years ending 31 December 2013, 2014 and 2015.
f or lti P awards granted to all participants in 2014, the extent to which 33% of the awards vest depends on the Company’s t SR ranking against 
an appropriate comparator group over the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016. t he extent to which 33% of these awards vest 
depends on the growth in the Company’s ePS between the 2013 base financial year and the 2016 financial year. t he extent to which 33% vest 
depends on the Group’s ROCe for the financial year ending 31 December 2016:
t SR element ePS element ROCe element
t SR against ft Se a ll-Share 
industrials index % of award that vests ePS Growth % of award that vests ROCe % of award that vests
upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 37% 33.33%
median 10% 8% pa 10% 33% 10%
Below median Nil < 8% pa Nil < 33% Nil
2015 l TiP a wards
f or lti P awards granted to all participants in 2015, the extent to which 33% of the awards vest depends on the Company’s t SR ranking against 
an appropriate comparator group over the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017. t he extent to which 33% of these awards vest 
depends on the growth in the Company’s ePS between the 2014 base financial year and the 2017 financial year. t he extent to which 33% vest 
depends on the Group’s ROCe for the financial year ending 31 December 2017:
t SR element ePS element ROCe element
t SR against ft Se a ll-Share 
industrials index % of award that vests ePS Growth % of award that vests ROCe % of award that vests
upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 33% 33.33%
median 10% 6% pa 10% 27% 10%
Below median Nil < 6% pa Nil < 27% Nil
Performance metrics for the bDSmP
t he BDSmP was introduced following shareholder approval in 2008. 
u nder the plan rules, participants may be offered the opportunity to defer up to 75% of their annual bonus on a pre- or post-tax basis into 
Company shares. Participants must hold the deferred shares for three years to be eligible for a matching award based on the pre-tax value of 
their deferred shares. matching shares may be earned at the end of three years in the event that stretching performance metrics have been met. 
t he performance metrics for the BDSmP are set annually.
u nder the 201 1, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 grants participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus under the BDSmP 
and the performance metrics are based on ePS growth targets relative to the 2010, 201 1, 2012, 2013 and 2014 base years respectively:
ePS performance Vesting of matching Shares (as multiple of the shares under the Deferred a ward)
20% pa 3x match
16% pa 2x match
12% pa 1x match
8% pa Nil
< 8% pa Nil
ESOS 2004
t here were no awards during 2015 (2014: nil).
141
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 20. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 terms and conditions
t he terms and conditions of awards/grants that were outstanding on or after 1 January 2014 that are not covered in the information above are as 
follows:
Grant date/employees entitled
Number of 
instruments 
granted Vesting conditions
Contractual life 
of option
Options granted to u K employees in 2015 under the employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 640,447 t hree years of service 3 years
Options granted to u K employees in 2014 under the employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 404,687 t hree years of service 3 years
Options granted to u K employees in 2013 under the employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 463,394 t hree years of service 3 years
Options granted to u K employees in 2012 under the employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 1,071,868 t hree years of service 3 years
Share Plans – further details
Awards made in 2015
LTIP 2004 BDSMP
Employee 
Sharesave 
Schemes 2004
f air value at measurement date 209.52-298.60p 347.50p 47.00p
Share price 330.00p 347.50p 283.00p
exercise price n/a n/a 264.00p
expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model) 45% n/a 40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the model) 3 years 3 years 3 years
expected dividends 3.3% n/a 3.9%
Risk-free interest rate 1.0% n/a 0.9%
t he expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options) adjusted for 
any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
t he number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
Weighted average
exercise price
31 December 2015
Number of options
31 December 2015
Weighted average
exercise price
31 December 2014
Number of options
31 December 2014
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 90.24p 6,874,277 83.11p 9,100,894 
Granted during the period 125.42p 2,423,190 79.45p 1,670,549 
f orfeited during the period 165.98p (248,931) 88.17p (620,040)
exercised during the period 230.10p (974,584) 217.56p (972,372)
l apsed during the period 2.35p (2,154,329) 1.12p (2,304,754)
Outstanding at the end of the period 110.42p 5,919,623 90.24p 6,874,277 
exercisable at the end of the period – 120,446 138.28p 390,085
t he weighted average share price at the date of share options exercised during the period was 317.1 1 pence (2014: 329.82 pence).
t he options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range nil to 347.50 pence and a weighted average contractual life of 0.2 years.
t he fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
t he weighted average fair value of options issued in the period was 230.05 pence (2014: 233.92 pence).
t he if RS 2 fair value charge expensed to the income statement was £1.4 million (2014: £1.7 million).
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
142 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 21. PROvi SiONS
a ccounting policies
a provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation. 
t he best estimate of the expenditure required to settled the present obligation is the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle the 
obligation at the end of the reporting period or to transfer it to a third-party at that time. if the effect is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
(i) Restructuring
a provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has 
either commenced or has been announced publicly. f uture operating costs are not provided for.
(ii) Onerous contracts
a provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the 
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
(iii) Environmental
in accordance with the Group’s environmental Policy a provision is recognised for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over 
the next few years. in a number of jurisdictions companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems.
Provisions
Closure and
restructuring
provisions
£m
Other
provisions
£m
Environmental
provisions
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 31 December 2014 15.2 5.9 1.7 22.8 
Provisions made during the year 3.3 0.7 0.4 4.4 
Provisions used during the year (12.0) (1.8) (1.3) (15.1)
Provisions reversed during the year (0.1) – – (0.1)
effect of movements in foreign exchange – – – –
Balance at 31 December 2015 6.4 4.8 0.8 12.0 
Current 6.0 3.6 0.8 10.4 
Non-current 0.4 1.2 – 1.6 
6.4 4.8 0.8 12.0
Closure and restructuring provisions are based on the Group’s restructuring programmes and represent committed expenditure at the balance 
sheet date. t he amounts provided are based on the costs of terminating relevant contracts, under the contract terms, and management’s best 
estimate of other associated restructuring costs including professional fees, most of which are expected to be incurred over the next year. Due to 
the nature of the provision for closure and restructuring provisions, the timing of any potential future outflows in respect of these liabilities is uncertain. 
t he principal uncertainties in relation to this provision are that the final costs associated with the restructuring activity cannot be made for certain.
Other provisions relate to a range of items, including long-service costs and legal claims. t he estimated costs are based on the Group’s assessment 
of the probable future costs of these activities. t he Group expects to incur most of the liability in less than one year. Due to the nature of the 
provision, the timing of any potential future outflows in respect of these liabilities is uncertain. t he principal uncertainties in relation to this provision 
are until the legal case is resolved, the final costs associated cannot be made for certain.
environmental provisions are for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over the next few years. in a number of jurisdictions 
companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems. t he estimated costs are based on management’s best 
estimate of the costs required to remedy these problems. Due to the nature of the provision, the timing of any potential future outflows in respect 
of these liabilities is uncertain. t he principal uncertainties in relation to this provision are until the environmental investigation or remedial activities 
are resolved, the final costs associated cannot be made for certain.
143
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 22. TRa DE a ND OTh ER Payabl ES
a ccounting policies
t rade and other payables are initially stated at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade and other payables
2015
£m
2014
Restated
*
£m
Non-current
t rade and non-trade payables 0.7 0.8 
Current
t rade payables due to associate 0.5 0.5 
Other trade payables 95.6 92.5 
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 72.5 72.1 
168.6 165.1 
*  2014 has been restated for the reclassification of £20.6 million of tax accruals from non-trade payables and accrued expenses to current tax payable. t he account captions which have 
been affected by the change are current tax payable and non-trade payables and accrued expenses.
23. OPERaTiNg l Ea SES
a ccounting policies
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. l ease incentives 
received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Leases as lessee
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
l ess than one year 8.3 8.5 
Between one and five years 22.9 17.1 
more than five years 30.8 28.1 
62.0 53.7
t he Group leases a number of properties under operating leases of varying duration. in some cases, during the life of the lease, the rental payable 
is reviewed after a fixed period to reflect market rentals.
Leases as lessor
t he total of future minimum sub-lease income under non-cancellable sub-leases is £nil million (2014: £nil million).
24. Ca PiTal CO mmiTmENTS
Commitments for property, plant and equipment and computer software expenditure for which no provision has been made in these accounts 
amount to £0.9 million (2014: £1.3 million) for the Group.
25. CONTiNg ENCiES
Subsidiary undertakings within the Group have given unsecured guarantees of £9.6 million (2014: £10.3 million) in the ordinary course of business.
in an international group of companies a variety of claims arise from time to time. Provision has been made in these accounts against those claims 
which the Directors consider meet the requirements of ia S 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and are likely to result in 
significant liabilities.
t he Group has been subject to legal claims in a number of countries. in some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts 
are unclear or because further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such cases. t he Board, 
having taken legal advice, is of the opinion that in respect of these claims, where it is possible to form a view they will not have a material impact  
on the Group’s financial position.
NOte S t O tH e CONSOli Date D fi Na NCial Stateme NtS
continued
144 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 25. CONTiNg ENCiES continued
t he Group is subject to periodic tax audits by various fiscal authorities covering corporate, employee and sales taxes in the various jurisdictions 
in which it operates. None of these are currently expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial position. in addition, future changes 
in legislation, regulation or interpretation could increase the Group’s taxes and have an adverse effect on the Group’s operating results and 
financial condition.
26. REla TED Pa RTiES
identification of related parties
t he Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (a list of all related undertakings is shown in note 44), with its associates (see note 12) 
and with its Directors and executive officers.
Transactions with key management personnel
t he Company has written service contracts or letters of appointment with each of its Directors, under which the Directors receive a salary  
or a fee and other emoluments. 
t he key management of the Group and parent Company consists of the Board of Directors (including non-executive Directors) and members  
of the executive Committee.
t he compensation for the 14 (2014: 17) executive and non-executive Directors and members of the executive Committee charged in the year was:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 3.1 3.6 
employer National insurance Contributions 0.5 0.6 
Pension and other post-employment costs 0.5 0.6 
Share-based payments 0.6 0.7 
Non-executive Directors’ fees and benefits 0.4 0.4 
t otal compensation of key management personnel 5.1 5.9
t he aggregate amount of remuneration paid to or receivable by Directors in respect of qualifying services was £1,942,181 (2014: £1,968,536).  
t he aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options was £4,597 (2014: £395,057). t he aggregate amount of 
money paid to or receivable by Directors, and the net value of assets (other than money and share options) received or receivable by the 
Directors, under the l ong-t erm incentive Plan in respect of qualifying services was nil (2014: £2,194). t he aggregate value of Company 
contributions to the defined benefit scheme and cash allowance in lieu of pension was £201,768 (2014: £336,699). t he number of Directors 
participating in the defined benefit scheme was 2 (2014: 3).
f urther information on 2015 executive Directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 88.
Other related party transactions
2015
£m
2014
£m
Sales to associate 0.3 1.3 
Purchases from associate 1.5 1.5 
l oan made to associate 1.8 1.5 
t rade receivables due from associate 1.3 2.1 
t rade payables due to associate 0.5 0.5
t he balances with the Group’s associate are shown in note 15 and note 22. in addition, the Group has trade receivables owed by associates  
of £1.3 million (2014: £1.3 million) which have been fully provided for.
t he Group entered into four fixed forward foreign exchange purchase contracts during late 2014 and early 2015 for the Chief f inancial Officer 
(the Cf O) with a total nominal value of €341,000 (£266,142 at the contracted exchange rates). t he Cf O provided the Group with £242,730 
funds in advance to settle the contracts on 8 January 2015 and £23,412 a day after the fourth and final contract settled on 13 January 2015 when 
the euros were passed to the Cf O. No loss or expense was incurred by the Group and no gain or benefit was realised by the Cf O. 
27. Sub SEqu ENT Ev ENTS
t here have been no significant post-balance sheet events.
145
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets
intangible assets 30 1.8 2.8 
Property, plant and equipment 31 12.3 0.1 
investments in subsidiary undertakings 32 837.5 870.1 
Other debtors 2.3 – 
853.9 873.0 
Current assets
Debtors – amounts due within one year 33 39.8 51.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 10.8 27.0 
50.6 78.7 
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 34 77.3 123.1 
Net current liabilities (26.7) (44.4)
Total assets less current liabilities 827.2 828.6 
Non-current liabilities
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year 35 218.6 227.7 
Provisions for liabilities:
employee benefits 37 117.4 1 18.8 
Other provisions 38 1.9 1.0 
337.9 347.5 
Net assets 489.3 481.1 
Capital and reserves
equity shareholders’ funds
 Share capital 39 71.4 71.4 
 Share premium 40 111.7 111.7 
 merger reserve 40 17.0 17.0 
 Capital redemption reserve 40 35.7 35.7 
 Retained earnings 40 253.1 244.9 
488.9 480.7 
Non-equity shareholders’ funds
 Share capital 39 0.4 0.4 
Shareholders’ funds 489.3 481.1
t he financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 f ebruary 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
PETE Raby 
CHief e xe CutiV e Offi CeR
KEviN Da Ng ERfiE l D 
CHief f iNa NCial Offi CeR
COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
as at 31 December 2015
146 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015  
Called up 
share capital
£m
Share premium 
account
£m
merger 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Profit and 
loss account
£m
t otal equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 71.4  111.7  17.0  35.7  383.3  619.1 
Total comprehensive income for the period
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  11.0  11.0 
Other comprehensive income (note 46) –  –  –  – (118.6) (118.6)
t otal comprehensive income for the period –  –  –  – (107.6) (107.6) 
Transactions with owners, recorded directly 
in equity
Dividends –  –  –  – (30.2) (30.2)
Own shares acquired for share incentive schemes –  –  –  – (2.3) (2.3)
Charges and transfers in relation to share-based 
payments for the year –  –  –  – 1.7  1.7 
t otal contributions by and distributions to owners –  –  –  – (30.8) (30.8)
Balance at 31 December 2014 71.4  111.7  17.0  35.7  244.9  480.7 
Balance at 1 January 2015 71.4  111.7  17.0  35.7  363.5  599.3 
effect of change in accounting policy (note 46) –  –  –  – (118.6) (118.6)
Balance at 1 January 2015 restated 71.4  111.7  17.0  35.7  244.9  480.7 
Total comprehensive income for the period
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  40.9  40.9 
t otal comprehensive income for the period –  –  –  –  40.9  40.9 
Transactions with owners, recorded directly 
in equity
Dividends –  –  –  – (31.4) (31.4)
Own shares acquired for share incentive schemes –  –  –  – (2.9) (2.9)
Charges and transfers in relation to share-based 
payments for the year –  –  –  – 1.6 1.6 
t otal contributions by and distributions to owners –  –  –  – (32.7) (32.7)
Balance at 31 December 2015 71.4  111.7  17.0  35.7  253.1  488.9
COmPa NY Stateme Nt O f CH a NGeS iN eQuit Y
for the year ended 31 December 2015
147
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 28. aCCO u NTiNg PO li CiES
basis of preparation
t hese financial statements were prepared in accordance with f inancial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (‘f RS 101’).
in preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of international f inancial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the eu (‘ a dopted if RSs’), but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with Companies a ct 
2006 and has set out below where advantage of the f RS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
in the transition to f RS 101, the Company has applied if RS 1 whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance with f RS 101. 
a n explanation of how the transition to f RS 101 has affected the reported financial position and financial performance of the Company is provided 
in note 46.
u nder Section 408(4) of the Companies a ct 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
in these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under f RS 101 in respect of the following disclosures:
 > a cash flow statement and related notes;
 > comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets;
 > disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries;
 > the effects of new but not yet effective if RSs;
 > disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel;
 > disclosures in respect of capital management.
a s the consolidated financial statements of morgan a dvanced materials plc include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the 
exemptions under f RS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures:
 > if RS 2 Share Based Payments in respect of group-settled share-based payments;
 > the disclosures required by if RS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
t he Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of f RS 101 in its next financial statements.
t he accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to the period presented in these financial statements.
Measurement convention
t he financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value 
– financial instruments classified as fair value through the profit or loss.
intangible assets
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Company are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation
a mortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are 
indefinite. intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date. Other 
intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. t he estimated useful lives are as follows:
 > Software 3 – 7 years
Tangible assets and depreciation
t angible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of tangible fixed 
assets. l and is not depreciated. t he estimated useful lives are as follows:
 > Plant, equipment and fixtures  3 – 20 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
f oreign currency
t ransactions in foreign currencies are translated to the Company’s functional currencies at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency 
at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. f oreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement except 
for differences arising on the retranslation of qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the 
transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional 
currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
NOte S t O t He COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
148 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 28. aCCO u NTiNg PO li CiES continued
Expenses
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. l ease incentives 
received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Taxation
t ax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. t ax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates  
to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. t he following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to 
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. t he amount of deferred tax provided is 
based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date. 
a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary 
difference can be utilised.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
f ollowing the adoption of ia S 32, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the 
following two conditions:
(a)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial 
liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
(b)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation 
to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company’s exchanging 
a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
t o the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes 
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium 
account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Non-derivative financial instruments 
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other debtors, cash and cash equivalents, 
loans and borrowings, and trade and other creditors.
Trade and other debtors
t rade and other debtors are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Trade and other creditors
t rade and other creditors are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
Investments in debt and equity securities
Other investments in debt and equity securities held by the Company are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with 
any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity (in the fair value reserve), except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary 
items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses. When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective 
interest method is recognised in profit or loss.
investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
149
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 28. aCCO u NTiNg PO li CiES continued
Interest-bearing borrowings
interest-bearing borrowings (which include amounts owed to/by Group undertakings) are recognised initially at fair value less attributable 
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less any impairment losses.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. t he gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit 
or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being 
hedged (see below).
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable 
forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve. a ny 
ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised 
firm commitment, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement. t he carrying value of the 
hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged (even if it is normally carried at cost or amortised 
cost) and any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised immediately in the income statement (even if those gains would normally be 
recognised directly in reserves).
Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
a defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will 
have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised 
as an expense in the income statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
Defined benefit plans
a defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. t he Company’s net obligation in respect of 
defined benefit pension plans and other post employment benefits is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit 
that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, 
and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) and any unrecognised past service costs are deducted. t he liability discount rate is the yield at 
the balance sheet date on aa credit rated bonds denominated in the currency of, and having maturity dates approximating to the terms of the 
Company’s obligations. t he calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results 
in a benefit to the Company, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of benefits 
available in the form of any future refunds from the plan, reductions in future contributions to the plan or on settlement of the plan and takes into 
account the adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.
a ll actuarial gains and losses as at the date of transition to f RS 101 were recognised. in respect of subsequent actuarial gains and losses that arise 
the Company recognises them in the period they occur directly into equity through the statement of comprehensive income.
t he Company is the sponsoring and principal employer of two u K defined benefit pension schemes, the morgan Pension Scheme and the 
morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and l ife a ssurance Scheme (‘the u K Schemes’). a s there is no contractual agreement or stated Group policy 
for charging the net defined benefit cost of the plan to participating entities, the net defined benefit cost of the pension plan is recognised fully 
by the sponsoring employer, which is the Company. t he Company recognises a cost equal to its contribution payable for the period as disclosed  
in note 37. t he Company also guarantees certain obligations and liabilities to the employees that currently participate in the two u K schemes. 
Share-based payment transactions
Share-based payment arrangements in which the Company receives goods or services as consideration for its own equity instruments are 
accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions, regardless of how the equity instruments are obtained by the Company.
t he grant date fair value of share-based payments awards granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding 
increase in equity, over the period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards. t he fair value of the awards granted  
is measured using an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. t he amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are 
expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related service 
and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. f or share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value  
of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
NOte S t O t He COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
continued
150 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 28. aCCO u NTiNg PO li CiES continued
Share-based payment transactions in which the Company receives goods or services by incurring a liability to transfer cash or other assets that  
is based on the price of the Company’s equity instruments are accounted for as cash-settled share-based payments. t he fair value of the amount 
payable to employees is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period in which the employees become 
unconditionally entitled to payment. t he liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date. a ny changes in the fair value 
of the liability are recognised as personnel expense in profit or loss.
Own shares held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust
t ransactions of the Group-sponsored morgan General employee Benefit t rust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected 
in the Company’s financial statements. in particular, the t rust’s purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited to equity.
Provisions
a provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, that can 
be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability.
investments
investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less amounts written off unless they are designated as a 
hedged item in a fair value hedge of foreign currency risk under f RS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. in this case they are 
accounted for at historical cost plus a hedging adjustment recognised in profit or loss for the changes in their fair value attributable to the foreign 
currency exposure from the date the hedge is designated.
interest-bearing loans and borrowings
immediately after issue, debt is stated at the fair value of the consideration received. immediately after issue capital instruments are stated after 
deduction of issue costs. t he finance cost of the debt is allocated to periods over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately approved and are 
no longer at the discretion of the Company. u npaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the Notes to the financial 
statements.
f inancial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. in this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee, at which 
point a liability would be recognised.
29. STaff N umb ERS a ND COSTS
t he average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees
2015 2014
Directors and head office staff 37 37
Regional staff 7 7
44 44
t he majority of the Directors and head office staff devote a proportion of their time to Regional duties. Of the 37 Directors and head office staff, 
the average number who spent all or a proportion of their time on corporate duties was 13 (2014: 13), as shown in note 5.
f ull details of the Directors’ remuneration for the period can be found in the remuneration report on pages 66 to 88.
151
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 29. STaff N umb ERS a ND COSTS continued
a ggregate employee-related costs was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 6.7 8.2 
equity-settled share-based payments (see note 20) 1.4 1.7 
Social security costs 0.7 0.9 
Other pension costs 1.0 0.7 
9.8 11.5
£1.1 million (2014: £1.2 million) of the equity-settled share-based payments amount was recharged to other morgan Group companies.
30. iNTa Ngibl E a SSETS
Software
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2015 4.8
a dditions – externally purchased 0.2
Disposals (0.5)
Balance at 31 December 2015 4.5
Amortisation 
Balance at 1 January 2015 2.0
a mortisation for the year 1.2 
Disposals (0.5)
Balance at 31 December 2015 2.7
Carrying amounts
a t 31 December 2014 2.8
At 31 December 2015 1.8
31. PROPERTy, P la NT a ND Equi PmENT
Plant,
equipment
and fixtures
£m
Property
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2015 1.1 – 1.1
a dditions – 12.2 12.2
Balance at 31 December 2015 1.1 12.2 13.3
Depreciation
Balance at 1 January 2015 1.0 – 1.0
Depreciation charge for the year –  –  – 
Balance at 31 December 2015 1.0 – 1.0
Carrying value
a t 31 December 2014 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 December 2015 0.1 12.2 12.3
NOte S t O t He COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
continued
152 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 32. iNv ESTmENT iN Sub SiDia Ry u NDERTa KiNg S
Shares 
in Group 
undertakings
£m
Loans
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2015 620.2 379.3 999.5 
a dditions 1.0 14.0 15.0 
f air value hedge of investments’ exposure to foreign currency risk (0.4) – (0.4)
l ess: disposals/loan repayments/liquidations/effect of movements in foreign exchange – (28.7) (28.7)
Balance at 31 December 2015 620.8 364.6 985.4 
Provisions
Balance at 1 January 2015 116.8 12.6 129.4 
Provided in the year 16.8 1.7 18.5 
l ess: disposals/loan repayments/liquidations/effect of movements in foreign exchange –  –  – 
Balance at 31 December 2015 133.6 14.3 147.9 
Carrying amounts
a t 31 December 2014 503.4 366.7 870.1 
At 31 December 2015 487.2 350.3 837.5
Note 44 gives details of the Company’s subsidiaries.
33. DEbTORS
2015
£m
2014
£m
a mounts owed by Group undertakings 32.8 38.3 
Other debtors 3.6 6.2 
Derivative financial assets (note 45) 2.9 6.7 
Prepayments and accrued income 0.5 0.5 
Due within one year 39.8 51.7
153
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 34. CREDiTORS: am Ou NTS falli Ng D u E wiT hi N ONE y Ea R
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank overdrafts (note 36) 53.5 72.0 
Bank and other loans (note 36) – 31.3 
t rade creditors 2.3 1.8 
a mounts owed to Group undertakings 12.7 5.3 
Other creditors, including deferred consideration 1.9 3.8 
a ccruals and deferred income 4.1 6.7 
Derivative financial liabilities (note 45) 2.8 2.2 
77.3 123.1
35. CREDiTORS: am Ou NTS falli Ng D u E af TER mORE Tha N ONE y Ea R
2015
£m
2014
£m
a mounts payable to group undertakings 131.3 158.3 
Bank and other loans (note 36) 86.1 68.1 
Other creditors 0.4 1.3 
Derivative financial liabilities 0.8 – 
218.6 227.7
36. bORROwi Ng S
2015
£m
2014
£m
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year:
Bank overdrafts (note 34) 53.5 72.0 
Bank and other loans (note 34) – 31.3 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year:
Bank and other loans (note 35) 86.1 68.1 
139.6 171.4
Terms and debt repayment schedule
Currency
Nominal 
interest rate
Year of 
maturity
Face value
2015
£m
Carrying 
amount
2015
£m
face value
2014
£m
Carrying 
amount
2014
£m
Bank overdrafts Various 1.70% 53.5 53.5 72.0 72.0 
3.65% euro senior notes eu R 3.65% 2015 – – 31.3 31.3 
4.32% euro senior notes eu R 4.32% 2017 14.9 14.9 15.7 15.7 
Syndicated revolving credit facility GBP 1.15% 2019 54.2 54.2 18.9 18.9 
Syndicated revolving credit facility eu R 0.65% 2019 – – 7.8 7.8 
Syndicated revolving credit facility uSD 0.90% 2019 17.0 17.0 25.7 25.7 
139.6 139.6 171.4 171.4
Bank and other loans did not include any loans secured on the assets of the Company (2014: £nil).
NOte S t O t He COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
continued
154 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 37. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS
The morgan Pension Scheme and the morgan g roup Senior Staff Pension and l ife a ssurance Scheme
t he Company participates in two defined benefit schemes in the u K. t he assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee-administered 
funds, t he morgan Pension Scheme (mPS) and the morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and l ife a ssurance Scheme (SSS). t hese schemes were 
closed to new members on 1 a ugust 201 1 from which time membership of a defined contribution plan is available. t he information disclosed 
below is in respect of the whole of the two plans for which the Company was the sponsoring employer for the two periods shown.
Pension plans and employee benefits
2015
£m
2014
£m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (500.9) (512.4)
f air value of plan assets 383.5 393.6 
Net obligations (117.4) (1 18.8)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
a t 1 January (512.4) (441.5)
Current service cost (2.5) (2.4)
interest cost (18.2) (19.5)
Remeasurement gains/(losses)
Changes in financial assumptions 6.7 (65.1)
experience adjustments on benefit obligations 8.8 (0.9)
Benefits paid 17.6 18.1 
Contributions by members (0.9) (1.1)
At 31 December (500.9) (512.4)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
a t 1 January 393.6 366.5 
interest on plan assets 14.1 16.4 
Remeasurement (losses)/gains (16.1) 19.4 
Contributions by employer 9.4 9.1 
Contributions by members 0.9 1.1 
Benefits paid (17.6) (18.1)
a dministrative expenses (0.8) (0.8)
At 31 December 383.5 393.6 
a ctual return on assets (2.0) 35.8 
Pension plans and employee benefits £m £m
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost and past service cost (2.5) (2.4)
a dministrative expenses (0.8) (0.8)
Net interest on net defined benefit liability (4.1) (3.1)
Total expense (7.4) (6.3)
155
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 37. EmPl Oy EE bENEfi TS continued
t he fair values of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
equities and growth assets 161.7 158.4 
Bonds 31.6 32.2 
matching insurance policies 177.1 192.5 
Other 13.1 10.5 
Total 383.5 393.6
t he assumptions used are best estimate assumptions chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not be borne out in practice. 
t he principal assumptions are the discount rate and inflation assumptions which are long-term and measured on external factors, based upon each 
plan’s duration. in addition to these, the mortality assumption in the u K is material to the cost of the promised benefits. t he assumed increases 
in salaries and pensions in payment are derived from assumed future inflation.
Principal actuarial assumptions at the year end were as follows:
a ssumptions:
2015
%
2014
%
inflation (RPi & CPi) 3.00/1.80 3.00/1.80
Discount rate 3.70 3.60
Pensions increase 2.90/3.10/3.70 2.90/3.10/3.70
Salary increase n/a n/a
mortality – post-retirement:
l ife expectancy of a male aged 60 in accounting year 26.6 years 26.5 years
l ife expectancy of a male aged 60 in accounting year + 20 28.2 years 28.1 years
h istory of the plans
t he history of the plans are as follows:
Balance Sheet
2015
£m
2014
£m
Present value of the defined benefit obligation (500.9) (512.4)
f air value of plan assets 383.5 393.6 
Deficit (117.4) (1 18.8)
f unding
t he most recent full actuarial valuations of the u K Schemes were undertaken as at march 2013 and resulted in combined assessed deficits of 
£82 million. On the basis of these full valuations, the t rustees of the u K Schemes, having consulted with the Company, agreed past service deficit 
recovery payments totalling £7.3 million a year in 2015/16, increasing with 2.75% pa until 2023 and contributions in respect of future service 
as accrued. New full valuations are due with effective dates of march 2016 and the outcome of those consultations will determine the Company’s 
future contribution requirements, with any new deficit arising needing to be met through the payment of additional contributions.
Sensitivity analysis
t he sensitivities of the Company’s net balance sheet to the principal assumptions are:
Change in 
assumption
2015
Increase 
effect
£m
2014
increase 
effect
£m
Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% 7.0 7.0
inflation increase by 0.1% 4.0 4.0
mortality – post retirement Pensioners live 1 year longer 11.0 12.0
t hese sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the net balance sheet in isolation, and assuming no other changes in market 
conditions at the accounting date. t his is unlikely in practice – for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement  
in the value of the assets held by the Company’s schemes.
Defined contribution plans
t he Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. t he total Company expense relating to these plans in the current year was 
£0.1 million (2014: £0.1 million).
NOte S t O t He COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
continued
156 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 38. PROvi SiONS fOR liabiliT iES
Closure and
restructuring 
provisions
£m
Other
provisions
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.2 0.8 1.0 
Provisions made during the year 1.3 – 1.3 
Provisions used during the year (0.3) (0.1) (0.4)
Balance at 31 December 2015 1.2 0.7 1.9 
Closure and restructuring provisions are based on the Company’s restructuring programmes and represent committed expenditure at the balance 
sheet date and are expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions relate to a range of items including legal claims and are based on the Company’s assessment of the probable cost of these activities 
and are expected to be utilised within one year.
39. ShaRE Ca PiTal
5.5% 
Cumulative 
First 
Preference 
shares
2015
5.0% 
Cumulative 
Second 
Preference 
shares
2015
Ordinary 
shares
2015
In thousands of shares
On issue at 1 January 2015 125 312 285,370 
On issue at 31 December 2015 125 312 285,370
2015
£m
2014
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 71.4  71.4 
5.5% Cumulative f irst Preference shares of £1 each 0.1 0.1
5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each 0.3 0.3
71.8 71.8
Shares classified as equity shareholders’ funds 71.4 71.4
Shares classified as non-equity shareholders’ funds 0.4 0.4 
71.8 71.8
Refer to note 17 for details of the rights to dividends, voting rights and return of capital relating to the Preference shares. 
Dividends payable for the f irst and Second Preference shares were £22,491 (2014: £22,491) of which £1 1,245 (2014: £1 1,245) was outstanding 
at the balance sheet date.
t he 5.5% Cumulative f irst Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each confer on the holders 
thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June and 31 December 
respectively in every year. 
f or proposed Ordinary dividends see the consolidated income statement on page 97.
157
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 40. Sha RE PREmium a ND RESERv ES
Share
premium
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption
reserve
£m
Profit
and loss
account
£m
a t 1 January 2015 111.7 17.0 35.7 244.9 
Charges and transfers in relation to share-based payments for the year –  –  – 1.6 
Dividends –  –  – (31.4)
Own shares acquired for share incentive schemes –  –  – (2.9)
Retained profit for the year –  –  – 40.9 
At 31 December 2015 111.7 17.0 35.7 253.1
t he merger reserve comprises the balance associated with the premium of shares issued during previous acquisitions. f urther details on share 
premium and reserves are given in note 17.
Capita t rustees l imited administer a t rust in which shares are held to satisfy awards granted under the Company’s share plans. t he shares are 
distributed via discretionary settlement governed by the rules of the t rust deed dated 1 march 1996 (as amended).
t he total number of own shares held by the t rust at 31 December 2015 is 706,952 (2014: 375,203) and at that date had a market value  
of £1.7 million (2014: £1.2 million). 
t he amount of reserves of morgan a dvanced materials plc that may not be distributed under Section 831(4) of the Companies a ct 2006 is 
£301.2 million (2014: £301.2 million). t his comprises the entire of share premium, merger reserve, capital redemption reserve and a portion  
of the profit and loss account.
41. OPERaTiNg l Ea SES
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
l and and buildings
2015
£m
2014
£m
Between one and five years 0.2 0.2 
0.2 0.2
During the year £0.2 million (2014: £0.2 million) was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases.
42. CONTiNg ENCiES
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. in this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee, at which 
point a liability would be recognised.
t here are no other contingent liabilities in the Company as at 31 December 2015.
t he Group has been subject to legal claims in a number of countries. in some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts 
are unclear or because further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such cases. t he Board, 
having taken legal advice, is of the opinion that the remainder of these actions will not have a material impact on the Group’s financial position.
NOte S t O t He COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
continued
158 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 43. REla TED Pa RTiES
t he Company has related party relationships with its subsidiaries, its associate and with its Directors and executive officers. it is exempt from 
providing information relating to these parties with the exception of transactions with its associate.
2015
£m
2014
£m
l oan made to associate 1.8 1.5
Other debtors due from associate 0.2 0.1
2.0 1.6
During the prior year ended 31 December 2014 the Company made an interest bearing loan of £1.5 million loan to Jemmtec l imited, a company 
that a wholly owned subsidary of the Company has a 35% shareholding in. a further amount of £0.3 million was advanced during the year and 
the balance remains outstanding at the balance sheet date.
t he Company entered into four fixed forward foreign exchange purchase contracts during late 2014 and early 2015 for the Chief f inancial Officer 
(‘the Cf O’) with a total nominal value of €341,000 (£266,142 at the contracted exchange rates). t he Cf O provided the Company with £242,730 
funds in advance to settle the contracts on 8 January 2015 and £23,412 a day after the fourth and final contract settled on 13 January 2015 when 
the euros were passed to the Cf O. No loss or expense was incurred by the Company and no gain or benefit was realised by the Cf O.
44. f ix ED a SSET iNv ESTmENTS
t he Group’s related undertakings
*
 at 31 December 2015 are set out below. a ll the companies are wholly owned or held directly by the 
Company unless otherwise stated. 
Name of undertaking
*
 
Country of  
incorporation
% shareholding 
owned by  
the Group
marshall morganite S.a . france 99.89
morgan Carbon f rance Sa france 99.99
morgan t hermic Sa S france 100
t hermal Ceramics S.a . france 100
t hermal Ceramics de f rance S.a .S france 100
morgan molten metal Systems GmbH Germany 100
t he morgan Crucible management GmbH Germany 100
morgan Deutschland Holding GmbH Germany 100
morgan Holding GmbH Germany 100
morgan Rekofa GmbH Germany 100
morgan t hermal Ceramics Deutschland GmbH Germany 100
Wesgo Ceramics GmbH Germany 100
morgan a dvanced materials Haldenwanger GmbH Germany 100
Porextherm Dämmstoffe GmbH Germany 100
morgan materials Hungary l imited l iability Company Hungary 100
morgan t rans Budapest Kereskedelmi Kft Hungary 100
morgan Carbon italia s.r.l italy 100
t hermal Ceramics italiana Srl italy 100
mCe f inance Sarl l uxembourg 100
mNa f inance Sarl l uxembourg 100
morganite l uxembourg S.a . l uxembourg 100
Gunac B.V. Netherlands 100
morgan a dvanced Ceramics Sales B.V. Netherlands 100
morgan electro Ceramics B.V. (in liquidation) Netherlands 100
morgan Holding Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 100
morgan t errassen B.V. Netherlands 100
morgan am &t B.V. Netherlands 100
t hermal Ceramics Benelux B.V. Netherlands 100
morgan Carbon Polska Spolka zoo Poland 100
t hermal Ceramics Polska Sp.zoo Poland 100
morgan t hermal Ceramics Sukhoy l og l imited l iability Company Russian f ederation 51
159
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS Name of undertaking
*
 
Country of  
incorporation
% shareholding 
owned by  
the Group
morganite espanola Sa Spain 100
morgan matroc S.a . (in liquidation) Spain 100
t hermal Ceramics espana Sl Spain 100
morganite National Carbon a G Switzerland 100
Certech international l imited united Kingdom 100
Clearpower l imited united Kingdom 99
e/m Coatings l imited (in liquidation) united Kingdom 100
integrated Survivability t echnologies l imited united Kingdom 50
Jemmtec l imited united Kingdom 35
l aw Debenture mC Senior Pension t rust Corporation united Kingdom N/a
mCCo l imited united Kingdom 100
morganite Carbon l imited united Kingdom 100
morganite Crucible l imited united Kingdom 100
morgan t echnical Ceramics l imited united Kingdom 100
t he morgan Crucible Company l imited united Kingdom 100
morgan Holdings l imited united Kingdom 100
morgan t rans l imited united Kingdom 51
morgan Crucible Pension t rustees l imited united Kingdom N/a
morganite electrical Carbon l imited united Kingdom 100
morgan electro Ceramics l imited united Kingdom 100
t errassen Holdings l imited united Kingdom 100
morgan North a merica Holding l imited united Kingdom 100
morganite Special Carbons l imited united Kingdom 100
NP a erospace l imited united Kingdom 100
Petty f rance investment Nominees l imited united Kingdom 100
morgan europe Holding l imited united Kingdom 100
t CG Guardian 1 l imited united Kingdom 100
t CG Guardian 2 l imited united Kingdom 100
t hermal Ceramics europe l imited united Kingdom 100
t hermal Ceramics u K l imited united Kingdom 100
t hermal Ceramics l imited united Kingdom 100
Carbo San l uis S.a . a rgentina 84.6
morganite Brasil l tda Brazil 100
morgan a dvanced materials Canada inc. Canada 100
Carbo Chile Sa Chile 99.99
t hermal Ceramics de Colombia Colombia 100
Refractarios multiples Sa Guatemala 100
Refractarios Nacionales Sa Guatemala 100
Ceramicas t ermicas Sa Guatemala 100
morgan t echnical Ceramics S.a . de CV. mexico 100
Grupo industrial morgan, S.a . de C.V. mexico 100
Grafitos y maquinados, S.a . de C.V. mexico 100
Certech inc. u nited States 100
Graphite Die mold, inc. u nited States 100
morgan a dvanced materials and t echnology inc. u nited States 100
morgan a dvanced Ceramics inc. u nited States 100
morgan a dvanced materials, inc. u nited States 100
morganite Crucible inc. u nited States 100
morganite inc. u nited States 100
morganite industries inc. u nited States 100
NOte S t O t He COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
continued
44. f ix ED a SSET iNv ESTmENTS continued
160 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Name of undertaking
*
 
Country of  
incorporation
% shareholding 
owned by  
the Group
National electrical Carbon Products inc. u nited States 100
NP a erospace inc. (u Sa ) u nited States 100
t hermal Ceramics inc. u nited States 100
t hermal Ceramics Venezuela Ca Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 100
a lexandria investments Pty l td a ustralia 100
D Brown Carbon (Pty) l td a ustralia 100
morganite a ustralia Pty l td a ustralia 100
morgan mechanical Carbon a ustralasia Pty l td a ustralia 100
morgan t echnical Ceramics a ustralia Pty l td a ustralia 100
Beijing morgan Ceramics l imited China 100
Dalian morgan Ceramics Company l imited China 100
Dalian morgan Refractories l imited China 70
Jiangsu morgan Ceramic Core t echnology Co. l td China 58
morgan Guangzhou Co l td China 100
morgan t hermal Ceramics international t rading (Shanghai) Co. l td China 100
morgan Kailong (Jingmen) t hermal Ceramics Co. l td China 70
morgan molten metal Systems (Suzhou) Co. l td China 100
morgan t hermal Ceramics Shanghai l td. China 100
Shanghai morgan a dvanced material and t echnology Co l td China 100
morgan am &t (Shanghai) Co., l td. China 70
morgan Haldenwanger t echnical Ceramics (Wuxi) Co. l td China 100
Yixing morgan t hermal Ceramics Co l td China 51
morgan am &t Hong Kong Company l imited Hong Kong 100
a ssam Carbon Products l imited india 28.77
Ciria india l td india 70
Diamond Crucible Company l imited india 87.25
morganite Crucible (india) l td india 75
morgan a dvanced materials india Private l imited india 100
murugappa morgan t hermal Ceramics l imited india 51
morganite Carbon Kabushiki Kaisha Japan 100
Shin-Nippon t hermal Ceramics Corp Japan 50
morgan Korea Company l imited Republic of Korea 92.78
morgan Carbon (m) Sdn Bhd malaysia 100
Graphite industriel S.a .R.l . morocco 50
morganite Carbon NZ l imited New Zealand 100
morgan Crucible Holdings (NZ) l imited New Zealand 100
morgan Donald Brown l td New Zealand 100
morgan Ceramics a sia Pte. l td. Singapore 100
Gard-rite l atex (Pty) l td South a frica 100
Grandtech industrial Ceramics (Pty) l td South a frica 100
morganite u jantshi (Pty) l td South a frica 100
morganite industrial Carbon (Pty) l td South a frica 100
morganite South a frica (Pty) l td South a frica 100
Refralloy Carbon (Pty) l td South a frica 100
Ringsdorff Carbon Corporation (Pty) l td South a frica 100
Scantex (Pty) l td South a frica 100
t hermal Ceramics South a frica (Pty) l td South a frica 100
morgan a dvanced materials (t aiwan) Co., l td t aiwan 100
morganite t hermal Ceramics (t aiwan) l imited t aiwan 88
morgan Holdings (t hailand) l td t hailand 100
44. f ix ED a SSET iNv ESTmENTS continued
161
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS Name of undertaking
*
 
Country of  
incorporation
% shareholding 
owned by  
the Group
morgan t echnical Ceramics (t hailand) l td t hailand 100
morgan Karbon Grafit Sanayi a nonim Sirketi t urkey 100
morgan a dvanced materials industries l td united a rab emirates 100
morgan Ceramics middle east f Ze united a rab emirates 100
* Related undertakings include subsidiary undertakings, all significant holdings (being 20% or more interest), associate undertakings, joint ventures and qualifying partnerships.
45. DERiva Tiv E fi Na NCial a SSETS a ND liabiliT iES
2015
£m
2014
£m
Derivative financial assets
f orward foreign exchange contracts non designated 2.9 6.7 
2.9 6.7 
Derivative financial liabilities
f orward foreign exchange contracts non designated (3.1) (2.2)
f orward foreign exchange contracts designated as fair value hedges (0.5) – 
(3.6) (2.2)
f air values are measured using a hierachy where the inputs are:
 > l evel 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities,
 > l evel 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within l evel 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly,
 > l evel 3 – inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
t he derivative financial assets and liabilities are all measured using level 2 inputs. t he fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated 
by discounting the future cash flows using appropriate market-sourced data at the balance sheet date.
NOte S t O t He COmPa NY Bala NCe SHeet
continued
44. f ix ED a SSET iNv ESTmENTS continued
162 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 46. Ex Pla NaTiON Of TR a NSiTiON TO f RS 101 f ROm fOR mER u K gaa P
Reconciliation of equity
Note
at 1 January 2014 at 31 December 2014
u K Gaa P
£m
effect of 
transition 
to f RS 101
£m
f RS 101
£m
UK GAAP
£m
Effect of 
transition 
to FRS 101
£m
FRS 101
£m
Fixed assets
intangible assets a – 1.9 1.9 – 2.8 2.8 
t angible fixed assets a 2.0 (1.9) 0.1 2.9 (2.8) 0.1 
investment in subsidiary undertakings 846.4 – 846.4 870.1 – 870.1 
848.4 – 848.4 873.0 – 873.0 
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year b 37.7 1.6 39.3 49.4 2.3 51.7 
Cash at bank and in hand 25.4 – 25.4 27.0 – 27.0 
63.1 1.6 64.7 76.4 2.3 78.7 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year b (59.2) (2.2) (61.4) (121.0) (2.1) (123.1)
Net current assets 3.9 (0.6) 3.3 (44.6) 0.2 (44.4)
Total assets less current liabilities 852.3 (0.6) 851.7 828.4 0.2 828.6 
Creditors – amounts falling due after 
more than one year
a mounts payable to subsidiary undertakings (180.2) – (180.2) (158.3) – (158.3)
employee benefits c – (75.0) (75.0) – (118.8) (118.8)
Other creditors – – – (1.3) – (1.3)
Borrowings (49.7) – (49.7) (68.1) – (68.1)
(229.9) (75.0) (304.9) (227.7) (118.8) (346.5)
Provisions for liabilities (2.9) – (2.9) (1.0) – (1.0)
Net assets 619.5 (75.6) 543.9 599.7 (118.6) 481.1 
Capital and reserves
equity shareholders’ funds
 Called-up share capital 71.4 – 71.4 71.4 – 71.4 
 Share premium account 111.7 – 111.7 111.7 – 111.7 
 merger reserve 17.0 – 17.0 17.0 – 17.0 
 Capital redemption reserve 35.7 – 35.7 35.7 – 35.7 
 Profit and loss account b, c 383.3 (75.6) 307.7 363.5 (118.6) 244.9 
619.1 (75.6) 543.5 599.3 (118.6) 480.7 
Non-equity shareholders’ funds
 Called-up share capital 0.4 – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4 
Shareholders’ funds 619.5 (75.6) 543.9 599.7 (118.6) 481.1
Notes to the reconciliation of equity
a)  Reclassification of Software assets from fixed assets to intangible assets. u nder former u K Gaa P certain software assets were appropriately classified as fixed assets. t he requirements 
under ia S 38 are different and the same software assets are now classified as intangible assets. 
b)  Recognition of derivative financial assets and liabilities at fair value. u nder former u K Gaa P companies were not required to recognise intercompany derivatives on the balance sheet. 
u nder ia S 39 these need to be recognised at their fair value on the balance sheet.
c)  Recognition of u K portion of pension liability. u nder former u K Gaa P the pension liability was recognised under f RS 17 Retirement Benefits, which stipulated that if a company 
is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis then they can account for the scheme as if it were a defined 
contribution scheme, recognising only the contribution payable by the company. a s a result no recognition of the liability was made on the balance sheet of the Company. u nder 
f RS 101 this exemption is no longer available. t herefore under f RS 101, as the sponsoring employer, the Company has recognised the full defined benefit liability for those plans 
it sponsors on the balance sheet, which was not previously recognised on the individual balance sheet of any u K company within the Group.
163
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS 2011
£m
2012
Restated
*
£m
2013
Results before 
specific
adjusting 
items
£m
2014
Results before 
specific 
adjusting
items
Restated
**
£m
2015
Results before 
specific 
adjusting 
items
£m
Revenue 1,101.0 1,007.5 957.8 921.7 911.8 
Profit from operations before restructuring costs, other 
one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 143.4 120.9 119.0 118.0 109.6 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
Restructuring costs (5.6) (13.3) (11.3) (5.9) (4.1)
Gain on disposal of properties 2.4 0.1 0.8 0.3 0.5 
Net pension credit 1.3 – – – – 
Profit from operations before amortisation of intangible assets 141.5 107.7 108.5 112.4 106.0 
a mortisation of intangible assets (8.3) (8.3) (8.3) (8.2) (7.1)
Operating profit 133.2 99.4 100.2 104.2 98.9 
Net financing costs (21.8) (22.7) (23.3) (20.8) (18.1)
Share of profit of associate (net of income tax) – – – – 0.3 
Profit before taxation 111.4 76.7 76.9 83.4 81.1 
income tax expense (32.6) (21.6) (21.1) (24.7) (24.2)
Profit after taxation before discontinued operations 78.8 55.1 55.8 58.7 56.9 
Discontinued operations – 21.0 – – – 
Profit for the period 78.8 76.1 55.8 58.7 56.9 
Assets employed
Property, plant and equipment 259.8 245.5 241.4 241.0 256.7 
intangible assets 283.3 265.1 249.5 235.3 229.8 
investments and other receivables 10.3 10.0 8.0 10.2 10.7 
Deferred tax assets 41.1 40.6 28.2 8.5 4.4 
Net current assets 160.1 194.4 132.8 143.2 151.3 
Total assets less current liabilities 754.6 755.6 659.9 638.2 652.9 
employee benefits 135.1 166.8 144.6 211.8 204.5 
Provisions and other items 304.8 276.7 207.7 236.3 259.7 
Deferred tax liabilities 44.5 40.5 33.5 2.4 2.3 
270.2 271.6 274.1 187.7 186.4
Equity
t otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Company 229.4 233.8 238.1 151.2 149.8 
Non-controlling interests 40.8 37.8 36.0 36.5 36.6 
t otal equity 270.2 271.6 274.1 187.7 186.4 
Ordinary dividends per share 9.3p 10.0p 10.5p 10.9p 11.0p 
Earnings per share
Basic 26.9p 18.7p 14.8p 2.7p 11.9p
Diluted 25.7p 18.4p 14.7p 2.7p 11.9p
u nderlying 29.9p 21.7p 21.5p 22.1p 20.8p
Diluted underlying 28.6p 21.3p 21.4p 22.1p 20.8p
*  ia S 19 (revised) Employee Benefits has been adopted from 2013 onwards, with the 2012 comparatives restated accordingly. f igures for 2010-1 1 have been prepared following 
the requirements of the previous ia S 19 Employee Benefits and have not been restated for the impact of the new ia S 19 (revised) Employee Benefits.
**  2014 has been restated for the reclassification of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as detailed in note 13. f igures for 201 1-13 have not been restated for this change.
GROu P Stati Sti Cal iNfOR mati ON
u nder adopted if RSs
164 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 Cauti ONa RY Stateme Nt
t his document has been prepared for and 
only for the members of the Company as 
a body and no other persons. its purpose 
is to assist members to assess how the 
Directors have performed their duties, 
the Company’s strategies and the potential 
for those strategies to succeed and for no 
other purpose. Save as would otherwise 
arise under english law, the Company, its 
Directors, employees, agents or advisers 
do not accept or assume responsibility or 
liability to any third parties to whom this 
document is shown or into whose hands 
it may come and any such responsibility 
or liability is expressly disclaimed.
t his document contains forward-looking 
statements that are subject to risk factors 
associated with, amongst other things, 
the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries, 
sectors and markets in which the Group 
operates. t hese and other factors could 
adversely affect the outcome and financial 
effects of the plans and events described. 
f orward-looking statements by their nature 
involve a number of risks, uncertainties and 
assumptions because they relate to events 
and/or depend on circumstances that may 
or may not occur in the future and could 
cause actual results and outcomes to differ 
materially from those expressed in or 
implied by the forward-looking statements.
it is believed that the expectations reflected 
in these statements are reasonable but they 
may be affected by a wide range of such 
variables. No assurances can be given that 
the forward-looking statements in this 
document will be realised. t he forward-
looking statements reflect the knowledge 
and information available at the date this 
document was prepared and will not be 
updated during the year but will be 
considered in the a nnual Report for next 
year. Nothing in this document should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
165
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS Gl OSSa RY Of te RmS
energy use energy from all sources
Cash flow from operations Group eBita (as defined below) of £109.6 million (2014: £1 18.0 million), plus 
depreciation of £27.1 million (2014: £27.8 million), plus loss on sale of plant 
and machinery £0.1 million (2014: £0.3 million), plus the decrease in working 
capital of £12.1 million (2014: less the increase of £10.4 million) less the decrease 
in provisions (excluding restructuring) and employee benefits of £13.3 million 
(2014: £15.7 million)
Constant currency a pplying 2015 exchange rates to current year and prior year figures
Group earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (eBit Da )
Operating profit before specific adjusting items, restructuring costs and other 
one-off items, depreciation and amortisation of intangible assets
Group eBita Operating profit before specific adjusting items, restructuring costs and other 
one-off items, and amortisation of intangible assets
Group underlying operating profit Operating profit before specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible 
assets
l ike-for-like Constant currency as adjusted for acquisitions and disposals
l ost time accident (lta ) a ccident which results in one or more days’ lost time
l ost time per lta t otal time lost due to health and safety in the year divided by the number 
of lost time accidents reported in the year
Net debt interest-bearing loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts less cash and cash 
equivalents
Restructuring costs and other one-off items include the costs of restructuring activity and gain on disposal of property
Non-financial KPis t hese are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting 
methodology
Regional eBita Segment operating profit before specific adjusting items, restructuring costs 
and other one-off items, and amortisation of intangible assets
Return on operating capital employed (ROCe) Group underlying operating profit divided by the sum of working capital 
(which excludes pension liability and provisions) and the net book value of 
tangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are excluded
Segment profit Segment profit is defined as Regional eBita , which is segment operating 
profit before restructuring costs and other one-off items, and amortisation 
of intangible assets
Specific adjusting items See note 6 for further details
unallocated central costs includes plc costs (eg Report & a ccounts, a Gm, non-executive) and Group 
management costs (eg corporate head office rent, utilities, staff etc)
u nderlying earnings per share (ePS) Basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude specific adjusting items and 
amortisation of intangible assets
u nderlying profit before tax (PBt ) Operating profit before specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible 
assets, less net financing costs, plus share of profit of associate (net of income tax)
Waste Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material
Water use/intensity Water from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use
Working capital (as used in the ROCe calculation) Working capital as used in the calculation of ROCe is the sum of inventories, 
£129.2 million (2014: £126.6 million), trade and other receivables, £174.4 million 
(2014: £193.9 million), net derivative financial liabilities £(0.3) million (2014: asset 
of £5.2 million), net assets classified as held-for-sale, nil (2014: £3.2 million), 
trade and other payables, £(168.6) million (2014: £(165.1) million), plus the 
net of deferred consideration, third-party dividends payable and other sundry 
items, £(0.5) million (2014: £0.9 million)
166 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 SHa ReHOl DeR iNf ORmati ON
a nalysis of Ordinary shareholdings as at 31 December 2015
 Number of holdings % of total holdings Number of shares % of share capital 
Size of holding 1-2,000 5,664 73.67 3,114,993 1.10
2,001-5,000 1,162 15.11 3,762,336 1.31
5,001-10,000 409 5.31 2,917,161 1.02
10,001-50,000 261 3.40 5,656,160 1.99
50,001-100,000 41 0.53 3,005,110 1.05
100,001 and above 152 1.98 266,914,228 93.53
7,689 100.00 285,369,988 100.00
Holding classification individuals 6,261 81.42 11,518,491 4.04
Nominee companies 1,338 17.40 272,555,908 95.51
t rusts (pension funds etc) 8 0.11 92,734 0.03
Others 82 1.07 1,202,855 0.42
7,689 100.00 285,369,988 100.00
Key dates
6 may 2016 2016 a nnual General meeting (a Gm).
27 July 2016 Half-year results announced via RNS and on the Company’s website. 
in the interests of reducing printing, paper and postage costs and the associated environmental impact, 
the half-year results have been available online only since 2015.
Dividend payment dates
27 November 2015 a n interim cash dividend of 4.0 pence per Ordinary share of 25 pence each was paid to shareholders registered 
at the close of business on 6 November 2015.
27 may 2016 Subject to shareholders’ approval at the 2016 a Gm, a final cash dividend of 7.0 pence per Ordinary share 
of 25 pence each will be paid to shareholders registered at the close of business on 6 may 2016.
1 a pril 2016 and  
1 October 2016
Dividend payment dates in respect of the 5.5% Cumulative f irst Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% 
Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each.
Other information 
Capital gains tax 
t he market values of quoted shares and stocks at 31 march 1982 were: 
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each  122.5 pence 
5.5% Cumulative f irst Preference shares of £1 each   30.5 pence 
5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each   28.5 pence
f or capital gains tax purposes, the cost of Ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of rights issues. a ny capital 
gains arising on disposal will also be adjusted to take account of indexation allowances. Since the adjustments will 
depend on individual circumstances, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers.
Share price
t he price can be obtained on the Company’s website: www.morganadvancedmaterials.com
iSiN Code
GB0006027295
ticker symbol 
mGam
Company details
Company name change t he Company changed its name to morgan a dvanced materials plc (from t he morgan Crucible Company plc)  
on 27 march 2013.
f ollowing this change, share certificates issued in the name ‘t he morgan Crucible Company plc’ remain  
valid (replacement share certificates in the name ‘morgan a dvanced materials plc’ were not issued to  
existing shareholders).
Registered office Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire Sl 4 1l P Registered in england No. 286773
t elephone: +44 (0)1753 837000 f ax: +44 (0)1753 850872
www.morganadvancedmaterials.com
Website t he Company’s website provides information about the Group including the markets in which it operates, its 
strategy and recent news from the Group. t he investors section is a key source of information for shareholders, 
containing details of our financial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, and access to frequently asked 
questions. Current and past a nnual, Half-Year and eHS Reports are also available to view and download.
167
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Financial StatementS
OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS OVeRVieW StR ate GiC RePORt GOVeRNaNC e fi Na NCial Stateme NtS Company registrars Capita a sset Services, t he Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4tu
t elephone (in the u K): 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company’s access charge; 
lines are open monday – f riday, 9.00am – 5.30pm, excluding public holidays)
t elephone (from outside the u K): +44 (0)20 8639 3399
email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Website: www.capitaassetservices.com
Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should contact Capita directly. a lternatively, shareholders 
may find the investors section of our website useful for general enquiries.
Share Portal t he Share Portal is a secure online site where you can manage your shareholding quickly and easily, reducing the 
need for paperwork and providing 24-hour access for your convenience. t hrough the Share Portal you can view 
your holding and get an indicative valuation, change your address, arrange to have dividends paid into your bank 
account and view your dividend payment history. t o register for the Share Portal visit www.capitashareportal.com. 
a ll you need is your investor code, which can be found on your share certificate or your dividend tax voucher.
Dividend payments You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways. Dividends will automatically be paid to you  
by cheque and sent to your registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below:
Direct payment to your bank Cash dividends can be paid directly to a u K bank or building society account. t his means that your dividend 
reaches your bank account on the payment date, it is more secure (cheques can sometimes get lost in the post), 
you don’t have the inconvenience of depositing a cheque and it helps reduce cheque fraud. if you have a u K bank 
account you can sign up for this service on the Share Portal (by clicking on ‘your dividend options’ and following  
the on screen instructions) or by contacting Capita.
international payments  
service
if you live outside the u K, Capita has partnered with Deutsche Bank to provide you with a service that will convert 
your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate. You can choose to receive payment directly 
into your local bank account or, alternatively, you can be sent a currency draft. You can sign up for this service  
on the Share Portal (by clicking on ‘your dividend options’ and following the on screen instructions) or by  
contacting Capita.
f or further information contact Capita by telephone in the u K on 0871 664 0385 (calls cost 12p per minute plus 
your phone company’s access charge; lines are open monday – f riday, 9.00am – 5.30pm, excluding public holidays) 
or from outside the u K on +44 (0)20 8639 3405, or by email (ips@capita.co.uk).
Multiple accounts on  
the shareholder register
if a shareholder receives two or more sets of a Gm documents, this means that there is more than one account in 
their name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either the name or the address appears on each account 
in a slightly different way. if you have multiple accounts and would like them to be combined, please contact Capita 
a sset Services, as detailed above under Company registrars. 
Buying and selling  
shares
Capita a sset Services provide a simple and competitively priced service to buy and sell shares. t here is no 
need to pre-register and there are no complicated application forms to complete. f or more information visit 
www.capitadeal.com or call +44 (0)371 664 0445. Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and 
will vary by provider. Calls outside the u K will be charged at the applicable international rate. l ines are open 
monday – f riday, 8.00am – 4.30pm, excluding public holidays. t his is not a recommendation to buy and sell 
shares and this service may not be suitable for all shareholders. t he price of shares can go down as well as up 
and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested. t erms, conditions and risks apply. 
Capita a sset Services is a trading name of Capita iRG t rustees l imited which is authorised and regulated by 
the f inancial Conduct a uthority. t his service is only available to private shareholders resident in the european 
economic a rea, the Channel islands or the isle of man.
Donate your shares  
to charity
if you have only a small number of shares which are uneconomical to sell, you may wish to consider donating them 
to charity, free of charge, through ShareGift (registered charity 1052686), a charity that specialises in the donation 
of small, unwanted shareholdings to good causes. You can find out more by visiting www.sharegift.org.uk or by 
telephoning +44 (0)20 7930 3737.
Unsolicited telephone  
calls and mail
Shareholders in companies may receive unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters. 
if you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free 
company or research reports, please check the company or person contacting you is properly authorised by the 
f inancial Conduct a uthority (f Ca ) before getting involved. f urther information about what you should do is 
available on our website in the Shareholder Centre under investors.
SHa ReHOl DeR iNf ORmati ON
continued
168 Financial StatementS
Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 This Report has been printed in the UK. Our printers are environmental management 
system iSO 14001-accredited and Forest Stewardship c ouncil (FSc ) chain of 
custody-certified. All inks used are vegetable-based. This paper is environmentally 
friendly Ec F (elemental chlorine-free) and wood-free with a high content of selected 
pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully FSc -certified. The paper is also 
completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
if you have finished reading this Report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass 
it on to other interested readers, return it to Morgan Advanced Materials or dispose 
of it in your recycled paper waste. Thank you.
This Annual Report is available at www.morganadvancedmaterials.com
d esigned and produced by instinctif Partners www.instinctif.com Morgan Advanced Materials plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street 
Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP
Tel: +44 (0)1753 837000 
Fax: +44 (0)1753 850872
www.morganadvancedmaterials.com
Morgan Advanced Materials plc  Annual Report 201 5
