 THE CONSTRUCTION 
& REGENERATION GROUP
ANNUAL REPORT 
2015 A LEADING UK 
CONSTRUCTION AND 
REGENERATION GROUP
The Group’s strategy is focused 
on two distinct but complementary 
business activities: Construction 
and Regeneration. We differentiate 
ourselves by bringing together a 
diverse range of specialist skills from 
across our divisions to help clients 
solve their most challenging property 
and infrastructure needs. 
The Group consists of five divisions 
operating in the public, regulated and 
private sectors across a wide range 
of markets. 
Regeneration 
The Group’s regeneration 
activities focus on urban renewal, 
through multi-phased, mixed-use 
developments (providing both 
commercial and residential facilities) 
and housing-led regeneration.  
We work in long-term trusted 
partnerships to deliver vibrant new 
spaces that promote sustained 
economic growth and lasting  
social value.
Construction 
The Group offers clients design, 
construction and infrastructure 
works, new build, refurbishment 
and maintenance services for 
property assets. Our construction 
teams work across the UK on 
projects, frameworks and strategic 
alliances of all sizes and complexity.
REVENUE
£1.9bn
2014: £1.7bn
REVENUE
£0.5bn 
2014: £0.5bn MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 01
HIGHLIGHTS
Strategic report
At a glance 02
Chairman’s statement 04
Market context 05
Business model 06
Strategic framework 08
Key performance indicators 10
Chief executive’s statement 16
– Strategic progress 18
Financial review and operational review 28
Principal risks 40
Responsible business review 50
Governance
Board of directors 58
Group management team 60
Corporate governance report 62
Directors’ remuneration report 74
Directors’ report 90
Directors’ responsibilities statement 94 
Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report 96
Consolidated nancial statements 100
Company nancial statements 129
Shareholder information 135
 Find out more about the Group 
www.corporate.morgansindall.com
Strategic
 > Order book increased with greater 
proportion of higher quality work. 
 > Regeneration and development pipeline 
stable, with schemes spanning the 
country and in the Group’s targeted 
markets such as commercial ofce  
and open market housing. 
 > Signicant investment of capital into 
regeneration schemes to deliver prots  
in 2016 and beyond.
Operational
 > Unfortunately the Group’s Accident 
Incident Rate has increased by 27% 
in 2015.
 > Investment in developing talented people 
is demonstrated by a signicant increase 
in the average number of training days per 
employee, up 55%.
 > Our focus on continuous improvement in 
operational delivery has resulted in 
increased margins across most areas of 
the business, reductions in carbon 
emissions and a greater proportion of 
waste diverted from landll.
Financial
 > Increased protability driven by strong  
results in Fit Out and Urban Regeneration. 
 > Improved operating cash ow (before 
investment in regeneration) of £35.8m,  
with operating cash conversion of 92%. 
 > Average daily net debt increased to  
£53m due to investment in regeneration 
activities.
 > Total dividend increased by 7% to  
29.0p per share.
Responsible business 
 > Supported our local communities by 
providing new communal facilities, 
apprenticeships, employment and training 
programmes for local people and work 
opportunities for local businesses.
 > 5% of the Group’s employees made up of 
apprentices, graduates and sponsored 
students.
 > Maintained strong position with  
CDP (formerly the ‘Carbon Disclosure 
Project’) score of 94B.
 
See pages 50 to 56 for further information.
ORDER BOOK 
£2.8bn
PROFIT BEFORE TAX – ADJUSTED*
£34.3m
* The term ‘adjusted’ excludes the impact of intangible amortisation of £2.2m and exceptional operating items of £46.9m.  
(2014: intangible amortisation of £2.4m). The following strategic report is given on an adjusted basis, unless otherwise stated.
REGENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE 
£3.2bn
PROFIT BEFORE TAX – REPORTED
(£14.8m)
CONSIDERATE CONSTRUCTORS  
SCHEME AWARDS
49 
GROSS MARGIN – ADJUSTED*
8.9% MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 02
STRATEGIC REPORT
79%
56%
OF GROUP
REVENUE 
OF GROUP
OPERATING PROFIT –
ADJUSTED* 
AT A GLANCE
CONSTRUCTION
& INFRASTRUCTURE
 
See pages 18-19 and 30-31
 
See pages 20-21 and 32-33
 
See pages 22-23 and 34-35
FIT OUT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
The Group’s strategy focuses on two distinct but 
complementary business activities:
Offers design, construction and 
infrastructure services, working on 
projects, frameworks and strategic 
alliances of all sizes. The division’s 
Professional Services business offers 
multidisciplinary engineering and 
design consultancy services. 
End Markets
Include commercial, defence, 
education, energy, healthcare, 
industrial, leisure, retail, transport and 
water. For Professional Services the 
end markets include defence,  
pharmachemicals, nuclear and rail.
Operations
REVENUE 
£1,232m
2014: £1,172M
OPERATING PROFIT – ADJUSTED*
£3.8m 
2014: £3.5m
Overbury specialises in t out and 
refurbishment projects, operating 
through multiple procurement  
routes. Morgan Lovell’s expertise  
is in ofce design and build, providing 
an end-to-end service which  
includes workplace consulting  
and furniture solutions. 
End Markets
Include commercial ofces, higher 
education and retail banking. 
Operations
REVENUE 
£607m
2014: £507M
OPERATING PROFIT – ADJUSTED*
£24.0m 
2014: £15.0m
Property Services includes the 
division’s response maintenance 
activities offering facilities 
management and responsive  
repairs to social housing providers 
and public buildings. 
End Markets
Include social housing, local 
authorities and insurance companies. 
Operations
REVENUE 
£60m
2014: £61m
OPERATING LOSS – ADJUSTED*
(£1.0m) 
2014: (£3.5m)
CONSTRUCTION GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 03
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21%
44%
OF GROUP 
REVENUE 
OF GROUP
OPERATING PROFIT –
ADJUSTED* 
 
See pages 24-25 and 36-37
 
See pages 26-27 and 38-39
URBAN REGENERATION INVESTMENTS
Works with landowners and public 
sector partners to unlock value from 
under-developed assets to bring 
about sustainable regeneration and 
urban renewal through the delivery  
of new mixed-use developments. 
End Markets
Include residential, commercial,  
retail and leisure. 
Operations
REVENUE
£110m
2014: £113m
OPERATING PROFIT – ADJUSTED*
£12.9m 
2014: £10.0m
Creates long-term strategic 
partnerships to realise the  
potential of under-utilised assets, 
promotes sustained economic  
growth through regeneration and  
drives cost efciencies through 
innovative and integrated estate 
management solutions.
End Markets
Education, healthcare and social care, 
residential, student accommodation, 
leisure and infrastructure, including 
through asset-backed structures.
Operations
REVENUE 
£13m
2014: £25m
OPERATING LOSS – ADJUSTED*
(£1.5m)
2014: £0.9m
The division’s Partnership Housing 
business specialises in the delivery  
of mixed-tenure regeneration  
housing partnership schemes,  
design and build house contracting, 
and planned maintenance. 
End Markets
Include social housing, housing 
associations, local authorities and 
open market housing. 
Operations
REVENUE
£366m
2014: £362m
OPERATING PROFIT – ADJUSTED*
£9.6m 
2014: £9.5m
REGENERATION MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 04
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2015 has been a year of real progress across the Group. 
Fit Out has outperformed our expectations, with signicant margin growth, and Urban Regeneration has again delivered a strong 
performance. This gives evidence of our long-term strategic commitment and the depth of expertise in both divisions.
Although margins in Construction & Infrastructure have remained low as expected, it was encouraging to see the steady improvement in 
performance over the second half of the year having made progress in closing out its older lower margin construction contracts in London 
and the South. The division now stands on a much stronger footing going forward. 
Affordable Housing has made good progress focusing on its regeneration mixed-tenure housing portfolio which will support future sales in 
2016. The division’s Property Services business was rebranded in early 2015 and we have since seen good progress in winning and 
delivering important work across the UK. 
Cash management and capital allocation remains a key priority for the Group and the underlying cash generation of the Group has supported 
the continued investment in our strategic growth regeneration activities.
My thanks go to our people for their continuing hard work and commitment this year. After last year’s launch of the People Promise, each 
division has made progress in adopting its principles and introduced initiatives to ensure we attract the right people and develop and retain 
our existing employees. This will strengthen succession planning across the Group. 
Health, safety and the environment are always at the forefront of our minds and the Board established a health, safety and environment 
sub-committee in May 2015 to assist the Board in fullling its responsibilities in these areas. Further details can be found in the corporate 
governance report on page 69.
During the year we welcomed Malcolm Cooper to the Board as a non-executive director. Malcolm is currently managing director of National 
Grid Property, having previously been National Grid plc’s global tax and treasury director, and his extensive nancial and commercial 
capability will complement the existing experience of the Board. Malcolm will take over as chair of the audit committee at the annual general 
meeting in May 2016.
Encouraged by the year-end result and by these trends going forward, the Board is proposing a nal dividend of 17.0p per share (2014: 
15.0p), an increase of 13.3%. This brings the total dividend for 2015 to 29.0p per share (2014: 27.0p), which represents a year-on-year 
increase of 7.4%, reecting the Board’s condence in our future prospects.
ADRIAN MARTIN / CHAIRMAN
GREAT 
MOMENTUM 
ACROSS THE  
GROUP GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 05
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MARKET CONTEXT
The overall construction market, consisting of three sectors  
(public, regulated and private) is estimated at £132bn in 2015, growing 
by 3.6% on the previous year. The Group operates across all three 
sectors and targets key markets where there are opportunities for 
growth. These targeted markets were estimated to have a total value 
in 2015 of £80bn, with growth of 5.2% outpacing the wider market. 
The greatest growth was in open market housing due to strong buyer 
demand, and in transport due to increased Government investment  
in roads. The social housing market experienced some contraction  
as a result of uncertainty around future funding.
The Construction Products Association forecasts growth  
in the overall construction market of 3.6% in 2016, followed 
by further rises of 3.7% in 2017 and 2018. The only targeted 
market which is forecast to contract is social housing, which 
continues to be impacted by reduced grant funding and cuts 
in social rents.
The table below provides more detail on the markets which 
individually account for 5% or more of the Group’s revenue.
Targeted key 
markets  
(2005 prices)
2015  
Construction  
and regeneration  
market 
2016-2019  
trend
2015  
% of Group 
revenue
Construction  
& Infrastructure
Fit Out 
Affordable Housing 
Urban Regeneration
Investments
Commentary
Social housing £5.3bn Decrease 12% 
• • • • •
Revenue from social housing was down 10% on the previous year due to a reduction 
in planned maintenance activity. Many housing associations are currently reviewing 
their spending plans following recent changes to their funding with the extension of 
Right to Buy to housing associations and cuts to social rents. This is expected to lead 
to a small contraction in this market between 2016 and 2019. 
Education £9.3bn Increase 16% 
• • • • •
Strong growth was seen in the education sector in 2015, which is expected to 
continue through to 2019. This growth will come from moderate increases in capital 
spending in the public sector boosted by privately funded investment through 
schemes such as PF2.
Health £2.5bn Increase 2% 
• • • • •
Community, 
Defence, Other
£1.9bn Increase 9% 
• • • • •
Public 39% 
Transport £7.0bn Increase 16%
• • • • •
The transport market includes roads, rail and aviation. Revenue for the Group was at 
during 2015 but strong growth is expected between 2016 and 2019 as the 
Government invests in infrastructure. The ‘National Infrastructure Pipeline’, published 
by the Infrastructure and Projects Authority in July 2015, includes 302 transport 
projects and programmes with a combined value of £127bn (£79bn of which are rail 
projects).
Energy £7.1bn Increase 4% 
• • • • •
Water £1.1bn Increase 4% 
• • • • •
Regulated 24% 
Commercial £8.3bn Increase 23% 
• • • • •
There has been strong growth in commercial markets in 2015, principally in 
commercial ofce ret and refurbishment. Growth is expected to continue in the sector 
as a whole with increases in ofce construction in London and other large cities.
Open market 
housing
£24.1bn Increase 9% 
• • • • •
The Group has seen signicant growth in open market housing during 2015 with the 
number of open market units sold increasing to 590 from 475 in the previous year and 
investment in capital employed, which will support further growth in 2016 and beyond. 
The market is expected to grow strongly between 2016 and 2019 with strong buyer 
demand assisted by schemes such as Help to Buy. 
Retail £4.6bn Increase 2% 
• • • • •
Leisure £4.8bn Increase 1% 
• • • • •
Industrial, 
Pharmachemicals, 
Other
£4.2bn Increase 2% 
• • • • •
Private 37%  
Total £80.2bn 100%
Source: Construction Products Association (Autumn 2015 edition) – 2005 prices MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 06
STRATEGIC REPORT
Construction
Affordable Housing-
Property Services
Affordable Housing-
Partnership Housing
 GENERATES
CAPITAL
Regeneration
GENERATES
CONSTRUCTION
WORK
Investments
Urban Regeneration
Fit Out
Infrastructure
Construction &
BUSINESS MODEL
RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS
STAKEHOLDER OUTCOMES
Clients
The Group focuses on a 
range of growth sectors 
within construction and 
regeneration (see markets 
section on page 5).
People
The Group employs around 
5,800 people across a diverse 
range of disciplines, including 
design, civil engineering, 
estimating, planning, 
workplace consulting, 
bricklaying, carpentry, and 
project, commercial and 
development management.
Capital
The Group has shareholders’ 
equity of £249m and average 
net debt in 2015 of £53m. 
Supply chain
The Group spends 89% of  
its cost of sales on goods  
and subcontract services. 
The strength and quality  
of our supply chain is 
fundamental to enable us  
to deliver for our clients. 
Communities
The Group completed  
1,658 mixed-tenure units  
in 2015.
Clients
Clients receive an engaging 
and enjoyable experience 
and a high-quality product. 
Through building trusted 
long-term relationships the 
Group seeks to become their 
contractor of choice.
People
A safe environment where 
people do their best work and 
enrich their careers whilst 
creating exceptional 
experiences for our clients.
Shareholders
Efcient use of capital 
increases protability and 
enables a progressive 
dividend policy. 
Supply chain
Strong relationships with our 
supply chain based on trust, 
respect and fairness mean 
we deliver high-quality work 
for our clients.
Communities
Regenerated communities 
and enhanced infrastructure 
improve the quality of 
people’s lives and leave 
behind a legacy long after the 
project has completed.  GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 07
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HOW VALUE IS CREATED 
 
Related strategic priority
Clients
 > We work in close collaboration with clients to 
gain a real understanding of their business and 
use the expertise of our people to develop an 
offering bespoke to their needs. 
 > We form strong strategic alliances with clients, 
landowners, funders and joint venture partners, 
enabling us to provide the greatest value.
 > We have a broad range of expertise and so can 
support our clients through all stages of the 
asset lifecycle from development to design, 
build, maintenance and refurbishment.
 > We always strive to enhance the client 
experience and to achieve Perfect Delivery 
which drives continuous improvement and 
higher standards of quality and service 
across all operations. Projects must meet 
four division-specied criteria such as 
delivering what we said we would and on 
time. 77% of our completed projects 
achieved Perfect Delivery in 2015. We 
proactively seek client feedback to identify 
strengths and recognise areas that require 
improvement.
Win in  
targeted  
markets
People
 > We create a safe working environment for  
all employees by rigorously applying the  
highest standards in health and safety 
processes and procedures. 
 > The skill, expertise and commitment of  
our people enables us to deliver complex 
projects for our clients. 
 > We focus on recruiting and retaining the best 
people to help us generate the most value for 
our clients. Our People Promise given to all 
employees explains what they can expect from 
the Group and their team members and, in turn, 
what is expected from them. 
 > We provide opportunities for our people to 
continuously develop their careers through 
training and mentoring. 
 > The Group operates a decentralised 
philosophy, empowering our people to think 
differently and be innovative.
Develop  
and retain  
talented  
people
Capital
 > The Group has chosen to specialise in 
construction and regeneration, which have 
complementary cash and capital characteristics. 
 > Construction is cash generative as there is 
typically a short time lag between payments 
being received from clients and payments being 
made to the supply chain. 
 > Conversely, regeneration is capital intensive as 
many schemes take a number of years to 
complete and require a signicant investment in 
inventories. To mitigate this we minimise the use 
of our funds by working collaboratively with 
landowners to avoid the need to purchase land 
on the open market and use opportunities to 
forward sell schemes. 
 > We have good relationships with banks and 
other nancial institutions which help to 
ensure that sufcient competitively priced 
debt facilities are available.
Disciplined  
use of capital
Supply chain
 > The Group’s scale enables us to procure goods 
and services as effectively as possible while 
being exible enough to meet changing 
economic conditions and client needs.
 > The ‘Morgan Sindall Family’ affords 300 of our 
manufacturers and suppliers access to two 
information hubs that provide them with a 
pipeline of work. This also provides the Group 
with a high performing and trusted supply chain. 
 > We manage payments effectively and  
actively and are subscribers to the Prompt 
Payment Code.
 > We have subcontract schemes to attract 
smaller businesses such as the ‘contractor  
of choice’ and build long-term relationships 
with suppliers who share our ethos of  
Perfect Delivery. 
 > As co-founders of the Supply Chain 
Sustainability School we offer free training in 
sustainability and associated topics. 
 > We create a safe working environment for  
all suppliers and subcontractors. 
 > We offer subcontractors the opportunity to 
share our Group agreements giving them 
access to better pricing. 
Maximise  
efciency  
of resources
Communities
 > Innovative techniques are developed to  
create energy efcient homes and buildings. 
 > We seek to minimise the impact of our building 
works on local communities by adopting careful 
waste management procedures and complying 
with the requirements of the Considerate 
Constructors Scheme.
 > Where possible we use local employment 
and supply chains. 
 > We operate safe and secure construction 
sites to minimise the possibility of a member 
of the community being hurt.  
 
See page 56 for more information. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 08
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES RISKS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (‘KPIs’)
 
See pages 18-27 for case studies that show our Group strategy in action at divisional level
 
See our principal risks on pages 40-48 for more information
 
See full KPIs on pages 10-11 for more information
Win in  
targeted  
markets 
We target markets that offer the best opportunity  
for growth and where we have a competitive 
advantage (see page 5). This enables our divisions to 
build long-term relationships with clients. We utilise 
our specialist skills across the Group to meet our 
clients’ needs. 
Our culture, driven by our Perfect Delivery philosophy 
and our aim to provide a positive customer 
experience, contributes to our client relationships  
and helps us to secure repeat business. 
We select suppliers with a similar outlook  
and approach and develop strong working 
relationships with those we trust to deliver.  
 
We are also rigorous in selecting contracts that 
can provide the best potential for superior returns.
 > Macroeconomic – new opportunities
 > Market capacity
 > Exposure to UK housing market
 > Poor contract selection
£2,826m
COMMITTED ORDER BOOK
 £3,159m
  REGENERATION AND  
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE
Develop  
and retain  
talented  
people 
Talented people enable us to provide industry-leading 
performances and successfully deliver our strategy. 
We operate in a highly competitive industry and want 
to be recognised as the employer of choice. 
Protecting our employees from the risk of injuries at 
work is a key priority for the Group and we ensure that 
robust health and safety procedures are put in place. 
We also invest continuously in our people, 
arranging detailed personal and professional 
development programmes to enable them to 
succeed. 
Our goal is to develop and retain our talent and 
ensure robust succession planning. 
 > Safety or environmental incident
 > Failure to attract and retain talented people 389
ACCIDENT  
INCIDENT RATE
181
GRADUATES AND 
APPRENTICES 
RECRUITED
3.4
AVERAGE  
TRAINING DAYS  
PER EMPLOYEE
Disciplined  
use of capital 
The Group maintains nancial discipline through 
robust management of overheads, cash and working 
capital. Our approach to working with local authorities 
and landowners minimises the use of our own  
funds and avoids the need to purchase land on  
the open market. 
We use opportunities to forward sell schemes 
when favourable opportunities arise.
 > Insolvency of key clients, subcontractors or suppliers
 > Treasury and funding availability
 > Management of working capital
-12.1%
WORKING CAPITAL 
AS PERCENTAGE  
OF REVENUE IN 
CONSTRUCTION 
ACTIVITIES
 
92%
OPERATING CASH 
CONVERSION 
(ADJUSTED FOR 
INVESTMENT IN 
REGENERATION)
9%
RETURN ON  
CAPITAL EMPLOYED 
IN REGENERATION 
ACTIVITIES
Maximise  
efciency of 
resources
Maximising efciency is a strategic priority to drive 
protability and ensure that benets are shared with 
our stakeholders. Resource efciencies are achieved 
through initiatives that span the entire business. 
These initiatives include working collaboratively  
with a limited number of trusted suppliers and 
subcontractors, negotiating Group-wide procurement 
agreements, optimising our business processes and 
support functions, and using advanced technology. 
This approach enables us to minimise the risk  
of poor project delivery and manage change  
on projects. 
In order to reduce the Group’s impact on carbon 
emissions and waste production we use KPIs 
across the business to monitor and manage these 
resources. (See page 54 of the responsible 
business review for further details.) 
 > Mispricing contracts
 > Managing changes to projects and contract disputes
 > Poor project delivery 
8.3%
GROSS MARGIN  
IN CONSTRUCTION 
ACTIVITIES
6.8%
OVERHEAD AS  
A PERCENTAGE  
OF REVENUE IN 
CONSTRUCTION 
ACTIVITIES
14.4
CARBON  
INTENSITY
Pursuing  
innovation
Innovation is fundamental to winning work, adding value for our stakeholders  
and breaking down barriers to success. Our divisions are empowered to make  
decisions in response to their respective markets and business needs and our  
culture encourages individuals to think creatively. We want to attract innovators  
and motivate our people to convert their ideas into valuable business benets. 
Innovation is also about streamlining our internal processes and support functions  
to drive efciencies and sustain the growth of the business. We have not identied  
KPIs in respect of this strategic priority as it underpins the other four strategic  
priorities and is indirectly measured through the KPIs above. GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 09
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
RISKS
Objective
To be recognised as the leading UK construction and regeneration company  
and the supplier, partner and employer of choice.
The Group’s overall strategy is to invest cash generated by construction activities 
into long-term regeneration schemes. To achieve this, the following strategic 
priorities are embedded across the Group, and each division’s progress against 
them is outlined in the chief executive’s statement on pages 18-27. 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES RISKS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (‘KPIs’)
 
See pages 18-27 for case studies that show our Group strategy in action at divisional level
 
See our principal risks on pages 40-48 for more information
 
See full KPIs on pages 10-11 for more information
Win in  
targeted  
markets 
We target markets that offer the best opportunity  
for growth and where we have a competitive 
advantage (see page 5). This enables our divisions to 
build long-term relationships with clients. We utilise 
our specialist skills across the Group to meet our 
clients’ needs. 
Our culture, driven by our Perfect Delivery philosophy 
and our aim to provide a positive customer 
experience, contributes to our client relationships  
and helps us to secure repeat business. 
We select suppliers with a similar outlook  
and approach and develop strong working 
relationships with those we trust to deliver.  
 
We are also rigorous in selecting contracts that 
can provide the best potential for superior returns.
 > Macroeconomic – new opportunities
 > Market capacity
 > Exposure to UK housing market
 > Poor contract selection
£2,826m
COMMITTED ORDER BOOK
 £3,159m
  REGENERATION AND  
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE
Develop  
and retain  
talented  
people 
Talented people enable us to provide industry-leading 
performances and successfully deliver our strategy. 
We operate in a highly competitive industry and want 
to be recognised as the employer of choice. 
Protecting our employees from the risk of injuries at 
work is a key priority for the Group and we ensure that 
robust health and safety procedures are put in place. 
We also invest continuously in our people, 
arranging detailed personal and professional 
development programmes to enable them to 
succeed. 
Our goal is to develop and retain our talent and 
ensure robust succession planning. 
 > Safety or environmental incident
 > Failure to attract and retain talented people 389
ACCIDENT  
INCIDENT RATE
181
GRADUATES AND 
APPRENTICES 
RECRUITED
3.4
AVERAGE  
TRAINING DAYS  
PER EMPLOYEE
Disciplined  
use of capital 
The Group maintains nancial discipline through 
robust management of overheads, cash and working 
capital. Our approach to working with local authorities 
and landowners minimises the use of our own  
funds and avoids the need to purchase land on  
the open market. 
We use opportunities to forward sell schemes 
when favourable opportunities arise.
 > Insolvency of key clients, subcontractors or suppliers
 > Treasury and funding availability
 > Management of working capital
-12.1%
WORKING CAPITAL 
AS PERCENTAGE  
OF REVENUE IN 
CONSTRUCTION 
ACTIVITIES
 
92%
OPERATING CASH 
CONVERSION 
(ADJUSTED FOR 
INVESTMENT IN 
REGENERATION)
9%
RETURN ON  
CAPITAL EMPLOYED 
IN REGENERATION 
ACTIVITIES
Maximise  
efciency of 
resources
Maximising efciency is a strategic priority to drive 
protability and ensure that benets are shared with 
our stakeholders. Resource efciencies are achieved 
through initiatives that span the entire business. 
These initiatives include working collaboratively  
with a limited number of trusted suppliers and 
subcontractors, negotiating Group-wide procurement 
agreements, optimising our business processes and 
support functions, and using advanced technology. 
This approach enables us to minimise the risk  
of poor project delivery and manage change  
on projects. 
In order to reduce the Group’s impact on carbon 
emissions and waste production we use KPIs 
across the business to monitor and manage these 
resources. (See page 54 of the responsible 
business review for further details.) 
 > Mispricing contracts
 > Managing changes to projects and contract disputes
 > Poor project delivery 
8.3%
GROSS MARGIN  
IN CONSTRUCTION 
ACTIVITIES
6.8%
OVERHEAD AS  
A PERCENTAGE  
OF REVENUE IN 
CONSTRUCTION 
ACTIVITIES
14.4
CARBON  
INTENSITY
Pursuing  
innovation
Innovation is fundamental to winning work, adding value for our stakeholders  
and breaking down barriers to success. Our divisions are empowered to make  
decisions in response to their respective markets and business needs and our  
culture encourages individuals to think creatively. We want to attract innovators  
and motivate our people to convert their ideas into valuable business benets. 
Innovation is also about streamlining our internal processes and support functions  
to drive efciencies and sustain the growth of the business. We have not identied  
KPIs in respect of this strategic priority as it underpins the other four strategic  
priorities and is indirectly measured through the KPIs above. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 10
STRATEGIC REPORT
Working capital
1
 as a % of 
revenue in construction activities
-12.1%
-8.7%
-9.3% 2013
2014
2015
Operating cash conversion 
(adjusted for investment in regeneration)
92%
104%
49% 2013
2014
2015
Return on capital employed 
in regeneration activities 
9.0%
11.9%
9.8% 2013
2014
2015
Committed order book 
£2,826m
£2,658m
£2,403m 2013
2014
2015
Regeneration and 
development pipeline 
£3,159m
£3,227m
£3,036m 2013
2014
2015
KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS
KPIs
The Group uses nancial 
and non-nancial KPIs to 
measure its progress  
in delivering its strategic 
priorities.
Description
Comprises the secured order book and the 
framework order book. The secured order book 
represents the Group’s share of future revenue that 
will be derived from signed contracts or letters of 
intent. The framework order book represents our 
expected share of revenue from the frameworks on 
which we have been appointed. This excludes 
prospects where conrmation has been received as 
preferred bidder only, with no formal contract or 
letter of intent in place. 
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
The order book increased by 6% on the previous 
year, with growth seen across all divisions. The 
Group has also achieved a signicant improvement 
in the quality of the order book with a higher 
proportion of work secured through negotiated/
framework/two-stage bidding procurement 
processes. This will continue to be a key focus  
for the Group in 2016.
Description
Operating cash ow (excluding investment in 
regeneration activities) as a percentage of adjusted* 
operating prot. 
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
The Group actively manages working capital and 
we have achieved another strong year of cash 
generation. This has enabled a signicant further 
investment into regeneration capital employed to 
support prot growth in future years.
Description
Adjusted* operating prot less interest on non- 
recourse debt less unwind of discount on deferred 
consideration, divided by average capital employed.
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
Prots from regeneration have increased in  
each of the past three years, however the signicant 
investment in capital employed in 2015, which will 
support prots in 2016 and beyond, has resulted  
in a dip in the return on capital employed.  
This is expected to reverse in 2016.
Description
Working capital as a percentage of revenue.
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
Working capital as a percentage of revenue improved 
by 340bps in 2015 to -12.1%. Adjusting for the 
exceptional operating item, the underlying ratio is 
-9.6%, an improvement of 90bps. The improvement 
reects greater discipline in respect of working 
capital management across the Group as well as the 
progress made in completing and closing out 
problematic contracts in London and the South. 
Modest improvements in this ratio are expected to 
continue in 2016.
Description
The Group’s share of the gross development value 
of secured schemes including the development 
value of open market housing schemes.
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
The pipeline was down slightly by 2% on the  
previous year as schemes in Urban Regeneration 
and Investments have been developed and sold.  
The Group continues to pursue regeneration 
opportunities which will contribute to the pipeline  
in 2016.
1 Dened as inventories plus trade and other receivables, 
less trade and other payables, adjusted to exclude 
deferred consideration payable, accrued interest and 
capitalised arrangement fees. GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 11
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Number of graduates and 
apprentices recruited
181
161
146 2013
2014
2015
Average number of
training days per employee 
3.4
2.2
2.3 2013
2014
2015
Accident Incident Rate (‘AIR’) 
389
306
385 2013
2014
2015
Gross margin in
construction activities
8.3%
7.2%
7.4% 2013
2014
2015
Overheads as a % of revenue 
in construction activities
6.8%
6.3%
6.1% 2013
2014
2015
Carbon intensity 
14.4
17.0
21.91 2013
2014
2015
Description
Total carbon emissions as a percentage of revenue. 
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
The Group’s carbon intensity measure  
decreased by 15% which demonstrates our  
clear and continuing commitment to reducing 
energy consumption across our entire supply  
chain. In 2016, we will strive to continue this  
trend, recognising that it will become harder  
to continue to make signicant year-on-year 
reductions in emissions.
Description
Gross prot (excluding exceptional items
2
) as a 
percentage of revenue.
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
Gross margin increased across all construction 
activities, with an overall increase of 110bps. This 
reects greater contract selectivity, more favourable 
procurement conditions with clients and improved 
operational efciency, including downstream 
procurement with the supply chain. This trend is 
expected to continue in 2016.
Description
Overheads (excluding amortisation
3
) as a 
percentage of revenue. 
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
Whilst the ratio increased by 50bps in 2015, this 
reects the Group gearing up for future growth, 
with increased headcount and enhanced nancial 
incentives for our people. We expect this trend to 
continue to rise in 2016, returning to a more typical 
level of 7.5% to 8.0%. 
Description
The number of graduates and apprentices recruited 
across the Group. 
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
The increase in the number of graduates and 
apprentices recruited during the year demonstrates 
the Group’s commitment to developing a succession 
pool of talent. In addition, we have sponsored 108 
undergraduates during the year. This investment in 
new talent is expected to continue in 2016.
Description
The total number of days of training provided to 
employees divided by the average number of 
employees. 
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
The increase in training days across the Group  
is in line with our strategy to develop and retain 
talented people. During the year we supported 
2,042 employees with a mixture of NVQ, 
management skills and professional schemes 
training. This trend is expected to continue in 2016. 
See page 53 for further information.
Description
The number of accidents per 100,000 employees.
Performance in 2015 and focus for 2016
Unfortunately, the Group’s AIR has increased during 
the year. Although no obvious trends have been 
identied, we have focused on targeted safety 
training, leadership and employee engagement. We 
have seen an improvement in performance at the end 
of 2015 and beginning of 2016. We will continue in 
2016 our drive to reduce the number of safety 
incidents and review any actions needed to protect 
the health and wellbeing of our employees.
2 Exceptional operating items of £46.9m (2014: £nil). 3 Amortisation of intangible assets of £2.2m (2014: £2.4m).
Disciplined use  
of capital
Related strategic priority:
Win in targeted 
markets
Develop and retain 
talented people 
Maximise efciency  
of resources STRATEGIC REPORT
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 12
WE ARE 
CREATING
SPACES MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 13
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Originally awarded in 2011, the contract  
has increased in scope of works and value, 
underlining the division’s delivery record of 
working in challenging live environments. 
Due to complete in 2016, C350 will link  
the new Crossrail tunnels to Network Rail’s 
infrastructure in Newham, London. Work 
includes the construction of a tunnel portal 
and a new, elevated Docklands Light 
Railway (‘DLR’) station at Pudding Mill Lane, 
plus associated structures to bring the 
subterranean railway into the above-ground 
existing rail network. Other works include a 
reinforced earthwork embankment, a 
six-span viaduct and a number of other 
bridge structures, with full mechanical and 
electrical services for the station works, all 
track and rail systems, and highways and 
hard landscaping works. 
The C350 Pudding Mill Lane 
scheme is one of several 
projects Construction & 
Infrastructure is undertaking 
as part of the £14.8bn 
Crossrail project.
This complex project is taking place in a 
heavily-congested site next to the former 
Olympic Park, while maintaining safe access 
to the new Pudding Mill Lane DLR Station. 
The division has maximised efficiencies for 
both Network Rail and the Group through 
close supply chain management and 
rigorous cost discipline.
CONSTRUCTION 
CROSSRAIL STRATEGIC REPORT
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 14
WE ARE 
CHANGING
SPACES MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 15
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
The visionary scheme is breathing new life into 
50 acres of Salford’s historic centre. Key 
elements of the plan, developed with Salford 
City Council, include Chapel Street and New 
Bailey. Chapel Street is being transformed into 
a desirable location for living and working, 
with a vibrant collection of shops, cafés and 
leisure facilities. All 97 homes in the rst 
residential development, Vimto Gardens,  
were sold during construction. New Bailey is 
extending Manchester’s central business 
district, providing high-quality ofces with 
supporting retail, leisure and residential space, 
with four developments already complete or 
under construction.
The One New Bailey ofce scheme has  
been delivered through an innovative 
 annuity-type leasing arrangement with  
Salford City Council, which secured forward 
funding for the development. This plus three 
other developments have been fully forward 
funded by institutional investors with a total 
end value of around £90m. 
Urban Regeneration is leading a £650m 
regeneration project in Salford as part of 
English Cities fund, the division’s joint 
venture with the Homes and Communities 
Agency and Legal & General Property. 
The scheme will create a total of three million  
sq ft of mixed-use development and an 
estimated 11,000 new jobs. 
REGENERATION
SALFORD CENTRAL, SALFORD MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 16
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT
CONFIDENCE IN 
OUR STRATEGY 
REMAINS STRONG
JOHN MORGAN / CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Overview
This year has been a period of honing the business in preparation for 
protable and sustained growth. We have seen great momentum 
across the Group and the business is now leaner and more efcient, 
and ready to respond to the forecast improvement in national 
construction output. 
Performance
Revenue for the year was up 7% on the prior year at £2,385m, 
driven by strong revenue growth in Fit Out of 20%. This was 
supported by growth in Construction & Infrastructure, up 5% and in 
the strategically important mixed-tenure regeneration activities in 
Affordable Housing, with revenue up 29%. Adjusted operating prot 
of £38.8m was up 34% on the prior year, with adjusted operating 
margin up 30bps to 1.6% (2014: 1.3%). 
Fit Out delivered a very strong prot and margin performance, 
beneting from the high level of general t out activity and the more 
attractive tendering opportunities and terms available in its market. 
Its operating margin of 4.0% on record revenue of £607m enabled 
Fit Out to report an increase in operating prot, up 60% to £24.0m 
(2014: £15.0m). Urban Regeneration made signicant progress with 
many of its regeneration developments and delivered an operating 
prot of £12.9m (2014: £10.0m) and a return on average capital 
employed
1
 of 15%. Affordable Housing also made good progress 
focusing on its regeneration mixed-tenure housing portfolio which 
will support future sales going into 2016. The Affordable Housing 
division grew its operating prot by 43% up to £8.6m (2014: £6.0m) 
due to the continued improvement in the performance of its Property 
Services activities, which reduced its operating loss to £1.0m from  
a £3.5m loss in the prior year. 
Construction & Infrastructure showed improvement in the second 
half of the year, delivering a full year operating prot of £3.8m  
(2014: £3.5m) compared to prot of £0.3m at the half year. Overall 
performance was impacted by lower returns from its construction 
activities in London and the South and its lower margin older 
construction contracts, however signicant progress has been  
made in completing these contracts in the second half of the year. 
These are being replaced in the construction order book with 
generally higher quality work.
1 As dened in the business review for Urban Regeneration.  GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 17
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Exceptional operating items of £46.9m have been charged in the 
year relating to the impairment of trade and other receivables on  
two old construction contracts identied in 2013, both of which  
were transferred as part of the acquisition of the design and project 
services division of Amec in 2007. At the half year an impairment  
of £39.4m was made against these items (see page 28 for further 
information). 
Order book and regeneration and development pipeline
The Group’s committed order book
2
 at 31 December 2015 was 
£2,826m, an increase of 6% compared to the prior year end. 
Importantly, the general quality of the current order book reects the 
more favourable procurement conditions across most markets 
served. The divisional split is shown below.
 
 2015  
£m
2014  
£m
%  
change
Construction & Infrastructure 1,595 1,537 +4%
Fit Out 341 241 +41%
Affordable Housing 703 673 +4%
Urban Regeneration 218 197 +11%
Investments 17 19 -11%
Inter-divisional orders (48) (9)
Total 2,826 2,658 +6%
2 Committed order book comprises the secured order book and framework order book. The 
secured order book represents the Group’s share of future revenue that will be derived from 
signed contracts or letters of intent. The framework order book represents the Group’s 
expected share of revenue from the frameworks on which the Group has been appointed. 
This excludes prospects where conrmation has been received as preferred bidder only, 
with no formal contract or letter of intent in place.
The regeneration and development pipeline
3
 was £3,159m, a small 
decrease of 2% on the previous year end as schemes have been 
developed and sold. The Group continues to pursue regeneration 
opportunities which will contribute to the pipeline in 2016 and 
beyond. The divisional spilt is shown below:
 
 2015  
£m
2014 
 £m
%  
change
Affordable Housing 782 770 +2%
Urban Regeneration 2,181 2,215 -2%
Investments 196 242 -19%
Total 3,159 3,227 -2%
3 Regeneration and development pipeline represents the Group’s share of the gross 
development value of secured schemes including the development value of open market 
housing schemes. 
Operating environment
The operating environment for construction has improved with a 
marked shift away from xed-price contracts to more attractive 
procurement routes. This is reected in the Group’s order book with 
89% by value derived through negotiated/framework/two-stage 
bidding procurement processes. Robust contract selectivity and 
rigorous risk management have also contributed to higher levels of 
quality work and margin improvement. Challenges persist with 
margins remaining under pressure due to cost ination, and supply 
chain and skill shortages. These conditions are most acute in 
London and the South. We have therefore reduced our exposure to 
commercial construction in these areas, limiting activity to work 
secured through framework agreements and opportunities to 
collaborate with sister divisions. 
 
Health, safety and wellbeing
Keeping our staff, subcontractors and visitors safe is paramount and  
we were saddened by the death of one of our employees on site  
this year. The incident was thoroughly investigated both internally 
and by enforcing authorities, and it was concluded that the activity  
had been carried out in accordance with current legislation and  
industry practice. As part of our continuous improvement regime,  
we conducted a thorough review of our processes and procedures 
and made some improvements. Our core safety policies remain 
under constant review. 
Unfortunately we have seen an increase in the Group’s Accident 
Incident Rate and the number of RIDDOR incidents during the year 
which is disappointing for the Group. These incidents haven’t shown 
any particular trend in cause or type other than challenges faced by 
the industry as a whole, as a consequence of the upturn in labour 
demand. That said, we continue to focus on site safety with ongoing 
targeted safety training and awareness. We have seen an 
improvement in our health and safety performance at the end of 
2015 and beginning of 2016 as new employees and supply chain 
partners respond to the increased volumes of work and become 
fully embedded in our health and safety practices and procedures. 
In 2016 as well as continuing our drive to reduce the number of 
safety incidents across the Group, we will review any actions that  
we need to take to further protect the health and wellbeing of our 
employees.
See the responsible business review on pages 50 to 56 and the 
health, safety and environment committee’s report on page 69 for 
further information.
Condence in long-term strategy
Our condence in the Group’s UK-focused strategy remains strong. 
We have celebrated signicant contract wins in our chosen markets 
together with new framework positions and high levels of work from 
existing frameworks. We have grown our investment in regeneration 
opportunities that provide superior margins. With the housing 
market set to remain high on the political agenda for a signicant 
number of years ahead, we have focused our investment primarily in 
residential–led opportunities which will lead to signicant returns in 
the medium term. 
The Group has made good progress against each of its ve strategic 
priorities as outlined in the following strategic progress section. 
Looking to the future
Looking ahead to 2016, the positive momentum across the Group is 
expected to continue. A strong level of performance from Fit Out is 
anticipated, together with further strategic progress in Urban 
Regeneration and prot growth in Affordable Housing, driven by its 
mixed-tenure regeneration activities. With a further steady recovery 
in the performance of Construction & Infrastructure also expected, 
the Group is in a strong position to deliver on its expectations. Acr56851959744256-27807.pdf   1   21/03/2016   11:38
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 18
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS
Construction & Infrastructure 
Whilst the Infrastructure business has performed reasonably consistently 
across the year, delivery pressures and cost escalations in a number of older 
contracts in the Construction activities in London and the South impacted 
overall protability and margins. The division has seen a progressively 
improved nancial performance over the second half of 2015. 
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
Signicant strategic wins include the delivery 
of the £300m-£500m West section of the 
Thames Tideway Tunnel in joint venture and 
a position on the four-year £4bn Southern 
Construction Framework which offers the 
division the opportunity to bid with several 
other contractors for projects ranging in 
value from £1m upwards. The framework 
governs the procurement of a full spectrum 
of new build and refurbishment schemes  
in education, health and community, 
including libraries, civic ofce development 
programmes for police and re authorities, 
and leisure and sports facilities.
Develop and retain talented people 
The division has launched its ‘Academy’, 
created to offer training and development 
opportunities to all employees. A career 
mentoring programme has also been 
introduced to provide guidance and support 
to employees in the early stages of their 
career. Professional development is actively 
encouraged with over 400 employees 
pursuing registration with professional 
institutions and 115 full-time degree students 
receiving sponsorship, providing a pipeline 
of graduate recruits through to 2019. 
Disciplined use of capital
Following a review of lessons learnt 
regarding a number of older construction 
projects, the division has adopted a 
more stringent approach to bidding 
which has helped improve the quality of 
earnings. Additionally, tight management 
of overheads, cash and working capital, 
as well as working in joint venture on 
complex long-term infrastructure projects, 
minimises capital risk and ensures 
funds are available for investment. 
Maximise efciency of resources
The division has developed a more 
streamlined approach to supply chain 
management through developing stronger 
relationships with a smaller number of 
preferred suppliers and subcontractors  
who are aligned with the division’s Perfect 
Delivery approach. Working in closer 
collaboration will help drive efciencies and 
mitigate the impact of upward pressure on 
supply chain costs and availability. 
Pursuing innovation
The division has played a leading role in 
developing a pioneering 3D site-induction 
system for major highways projects, and 
together with its joint venture partner is 
the rst Highways England contractor to 
use this type of advanced technology. 
The system provides realistic, virtual 
access to complex sites, enabling a 
comprehensive understanding of the 
safety risks in advance. In addition, 
the division has invested in developing 
various new systems that will signicantly 
improve business processes and efciency 
such as tools for monitoring future work 
pipeline and project management.
 > Maintain focus on enhancing position
in chosen growth markets.
 > Secure long-term projects that offer
higher margins through frameworks,
joint ventures and strategic alliances.
 > Increase opportunities to work with
other Group divisions.
 > Build enduring relationships with
clients, partners and the supply chain
to create innovative and cost-
effective solutions and deliver quality
projects with the highest levels of
safety.
 > Maintain quality of order book. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
In 2015, Construction & Infrastructure 
delivered Britain’s greenest, and one  
of Europe’s most sustainable, buildings.  
The Enterprise Centre features a number 
of ‘world-rsts’, such as the use of 
prefabricated straw thatch panel  
cassettes, and is set to achieve the  
rigorous Passivhaus and BREEAM 
Outstanding accreditations. 
Local skills and indigenous materials were 
used and the division embraced pioneering 
technologies and techniques. The result is  
a revolutionary building with an embodied 
carbon calculation equating to a quarter  
of the lifetime emissions of a conventionally 
constructed building. 
THE ENTERPRISE 
CENTRE,
UNIVERSITY OF 
EAST ANGLIA
RESOURCES
MAXIMISE EFFICIENCY OF 
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 19 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 20
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED
Fit Out
The division has performed well, resulting in increased revenue and a 
signicant uplift in operating prot. This performance has contributed to the 
Group’s ability to implement its strategy of investing cash generated from 
construction activity in long-term regeneration opportunities.
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
The division has gained market share this 
year by focusing on its target markets 
including commercial ofces, higher 
education, retail banking and working 
through a number of strategic framework 
agreements. Contract wins include a 
130,000 sq ft t out for ING Bank, 
Broadgate Estates’ new 28,000 sq ft 
headquarters, a new workspace for 
disability charity, Livability, and a project for 
environmental services company SUEZ.
Develop and retain talented people
During 2015 Fit Out has continued to focus 
on developing talent within the business and 
planning for the future. 
The division’s two-day ‘Exceptional 
Performance’ course provided classroom-
style training aimed at 350 staff, whilst 
e-learning has been embraced through the
development of 16 online training modules
and the launch of an interactive learning
management system.
The division has rolled out a performance 
and development planning process, 
launched its Foundation Programme for 
school-leavers, graduates and entry-level 
employees, and signicantly strengthened 
its succession planning. 
Disciplined use of capital 
The division tightly controls its cash balance 
through stringent management of overheads 
and cash management. 
Maximise efciency of resources 
The division has invested in people and 
technology so that it can operate and deliver 
projects as efciently as possible. The 
Overbury and Morgan Lovell Southern 
teams have moved to one shared location, 
enabling them to share resources, cross-sell 
and strengthen their service delivery. 
Pursuing innovation
The division has developed a mobile 
application based on its in-house project 
management and information sharing tool 
ProjectPLUS
™
, aimed at clients and project 
delivery teams. The ProjectPLUS
™
 
application allows instant access to 
real-time information, resulting in higher 
levels of collaboration, cost savings and 
safer, shorter delivery programmes.  
Fit Out also created, tested and launched  
a bespoke snagging tool SnagPLUS
™
 –  
a t out sector rst. Project delivery  
aside, innovation of this kind signicantly 
contributes to the overall client and  
end user experience. 
 > Win work in all chosen markets.
 > Drive customer experience as a
means of differentiation.
 > Further improve quality of earnings.
 > Continue investment in enabling
technology to improve efciency.
 > Invest in training and development to
support succession planning. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Fit Out’s appointment to undertake the 
high-specication t out for the racing 
headquarters of Land Rover BAR  
(Ben Ainsley Racing), the British challenger 
for the 35th America’s Cup, further 
reinforced its reputation as the UK’s  
t out contractor of choice. 
The division demonstrated its leading 
expertise and reliability, successfully 
delivering the project within a very public  
and tight deadline whilst setting new 
benchmarks for sustainability and 
construction innovation. The works included 
a bespoke athletes’ training gym and 
medical centre, a kitchen, an open-plan 
ofce, and a boardroom and meeting suites, 
as well as a 50,000 sq ft workshop for the 
construction and storage of racing yachts.
LAND ROVER BAR
PORTSMOUTH
TARGETED 
MARKETS
WIN IN 
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 21 Acr5685195974425631202.pdf   1   21/03/2016   11:39
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 22
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED
Affordable Housing
Affordable Housing has made good progress, including an 
improved performance from its Property Services business.  
New opportunities have been secured for higher margin 
mixed-tenure work and the level of activity across large-scale 
regeneration programmes has been maintained. 
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
Affordable Housing’s successes include 
being appointed to the second phase of the 
£28m Loftus Garden Village scheme in 
Newport, Cardiff, a £6.5m project to deliver 
a further 72 homes. The rst phase of 58 
homes was successfully delivered in 2015. 
The division’s Property Services business 
also secured £67m of work that included 
projects for Metropolitan Housing Trust and 
an innovative asset management service to 
King Street Housing Society (see page 35). 
Develop and retain talented people
Affordable Housing provides a mix of  
formal and on-site training. On average, 
each member of staff has received three 
days of training. 64 employees have 
been sponsored to undergo leadership 
training though the Institute of Leadership 
and Management and 16 have secured 
places on the division’s graduate training 
programme. Following the success of the 
new-build Site Manager Development 
Programme, a similar programme is 
now under development for assistant 
site managers working on refurbishment 
projects. The self-delivery model  
within the Property Services business 
long-term maintenance contracts remains 
committed to ensuring 5% of employees 
are in apprenticeship schemes. 
Disciplined use of capital 
The division targets regeneration 
opportunities through framework 
positions on the London Development 
Panel and the Homes and Communities 
Agency’s Delivery Partner Panel 2. Both 
panels release public sector land with 
deferred land payment, award contracts 
using more efcient procurement 
processes and create opportunities to 
improve returns on capital employed. 
Maximise efciency of resources 
Affordable Housing has invested in a 
focused suite of house types made up 
of standardised components. As well as 
improving the quality and efciency of the 
build, this standardised approach enables 
economies to be made and the cost 
savings shared with the house purchaser. 
Pursuing innovation
The division has developed a ground-
breaking asset management model and 
underpinning IT system that allow clients 
to make long-term nancial plans for 
their response maintenance programmes 
with greater condence and insight. 
The combined services offering focuses 
on holistic services and contracts.
 > Grow regeneration pipeline through
long-term partnerships with local
authorities and housing associations
and through collaboration with
sister divisions.
 > Progress schemes within existing
regeneration programmes.
 > Accelerate completion of
residential schemes.
 > Develop a property maintenance
offer with Investments and Urban
Regeneration for Group-developed
buildings.
Acr568519597442562134.pdf   1   21/03/2016   11:36 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Through its ve-year development 
management agreement with the Borough 
Council of King’s Lynn and West Norfolk, 
Affordable Housing is committed to 
providing a range of job and training 
opportunities as part of its Employment  
& Skills Plan, including creating 16 new 
apprenticeships, as well as safeguarding  
26 existing apprenticeship places. 
The division will also deliver a range of short 
training opportunities for 75 people and a 
programme of visits for local school, college 
and university students. 90% of the 
workforce employed on the project will be 
from the local Norfolk community.
KING’S LYNN 
MIXED-TENURE
REGENERATION,
NORFOLK
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 23
TALENTED 
PEOPLE
DEVELOP AND RETAIN MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 24
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED
Urban Regeneration
Urban Regeneration has continued to deliver good growth  
and strong prots through its focused long-term investment 
in its regeneration and development pipeline. 
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
During the year the division secured 
‘preferred developer’ status on six 
new projects, further strengthening 
its £2,181m development pipeline.
Develop and retain talented people
Following staff consultation, a more 
effective streamlined appraisal process 
has been adopted with an updated 
reward strategy for any of the division’s 
70 employees who exceed business 
objectives. Key individuals are receiving 
one-to-one coaching to support the 
business’s succession plan and the division 
is funding and providing paid study and 
exam leave for several employees to secure 
work-related professional qualications. 
Disciplined use of capital
The division has secured a number 
of development agreements with 
landowners. Typically such agreements 
secure land for development in return 
for the division funding initial planning 
and infrastructure costs with land drawn 
down for development on a phased basis, 
optimising the use of Group capital. 
Maximise efciency of resources
Urban Regeneration’s trusted reputation 
enables it to secure funding for a signicant 
number of projects. In 2016 four major 
investments deals, totalling over £72m, 
with high-prole national property funds 
enabled construction of a customer delivery 
hub on the division’s agship Logic Leeds 
warehouse and industrial park and a total 
of 245 new homes in three buildings for 
the private rented sector within its New 
Bailey, Canning Town and Lewisham 
Gateway regeneration schemes.
Pursuing innovation
Financial innovation is a crucial element of 
the division’s expertise. The business stands 
at the forefront of innovative funding models 
and has invested in state-of-the-art nancial 
modelling software to enhance decision-
making across its complex development 
programmes. A typically complex scheme 
is Lewisham Gateway, where the £85m 
residential-led rst phase has attracted 
funding from three different sources. 
 > Identify opportunities to enhance
forward development pipeline.
 > Maintain the momentum of project
delivery in line with critical path
programmes.
 > Increase residential sales.
 > Secure high-quality occupiers for
commercial schemes. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Urban Regeneration’s unique approach  
has overcome signicant challenges on  
the £230m Lewisham Gateway scheme. 
The site was originally dominated by a large 
and unpopular roundabout which cut off  
the town centre from the local DLR and 
railway stations. Through intensive 
collaboration with numerous stakeholders, 
the division has enabled major changes to 
the highway and public transport networks 
as well as opening up two rivers from below 
ground to become a town centre feature. 
As a result, around 3.3 hectares of 
previously undevelopable land have been 
released, creating space for a vibrant 
residential-led mixed development with  
a riverside park, shop-lined pedestrian 
walkways and improved access to public 
transport. 2015 has seen construction 
progress on three new residential buildings. 
LEWISHAM
GATEWAY,
LONDON
PURSUING
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 25
INNOVATION MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 26
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED
Investments
Investments has successfully delivered on its mandate to create  
quality construction opportunities for other Group divisions. It has  
handed over schemes within its long-term regeneration partnerships  
and created a new joint venture to help NHS Trusts address  
ongoing nancial challenges.
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
Highlights include starting work on the 
North West PF2 Priority Schools Building 
Programme which is being delivered by 
the Construction & Infrastructure division, 
creating a new strategic healthcare 
partnership resulting in a 10-year 
agreement with Burton Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust and the development 
of a new Extra Care healthcare offer. The 
division has also successfully extended 
programmes of work within its long-
term regeneration joint ventures. 
Develop and retain talented people
The division has implemented enhanced 
training and development programmes to 
ensure its people can succeed and deliver  
a market-leading service. In addition, it has 
relocated to new premises, providing a  
fresh and attractive environment that 
encourages communication, creativity  
and team working. 
Disciplined use of capital
The division uses Group capital to  
progress certain projects to a point when  
it can leverage its relationships with leading 
nancial institutions and forward sell 
schemes when conditions are favourable  
to do so. 
Maximise efciency of resources
Investments creates opportunities for other 
Group divisions to secure work on their 
frameworks. The division’s reputation as a 
partner has led to more opportunities this 
year for sister divisions to negotiate terms on 
projects rather than securing work on a 
more competitive basis. 
Pursuing innovation
Innovation lies at the heart of Investments. 
The division identies pioneering routes  
to market as demonstrated this year  
by creating a new joint venture to 
successfully enter the strategic estate 
partnership market in healthcare  
(see page 39 for further information). 
Investments applies its creative approach 
across every market and sector it operates 
in, engaging with all stakeholders across 
the asset life cycle to identify solutions 
that deliver real and lasting benets. 
 > Focus on creating prime long-term 
construction opportunities for sister 
divisions. 
 > Progress projects within development 
pipeline.
 > Develop new offers for existing 
markets. 
 > Take offer to new regions across  
the country. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 27
Working in partnership with South 
Northampton Council, Investments is 
sensitively reinvigorating and regenerating 
the historic Moat Lane area of Towcester 
town centre in six phases through a 
strategic development agreement. In 
accordance with the agreement, after the 
successful delivery of a new civic centre, an 
interest in five council-owned sites was 
transferred to the division to enable the 
remaining five phases to be completed. 
These include the construction of residential 
properties and further commercial buildings 
by Affordable Housing and Construction & 
Infrastructure and will provide a significant 
return on Group investment.
MOAT LANE
REGENERATION,
TOWCESTER
CAPITAL
DISCIPLINED USE OF MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 28
STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
FINANCIAL REVIEW
2015 2014
Revenue £2,385m £2,220m
Operating prot – adjusted* £38.8m £28.9m
Prot before tax – adjusted* £34.3m £25.2m
Earnings per share – adjusted* 63.0p 46.7p
Year end net cash balance £57.9m £55.7m
Average net debt (£53.4m) (£8.8m)
Total dividend per share 29.0p 27.0p
Operating (loss)/prot – reported (£10.3m) £26.5m
(Loss)/prot before tax – reported (£14.8m) £22.8m
Basic earnings per share – reported (22.6p) 42.3p
*  Adjusted is dened as before an exceptional item of £46.9m and intangible amortisation of 
£2.2m, and (in the case of earnings per share) deferred tax credit due to changes in the 
statutory tax rate of £1.7m (2014: exceptional operating items of £nil, intangible amortisation of 
£2.4m and deferred tax credit due to changes in the statutory tax rate of £nil).
Trading performance
Revenue increased by 7% to £2,385m (2014: £2,220m) with the 
committed order book increasing 6% to £2.8bn. The regeneration  
and development pipeline decreased 2% to £3.2bn.
Adjusted* gross margin strengthened by 70bps to 8.9%  
(2014: 8.2%), with margin improvements across all divisions.
Adjusted* operating prot of £38.8m was up 34%, with adjusted* 
operating margin of 1.6% (2014: 1.3%).
Exceptional operating item
An exceptional charge of £46.9m was recognised in the year  
relating to the impairment of trade and other receivables on two old 
construction contracts, both of which were transferred as part of the 
acquisition of the design and project services division of Amec in 
2007. Both contracts have the Secretary of State for Defence as the 
overall employing party. One contract relates to the design and 
construction of a oating jetty, the other to the design and 
ENCOURAGED
BY STRONG 
ORDER BOOK
  STEVE CRUMMETT / FINANCE DIRECTOR
construction of living accommodation and infrastructure, both 
around the Faslane Naval Base in West Scotland. Commercial 
resolution has been achieved on one of these contracts, whilst on 
the other the Board has assessed its options to recover amounts, 
looking at a range of potential likely outcomes from pursuing both 
legal and/or commercial settlement routes. Based upon this 
assessment and taking into account the risks and costs associated 
with pursuing legal remedies, the exceptional item for the year has 
been increased by £7.5m from £39.4m (as recognised in the half 
year results) to £46.9m and is non-cash in nature. 
After charging this exceptional operating item, the statutory loss 
before tax was £14.8m, compared to a statutory prot before tax in 
the prior year of £22.8m. As a result, there is a tax credit for the year 
of £4.8m, which is broadly in line with the UK statutory rate after 
adjusting for the impact of tax on joint ventures and for the deferred 
tax effect of the future reduction in the UK statutory rate.
Net nance expense
Net nance expense increased to £4.5m (2014: £3.7m), primarily due 
to the increase in average net debt as the Group has invested capital 
in its regeneration activities. 
Tax
As the Group recognised a net loss for the year after exceptional 
items, this will result in a tax loss carried forward into 2016. The 
Group expects to make prots in future which can be offset against 
these carried-forward tax losses and therefore a deferred tax asset 
and a deferred tax credit for the year have been recognised in 
respect of these tax losses. Overall the Group’s net tax credit for the 
year is £4.8m. This is broadly in line with the UK statutory tax rate 
(after adjusting for the impact of tax on joint ventures and a tax credit 
arising as a result of revaluing net deferred tax liabilities to reect the 
expected reduction in the UK statutory tax rate from 20% to 18%). 
Almost all of the Group’s operations and prots are in the UK, and 
the Group maintains an open and constructive working relationship 
with HMRC. 
Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 35% from 46.7p to 63.0p. 
Basic earnings per share decreased by 153% to -22.6p from 42.3p 
due to the exceptional operating item of £46.9m in the current year 
(2014: £nil). GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 29
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL REVIEW AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Dividends
The Board recommends a nal dividend of 17.0p payable on 23 May 
2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
29 April 2016. The ex-dividend date is 28 April 2016. This takes the 
total dividend to 29.0p (2014: 27.0p), an increase of 7% on the 
previous year.
Net working capital
1
Net working capital – adjusted* of (£31.9m) has increased due to  
the £44.5m invested in inventories. Of this increase, £44.2m  
relates to the regeneration activities in Affordable Housing and 
Urban Regeneration. The average annual increase in inventories  
in regeneration for the preceding ve years was £13.5m and 
therefore the excess £30.7m is considered to be ‘growth investment 
in inventory’, which will support prots in 2016 and beyond.  
This is shown separately in the cash ow graph below. 
 
 2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Change 
£m
Inventories 246.7 202.2 +44.5
Trade and other receivables 399.4 440.9 -41.5
Trade and other payables (678.0) (698.3) +20.3
Net working capital – adjusted* (31.9) (55.2) +23.3
Exceptional operating items (46.9) – -46.9
Net working capital – reported (78.8) (55.2) -23.6
1 Net working capital is dened as ‘inventories plus trade and other receivables less trade and 
other payables, adjusted to exclude deferred consideration payable, capitalised 
arrangement fees and interest accruals’.
Cash ow
Prior to any growth investment in the regeneration activities of Urban 
Regeneration and Affordable Housing, there was an operating cash 
inow of £35.8m in the year. After deducting such growth investment 
of £30.7m, there was an operating cash inow of £5.1m (2014: 
£2.4m) and a free cash outow of £0.9m (2014: outow of £6.7m).
 
£m
Operating proﬁt 
– adjusted*
 
Other
3
Operating
cash ﬂow
normalised
4
Operating
cash ﬂow 
– reported
Growth 
investment in
regeneration
5
Net interest
(non-JV)
Tax paid
Free
cash ﬂow
Non-cash 
adjustments
1 
Net capital
expenditure and
ﬁnance leases
Working
capital
 2,5
38.8 (3.5) (8.9) 7.4 2.0 35.8 (30.7) 5.1 (4.3) (1.7)(0.9)
 1 Non-cash adjustments include depreciation, share option charge, shared equity valuation 
movements and share of JV prots.
2 Working capital movement excludes ‘growth investment in Regeneration’ inventory of 
£30.7m. 
3 ‘Other’ includes JV dividends and interest income, provision movements, shared equity 
redemptions, additional pension contributions and gains on disposals.
4 Normalised = operating cash ow excluding growth investment in Regeneration.
5 Growth investment in Regeneration = total inventory investment in Regeneration in the  
year of £44.2m, less ‘normal’ level of investment of £13.5m (average for last ve years).
Net cash
Net cash increased by £2.2m to £57.9m at 31 December 2015.  
This reected a free cash outow of £0.9m, dividends paid of 
£11.8m, offset by loans repaid by joint ventures of £13.6m and 
proceeds from the issue of new shares and exercise of share 
options of £1.3m. The average daily net debt for the year increased 
to £53.4m due to investment in regeneration schemes (2014: net 
debt £8.8m).
Banking facilities committed until 2018
The Group has £175m of committed loan facilities maturing as 
follows: £15m in May 2017, £20m in September 2017 and £140m  
in September 2018. The banking facilities are subject to nancial 
covenants, all of which have been met throughout the year.
Treasury policy and controls
The Group has clear treasury policies which set out approved 
counterparties and determine the maximum period of borrowings 
and deposits. The Group has very limited exposure to foreign 
exchange risk because it is based almost entirely in the UK, but any 
signicant committed foreign exchange exposures are hedged when 
they arise.
In the normal course of its business, the Group arranges for nancial 
institutions to provide client guarantees (bonds) to provide security 
against the nancial instability of the contractor prejudicing 
completion of the works. The Group pays a fee and provides a 
counter-indemnity to the nancial institutions for issuing the bonds. 
As at 31 December 2015, contract bonds in issue under 
uncommitted facilities covered £221.6m (2014: £208.1m) of  
contract commitments of the Group.
Further information on the Group’s use of nancial instruments is 
explained in note 27 to the consolidated nancial statements.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position, are set out 
in this strategic report. The nancial position of the Group, its capital 
management policy, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are also described above. As at 31 December 2015, the 
Group had net cash of £57.9m and committed banking facilities of 
£175m which are in place for more than one year. The directors have 
reviewed the Group’s forecasts and projections, which show that the 
Group will have a sufcient level of headroom within facility limits and 
covenants for the foreseeable future. After making enquiries the 
directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the annual nancial statements. See 
page 49 for further information on the Group’s longer-term viability. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 30
STRATEGIC REPORT / FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Construction & Infrastructure
Divisional revenue of £1,232m was up 5% on the prior year (2014: £1,172m). 
Split by type of activity, Construction (including Design) accounted for 55%  
of divisional revenue at £682m, which was up 7% compared to the prior  
year, whilst Infrastructure was 45% of divisional revenue at £550m,  
up 3% on the prior year.
Operating margin for the year was 0.3% 
(2014: 0.3%), giving an operating prot 
of £3.8m (2014: £3.5m). Whilst the 
Infrastructure business has performed 
reasonably consistently across the year, 
delivery pressures and cost escalations 
in a number of older contracts in the 
Construction activities in London and 
the South impacted overall protability 
and margins, particularly in the rst half 
as previously announced. A signicant 
proportion of these have subsequently 
been completed and closed out 
during the second half, resulting in 
the progressively improved nancial 
performance through the period. 
The committed order book for the division  
at the period end was £1,595m, up 4% 
since the start of the year. Within this, the 
Construction order book of £746m was up 
25%, whilst Infrastructure at £849m was 
down 10%. Of the Construction order  
book, 89% by value has been derived 
through negotiated/framework/two-stage 
bidding procurement processes, with 11% 
from competitive tender processes. By 
comparison, as at the year end of 2012,  
only 33% of the Construction order book by 
value at that time was work derived through 
negotiated/framework/two-stage bidding 
procurement processes, thereby reecting 
the signicant positive shift in the quality of 
the order book since that time. 
The key markets served by the division were 
Transport (Highways, Aviation and Rail) 
accounting for 32% of divisional revenue, 
with Education contributing a signicant 
28% and Water providing 9%. 
Within Infrastructure in the Highways sector, 
the division holds a position on the 
Collaborative Delivery Framework with 
Highways England for schemes valued 
between £100m and £450m and new 
project starts include the £290m A6 
Manchester Airport Relief Road in joint 
venture, providing around 10km of dual 
carriageway and improving connectivity 
across the region. In the Aviation business, 
the division is one of four partners delivering 
a £1.5bn programme of upgrades and 
improvements at Heathrow Airport over the 
next ve years and is currently working on 
the £16m Sierra Taxiway rehabilitation 
project. In Rail, as part of its £113m position 
on the £250m Edinburgh-Glasgow 
Improvement Programme (‘EGIP’) alliance 
for Network Rail, the division lowered and 
laid a new slab track at the £17m 
Winchburgh Tunnel project, thereby 
enabling electrication of the line. 
+5%
CHANGE
+9%
CHANGE
Revenue £m
2014
2015 1,232
1,172
Operating proﬁt – adjusted* £m
3.8
3.5
NO CHANGE
Operating margin – adjusted* %
0.3
0.3
2014
2015
2014
2015 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 31
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In other markets, specialist teams in Energy 
are working at Sellaeld to provide a range 
of essential infrastructure asset services 
through a joint venture strategic alliance, 
whilst in Water, the division continues to 
support Welsh Water and Yorkshire Water 
within the AMP6 ve-year frameworks to 
improve efciency and develop long-term 
solutions to meet future challenges. 
Tunnelling also remains a key activity, with 
the division working on a number of the 
UK’s most complex infrastructure projects 
with a highlight being the award, in joint 
venture, of the £300m-£500m West section 
of Thames Water’s Thames Tideway Tunnel, 
the largest infrastructure project ever 
undertaken by the UK water industry. 
Within Construction and split by region, the 
construction activities in Scotland and the 
North have continued to perform well 
compared to the prior year, with the East 
and South West delivering good progress. 
As a result of the ongoing poor performance 
in London and the South, construction 
activities have been down-scaled in the 
year, with new business activity being 
limited to mainly frameworks or bidding 
opportunities involving either Investments or 
Urban Regeneration. 
Education within construction continues to 
be a signicant market, where the division 
received national acclaim for the delivery of 
The Enterprise Centre, a pioneering building 
at the University of East Anglia that boasts 
record-breaking sustainability credentials 
(see page 19). In the Commercial market, as 
part of the new £100m Longbridge town 
centre scheme, the division completed a 
signicant tranche of commercial buildings 
ahead of programme as part of a £30m 
contract, whilst in Defence, the division is 
working alongside two other contractors on 
BAE Systems’ £300m eight-year 
development programme which includes a 
mix of new build projects and refurbishment 
of existing facilities that will transform the 
company’s submarine building capabilities. 
Exceptional operating items of £46.9m  
have been charged in the year relating  
to the impairment of trade and other 
receivables on two old construction 
contracts (see page 28 for further details).
Looking ahead to 2016, the division’s 
focus will remain on improving its quality 
of earnings through selective bidding, 
disciplined management of overheads 
and a rigorous approach to working 
capital. Whilst Infrastructure is expected to 
broadly maintain its steady performance, 
Construction is expected to continue with a 
gradual reversion back to more normalised 
construction margins progressively 
throughout the year and benet from 
its higher-quality forward order book. 
Heathrow Airport 
Delivery of work at Heathrow Airport  
is through a three-year framework 
awarded in 2014, supplying design and 
construction services for the delivery  
and rehabilitation of landside and airside 
infrastructure. The framework position  
has further strengthened the division’s 
track record in delivering projects in 
airside operational environments without 
disrupting existing operations. Working 
within a long-term framework provides 
opportunities to pursue innovation,  
and the division is currently trialling 
enhancements of the existing asphalt to 
improve the durability of the runways.
55%
CONSTRUCTION REVENUE
45%
INFRASTRUCTURE REVENUE  MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 32
STRATEGIC REPORT / FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Fit Out
Fit Out delivered a very strong performance in the year, with revenue of  
£607m (2014: £507m), up 20%, and operating margin increasing to 4.0%  
resulting in operating prot of £24.0m (2014: £15.0m), up 60%. 
Whilst bidding across the market has 
remained competitive, the division has 
beneted from the high level of general 
t out activity and the more attractive 
tendering opportunities and terms available. 
Focused on improving the quality of 
earnings, the 100bps margin increase in 
the year from 3.0% to 4.0% reects the 
benet of operational efciencies in contract 
delivery and overhead management. 
Further investment in technology solutions 
available to on-site teams, enabling 
improved contract delivery and quality, 
has also supported the drive for enhanced 
operational efciency across the division. 
Split by type of work, 82% of revenue 
was traditional t out work (2014: 79%), 
compared to 18% design and build 
(2014: 21%). 73% of revenue related 
to tting out existing space (32% 
refurbishment of occupied premises) 
and 27% to new ofce t out. 
Split by region, London continues to  
be the most signicant geographical  
market, accounting for 67% of revenue 
(2014: 67%) at £407m. Key activity drivers 
include increased occupier condence 
and the competition for talent amongst 
corporates. Signicant appointments 
include the t out of ING’s new UK 
commercial banking premises and  
Aon’s new ofces in the iconic Leadenhall 
building in the City, whilst the division  
also delivered major t out contracts 
across many sectors including work for 
Microsoft and The All England Tennis Club. 
There has also been increased activity 
across all regions outside of London, 
with revenue up to £200m (2014: £167m) 
maintaining its proportion at 33% of overall 
divisional revenue in the year. Of note, the 
division delivered the high-specication 
t out for the new Portsmouth-based 
racing headquarters of Land Rover 
BAR, the British challenger for the 35th 
America’s Cup (see page 21). In Scotland, 
demonstrating the division’s national reach, 
work undertaken to transform PwC’s ofce 
in Edinburgh has been recognised by the 
British Council for Ofces with the award of 
its national ‘Fit Out of Workplace’ accolade.
+20%
CHANGE
+60%
CHANGE
CHANGE
Revenue £m
607
507
Operating proﬁt – adjusted* £m
24.0
15.0
Operating margin – adjusted* %
4.0
3.0
+100bps
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 33
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Hachette UK
The new central London headquarters of 
leading UK publishing group, Hachette UK, 
have been transformed into 100,000 sq ft 
of contemporary workspace. 
The building was built by sister division 
Construction & Infrastructure, with Fit Out 
delivering a work environment that allows 
each Hachette company to maintain its 
own identity within the overall brand. 
Shared activity spaces, a pavilion café  
and a rooftop terrace encourage  
cross-company collaboration and  
promote a sense of community. 
The commercial ofce sector remains Fit 
Out’s core market, providing 83% of 
revenue (£504m), an increase in proportion 
from 74% in 2014. Higher education 
contributes 7% of revenue with retail 
banking at 4% and government and local 
authority work also targeted. 
Amongst its projects in higher education, 
the division completed an 11-month 
refurbishment and t out programme for the 
University of Liverpool, and good progress 
is being made with a highly complex 
year-long refurbishment for Coventry 
University, transforming a 100,000 sq ft 
building into highly-specialised teaching and 
research facilities. 
The committed order book as at 
31 December 2015 was £341m, up 41% 
from the prior year position. Of this,  
£257m relates to revenue secured for  
2016 and £84m to revenue secured for  
2017 and beyond. The 12-month forward 
order book of £257m is 9% up on the prior 
year’s 12-month forward order book and is 
the usual measure for the division which 
ordinarily has a shorter-term visibility of its 
order book. It is highly encouraging, 
therefore, to have secured orders beyond  
12 months at the level of £84m for 2017  
and beyond.
Looking ahead, it is anticipated that the 
division will continue to trade strongly. 
A number of major pre-let commercial 
ofce schemes are progressing through 
London’s development pipeline with 
anticipated completions in 2017 and 
the division will focus on targeting 
these opportunities. With its current 
order book, strong client relationships, 
national reach and operational delivery 
capability, the division is well positioned 
to capitalise on opportunities across all 
its end markets throughout the country. 
£607m
REVENUE
4%
OPERATING MARGIN MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 34
STRATEGIC REPORT / FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Affordable Housing
Affordable Housing’s activities are divided into two main categories:  
Partnership Housing (86% of revenue) which refers to the division’s  
mixed-tenure regeneration housing partnership schemes, design 
and build house contracting and planned maintenance; and 
Property Services (14% of revenue) which includes the response 
maintenance activities. 
Although divisional revenue was broadly 
level with prior year at £426m (2014: £423m), 
operating prot improved substantially, 
up 43% to £8.6m (2014: £6.0m). The 
improved protability was primarily due 
to a signicantly better performance in 
Property Services, with a loss of £1.0m 
compared to a prior year loss of £3.5m. 
In Partnership Housing, overall revenue 
was £366m, up 1% from the prior year 
(2014: £362m) with an operating prot of 
£9.6m, a margin of 2.6% (2014: prot of 
£9.5m). Capital employed at the year end 
was £113m, up by £31m over the year 
driven by investment in new mixed-tenure 
schemes. Of the total capital employed, 
£29m relates to historical shared equity 
loans and investment properties.
The mixed-tenure activities in Partnership 
Housing are the key strategic focus for the 
division and the driver of future growth and 
prots, with revenue up 29% to £148m 
(2014: £115m). Across the open market 
sales and the social housing element of 
mixed-tenure, 913 units were completed 
at an average sales price of £162k. 
The division made good progress on 
its existing portfolio of mixed-tenure 
development schemes. During the year, 
15 new show homes were opened 
across a number of locations, and with 
an additional 15 anticipated in 2016, 
the division is expected to be operating 
across a record number of active 
site locations by the end of 2016.
Of particular note during the year was 
the securing of an 800-unit opportunity 
at the Mill at Canton, Cardiff, to provide 
358 open market and 442 private rented 
sector, discounted rent and social rent 
homes, whilst additionally working on 
Investments’ project to regenerate the 
Affordable Housing performance by activity
Revenue 
£m % change
Operating 
prot 
£m
Capital 
employed
£m
Number of 
units sold
Mixed-tenure 148 +29% 913
Design and build contracting 128 -8% 1,014
Planned maintenance 90 -17%
Partnership Housing 366 +1% 9.6 113 1,927
Property Services 60 -2% (1.0) 5 –
Total Affordable Housing 426 +1% 8.6 118 1,927
+1%
CHANGE
+43%
CHANGE
CHANGE
Revenue £m
426
423
Operating proﬁt – adjusted* £m
8.6
6.0
Operating margin – adjusted* %
2.0
1.4
+60bps
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 35
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Moat Lane area of Towcester. Successful 
progress was made with the development 
of 78 open market homes and nine homes 
for social rent, also complementing 
Construction & Infrastructure’s civil 
building scheme in Towcester. 
Design and build housing contracting 
revenue decreased 8% to £128m (2014: 
£139m). With the market remaining highly 
competitive, margins have been under 
pressure and so the division maintained 
its selective and disciplined bidding 
approach whilst focusing on delivery of 
existing contracts. An example of the 
opportunities secured was the award 
of a series of contracts, totalling £67m, 
to create over 750 new council homes 
as part of West Lothian Council’s new-
build social housing programme. 
Planned maintenance revenue reduced to 
£90m (2014: £108m), however at slightly 
improved margins. Particular success has 
been achieved through long-term 
frameworks, with 29 new positions and 
work valued at £82m secured, including the 
appointment by Chevin Housing Association 
to deliver its £20m two-year whole house 
improvement programme. 
Within Partnership Housing, the current level 
of active sites and anticipated future outlets, 
together with a 2% increase in its 
regeneration and development pipeline at 
the year end to £782m (2014: £770m) and 
the 7% increase in its committed order book 
to £341m (2014: £318m) provide support to 
the growth opportunity ahead. 
Property Services incorporates the 
response maintenance activities and 
delivered revenue of £60m (2014: £61m) and 
an operating loss of £1.0m, much improved 
on the prior year loss of £3.5m, and remains 
on track to deliver a minimum of break-even 
in 2016. 
The improved performance has been 
delivered through increased efciencies 
from contract and overhead management 
together with new work won on better 
terms. The newly developed works and 
asset management system became 
operational in the year and on the back  
of this capability, the business secured  
the appointment to provide a combined 
asset management service to King Street 
Housing Society across its 800-home 
portfolio in Cambridge. In addition, 
Metropolitan Housing Trust awarded the 
division a £3m contract to provide combined 
maintenance services across mid-east 
England, whilst also on the business 
development front, the division has  
started working with Urban Regeneration 
and Investments to develop a property 
maintenance service for buildings developed 
by the divisions, further extending the 
Group’s integrated capability. 
The committed order book for Property 
Services was up 2% to £361m (2014: £355m).
Looking forward to 2016, overall divisional 
performance of Affordable Housing is 
expected to benet from the ongoing 
investment programme in Partnership 
Housing, which will drive growth, and from 
continued improvement in the nancial 
performance of Property Services.
86%
REVENUE FROM 
PARTNERSHIP 
HOUSING 
14%
REVENUE FROM 
PROPERTY  
SERVICES 
King Street Housing Society
Affordable Housing’s response 
maintenance business has developed 
a brand new IT system enabling a step 
change in asset management. King 
Street Housing Society appointed 
the business to help identify a more 
cost-effective response maintenance 
solution. The new system enables 
operatives to log up-to-date information 
on the condition of properties so 
that repairs and maintenance can be 
anticipated and planned rather than 
carried out in a responsive manner. 
The system underpins Propertycare, 
a new asset management model 
developed by the business in close 
collaboration with the Housing 
Society. The Propertycare approach 
enables the Housing Society to 
combine all its work streams to 
make long-term nancial plans with 
greater condence and insight. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 36
STRATEGIC REPORT / FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Urban Regeneration
Urban Regeneration increased its operating prot to £12.9m (2014: £10.0m), 
generated from its development portfolio as schemes matured, and supported 
by signicant investment in the year in current schemes and future 
development opportunities. 
Capital employed
1
 at the year end was 
£76.6m, up £27.2m from the prior year end. 
This is calculated after deducting non-
recourse debt of £12.8m and deferred 
consideration on the purchase of interests in 
its joint venture with the Canal & River Trust 
of £14.0m. Average capital employed
1
 for 
the last 12-month period (‘LTM’) was 
£76.2m, with the overall LTM return on 
average capital employed
2
 of 15%.
Indicative of the diversity and scale of the 
developments in its regeneration portfolio, 
there were a number of contributors to the 
overall performance of the division, which 
included a total of 745 (2014: 347) residential 
sales completions. 
Specically during the year, residential 
completions were achieved on 14 projects 
including: two phases of Brentford Lock 
West (a joint venture with the Canal & River 
Trust); further residential sales from the 
Vimto Gardens development (part of English 
Cities fund’s (‘ECf’) Salford Central 
regeneration scheme – a joint venture with 
Legal & General and the Homes and 
Communities Agency); the completion and 
sale of all 184 residential units in the North 
and South tower apartment blocks in the 
Chatham Place, Reading development; the 
sale of remaining units in phase two of ECf’s 
Rathbone Market scheme in Canning Town; 
the completion and sale of residential units 
on the Wapping Wharf, Bristol development 
(a joint venture with a local developer); and 
the development and sale of land in 
Hucknall, Nottinghamshire. 
Additionally, ECf secured funding from  
Legal & General for its 90-unit ‘bespoke’ 
private rented development at Salford  
and the division let and forward funded  
(with AXA) a 50,000 sq ft John Lewis 
distribution facility in Leeds. 
1 Capital employed is calculated as total assets (excluding goodwill, intangibles and cash) less total liabilities (excluding 
corporation tax, deferred tax and inter-company nancing). At the period end, non-recourse debt was £12.8m (2014: £16.9m) 
and deferred consideration was £14.0m (2014: £13.6m). LTM average non-recourse debt was £18.6m (2014: £16.9m) and LTM 
average deferred consideration was £13.8m (2014: £15.7m).
2 Return On Average Capital Employed = (Adjusted operating prot less interest on non-recourse debt less unwind of discount 
on deferred consideration) divided by (average capital employed). Interest and fees on non-recourse debt was £1.4m (2014: 
£1.2m) and the unwind of discount on deferred consideration was £0.4m (2014: £0.5m).
-3%
CHANGE
+29%
CHANGE
Revenue £m
2014
2015 110
113
Average capital employed
1
(last 12 months) £m
2014
2015
2014
2015 76.6
49.4
Operating proﬁt – adjusted* £m
2014
2015 12.9
10.0
76.2
49.9
Capital employed
1
 at year end £m MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 37
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
There are a number of key highlights in the 
division’s forward development programme: 
 > Through ECf, discussions with the 
London Borough of Newham are 
progressing to further extend the £300m 
residential-led Rathbone Market, Canning 
Town scheme. Over the past six years, 
the division has transformed the area into 
a desirable residential location with the 
new phase providing an additional 280 
apartments by 2020. 
 > Within one of the Mayor of London’s new 
Housing Zones, the division is seeking 
planning permission to deliver up to 500 
new waterside homes at Hale Wharf, 
Tottenham, through its partnership with 
the Canal & River Trust. 
 > In addition, a mixed-tenure residential-led 
scheme will help revitalise the Bow Bridge 
Estate in east London through an 
agreement with registered social landlord, 
Poplar Housing and Regeneration 
Community Association. 
During the year the division also secured 
‘preferred developer’ status on six new 
projects, which will further strengthen its 
forward development pipeline.
Major development milestones include 
securing 10 planning consents on schemes 
with a total development value of £320m.  
A signicant achievement is receiving 
consent for London Borough of Lambeth’s 
‘Your New Town Hall’ project in Brixton, 
delivering a modern civic ofce, 194 new 
homes and regenerating the listed town hall 
and civic spaces. 
 
Approximately £400m of construction 
activity is under way on sites across the 
country with the division procuring work 
from external contractors and also, where 
appropriate, from Group divisions. 
Construction & Infrastructure has 
commenced on site on the fully-funded 
£107m Marischal Square development in 
Aberdeen which will create a vibrant new 
mixed-use quarter for the city and 
Affordable Housing has started construction 
of the rst phase of 48 homes in Larkhall, 
Brentford Lock West, London
Situated along the banks of the Grand 
Union Canal, the 520-home Brentford 
Lock West is part of a ve-year project, 
under development through a strategic 
partnership between Urban Regeneration 
and the Canal & River Trust. As well as 
providing much needed housing, the 
project includes new community features 
and green initiatives such as roof top 
allotments, an enhanced canal-side 
environment, communal courtyards and a 
planned water sports hub. The Halyards, 
the rst phase of homes to be delivered, 
has received prestigious RIBA National 
and London awards. 
15%
ROCE
£12.9m
OPERATING PROFIT 
– ADJUSTED *
South Lanarkshire. Other major starts 
include the second phase of Stockport town 
centre’s new gateway development and the 
rst stage in the redevelopment of South 
Shields town centre as part of the division’s 
£100m 365 Master Plan. 
The regeneration and development pipeline 
as at the year end was £2,181m and from 
this pipeline, the division is expected to 
continue delivering strong returns as 
schemes develop and as further working 
capital is invested through 2016. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 38
STRATEGIC REPORT / FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Investments
The strategic rationale for Investments is to unlock prime long-term 
construction and regeneration opportunities for other divisions and create 
value from investments for the Group. During the year, approximately  
£160m of construction work was secured primarily for Construction  
& Infrastructure but also for Affordable Housing. 
The division delivered an operating loss for 
the year of £1.5m. Capital employed
1
 at the 
period end was £16.6m, down £3.6m on  
the prior year-end position. The reduction in 
the year was primarily due to achieving 
practical completion on the Towcester 
mixed-use Regeneration and Civic 
Accommodation project. LTM average 
capital employed was £17.8m. 
In regeneration, the division has focused on 
creating new opportunities and delivering 
projects within its two local asset-backed 
vehicles (‘LABV’s). Within the £350m+ 
20-year Bournemouth Town Centre LABV,  
a 50/50 joint venture public-private 
partnership with Bournemouth Borough 
Council, the division has handed over the 
new £12m Citrus Building, built by 
Construction & Infrastructure, and with three 
projects delivered within the programme, 
planning applications are being prepared for 
a further three residential developments. 
1 Capital employed = total assets (excluding goodwill, intangibles, corporation tax credit and cash) less total liabilities.
Note: Total capital at the year end of £16.6m is invested in a number of schemes including £4.9m in HB Villages (a joint venture 
focused on care and supported living), £5.0m in regeneration projects (including £3.6m in LABVs), £3.0m in PFI-type investments 
and £1.5m in the Wellspring Partnership, which is delivering public sector healthcare and education projects in Scotland and 
£2.2m in sundry other schemes.
The rst project within the £1bn 15-year 
Slough Borough Council LABV, the  
£16m community development ‘The Curve’, 
is scheduled for completion by Construction  
& Infrastructure in early 2016 and Affordable 
Housing has started work on a 73-home 
residential development. In Towcester, 
Investments, Construction & Infrastructure 
and Affordable Housing are working in 
collaboration to deliver South 
Northamptonshire Council’s £36m Moat 
Lane regeneration and civic accommodation 
scheme. A new civic centre has been 
handed over and commercial and residential 
elements are on site. 
Average capital employed
1
(last 12 months) £m
2014
2015 17.8
17.3
2014
2015 16.6
20.2
Capital employed
1
 at year end £m
Operating (loss)/proﬁt – adjusted* £m
2014
2015 (1.5)
0.9 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 39
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Within other sectors, the division has 
combined its healthcare planning and 
development expertise in a new joint 
venture, Health Innovation Partners, to help 
providers generate income and identify 
innovative efciency solutions. The joint 
venture has been appointed by Burton 
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust to deliver 
efciency savings and infrastructure projects 
over the next decade. Within the division’s 
HB Villages joint venture, in partnership with 
supported living provider HB Villages,  
14 new schemes are under construction, 
with four handed over during the year, whilst 
in Scotland, through the hub West Scotland 
joint venture, nancial close has been 
reached on 11 projects of which seven are 
healthcare and education facilities. 
North West PF2 Priority Schools Programme
Appointed in a consortium as preferred bidder in 2014, Investments is currently 
delivering 12 schools in the North West PF2 Priority School Building Programme, having 
secured funding and gained planning permission. Construction & Infrastructure is 
responsible for the design and build of all the schools, demonstrating the Group’s 
integrated capability. Planned completions are scheduled for summer 2017.
£160m
SECURED CONSTRUCTION WORK MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 40 40
STRATEGIC REPORT 
PRINCIPAL RISKS 
Risk committee
Divisional boards
Group Board
Risk appetite
External audit
Risk reviews
Strategic planning
Delegated authorities
Divisional reporting
Audit committee
Internal audit
The Board recognises the importance of risk in the running of its business,  
that circumstances are continuously changing and that therefore the risks  
need to remain under regular review. This review should be read in  
conjunction with the viability statement on page 49.
Overview
Operating in the construction industry, risk is 
at the heart of everything we do. We 
therefore have well-embedded risk and 
control processes in place to manage both 
material and day-to-day circumstances.
The Group’s risk and governance model is 
designed so that the Board maintains overall 
responsibility for risk. Each division identies 
controls and mitigates threats within their 
operations. The reporting structure ensures 
that once the risk appetite is determined by 
the Board, risks are managed within 
acceptable tolerance levels.
Senior managers within the divisions take 
ownership of specic business risks. The 
likely causes and consequences of each risk 
are recorded and each risk is evaluated 
(both before and after the effect of 
mitigation) on its likelihood of occurrence 
and severity of impact on strategy. This 
approach allows the identication and 
consistent evaluation of principal risks, as 
well as consideration of the effect of the 
current lines of defence in mitigation. 
Process 
Risk is managed across the Group in  
the following ways:
 > The Group and its divisions undertake  
a comprehensive annual business 
planning process to identify objectives 
and set strategies to achieve their goals 
taking account of the risk appetite set 
by the Board. GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 41
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 > The executive directors meet with the 
divisions regularly throughout the year 
and with an established agenda and 
reporting format covering a range of 
matters. This allows the executive 
directors to ensure that they maintain 
oversight and control over the material 
aspects of strategic, nancial, operational 
and risk issues.
 > The risk environment is further 
underpinned by a clear set of Group and 
divisional delegated authorities (DELAPS) 
that dene processes and procedures for 
approving material decisions, particularly 
with regard to project selectivity, tender 
pricing, risk, bid submissions and capital 
requirements. This ensures that projects 
are approved at the appropriate level of 
management, with the largest and most 
complex projects being approved at 
Board level.
 > Twice yearly each division carries out a 
detailed risk review which identies 
mitigations or proposed actions for each 
signicant risk. Risk registers document 
these together with any timescale by 
which actions are targeted for completion. 
In conjunction with the divisional risk 
reviews the Group’s executive directors 
compile their own assessment thus 
ensuring that a top down, bottom up 
approach is undertaken when considering 
the Group-wide environment. These risks 
are then considered at the monthly 
divisional board meetings, to ensure that 
they remain under continuous review. 
 > The Group risk committee meets three 
times a year. Its purpose is to assist the 
Board in assessing and monitoring risk 
management across the Group.  
The committee’s role is to ensure that 
inherent and emerging risks in the 
business are identied and managed in a 
timely manner and at an appropriate level.  
The committee reviews the response of 
the Group to specic areas of risk, and 
approves standards and processes where 
weaknesses are considered to exist. 
 > The Group’s audit committee is 
responsible for monitoring and approving 
the work undertaken by the internal audit 
function and for ensuring that the internal 
audit process remains efcient and 
effective. The committee annually 
approves the internal audit plan which 
covers both project and corporate level 
risks. The plan is developed by focusing 
upon the principal risks identied from the  
risk review process and feedback from 
current divisional performance. The 
internal audit team reports regularly to  
the Board and the audit committee on  
its ndings. This process has been 
strengthened by divisional audit 
committees established separately  
for Construction & Infrastructure and Aff 
ordable Housing, which have larger and 
more complex operations than  
other divisions.
Principal risks
The Board has carried out a robust 
assessment of the principal risks that may 
threaten the Group’s strategic priorities. 
The risks represent a snapshot of the 
Company’s current risk prole. This is 
not an exhaustive list of all the risks the 
Company faces. As the global economic 
environment changes and industry 
circumstances evolve, new risks may 
arise or existing risks may recede or the 
ranking of these risks may change.
Our principal risks are set out below.
In general terms there is a continuing 
decrease in the overall risk perceived by 
the Group, due partly to the completion 
of a small number of contracts in London 
and the South which had experienced 
timetable slippages and increased costs. 
Other factors reducing risk are the more 
favourable project procurement routes that 
prevail and the sustained UK economy 
and housing market. However global 
economic effects could impact UK investor 
condence and there remains some 
uncertainty ahead of the EU referendum 
and the effect this may have on the market.
The Group’s overall view on risk 
can be summarised as follows:
Construction: Contract terms, 
procurement routes and entry margins 
are all more favourable, which, added 
to improvements in project controls, 
means that the Group will operate in a 
more favourable risk and opportunity 
environment than in recent years.
Regeneration: The Group’s schemes are 
subject to economic viability tests, are non-
speculative and have robust risk and capital 
controls, which allows us to take advantage 
of the current prevailing UK economy but at 
the same time limiting any possible negative 
uctuations in future market conditions.
Capital and cash: The Group has 
committed banking facilities until 
2018, which together with our robust 
cash and capital controls allow us to 
condently manage our investment 
portfolio into the foreseeable future.
Resource: The People Promise initiated 
to address the Group’s future talent 
requirement is gathering momentum. 
This investment has already begun to 
secure and develop the talent required to 
enable our longer-term growth plans. 
Strategic priority Principal risks
Win in targeted  
markets
 > Macroeconomics – new opportunities
 > Market capacity
 > Exposure to UK housing market
 > Poor contract selection
Develop and retain  
talented people
 > Safety or environmental incident
 > Failing to attract and retain talented people
Disciplined  
use of capital
 > Insolvency of key client,  
subcontractor or supplier
 > Treasury and funding
 > Management of working capital
Maximise efciency  
of resources
 > Mispricing contracts
 > Poor project delivery
 > Managing changes to contracts  
and disputes
Pursuing  
innovation
 > Innovation
 > Information technology MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 42 42
STRATEGIC REPORT / PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED
Principal risk Mitigation
Key monitor/
metric/instrument 
Frequency Risk change in reporting period
1
Macroeconomic – new opportunities 
Failure to anticipate and respond to global 
economic changes could result in the 
inappropriate allocation of resources and 
capital. This could affect the Group’s 
protability and cash generation.
We have identied the markets and sectors 
in which we anticipate future growth (see 
page 5). Within those areas we remain 
focused on selecting opportunities that will 
provide sustainable margins and repeat 
business. We seek to anticipate and 
appropriately respond to changes in the 
global economic environment that may 
negatively impact on these chosen 
markets and sectors. 
 > Strategic focus on market spread, geographical 
capability and diversication offer measured 
protection against the cyclical effect of individual 
markets. 
 > Business planning processes focus on future 
markets and those opportunities that are 
consistent with our risk appetite.
 > Scale adds resilience by enabling the Group to 
compete and work in areas with higher barriers 
to entry. 
 > Added value can be offered to clients when our 
divisions work together.
 > Regular monitoring and reporting of nancial 
performance, work won, prospects and pipeline 
of opportunities. 
 > Market intelligence helps detect potential shifts in 
spending and allows us to adapt our strategy if 
necessary.
 > Business 
planning process 
Annually
 > Board reporting 
Monthly
 > Pipeline and 
order book 
reporting  
Weekly
 > Sales and 
marketing report 
Weekly
 > Controls over 
delegated 
authorities 
(DELAPS) 
Ongoing
Decrease
 > We continue to enjoy sustained levels of 
opportunity in our Construction and 
Regeneration markets and high levels of 
demand for its development schemes. 
 > This is partially tempered by levels of 
competition in the Construction market, 
albeit procurement routes, margins and 
terms continue to be favourable. 
 > Development schemes are sensitive to 
market and consumer condence. Our 
strategy continues to be geared to commit 
only if schemes prove economically viable. 
This means we can maximise our 
residential portfolio whilst being able to 
respond quickly to any future negative 
market uctuations.
 > Construction & Infrastructure has been 
reshaped in order to take advantage of the 
current UK economy, be more selective to 
minimise risk and maximise opportunities 
for sustainable growth.
 > Group strategic reviews have been 
refocused by the appointment of a Group 
strategy director who is validating strategy 
and business planning in line with UK 
economic indicators and our growth 
aspirations.
Market capacity
Failure to rigorously review internal and 
third-party resource levels against 
anticipated workloads as a result of 
sustained levels of activity. Current positive 
market conditions continue to create a risk 
of potential overtrading and, we, together 
with our supply chain, are facing increasing 
pressure on cost and skills availability.
 > Rigorous DELAPS process requires teams at bid 
stage to verify that appropriate levels of qualied 
resource are available.
 > Our operational resource levels are regularly 
reviewed against anticipated workload. 
 > We monitor and report on supply chain utilisation 
with a continued focus on initiatives within each 
division.
 > We seek to differentiate ourselves by being the 
customer of choice to our partners through the 
development and management of effective 
supply chain relationships.
 > The business planning process identies future 
resource requirements and supply chain 
strategies. 
 > Resource 
planning reviews 
Weekly
 > Supply chain 
feedback 
reporting 
Ongoing/
quarterly
 > DELAPS 
Ongoing
 > Tender review 
boards 
Ongoing
No change
 > The industry continues to experience skills 
and cost ination pressures that we are 
managing through disciplined bid and 
project selection processes.
 > Construction & Infrastructure’s supply 
chain leadership team continues to drive 
initiatives, which include the promotion of 
supply chain partners and increasing 
engagement to align the business with the 
‘Customer of Choice’ strategy. Moving 
forward our reporting will include 
monitoring of progress and improvements 
in performance throughout the year. This 
will help us secure the best supply chain 
partners to meet our future needs whilst in 
return offering attractive terms.
 > The People Promise initiative to help 
secure and develop talent has now been 
deployed into each of our divisions.
Win in targeted markets
The markets in which we operate are affected to varying degrees by general global economic conditions.  
 
We welcome the sustained improvements in the UK economy and in turn the quality of our related pipeline  
in Construction and Regeneration markets. Unsettled worldwide conditions, such as the impact of the  
EU referendum, interest rates and crude oil prices, remain a concern in their ability to inuence investor  
condence that could impact on the Group’s longer-term strategy.
1 Risk change in reporting period signies the Board’s opinion of pre-mitigation risk movement. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 43
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
43
Win in targeted markets continued
Principal risk Mitigation
Key monitor/
metric/instrument 
Frequency Risk change in reporting period
1
Exposure to UK housing market
The UK housing sector is strongly 
inuenced by Government stimulus and 
consumer condence. If mortgage 
availability and affordability become less 
favourable this could make existing 
schemes difcult to sell and future 
developments unviable, reducing 
protability and tying up capital.
 > Key UK statistics are monitored, including 
unemployment, lending and affordability. 
 > Commitments to development schemes are 
carefully controlled via a rigorous three-stage 
development approval process.
 > Development structures limit speculative 
development to minimise the impact of negative 
market uctuations.
 > Where possible, the forward purchase of land  
is subject to economic viability prior to 
commitment.
 > When feasible, sections of large scale residential 
schemes are forward sold to institutional 
investors.
 > Business 
planning process 
Annually
 > Board reporting 
Monthly
 > Sales and 
marketing report 
Weekly
 > Development 
forecasting 
Monthly/
quarterly
No change
 > Sales volumes, pace and ination have 
held up strongly in both the investor and 
private markets. However, worldwide 
economic inuences remain difcult to 
predict and could affect condence. 
Poor contract selection 
There is a risk that a division would accept 
a contract outside its core competencies 
or for which it has insufcient resources. 
This can become a greater risk in a rising 
market when there are more opportunities 
but of varying quality, coupled with a limit 
on the availability of the appropriate skills 
and resources. Failure to understand 
project risks may lead to poor project 
delivery and ultimately result in contract 
losses and reputational damage.
 > Business planning identies the markets, sectors 
and clients that we will target. 
 > Plans for specic types of work, contract size 
and risk prole are agreed by individual divisions.
 > A system of DELAPS governs bid selectivity and 
the acceptance of work. 
 > Staff planning ensures appropriate levels of 
qualied resource.
 > Initiatives are in place to select supply chain 
partners that match our expectations in terms of 
quality, sustainability and availability.
 > Pipeline and 
order book 
reporting 
Weekly
 > Tender review 
boards 
Ongoing
 > Board reporting 
Monthly
 > DELAPS 
Ongoing
 > Sales and 
marketing report 
Weekly
 > Supply chain 
feedback 
reporting 
Ongoing/
quarterly
Decrease
 > The majority of our material projects 
continue to be secured with repeat clients.
 > The current market allows the divisions to 
be more selective in respect of which 
contracts to bid for.
 > The development within Construction & 
Infrastructure of enhanced pipeline and 
opportunity selectivity tools means we can 
identify work that has a higher probability 
of success.
 > Greater visibility of medium-term pipeline 
quality and the ability to give an early 
indication of longer-term trends mean we 
are better able to reshape the business  
in response.
 > As market conditions continue to be 
favourable we have experienced a greater 
use of more attractive procurement routes 
(negotiated and two-stage) and in addition 
have been able to negotiate more 
favourable terms. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 44 44
STRATEGIC REPORT / PRINCIPAL RISKS  CONTINUED
Principal risk Mitigation
Key monitor/
metric/instrument 
Frequency Risk change in reporting period
1
Safety or environmental incident 
With increased pressure on employees 
and the supply chain there is an  
increasing risk that an accident or  
incident occurs causing harm to an 
individual or community. This could result 
in legal proceedings, nancial penalties, 
insurance claims, reputational damage  
and project delays. 
Consequently we would fail to prequalify in 
our markets due to a poor health, safety 
and environmental (‘HSE’) track record and 
ultimately fail to deliver our targets.
 > Key executives with specic responsibility for 
HSE are identied in each division and on the 
Board. 
 > HSE policy frameworks are widely communicated 
and senior managers appointed to manage them 
in each division and at project level.
 > A Group-wide health and safety forum operates 
to share learning, best practice and emerging 
risks.
 > Established safety systems, site visits, monitoring 
and reporting procedures including near-miss 
and potential hazard reporting, are in place 
across the Group. 
 > Investigation and root cause analysis of accidents 
or incidents and near misses are undertaken.
 > Regular HSE training includes behavioural 
training and update courses are provided.
 > Major incident management plans and business 
continuity plans are in place and periodically 
reviewed and tested. 
 > HSE Board 
report 
Monthly
 > Group HSE 
forum 
Quarterly
 > HSE project audit 
and HSE training 
schedules and 
ratios 
Ongoing/
monthly
 > HSE incident 
investigation 
report 
Ongoing/
monthly
No change
 > We monitor comparable industry-leading 
statistics. A signicant proportion of work 
is carried out in highly complex and 
public environments which requires strict 
observation of the highest levels of 
Health and Safety Executive standards.
 > Safety innovations in Construction & 
Infrastructure this year have included:  
i) a ‘human performance’ approach to 
leadership, supporting focus on 
inuential and current HSE trends and 
themes; ii) a cultural development 
programme and the development of a 
behavioural model for supervisors; iii) 
improvements in our engagement with 
the supply chain; iv) the introduction of 
High Potential Incident measures to 
improve intelligence; v) safety 
improvement plans in place for each 
business unit.
 > A Board HSE committee was established 
in 2015 to oversee health and safety 
performance.
Failing to attract and retain  
talented people 
In the current economic environment, it 
has become increasingly difcult to attract 
and retain the best people. Without talent, 
it becomes very difcult to maintain the 
highest levels of customer service and 
technical excellence that we strive for. 
 > The People Promise has been deployed in all 
divisions aiming to build the Group’s talent pool, 
identify people with high potential for future 
leadership, offer exciting career opportunities 
and recognise achievement. 
 > Future skills and capability requirements  
are monitored.
 > An annual employee appraisal process is in 
place, providing a two-way feedback on 
performance. 
 > Training and development plans seek to 
maximise relevant skills and experience. 
 > Succession plans are in place across the Group.
 > Staff leaver and joining feedback is obtained to 
understand reasons for change.
 > Remuneration packages are benchmarked  
where possible.
 > Divisional  
‘people boards’ 
to review talent 
Twice a year
 > HR Board 
reporting 
Monthly
 > Employee joiners 
and leavers 
report 
Weekly/monthly
 > Recruitment 
monitoring 
Weekly/monthly
 > Annual appraisal 
process 
Annual
No change
 > Although the industry continues to suffer 
from a lack of skilled talent which will 
remain an issue for the foreseeable 
future, our investment in the People 
Promise and associated initiatives is 
helping us to retain our talented teams.
 > Continued investment is made in 
graduate, trainee and apprenticeship 
schemes to secure an annual inow of 
new talent. 
 > A new leadership development 
programme was launched in 2015 with 
the aim of training 400 leaders over the 
next two years.
Develop and retain talented people
Our performance and business conduct affects employees, subcontractors and the public and, in turn, can affect our  
reputation and commercial performance. We pride ourselves on our industry-leading practices and our work in some  
high-prole and technically challenging markets. 
Increased market activity has resulted in higher levels of employee turnover across the sector. If we do not succeed in  
attracting and retaining the right talent for our future needs we will not be able to develop the business as anticipated. 
1 Risk change in reporting period signies the Board’s opinion of pre-mitigation risk movement. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 45
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
45
Disciplined use of capital
Without sufcient liquidity, our ability to meet our liabilities as they fall due would be compromised, which could ultimately  
lead to our failure to continue as a going concern. 
In a rising market there is an increased risk that the Group’s counterparties overtrade, which could affect their liquidity.  
The heightened market that prevails could mean that a client or supply chain partner inadvertently over stresses their nances,  
so we need to remain vigilant.
Principal risk Mitigation
Key monitor/
metric/instrument 
Frequency Risk change in reporting period
1
Insolvency of key client, subcontractor 
or supplier 
Insolvency of a client may result in 
signicant nancial loss due to a bad debt, 
whilst insolvency of a subcontractor or 
supplier may disrupt a contract’s 
programme of work and lead to increased 
costs in nding replacements for their 
services. There is also a risk that, given the 
wider global economic climate, historical 
credit checks are relied upon that have 
subsequently been overtaken by events.
 > Work is only carried out for nancially sound 
clients, established through rigorous due 
diligence and credit checks. 
 > Financial security is sought and obtained where 
required including specic commercial terms and 
payment terms, with escrow accounts used as 
appropriate. 
 > Contracts with clients, subcontractors or 
suppliers are only entered into after review at the 
appropriate level of delegated authority. 
 > Work with approved suppliers wherever possible. 
 > Regular meetings are held with key supply chain 
members to give and receive feedback and 
maintain the quality of the relationship. 
 > Business strategy is largely focused  
on public and commercial clients based in sound 
market sectors, reducing the risk of failure.
 > Pipeline and 
order book 
reporting 
Weekly
 > Tender review 
boards 
Ongoing
 > WIP/debt/
retention 
monitoring 
Daily/weekly
 > Supply chain 
feedback 
reporting 
Ongoing/
quarterly
 > Supply chain 
prequalication  
Ongoing
 > DELAPS 
Ongoing
No change
 > Increasing emphasis on project 
selectivity ensures that we optimise our 
focus on sectors and clients that have 
secure covenants.
 > Construction & Infrastructure has a 
greater focus on securing long-term 
supply chain relationships with nancially 
sound subcontractors.
Treasury and funding
A lack of liquidity could impact our ability 
to continue to trade or restrict our ability  
to invest in regeneration schemes or 
growth markets.
 
 > We have committed banking facilities of £140m 
maturing in 2018 (of total facilities £175m).  
These will enable us to fund our planned 
investment portfolio.
 > A three-stage process for approving 
development and investment-related schemes 
gives an early indication of potential long-term 
balance sheet commitments.
 > We have a disciplined allocation process for 
signicant project related capital which considers 
all future requirements and return on investment.
 > Daily monitoring of cash levels and regular 
forecasting of future cash balances and facility 
headroom are conducted.
 > Long-term cash forecasts are regularly  
stress tested.
 > Group DELAPS ensure prior approval is sought  
for signicant project-related capital.
 > Management 
accounts 
Monthly
 > Monitoring of 
cash levels 
Daily
 > DELAPS 
Ongoing
 > Cash forecast 
report 
Weekly/monthly
Decrease
 > Debt availability and terms continue to 
improve for the Group, our clients and 
our supply chain.
Management of working capital 
Poor management of working capital leads 
to inadequate liquidity and funding 
problems. 
 > Working capital is monitored and managed as 
appropriate, with acute focus on any overdue 
work in progress, debtors or retentions. 
 > Ongoing cash management focus continues  
to improve.
 > Cash proling of key opportunities is undertaken 
at an early stage to ensure they meet the Group’s 
expectations.
 > Monitoring of 
cash levels 
Daily
 > Cash forecast 
report 
Weekly
Decrease
 > Working capital continues to improve as 
aged projects unwind and general 
market terms improve.
 > Continued cash optimisation focus and 
controls are realising benets. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 46 46
STRATEGIC REPORT / PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED
Maximise efciency of resources
The Group undertakes several hundred contracts each year. It is important that contractual terms reect risks arising  
from the nature and complexity of the works and the duration of the contracts, and that these risks are effectively managed. 
Having identied the markets in which we will operate, we must ensure that we select opportunities which we can successfully 
deliver by employing capable and available resources. We must actively manage these resources to ensure our clients receive 
exceptional levels of service.
Principal risk Mitigation
Key monitor/
metric/instrument 
Frequency Risk change in reporting period
1
Mispricing a contract 
If contracts are not costed correctly this 
could lead to loss of protability on a 
contract that reduces overall gross margin. 
It may also result in damaged client and 
project team relationships. 
 > Robust DELAPS govern the selection of all bids 
and the acceptance of work at key stages.
 > We have a well-established bidding process and 
experienced bidding teams.
 > Robust pre-selection, due diligence and risk 
assessment of individual bids take place.
 > Contract tender reviews are conducted at three 
key stages: pre-qualication, pre-tender and nal 
tender submission. Each stage is approved by an 
appropriate level of senior management via 
tender review boards.
 > Tender review 
boards 
Ongoing
 > Board reporting 
Monthly
 > DELAPS 
Ongoing
No change
 > We continue to secure improved contract 
procurement routes and terms. 
 > The development within Construction & 
Infrastructure of enhanced pipeline and 
opportunity selectivity tools means we 
can identify work that has a higher 
probability of success. Greater visibility 
of medium-term pipeline quality and  
the ability to give an early indication of 
longer-term trends better enable us to 
reshape the business in response.
Managing changes to contracts  
and contract disputes 
Changes to contracts and contract 
disputes could lead to costs being incurred 
that are not recovered and loss of 
protability on a contract and delayed 
cash. Ultimately we may need to resort to 
legal action to resolve disputes which can 
prove costly with uncertain outcomes, and 
can adversely affect our client 
relationships.
 > Work is carried out under standard terms 
wherever possible.
 > Contract terms are reviewed at tender stage and 
any variations approved by the appropriate level 
of management. 
 > We have well-established systems of measuring 
and reporting project progress and estimated 
outturns, including contract variations.
 > Enhanced project management systems have 
lead indicators that assist in the early 
identication of potential issues.
 > Increasing building information management 
(‘BIM’) adoption is helping us overcome potential 
design and constructability issues before they 
become too costly or time consuming.
 > Regularised project review process including 
peer reviews ensures rigour is applied in core 
processes to facilitate early warning and 
subsequent mitigation strategies.
 > A decision to take legal action is based on 
appropriate legal advice and suitable provision 
made for legal costs. 
 > Project nancial 
performance 
Monthly
 > Project 
operational 
performance 
Monthly
 > Electronic project 
management tool 
dashboard 
Ongoing
Decrease
 > Contract procurement routes and terms 
are improved with an increasing 
two-stage and negotiated approach.
 > Further enhancements have been made 
to contract early warning techniques.
 > The BIM strategy has been fully 
developed to provide more efcient asset 
management across the whole lifecycle.
1 Risk change in reporting period signies the Boards opinion of pre-mitigation risk movement. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 47
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
47
Maximise efciency of resources continued
Principal risk Mitigation
Key monitor/
metric/instrument 
Frequency Risk change in reporting period
1
Poor project delivery 
The quality of workmanship or commercial 
or operational delivery, whether by the 
Group or a joint venture partner or 
subcontractor, does not meet the 
expectations of clients. Project failures 
could incur additional costs that erode 
prot margins and lead to the withholding 
of interim cash payments impacting on 
working capital. It is also possible that 
client experiences will fall short of the 
standards set by the Group, potentially 
leading to a reduction in repeat business 
or in client referrals. 
 
 > A project review process facilitates early  
warning and subsequent mitigation strategies.
 > Electronic project management workbooks 
enhance functionality, client experience and 
efciency with the ability for ‘live’ reporting of  
key project aspects such as programme and 
change control.
 > An escalation process ensures senior 
management intervention at an early stage.
 > Formal internal peer reviews highlight areas of 
improvement, risk and/or best practice.
 > Client feedback is collated and reviewed using 
customer satisfaction questionnaires (‘CSQs’)  
and the Perfect Delivery process.
 > Lessons learned exercises are carried out on 
projects. 
 > Teams are incentivised on Perfect Delivery 
outcomes to achieve high levels of client 
satisfaction.
 > Strategic supply chain trading arrangements  
are in place to help ensure consistent quality. 
 > Electronic project 
management tool 
Ongoing
 > CSQ and Perfect 
Delivery 
performance 
monitoring 
Ongoing/
monthly
 > Project nancial 
performance 
Monthly
 > Project 
operational 
performance 
Monthly
Decrease
 > New enhanced project related electronic 
early warning ‘Lead Indicator’ tool 
monitors programme, margin, change of 
project scope and cash, allowing early 
identication of issues.
 > The improving market and terms under 
which we contract reduce the probability 
of disputes. However the upward 
pressure on skills and commodities 
needs careful management to avoid 
surprises.
 > The development within Construction & 
Infrastructure of an enhanced opportunity 
selectivity process affords greater 
visibility of both project and portfolio risk. 
This means we select projects that have 
a higher probability of success.
 > A signicant BIM capability means we are 
ready to meet the Government’s 2016 
mandate and overcome potential design 
and constructability issues before they 
become too costly or time consuming.
 > The Perfect Delivery philosophy and 
culture is embedded in each division and 
differentiates the Group’s offering.
 > Advanced client experience 
developments are under way in the  
Fit Out division. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 48 48
STRATEGIC REPORT / PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED
Pursuing innovation
We are committed to offering clients innovative and cost-effective solutions. If we fail to encourage an innovative 
approach across the Group we will lose our competitive edge and suffer reputational damage.
This is coupled with the risk that our systems will not provide appropriate security levels or resilience needed  
to ensure reliable levels of business continuity. The ever-evolving technology environment and persistent  
cyber security threat will remain a challenge for the foreseeable future.
Principal risk Mitigation
Key monitor/
metric/instrument 
Frequency Risk change in reporting period
1
Innovation 
A failure to adopt appropriate innovations 
in new products or techniques could  
result in the Group being less effective 
than our competitors and unable to secure 
best value for, or offer the best solutions 
to, our clients. If new technologies and 
innovation are not promoted into the 
business environment we may become a 
less attractive proposition to new and 
existing talent.
 > A culture of innovation is encouraged and 
relevant ideas, sourced via employees, supply 
chain, clients and external sources, are promoted 
into the business environment.
 > Reviews are undertaken to promote elimination of 
waste of both resources and processes, 
adopting lean methodology where appropriate.
 > Business improvement and IT forum structures 
are in place to review, sponsor and promote new 
innovations into the business.
 > IT budget 
forecasting 
Annual/monthly
 > Annual business 
planning 
Annual
 > Work winning 
Ongoing
 > Project 
operational 
performance 
monitoring 
Ongoing
Decrease
 > We are progressively adopting new 
technologies in order to work more 
efciently and sustainably, attract and 
retain talent, and ultimately attain greater 
returns.
 > Recent innovation examples include 
Lync, BIM, a careers website, upgraded 
electronic site management tools,  
smart device facilitation, online 
recruitment and applicant tracking 
system, management information 
systems, enhanced enterprise nance 
tools and a web-enabled housing  
stock system.
 > In the near future our largest division, 
Construction & Infrastructure, plans to 
introduce a new electronic work winning 
tool designed to provide workow 
management of our tender pipeline and 
enhanced live business information tools.
Information technology
If we fail to manage and invest in our IT 
environment we will not meet the future 
needs of the business in terms of expected 
growth, security and innovation, ultimately 
meaning that we will fail to maintain a 
sustainable business. 
 > Our Group-wide IT strategy has been remodelled 
to encompass an optimised shared services 
approach, direction and investment.
 > A coordinated services approach drives 
optimisation, efciency and performance across 
the whole technology environment.
 > A Group-wide IT forum structure is in place 
ensuring focused strategic development and 
day-to-day running of our technology 
environment.
 > Progressive IT investment continues to yield 
infrastructure, application and service delivery 
improvements.
 > Group-wide risk and security strategies are 
enacted, creating awareness, threat alert, risk 
and vulnerability prioritisation and response.
 > Group and 
divisional IT 
forums 
Monthly
 > IT monitoring and 
performance 
reporting 
Ongoing/
monthly
No change
 > Our progressive investment in our IT 
strategy and programme is maturing,  
but at the same time needs to remain 
focused.
 > We continue to make signicant headway 
in the centralisation of our IT capability 
and as a result have enhanced levels of 
resilience across the network that 
include our data and security 
environments.
1 Risk change in reporting period signies the Boards opinion of pre-mitigation risk movement. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 49
GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
49
VIABILITY 
STATEMENT  
As required by provision C.2.2 of the 
Code, the directors have assessed 
the prospects of the Group and have 
concluded that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period 
of the assessment. This assessment took 
account of the Group’s current position 
and principal risks and has been made 
using a period of three years commencing 
on 1 January 2016, which is consistent 
with the Group’s budgeting cycle.
The directors have considered the 
Group’s solvency and liquidity using cash 
ow projections. These are compiled 
on a bottom up basis incorporating 
each division’s detailed business 
plans. At Group level, the base case 
nancial projections assume modest 
revenue growth and an improvement 
in gross margin back to more normal 
levels for the Group, as the problem 
contracts that impacted 2015 do 
not recur and procurement routes 
become more favourable with less 
single stage, competitive tendering. 
Overheads are expected to increase 
ahead of ination to support the 
expected growth in volumes and activity. 
Operating cash ows are assumed 
to broadly follow forecast protability 
in the Group’s construction activities, 
but are much more independently 
variable in regeneration, driven by 
the timing of construction spend and 
programmed completions on schemes.
The Group’s main committed bank facility 
matures in September 2018. The directors 
draw attention to the key assumption that 
there is a reasonable expectation that 
this will be renewed at the appropriate 
time or the term extended and that there 
will not be a material reduction in the 
level of facilities available to the Group 
or a material change in the pricing.
The impact of a number of downside 
scenarios on the Group’s headroom 
against its committed facilities and 
the nancial covenants thereon has 
been modelled based on the Group’s 
principal risks. The scenarios are 
focused on the risks that are scored as 
most likely to occur or that would have 
the greatest potential severity should 
they occur and include lower revenue 
growth, failure to improve gross margin 
from current levels, a decline in gross 
margin and deterioration in working 
capital, specically client receivables.
The Board has also considered a range  
of potential mitigating actions that may  
be available if one or more of the  
scenarios arose.  MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 50
STRATEGIC REPORT
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REVIEW 
OUR APPROACH
The Group is committed to being a responsible 
business, which means being economically, 
environmentally and socially sustainable as well 
as acting at all times with the highest standards 
in integrity, governance and transparency. This 
committed approach helps us to maximise 
efciencies, reduces our exposure to risk and 
boosts our ability to win work. Importantly, it 
strengthens our reputation as an employer of 
choice, contributing to our ability to attract, 
motivate and retain talented people. 
Five years ago we launched our Total Commitments. These 
Commitments gave us a cohesive strategy and provided each 
division with a standard approach whilst allowing it a degree  
of exibility to meet the challenges and business needs of its  
own markets. As a Group, we have made signicant strides in 
implementing best practice against these Commitments. We now 
measure and manage our impacts more accurately and know  
where we need to improve. 
As a result of feedback from our stakeholders, changing market 
demands and the development of our strategic business priorities, 
the Group’s Commitments have been simplied for 2015-2016. We 
have aligned the Commitments to our business strategy and have 
analysed in our business model the impact of our business on our 
stakeholders. The table below sets out our Total Commitments and 
how they link to our strategic priorities.
Our business, like all others, faces risks that threaten progress 
against our Commitments. See pages 40 to 48 and our website for 
further information on what these risks are and how we monitor and 
mitigate them. 
In 2015, we made signicant progress against some aspects of our 
responsible business agenda, although we need to continue to drive 
down the number of health and safety incidents across the Group. 
We have again made signicant progress in our environmental 
performance, reducing our carbon emissions by 9% and increasing 
the percentage of waste diverted from landll by four percentage 
points. Our ongoing investment in the development of our 
employees is demonstrated by a 55% increase in the average 
number of training days. 
Our Group director of sustainability and procurement is responsible 
for driving progress on our Commitments throughout the Group, 
ensuring that a consistent approach is adopted and best practice 
shared. Each division has its own sustainability forum that translates 
the Group’s strategy into deliverable actions and integrates them into 
their way of working. Much of our work is delivered through joint 
ventures and partnerships and we aim to select long-term partners 
and supply chain members who share our standards.
We have changed the way we report on our actions for 2015. 
Instead of providing a separate sustainability report in future, 
reporting will be undertaken primarily online, using the Global 
Reporting Initiative’s (‘GRI’) G4 framework as a reporting structure. 
The G4 reporting principles provide transparency. They impose a 
greater emphasis on materiality and the process of identifying and 
prioritising the most important challenges and opportunities that 
impact us as a Group and our stakeholders. This responsible 
business review incorporates a summary of our sustainability 
achievements over the past 12 months. 
 Total Commitments Group strategic priorities
Win in targeted 
markets
Develop and 
retain talented 
people
Disciplined  
use of capital
Maximise 
efciency of 
resources
Pursuing 
innovation
Operating safely
P P P P
Developing our people 
P P P P
Protecting the environment
P P P
Managing our supply chain
P P P
Working with communities
P P P GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 51
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Regular communication with our stakeholders is essential.  
It helps us ensure that we keep re-examining our beliefs and  
values so that our responsible business strategy and targets remain 
relevant and meaningful. Our new responsible business website 
enables us to report progress on a more frequent basis and provide 
internal and external audiences with a look ahead to future areas of 
focus for the Group.
What matters to us and our key stakeholders 
We identify our key stakeholders as our current and future 
employees, investors, clients, supply chain partners, joint venture 
partners, local communities, industry associations, and government 
bodies and regulators. We communicate regularly with each of these 
groups to keep them informed of our activities and to ensure that  
we are up to date with what is important to them. The nature and 
frequency of our interaction with each stakeholder group is set out  
in detail on our responsible business website pages.
Stakeholder panels
We continue to invest in our independently-chaired Supply Chain 
and Next Generation discussion panels. 
The Next Generation Panel comprises 12 younger employees from 
across the Group. This panel met quarterly in 2015 to provide 
feedback on the way in which responsible business is delivered and 
communicated across the Group. Panel members presented their 
proposals on what future working practices might look like at our 
senior managers’ conference in October.
The 10 members of our Supply Chain Panel met four times in the 
year to provide a representative view of the challenges and 
opportunities of a broad supply chain, which ranges from vehicle 
leasing to building supplies, ofce equipment and hire services.  
As well as acting as our critical friends, this panel provides the  
ideal forum for discussing emerging trends and future sustainability 
challenges, particularly those involving raw materials and life  
cycle analysis.
Establishing a client panel, which is currently the missing piece of 
our stakeholder engagement process, has taken longer than 
originally planned. We have taken the approach of establishing the 
rst two panels and once they are fully operational, we will replicate 
the model with clients. With the Next Generation and Supply Chain 
Panels now meeting regularly and providing valuable feedback, we 
will be focusing on the client stakeholder group in early 2016. 
Materiality 
In order to ensure that our responsible business strategy is focused 
around matters that are material to our stakeholders, we undertook 
our second materiality study in late 2015. 
Using an online platform specically developed for the purpose,  
we were able to gather and analyse data on a range of issues, 
thereby building a quantitative picture of stakeholders’ views. 
A detailed materiality matrix was then constructed, based on G4 
reporting principles. Over 1,500 employees and more than 370 
external stakeholders including clients, suppliers, investors and 
non-governmental organisations, completed the engagement. The 
matrix below shows those issues that stakeholders believe to be 
material and possibly material. Full details of the engagement 
process are available on our website.
Material issues 
› Recruitment and retention
› Responsible sourcing
› Waste
› Engaging with clients
› Economic and business 
performance
› Legal compliance
› Developing and training employees
› Engaging with our employees
› Heath and safety
› Bribery and corruption
› Business ethics
› Corporate governance
› Engaging with our suppliers
› Equality and diversity
› Creating opportunities for young 
people
› Energy use
› Carbon emissions
› Advocacy and leadership
Importance to stakeholders
2
Importance to business
1
Possibly material Material
Possibly material Material
 
1 Based on responses from management-level employees.
2 Based on all other responses (non-management employees and external stakeholders).
The issues identied all relate to issues covered by our strategy,  
Total Commitments and performance, which are addressed in this 
strategic report, or to business governance and ethics, which are 
addressed in the corporate governance section of this report.
During the rst quarter of 2016, we will analyse the results of the 
materiality study and the implications for our responsible business 
strategy. Early indications are that there has been a shift towards a 
greater number of social topics, such as engagement with 
employees and clients. Many stakeholders consider that aspects of 
environmental sustainability, signicantly energy and carbon, are 
now embedded in the way we operate. Full details of the Group’s 
ongoing approach to stakeholder engagement and the recent 
survey results are available on our website,  
www.corporate.morgansindall.com  MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 52
OUR PERFORMANCE
STRATEGIC REPORT / RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REVIEW
Operating safety
 
Our approach
The safety of everyone involved in a Group project remains our 
highest priority. We invest signicantly in health and safety training to 
improve understanding across all our divisions. Our stand-down 
days, safety workshops, toolbox talks and behavioural change 
initiatives are all well established. 
Key performance indicator
Total number of RIDDOR
1
 incidents
81
68 2014
2015
1 The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013.
What we did in 2015
Unfortunately, our RIDDOR incidents increased signicantly in 2015. 
Data is captured and reported monthly, so we were able to identify 
this deterioration early and take steps to understand whether there 
was any underlying cause. Careful analysis of the prole, type and 
location of incidents did not provide clear indication of any recurring 
trends or themes. We believe that, at least in part, the increase in the 
number of RIDDORs highlights the skills shortage currently facing 
the construction sector. As the upturn in demand continues, 
managing the growth in labour requirement involves larger numbers 
of young or inexperienced workers as well as an increase in 
subcontractor and labour agency personnel of which we need  
to be aware and address. 
In 2015 the Board established a health, safety and environment 
committee, chaired by a non-executive director, to support the 
Board in monitoring health and safety priorities and processes.  
The committee strengthens the existing Group health and safety 
forum and the divisional health and safety teams. 
Improvements have been made in safety communication and 
training, particularly at senior management level. ‘What leadership 
looks like, in terms of safety’ was a key focus for the Group 
management team and was one of the topics addressed at our 
senior managers’ conference in October. We have introduced more 
targeted training, particularly around behavioural safety.
In 2015 we developed a continuing programme of occupational 
health and wellbeing. The Group is actively participating in the 
Institution of Occupational Safety and Health’s (‘IOSH’) ‘No Time to 
Lose’ campaign which promotes awareness and action to prevent 
exposure to carcinogenic substances and materials. Recognising 
the risks to construction workers of lung disease, we are also 
supporting the Chartered Society for Worker Health Protection’s 
‘Breathe Easy’ initiative. 
Going forward
 > We will continue to monitor and improve health and safety training 
and awareness of employees and subcontractor personnel. 
 > Occupational health and employee wellbeing will be an 
increasingly important focus for the Group in 2016. 
Our short and medium-term targets for each Total Commitment are being reviewed,  
to ensure that they remain relevant and challenging, based upon the materiality study 
undertaken. Going forward, targets and performance data for 2016 will be reported 
online. Our performance against each Total Commitment is presented below: GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 53
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Developing our people
 
Our approach
Continued investment in training is fundamental to achieving our 
strategic priority of developing and retaining talented people as well 
as delivering high-quality work for our clients. By developing the 
skills and knowledge of our employees, we are also investing in a 
more sustainable, productive and stable workforce for the future.
Key performance indicator
Average number of training days per employee
2014
2015 3.4
2.2
What we did in 2015
The number of training days per employee was increased 
signicantly during the year. As well as offering opportunities to 12% 
more apprentices and graduates, the Group supported 2,042 
employees on NVQ and professional development courses.
The Group became a member of the 5% Club, a national campaign 
focused on creating momentum behind the recruitment of 
apprentices and graduates into the UK workforce. In 2015, 4.92% of 
the Group’s employees were made up of apprentices, graduates or 
sponsored students on structured year-out programmes. 
See page 68 of the corporate governance report for information on 
the Group’s approach to diversity, our gender statistics and 
commitment to human rights.
Going forward
 > We are committed to achieving the 5% Club target. 
As part of our investment in developing our people we will roll out 
the Group’s leadership programme and continue to support NVQ 
and professional development training.
New apprentices for Affordable Housing  
as industry faces skills shortage 
With recent reports noting that the current UK construction 
industry skills shortage is the worst since 1998, Affordable 
Housing has taken on a host of new apprentices.
 
Over half of all construction companies are nding it hard 
to recruit the staff they need, with bricklayers and quantity 
surveyors in particularly short supply (according to a 2015 
report from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors). 
The division has recently taken on two new apprentice 
bricklayers and three work-placement bricklayers, along 
with apprentice carpenters, maintenance operatives, 
business administrators and a quantity surveyor, 
with a total of nine new apprentices and ve work 
placements in the Midlands since September. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 54
STRATEGIC REPORT / RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Protecting the environment
 
Our approach
The Group is committed to reducing its environmental impact. We 
were an early adopter of carbon reduction targets and achieved 
major reductions in carbon emissions prior to 2015. We continue to 
focus on reducing operational energy costs for the Group and 
reducing energy consumption across our entire supply chain. 
Key performance indicator
Total carbon emissions (tonnes of CO
²
e)
34,218
37,627 2014
2015
2015 
(tonnes)
2014 
(tonnes)
Total waste produced 937,271 1,326,247
Total waste diverted from landll 837,854 1,140,306
% waste diverted from landll 90% 86%
What we did in 2015
We are pleased to report a signicant further reduction in carbon 
emissions in 2015 of 3,409 (CO
2
e), an increase in the percentage of 
waste diverted from landll and a reduction of 29% in the amount of 
actual waste produced. 
The Group contributed once again to CDP (formerly known as the 
Carbon Disclosure Project), our score reducing slightly to 94B  
(2014: 97B). During the year we also made a commitment to the 
CDP’s ‘Commit to Action’ initiative. We currently comply with the 
requirements to report climate change information in mainstream 
reports and to undertake responsible corporate engagement in 
climate policy. 
In 2015, we complied with the requirements of the EU Energy 
Efciency Directive and ESOS (E Regulations 2014). ESOS considers 
a company’s entire energy usage including energy use per 
employee, buildings, transport, industrial and commercial 
processes, and is intended to help reduce energy consumption and 
therefore save costs. The Group’s energy audits were undertaken by 
global supply chain risk management company Achilles.
Going forward
 > We will review changes needed to adopt a science-based carbon 
emissions reduction target and to remove commodity-driven 
deforestation from our supply chain by 2020.
 > We will continue to try and reduce our carbon emissions and the 
amount of waste sent to landll.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Our greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the 
ISO 14064-1:2006 Standard. Emissions reported correspond with 
the Group’s nancial year and include all areas for which the Group 
has operational control in the UK excluding joint ventures. The 
materiality threshold has been set at a Group level of 5%, with all 
operations estimated to contribute more than 1% of the total 
emissions included. No material emissions have been omitted from 
this report.
Emissions have been calculated using data gathered for the Group’s 
recertication audit of its energy data by Achilles under its Certied 
Emissions Measurement and Reduction Scheme (‘CEMARS’). 
Emission factors are from the Department for Environment, Food & 
Rural Affairs (‘Defra’) conversion factor guidance, current for the year 
reported. Prior year’s data has been rebased using Defra’s 2013 
factors. All data has been veried by Achilles.
Emissions are predominantly from bulk fuel use on sites, from the 
Group’s vehicle eet and electricity. The Group’s target is to reduce 
its absolute emissions by 26% by 2020 from a baseline of the data 
as at 31 December 2010. The Group’s director of sustainability and 
procurement is responsible for the delivery of this target.
Tonnes 
of CO 2 
equivalent
2015
Tonnes 
of CO 2 
equivalent
2014
2010
 baseline
Scope 1 –
Operation of facilities 23,506 25,244 33,357
Scope 2 – 
Indirect emissions (purchased energy) 8,081 9,168 25,288
Scope 3 – 
Indirect emissions (related activities) 2,631 3,214 5,097
Total emissions 34,218 37,626 63,742
 
2015 2014
2010
 baseline
Greenhouse gas 
emissions intensity ratio 14.4 17.0 30.3
Turnover £2,385m £2,220m £2,102m GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 55
Edible garden for East London school 
Fit Out took part in a project to create an edible garden for  
St Saviour’s School in Poplar, in support of the school’s 
ongoing ‘Trees for Cities’ initiative. An outdoor patch of 
unused land within the school grounds was levelled and 
paved, and a new greenhouse and shed installed. Trees were 
planted and raised garden beds built for fruit shrubs, herbs 
and vegetables to be used in school meals. The team that 
worked on the garden was made up of employees from  
Fit Out, a number of subcontractors and the law rm Clifford 
Chance LLP, for whom the division had recently completed 
a project in nearby Canary Wharf. The project was part of 
a continuous effort by Fit Out project teams to contribute 
a lasting benet to the communities in which they work.
Managing our supply chain
 
Our approach
Engaging with and educating our supply chain is a key objective for 
the Group. We helped establish the Supply Chain Sustainability 
School, launched in 2012 and part-funded by the Construction 
Industry Training Board. The School has since grown, with 5,345 
individual companies having signed up, and it now has sector-
specic leadership groups including construction, infrastructure  
and homes. 
Key performance indicator
Percentage of total spend that is 
covered by Group-wide agreements %
71
72 2014
2015
What we did in 2015
A total of 1,533 companies in our supply chain undertook training  
at the Supply Chain Sustainability School, improving their own 
sustainability credentials and strengthening their ability to support 
the Group’s responsible business strategy.
Going forward
 > The Group will continue to be closely involved with the Supply 
Chain Sustainability School, which gives us the opportunity to 
inuence and educate large and small suppliers by promoting  
and sharing best practice.
 > We are reviewing the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 
2015 and assessing the different elements of our supply chain to 
highlight any areas of risk and the appropriate controls that need 
to be implemented to manage these risks. During 2015 a policy 
was agreed which will be implemented early in 2016. Activities will 
include training as appropriate for all employees and key suppliers 
on our policy and approach. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 56
STRATEGIC REPORT / RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REVIEW
Approval of the strategic report
This strategic report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: 
John Morgan
Chief Executive
23 February 2016
Working with communities
Whether it is the construction of a new college, an affordable 
housing scheme or the regeneration of an entire inner city area, our 
projects deliver positive gains to local communities and the wider 
society. But we also need to minimise any potential adverse impacts 
of our construction works. Our project teams engage with local 
people, businesses and voluntary organisations during construction 
to learn of any specic needs and help them understand what the 
project is going to deliver. 
The KPI chosen to represent our commitment to working 
with local communities is the local multiplier effect. This is a 
measure of the extra economic benet delivered to a local 
area, as a result of money being spent – and re-spent – in 
the local economy. We use a tool called LM3, developed 
by the New Economics Foundation, to determine how our 
investment in each community adds economic value. 
Key performance indicator
Number of projects using the LM3 tool 
2014
2015 38
14
What we did in 2015
The number of projects to which the LM3 tool was applied  
increased signicantly in 2015. 
Much of what we achieve in terms of community support and 
involvement is difcult to measure objectively. Some indicators,  
such as the Group’s outstanding scores in the Considerate 
Constructors Scheme and recognition by the many awards won  
at Group and divisional level, give an indication of our level of 
community involvement. In 2015 the Group secured 49  
Considerate Constructors Scheme Awards (2014: 47 awards).
Going forward
 > We will use data from the LM3 tool to forecast economic  
impacts on local communities as well as analyse them 
retrospectively. This will allow us to adapt our strategy on  
projects as they progress, to maximise the economic benets  
for the local community.
OUR PERFORMANCE CONTINUED MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 57
GOVERNANCE REPORT
Board of directors 58
Group management team 60
Corporate governance report 62
Directors’ remuneration report 74
Directors’ report 90
Directors’ responsibilities statement 94 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
GOVERNANCE
58
GOVERNANCE
6
1
MALE
FEMALE
2
5
EXECUTIVE
NON-EXECUTIVE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Skills, competencies and 
experience
Other roles
Committees
Adrian Martin  
Chairman
Appointed: December 2008
John Morgan  
Chief Executive
Appointed: October 1994
Steve Crummett  
Finance Director
Appointed: February 2013 
Patrick De Smedt  
Senior Independent Director
Appointed: December 2009
Malcolm Cooper  
Non-executive Director
Appointed: November 2015
Simon Gulliford  
Non-executive Director
Appointed: March 2010
Liz Peace, CBE  
Non-executive Director 
Appointed: November 2012
In November 2012, Adrian was 
appointed non-executive chairman of 
the Board having previously held the 
role of senior independent director. 
Adrian has over 30 years’ audit and 
corporate finance experience. Having 
held senior board positions at leading 
companies in non-executive 
capacities, he brings substantial 
leadership experience.
John was appointed as chief executive 
in November 2012. He has overall 
responsibility for proposing and 
developing the strategy and 
day-to-day management of the 
operational activities of the Group. 
John has in-depth knowledge of 
construction and regeneration 
markets. He has significant executive 
leadership skills and experience.
Steve brings wide-ranging financial 
and significant listed company 
experience. 
Patrick assumed the role of senior 
independent director in November 
2012. Patrick, having held board 
positions including chair of the 
remuneration committee and senior 
independent director at other public 
companies, brings considerable 
experience to the Board.
Malcolm is a qualified accountant and 
experienced FTSE 250 audit 
committee chair. He has an extensive 
background in corporate finance and 
experience of the property industry.
Simon has substantial executive 
management and strategic marketing 
experience through the various 
positions that he has held.
Liz has considerable experience of the 
real estate sector and of Government 
policy making. She has fulfilled a 
number of roles over her career in both 
the public and private sectors which 
have developed her knowledge and 
skills in strategy development, 
communications, and project and 
financial management.
Adrian is a non-executive director of 
M&C Saatchi plc. His career includes  
30 years’ audit and corporate finance 
experience with BDO Stoy Hayward, 
the last eight years as managing 
partner, before becoming chief 
executive and then consultant at 
Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP until 
2009. Adrian has previously held 
non-executive positions with Safestore 
Holdings plc, RSM Tenon Group plc 
and H.R. Owen plc.
John co-founded Morgan Lovell in 
1977 which then reversed into William 
Sindall plc in 1994 to form Morgan 
Sindall Group plc. He was formerly 
chief executive from 1994 to 2000  
and executive chairman from 2000  
to 2012.
Steve was previously finance director 
of Filtrona plc (now Essentra plc).  
Prior to that he held senior finance 
roles with a number of listed 
companies, including Exel plc, 
McKechnie plc and Logica plc. Steve 
qualified as a chartered accountant 
with Arthur Andersen and has been 
chair of the audit committee and a 
non-executive director of Consort 
Medical plc since June 2012.
Patrick’s career includes 23 years  
with Microsoft, culminating in the role 
of chairman for Europe, Middle East 
and Africa from 2003. Since leaving 
Microsoft in 2006, he has served on 
the boards of a number of European 
public and private companies. He is 
currently a non-executive director of 
Victrex plc, where he also chairs the 
remuneration committee, Michael 
Page International plc, KCOM Group 
plc, Nexinto Holding Limited and 
Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited. He is 
an investor in several European 
technology companies.
Malcolm is managing director of 
National Grid Property as well as 
managing the sale of National Grid’s 
gas distribution business. He has 
previously been global tax and 
treasury director of National Grid. 
Malcolm is currently senior 
independent director and audit 
committee chair at CLS Holdings plc, 
a non-executive director of St William 
Homes LLP and a member of the 
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing 
Authority Advisory Panel. Prior to 
National Grid he was director of 
corporate finance at Lattice Group Plc 
and BG Group Plc and has previously 
acted as president of the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers. 
Simon is chief executive officer of 
Gulliford Consulting, the marketing 
consultancy which he founded in 1992 
and which is now part of Chime 
Communications plc. Simon is also a 
non-executive director of Scottish 
Equitable plc, Hortons’ Estate Limited 
and a number of other private 
companies. Before setting up his own 
consultancy, he was head of the 
marketing faculty at Ashridge College 
and he has previously held marketing 
roles at companies including Sears 
plc, EMAP plc, Barclays plc and 
Standard Life. 
Liz became a non-executive director  
at Redrow plc in September 2014  
and at The Howard de Walden Estates 
in January 2015. More recently she has 
taken on shadow roles in Birmingham 
City Council’s Curzon Urban 
Regeneration Company and  
the Government Property Unit’s  
New Property Model Delivery Body.  
She is a member of the board of 
Peabody, chair of the property 
industry’s charity, LandAid, a trustee of 
the Churches Conservation Trust and 
chair of the Architectural Heritage Fund. 
Liz spent 12 years as chief executive 
officer of the British Property Federation 
between 2002 and 2014. This followed 
a career in the Ministry of Defence 
including as director of corporate affairs 
from 1990 to 2002 at QinetiQ Group plc 
(formerly the Defence Evaluation and 
Research Agency).
Adrian is chair of the nomination 
committee.
John is a member of the nomination 
committee.
Steve attends the meetings of the 
audit and nomination committees at 
the invitation of the committee chairs. 
Patrick is chair of the remuneration 
committee and is a member of the 
audit and nomination committees.
Malcolm is a member of the audit, 
nomination and remuneration 
committees. Malcolm will take over as 
chair of the audit committee with effect 
from the annual general meeting in 
May 2016.
Simon is chair of the health, safety  
and environmental committee and  
a member of the audit, nomination  
and remuneration committees.
Liz is chair of the audit committee  
and is a member of the remuneration, 
nomination and health, safety and 
environment committees. Liz will step 
down as chair of the audit committee 
at the annual general meeting in  
May 2016. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 59
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Adrian Martin  
Chairman
Appointed: December 2008
John Morgan  
Chief Executive
Appointed: October 1994
Steve Crummett  
Finance Director
Appointed: February 2013 
Patrick De Smedt  
Senior Independent Director
Appointed: December 2009
Malcolm Cooper  
Non-executive Director
Appointed: November 2015
Simon Gulliford  
Non-executive Director
Appointed: March 2010
Liz Peace, CBE  
Non-executive Director 
Appointed: November 2012
In November 2012, Adrian was 
appointed non-executive chairman of 
the Board having previously held the 
role of senior independent director. 
Adrian has over 30 years’ audit and 
corporate finance experience. Having 
held senior board positions at leading 
companies in non-executive 
capacities, he brings substantial 
leadership experience.
John was appointed as chief executive 
in November 2012. He has overall 
responsibility for proposing and 
developing the strategy and 
day-to-day management of the 
operational activities of the Group. 
John has in-depth knowledge of 
construction and regeneration 
markets. He has significant executive 
leadership skills and experience.
Steve brings wide-ranging financial 
and significant listed company 
experience. 
Patrick assumed the role of senior 
independent director in November 
2012. Patrick, having held board 
positions including chair of the 
remuneration committee and senior 
independent director at other public 
companies, brings considerable 
experience to the Board.
Malcolm is a qualified accountant and 
experienced FTSE 250 audit 
committee chair. He has an extensive 
background in corporate finance and 
experience of the property industry.
Simon has substantial executive 
management and strategic marketing 
experience through the various 
positions that he has held.
Liz has considerable experience of the 
real estate sector and of Government 
policy making. She has fulfilled a 
number of roles over her career in both 
the public and private sectors which 
have developed her knowledge and 
skills in strategy development, 
communications, and project and 
financial management.
Adrian is a non-executive director of 
M&C Saatchi plc. His career includes  
30 years’ audit and corporate finance 
experience with BDO Stoy Hayward, 
the last eight years as managing 
partner, before becoming chief 
executive and then consultant at 
Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP until 
2009. Adrian has previously held 
non-executive positions with Safestore 
Holdings plc, RSM Tenon Group plc 
and H.R. Owen plc.
John co-founded Morgan Lovell in 
1977 which then reversed into William 
Sindall plc in 1994 to form Morgan 
Sindall Group plc. He was formerly 
chief executive from 1994 to 2000  
and executive chairman from 2000  
to 2012.
Steve was previously finance director 
of Filtrona plc (now Essentra plc).  
Prior to that he held senior finance 
roles with a number of listed 
companies, including Exel plc, 
McKechnie plc and Logica plc. Steve 
qualified as a chartered accountant 
with Arthur Andersen and has been 
chair of the audit committee and a 
non-executive director of Consort 
Medical plc since June 2012.
Patrick’s career includes 23 years  
with Microsoft, culminating in the role 
of chairman for Europe, Middle East 
and Africa from 2003. Since leaving 
Microsoft in 2006, he has served on 
the boards of a number of European 
public and private companies. He is 
currently a non-executive director of 
Victrex plc, where he also chairs the 
remuneration committee, Michael 
Page International plc, KCOM Group 
plc, Nexinto Holding Limited and 
Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited. He is 
an investor in several European 
technology companies.
Malcolm is managing director of 
National Grid Property as well as 
managing the sale of National Grid’s 
gas distribution business. He has 
previously been global tax and 
treasury director of National Grid. 
Malcolm is currently senior 
independent director and audit 
committee chair at CLS Holdings plc, 
a non-executive director of St William 
Homes LLP and a member of the 
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing 
Authority Advisory Panel. Prior to 
National Grid he was director of 
corporate finance at Lattice Group Plc 
and BG Group Plc and has previously 
acted as president of the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers. 
Simon is chief executive officer of 
Gulliford Consulting, the marketing 
consultancy which he founded in 1992 
and which is now part of Chime 
Communications plc. Simon is also a 
non-executive director of Scottish 
Equitable plc, Hortons’ Estate Limited 
and a number of other private 
companies. Before setting up his own 
consultancy, he was head of the 
marketing faculty at Ashridge College 
and he has previously held marketing 
roles at companies including Sears 
plc, EMAP plc, Barclays plc and 
Standard Life. 
Liz became a non-executive director  
at Redrow plc in September 2014  
and at The Howard de Walden Estates 
in January 2015. More recently she has 
taken on shadow roles in Birmingham 
City Council’s Curzon Urban 
Regeneration Company and  
the Government Property Unit’s  
New Property Model Delivery Body.  
She is a member of the board of 
Peabody, chair of the property 
industry’s charity, LandAid, a trustee of 
the Churches Conservation Trust and 
chair of the Architectural Heritage Fund. 
Liz spent 12 years as chief executive 
officer of the British Property Federation 
between 2002 and 2014. This followed 
a career in the Ministry of Defence 
including as director of corporate affairs 
from 1990 to 2002 at QinetiQ Group plc 
(formerly the Defence Evaluation and 
Research Agency).
Adrian is chair of the nomination 
committee.
John is a member of the nomination 
committee.
Steve attends the meetings of the 
audit and nomination committees at 
the invitation of the committee chairs. 
Patrick is chair of the remuneration 
committee and is a member of the 
audit and nomination committees.
Malcolm is a member of the audit, 
nomination and remuneration 
committees. Malcolm will take over as 
chair of the audit committee with effect 
from the annual general meeting in 
May 2016.
Simon is chair of the health, safety  
and environmental committee and  
a member of the audit, nomination  
and remuneration committees.
Liz is chair of the audit committee  
and is a member of the remuneration, 
nomination and health, safety and 
environment committees. Liz will step 
down as chair of the audit committee 
at the annual general meeting in  
May 2016. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 60
GOVERNANCE
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM
85%
15%
MALE (11)
FEMALE (2)
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM COMPOSITION
See page 63 for information on the responsibilities of the Group management team.
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8
9 10 11
12 13 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 61
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
1
 John Morgan Chief Executive
See page 58 for biography.
2
 Steve Crummett Finance Director
See page 58 for biography.
  
3
 Andy Saul Group Commercial Director
Andy joined the Group in January 2014. Andy was 
previously managing director of Bullock Construction 
Ltd from 2010 to 2013. Prior to that his career 
included 20 years with Kier Group plc, culminating in 
the role of commercial director at Kier’s construction 
division where he had overall responsibility for the 
commercial and procurement functions of the 
division. 
4
 Clare Sheridan Company Secretary
Clare has been with the Company for 18 years, and 
was appointed company secretary in June 2014 
having previously been deputy company secretary. 
Prior to this, she was general manager of a theatre 
production company. Clare is a qualified chartered 
secretary.
5
 Pat Boyle Managing Director, Construction  
Pat holds overall responsibility for Construction & 
Infrastructure’s construction and design business.  
A member of the Chartered Institute of Building, he 
joined the Group in 2014 from Lend Lease, where he 
was most recently head of their public sector 
construction division. Prior to this, Pat held various 
wide-ranging senior level roles within Laing and Laing 
O’Rourke, including regional director, group HR 
director and managing director of Select Plant Hire.
6
 Nick Fletcher Managing Director, Infrastructure
Nick is a chartered civil engineer with over 25 years’ 
UK and international experience. A Fellow of the 
Institution of Civil Engineers, Nick holds overall 
responsibility for the infrastructure business, which is 
part of the Construction & Infrastructure division and 
includes transport, tunnelling and utility services, in 
addition to board responsibilities for aviation and the 
Group’s in-house plant hire operation. Nick joined the 
Group in 2014 from Laing O’Rourke where he was 
most recently operations director of its infrastructure 
division. Prior to this, he was managing director of 
Laing O’Rourke Ireland.
7
 Chris Booth Managing Director, Fit Out
Chris has overall responsibility for both the Overbury 
and Morgan Lovell brands. Chris joined Overbury in 
1994, progressing through divisional management 
(1998-2003) to become managing director of 
Overbury in 2003. He was appointed to the Fit Out 
divisional board as chief operating officer in 2010 and 
managing director in 2013.
8
 Stewart Davenport Managing Director,  
Affordable Housing
Stewart joined Lovell in 1995 as commercial director 
and was promoted to managing director in 1997. In 
1999, the Affordable Housing division was acquired 
by the Group. Prior to joining Lovell, Stewart worked 
for Contract Housing, the social housing division of 
Tarmac Construction, commencing in 1973 as a 
trainee quantity surveyor progressing to commercial 
director.
9
 Matt Crompton Joint Managing Director,  
Urban Regeneration
Matt joined the Group when we acquired the Muse 
Developments business from AMEC in July 2007, 
where he started in 1990 as a senior development 
surveyor. Matt is responsible for the division’s 
activities in the Northern region. He is also on the 
board of English Cities Fund (ECf), a £100m 
mixed-use regeneration vehicle owned by Muse 
Developments, Legal & General and the Homes and 
Communities Agency. His earlier career included 
development positions at both London & 
Metropolitan and Chestergate Seddon.
10
 Lisa Scenna Managing Director, Investments 
Lisa joined the Group in June 2013. In her last 
position before joining the Group, Lisa was managing 
director, Explore Investments at Laing O’Rourke. 
Prior to that she was the joint managing director at 
Stockland UK and held senior financial roles within 
both Stockland and Westfield in Australia. Lisa is a 
qualified chartered accountant. 
11
 Gary Lester Managing Director,  
Property Services
Gary has a history of leading successful repairs and 
maintenance businesses including national 
businesses of gas servicing, maintenance, facilities 
management and energy solutions. Gary joined the 
Group in August 2014 and brings a wealth of 
operational experience gained from 17 years in the 
housing sector and a further 14 years in the building 
industry. An electrician by trade, he has been directly 
involved in the building and maintenance industry 
from leaving school, rising to the position of 
managing director at Mears Group PLC and 
assuming that role here at Morgan Sindall Property 
Services Ltd.
12
 Simon Grubb Group Strategy and  
Planning Director
Simon joined the Group in May 2015. He was 
previously group strategy director at Interserve PLC 
following a similar nine years at Ernst & Young 
advising a range of infrastructure and property 
companies and their investors. Simon is a chartered 
engineer and Fellow of the Institution of Civil 
Engineers with over 25 years’ UK and international 
experience, including earlier career roles at Mowlem 
and Mouchel.
13
 Martin Lubieniecki, Managing Director,  
Professional Services
Martin joined the Group in October 2015 from  
Colliers International where he was the UK chief 
operating officer. Prior to this he had been the  
EMEA chief operating officer for CB Richard Ellis 
bringing over 15 years’ property professional  
services experience to the Group. Martin’s early 
career started at PricewaterhouseCoopers and 
McKinsey before taking senior roles at Sears Group 
and Hilton International. Martin is a qualified 
chartered accountant. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 62
GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Chairman’s statement
As a Board of directors we are accountable to all stakeholders for the Company’s activities and responsible for the effectiveness of corporate 
governance. The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance as we believe this helps to facilitate the 
success of the Company in compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (‘the Code’). 
For the Company, good governance involves establishing appropriate policies, procedures and guidelines to underpin our ability to deliver 
our strategy. It involves ensuring that the Company’s core values and standards are embedded within the Group, whilst allowing each division 
to operate within a decentralised, empowering environment. The Board’s stewardship and scrutiny of these matters and its role in providing 
constructive challenge to the executive team is critical. Equally important is the Board’s work in formulating the risk management strategy of 
the Group and monitoring its effectiveness.
Each year, the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its effectiveness. This year we undertook this process internally (see page 65 for 
further details of the outcome of the review). In addition, the senior independent director led a review of my performance with input from the 
other non-executive directors. Following this review, I am satisfied that the Board and its committees are performing effectively and that there 
is the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable the directors to discharge their 
respective duties and responsibilities effectively. 
During the year we welcomed Malcolm Cooper to the Board as a new non-executive director. In addition to his executive role at National 
Grid, Malcolm is also a non-executive director, audit committee chair and senior independent director at CLS Holdings plc. Malcolm’s 
appointment has strengthened the skill set and experience of the Board and has positively added to the Board dynamic. 
I am committed to ensuring that the Company manages its affairs in compliance with the principles and provisions of the Code. Whilst 
subject to the provisions of the Code applicable to smaller companies, the Company seeks, where appropriate, to follow those applicable to 
FTSE 350 companies. I am pleased to report that we have complied in full with the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The remainder of this report explains the governance structures and processes the Board has implemented and what we did during the year. 
The corporate governance report includes reports from each of the committee chairs to provide details on key matters addressed by the 
committees during the year. I hope that the following report provides you with a meaningful insight into how we operate and the matters on 
which we have focused during the year.
Adrian Martin
Chairman
23 February 2016
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
The Board considers that it and the Company have, throughout the year, complied without exception with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 2014), which is the version of the Code which applies to the Company for its 2015 financial 
year. The Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) and is available for review on the FRC’s website:  
https://frc.org.uk/Our-Work/Codes-Standards/Corporate-governance/UK-Corporate-Governance-Code.aspx MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 63
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Governance structure
Role of the Board 
The Board is responsible for creating and delivering long-term 
sustainable shareholder value. Supported by its committees, this 
includes setting the strategic direction and governance framework of 
the Group, reviewing all significant aspects of the Group’s activities, 
overseeing the executive management, reviewing the overall internal 
control and risk management systems and succession planning. 
The Board has a scheduled formal programme of meetings to 
ensure that it can allocate sufficient time to each of these key areas 
which enables the Board to plan meetings appropriately and to use 
Board members’ time together more effectively. The programme 
contains sufficient flexibility to allow specific items to be added as 
necessary, allowing the Board to focus on key matters relating to the 
business at the appropriate time.
There are a number of informal meetings of the Board which enable 
all the directors to spend more time together and to discuss specific 
areas of the business with the Group management team and other 
senior executives. The Board reviews its schedule of formally 
reserved matters regularly and receives a number of in-depth 
presentations during the year.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Board’s principal 
committees, which are governed by clear terms of reference and 
under the Group’s delegated authorities. During the year the Board 
established a health, safety and environment (‘HSE’) committee, 
chaired by Simon Gulliford, to consider the Group’s strategic HSE 
priorities and assist management to ensure that HSE risks are 
appropriately managed across the Group.
Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the executive 
directors. The executive directors are supported by the Group 
management team, which meets regularly to consider operational 
matters affecting the Group as a whole including health and safety, 
the leadership development programme, strategy, Group budget 
and sustainability. The Group management team members are listed 
on page 61.
Strategic leadership
Each year the Board holds a strategy day in October to review the 
Group’s five-year strategic plan and the divisional strategic plans. As 
part of the review the chief executive, chairman and a non-executive 
director met with the managing directors of the divisions to discuss 
their divisional strategic plans in detail prior to the meeting in 
October. Each non-executive director provided a summary to the 
Board of their findings during the strategy review. In addition, the 
managing directors of the Investments division and the design 
business attended the strategy day to present their strategy to the 
whole Board to allow the Board a more in depth review.
Executive directors Principal committees
Group Board
Executive committees
Audit
committee
Remuneration
committee
Nomination
committee
Health,
safety and
environment
committee 
Risk committee Group management team MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 64
GOVERNANCE / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
The Board receives regular updates on progress against the agreed 
strategy including presentations from the divisional managing 
directors on progress against their divisional plans. Specific projects 
are considered at Board meetings during the year as necessary.
Performance management
Performance against delivery of the agreed key targets is reviewed 
at every meeting with particular reference to the detailed Group 
management accounts. The chief executive and finance director 
comment on the market and current trading at each Board meeting 
and present comparative data and customer insight.
Risk management
The Board reviews the Company’s principal risks twice a year in 
addition to receiving regular updates on risk management and 
internal controls from the chair of the audit committee after each 
committee meeting (see page 73 for further details). During the 
year the executive directors set up a risk committee chaired by the 
finance director and consisting of each of the heads of function from 
the head office team. The committee is responsible for reviewing 
the Group and divisional risk registers and the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management tools. The Board receives updates at each 
Board meeting on the Group’s safety performance. Any specific 
issues in respect of safety and other matters which may affect the 
Company’s reputation are reported to the Board as they occur.
Division of responsibilities
The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibility between the 
chairman and chief executive. 
Chairman
The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board 
functions effectively; he sets the agenda for Board meetings and 
ensures that adequate time is devoted to discussion of all 
agenda items, facilitating the effective contribution of all directors 
and ensuring that the Board as a whole is involved in refining and 
determining Group strategy. 
Chief executive
The chief executive has principal responsibility for proposing and 
developing the overall strategy and the day-to-day management 
of the operational activities of the Group in accordance with the 
strategy and policies determined by the Board. 
Senior independent director
The senior independent director is available to shareholders if 
they have concerns which have not been resolved through the 
chairman or chief executive or for which contact through those 
channels is not appropriate. He also has specific responsibility 
for evaluating the performance of the chairman. 
Independence 
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board  
to be independent in character and judgement and no cross 
directorships exist between any of the directors. Individually, the 
directors act in a way they consider will promote the long-term 
success of the Group for the benefit of, and with regard to the 
interests of, its various stakeholders.
The Board has agreed that notwithstanding the requirements of  
the Company’s Articles of Association (‘the Articles’) all directors  
will retire at each annual general meeting (‘AGM’) and may offer 
themselves for re-election by shareholders. Malcolm Cooper will  
be standing for election at the 2016 AGM as this is the first AGM 
following his appointment. All of the other directors will also stand 
 for re-election at the AGM and their biographies are set out on 
pages 58 and 59. The Board is satisfied that the performance of all 
of the non-executive directors and the chairman continues to be 
effective and that they continue to show commitment to their 
respective roles.
During the year, no director had any interests in any shares of the 
Company’s subsidiaries, or any material interests in any contract 
with the Company or subsidiary being a contract of significance in 
relation to the Company’s business. 
The directors are aware of their duties under the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’) relating to the management of 
conflicts of interest. The Articles give the Board a general power to 
authorise potential conflicts of interest. In addition to the directors’ 
duty to seek Board approval for any new potentially conflicting 
situations or changes to existing interests, the register of potential 
conflicts is circulated for review by the Board on an annual basis. 
This process was carried out satisfactorily during the year. The 
Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts on a 
regular basis.
Training, development and advice
Newly appointed directors participate in a comprehensive and 
tailored induction programme including a detailed information pack 
(containing information about sustainability, the Company’s values 
and culture and governance matters relevant to the Group), visits to 
the Group’s operations and meetings with senior divisional 
management. Training on the role and responsibilities of directors is 
offered on appointment and subsequently as necessary. Following 
his appointment to the Board in November 2015, Malcolm Cooper’s 
induction programme included each of these aspects. 
The Board programme includes regular presentations from 
management and informal meetings which increase the non-
executive directors’ understanding of the Group and the 
construction industry. In addition, during the year, the non-executive 
directors have met members of the management team on an 
individual basis and undertaken visits to individual projects, to 
continue to build their knowledge of the Company.  MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 65
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
During the year, the company secretary has provided updates to the 
Board on relevant governance matters and new legislation and its 
impact on the Company. The audit committee regularly considers 
new accounting developments through presentations from 
management and the external auditors. This year this included 
updates on changes to the Code applicable to the Group for the 
2015-2016 financial year including the requirement for a viability 
statement and changes to risk management disclosures. The 
remuneration committee annually considers developments in 
executive remuneration with presentations from the Company’s 
remuneration advisers. The review this year covered a market 
update of executive remuneration. 
There are agreed procedures by which directors are able to take 
independent professional advice, at the expense of the Company, 
on matters relating to their duties. The directors also have access to 
the advice and services of the company secretary, who attends all 
Board and committee meetings.
Board evaluation
The 2014 evaluation had identified a number of recommendations 
where further development was needed in the areas of transparency 
and clarity of strategic direction, the level of challenge and scrutiny in 
Board meetings and the focus on talent and succession for key 
individuals and leaders. The Board has sought to act on these 
recommendations during the year.
In 2015 the Board agreed that the review should be carried out by 
the company secretary. The Board is satisfied that this internal 
review followed a process which enabled thorough review and open 
participation from all directors. The key objective was to determine 
whether progress had continued on the key points raised in the 2014 
review and to consider whether the Board and its committees were 
working effectively. 
A questionnaire was circulated to all directors seeking their 
evaluation of a number of matters including strategy, Board 
performance, succession, knowledge of the non-executive directors, 
training and development and governance. The company secretary 
then presented the principal conclusions to the Board and the senior 
independent director chaired a discussion by the Board of the key 
points and agreed certain actions.
The review found that the Board and the committees were operating 
effectively and that good progress had been made against some of 
the areas identified for improvement in the 2014 evaluation including 
clarifying strategic direction and improving the level of board 
discussions. Recommendations made focused on strengthening the 
Board’s progress in areas of strategy to clarify what sets the Group 
apart from its competitors and long-term succession planning.
As part of the Board evaluation exercise, the senior independent 
director reviewed the chairman’s performance with the other 
directors and subsequently met with him to provide feedback. The 
chairman provided feedback to each director on their individual 
contributions to the Board and, with each of them, considered their 
development priorities. No material actions flowed from any of these 
review sessions.
The company secretary in conjunction with the chairman will be 
reviewing the Board evaluation process for the next three years in 
early 2016.
Board attendance
Attendance of individual directors during 2015 at scheduled Board 
and committee meetings is set out below. Sufficient time is given at 
the end of each meeting for the chairman to meet privately with the 
senior independent director and non-executive directors to discuss 
any matters. The chairman met formally with the non-executive 
directors without the executive directors present on one occasion 
during the year prior to the strategy review day. 
Board
Percentage 
attendances at 
Board meetings
Remuneration 
committee
Audit  
committee
Nomination 
committee
Health, safety 
and environment 
committee
Total number of meetings 10 % 3 3 3 3
Adrian Martin 10 100% 3
John Morgan 10 100% 3
Steve Crummett 10 100%
Patrick De Smedt
1
9 90% 3 3 3
Simon Gulliford
2
10 100% 3 2 3 3
Liz Peace 10 100% 3 3 3 3
Malcolm Cooper
3
1 100% 1 1
1 Patrick De Smedt was unable to attend the whole of one meeting of the Board due to a conflicting commitment.
2 Simon Gulliford was unable to attend one of the audit committee meetings due to a conflicting commitment.
3 Malcolm Cooper was appointed as a non-executive director on 9 November 2015 and attended all Board and committee meetings following his appointment. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 66
GOVERNANCE / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
The Board regularly receives and considers reports on the  
following matters:
 > strategic matters
 > business performance
 > results, management accounts and financial commentary
 > treasury and funding matters
 > matters arising from divisional boards
 > divisional operational reports
 > legal and governance matters
 > the work of the board’s committees
 > investor relations and shareholder feedback
 > delegated authorities (‘DELAPS’) 
In addition to the formal meetings, the Board met on several 
occasions to consider and debate specific strategic issues affecting 
the Group and the industry, with input where relevant from senior 
management. Whilst the Board did not make any site visits as a 
group during the year, all of the non-executive directors did have  
the opportunity to visit the divisions to meet with the divisional  
teams to gain a better understanding of the Group’s operations as 
set out above. The health, safety and environment committee visited 
one of Fit Out’s sites to review its safety procedures in practice (see 
page 69). The committee is intending to undertake further site visits 
of the Group’s projects in 2016. The nomination committee also 
received a number of updates outside of its scheduled meetings, 
relating to the search process for a new non-executive director.
Dialogue with shareholders 
The executive directors undertake a programme of regular 
communication with institutional shareholders and with analysts 
covering the Company’s activities, its performance and strategy.  
In particular, presentations are made to institutional investors and 
analysts following the announcements of the preliminary and 
half-year results. Written feedback from these meetings and 
presentations is distributed to all members of the Board. The 
executive directors held a meeting with analysts and the divisional 
managing directors in November 2015 to enable the analysts to 
meet members of the senior management team and to gain a 
greater understanding of the Group’s operations. The chairman met 
several of the Company’s major shareholders during the year and 
the non-executive directors are also available to meet with them to 
listen to their views, although no such meetings were requested. 
The Company encourages all shareholders to use the AGM as an 
opportunity for effective communication with the Company. All of the 
directors except Malcolm Cooper attended the AGM held in 2015. 
Details of proxy votes submitted for each resolution at the 2015 
AGM, including proxy directions to withhold votes, are published on 
the Company’s website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com.
  MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 67
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
 NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Members
Adrian Martin (Chair)
John Morgan
Patrick De Smedt 
Simon Gulliford
Liz Peace 
Malcolm Cooper (from 9 November 2015)
Responsibilities
 > to review the structure, size and composition of the Board;
 > to make recommendations to the Board for any changes 
considered necessary;
 > to approve the description of the role and capabilities required 
for a particular appointment; and
 > to ensure suitable candidates are identified, having due regard 
for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, 
and are recommended for appointment to the Board. 
 
The terms of reference, setting out the duties of the committee, are available on our 
website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com.
Activities during the year
In 2015, the committee met three times to review the structure, size 
and composition of the Board. In particular the committee:
 > considered the overall structure and balance of the Board, 
including the experience required for a new independent  
non-executive director appointment;
 > appointed headhunters to assist in the recruitment of a new 
non-executive director; and
 > considered succession planning generally for the Board.
Steve Crummett is not a member of the committee although he is 
invited to attend meetings. 
Succession planning
The Board takes succession planning for Board members seriously. 
We believe we have good balance and diversity amongst our 
non-executive directors with each of them having highly relevant 
skills derived from serving in a range of executive and non-executive 
positions throughout their careers. During the year the committee 
instructed Norman Broadbent in connection with the recruitment of 
a new non-executive director who would chair the audit committee 
from May 2016. The committee considered the balance of skills, 
experience and diversity on the Board and the specific skills required 
of an audit committee chair in determining the types of candidate 
who may best fit the specification of this role. Following a thorough 
search which involved meetings with the chairman and other 
directors, the Board was delighted to be able to appoint Malcolm 
Cooper as a non-executive director on 9 November 2015. Malcolm’s 
considerable financial experience and knowledge of the property 
sector will be of great benefit to Board discussions.
Our non-executive directors’ tenure on the Board as at the year-end 
is as follows:
Board tenure non-executive Number Percentage
1-2 years 1 20%
3-4 years 1 20%
4-5 years 0 0%
6-7 years 3 60%
During the year, the Board reviewed the short-term succession 
arrangements for the Group management team and each division 
has been working on developing pools of talent for longer-term 
succession for the divisional board and senior management teams. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 68
GOVERNANCE / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
NOMINATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED
Diversity –  Board
Diversity –  Senior managers: Group management team
Diversity - Total workforce 
86%
14%
MALE (6)
FEMALE (1)
85%
15%
MALE (11)
FEMALE (2)
80%
20%
MALE (4,626)
FEMALE (1,189)
As stated above, our Board evaluation considers the balance, skills 
and diversity of the Board. They also consider succession planning, 
reviewing whether it is working effectively. As stated above the 2015 
evaluation review recognised that further work was needed in terms 
of long-term succession planning for the Board and senior 
management. This aspect will receive greater attention during the 
coming months.
Diversity
The Board recognises the importance of diversity in general at 
Board level and this was an area explored as part of the evaluation 
conducted during the year, including the benefits of a range of skills, 
industry experience, gender, race, disability, age, nationality and 
other attributes which can enhance the contribution of the Board. 
In relation to gender diversity, the Board believes in the benefits of a 
greater female presence on the Board. The female representation on 
the Board during 2015 was 17% until 9 November when Malcolm 
Cooper was appointed and it reduced to 14%. Whilst the committee 
will aspire to maintain a strong female representation on the Board, 
its priority on future recruitment will remain the selection of the right 
talent and skills, irrespective of gender and without resort to quotas. 
The Group is fully committed to treating all of its employees fairly and 
equally. Its policies and practices emphasise the importance of 
treating individuals in a non-discriminatory manner across the full 
employment life cycle including recruitment of all new employees 
and the management of existing personnel. The Group recognises 
that a diverse workforce will provide it with an insight into different 
markets and help it anticipate and provide what its clients need.  
The Group fully supports the principles set out in the UN Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compact, in 
particular with regard to equal opportunity, freedom from 
discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Applications for employment by disabled people are always fully and 
fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled 
every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group 
continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of 
the Group that the training, career development and promotion of 
disabled people should, as far as possible, be identical to that of 
other employees.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its 
employees and ensures that all significant events, economic factors 
and financial updates and the impact of these on the performance of 
the Group are communicated to employees through email alerts and 
regular newsletters. In addition, the divisions use a variety of 
methods to encourage employee involvement in the Group’s 
performance and communicate key business goals and issues to 
employees. The divisions also consult and involve their employees 
through local publications, briefing groups, consultative meetings, 
training programmes, employee surveys and working groups to 
assist the process of continuous improvement in the way the 
business is conducted. 
A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who were 
directors of the Company, senior managers and other employees  
as at 31 December 2015 is set out below.
  MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 69
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT 
COMMITTEE
Members
Simon Gulliford (Chair)
Liz Peace 
Andy Saul (Group Commercial Director)
The Group has well-established safety systems designed to 
minimise the risks of health, safety and environmental incidents 
occurring in relation to the Group’s activities, including site visits  
and regular training and updates. This committee was established  
in 2015 to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in 
relation to HSE matters, arising out of the activities of the Group  
and to make recommendations to the Board for any changes 
considered necessary. 
Responsibilities
 > to assist the Board to review the Group’s strategy with respect 
to HSE matters;
 > to receive reports on any major HSE incidents and ensure  
that all actions required by the report are appropriately 
implemented in a timely manner; 
 > to report to the Board on development trends and forthcoming 
legislation in relation to HSE matters which may be relevant  
to the Group;
 > to monitor the Group’s health and safety strategy framework 
and regulatory environmental obligations (including CRC –
carbon reduction commitment – compliance) and how 
compliance with these and with applicable laws and 
regulations is ensured across the Group; and
 > to receive and review periodic health and safety, and 
environmental reports of the Group’s performance.
 
 The terms of reference, setting out the duties of the committee, are available on our 
website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com.
Activities during the year
The committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of 
reference with standing items that it considers at each meeting in 
addition to matters on which it has otherwise chosen to focus.
During 2015, the committee met with the Group’s health and 
safety forum which comprises the divisional health and safety 
managers from each division and the Group’s commercial 
director. The meeting enabled the committee to better 
understand the role of the forum and how health and safety is 
managed across the Group. Specifically the meeting included 
a discussion around work that was being undertaken across 
the Group to review initiatives to try and change behaviour 
that may lead to a health and safety incident. The committee 
also visited a Fit Out project to review its safety procedures in 
practice. The site was in the initial stages of the project and no 
safety breaches were observed. The committee is intending to 
undertake further site visits of the Group’s projects in 2016.
Monthly monitoring and reporting to the Board includes a report 
from the Group commercial director on the Group’s performance  
in relation to health and safety matters and environmental 
compliance. Further details are included in the chief executive’s 
review on page 17, the risk review on page 44 and in the  
responsible business review on page 52. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 70
GOVERNANCE / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Members
Liz Peace (Chair)
Patrick De Smedt 
Simon Gulliford 
Malcolm Cooper (from 9 November 2015)
All committee members during the year and up to the date of this 
report are or were independent non-executive directors in 
accordance with the Code. Biographical details of each member of 
the committee are set out on page 59. In particular Liz Peace has, 
during her career with the Ministry of Defence and in subsequent 
roles, gained considerable experience in the management and 
accounting for major projects, has served on several public sector 
audit committees and is considered to have recent and relevant 
financial experience for the audit committee of a company in the 
construction and regeneration sector. 
Malcolm Cooper will take over as chair of the audit committee at the 
AGM in May 2016. 
Responsibilities
The primary role of the audit committee is to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, in particular by reviewing 
the Company’s financial reports and other financial information 
before publication as well as reviewing the accounting and 
financial reporting processes and the effectiveness of both the 
internal and external auditors.
Responsibilities 
 > to monitor the integrity of the financial statements and related 
information of the Company and, where practicable, any 
formal announcements relating to the Company’s financial 
performance, reviewing significant financial reporting 
judgements contained in them;
 > where requested by the Board, to advise the Board on 
whether, taken as a whole, the view presented in the annual 
report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy;
 > to review the Company’s internal financial controls;
 > to approve the appointment and replacement of the Group 
head of audit and assurance and to monitor and review the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit function;
 > to make recommendations to the Board regarding the 
appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditor, 
including consideration of putting the external audit out to 
tender, and to approve the external auditor’s remuneration and 
terms of engagement;
 > to review and monitor the external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process;
 > to apply the Board’s policy on the engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services with the objective of 
ensuring that the provision of such services does not impair its 
independence or objectivity;
 > to review the Company’s procedures for detecting fraud and 
the adequacy of its systems and controls for the prevention of 
bribery; and
 > to review the Company’s procedures for raising concerns.
The terms of reference, setting out the duties of the committee, are available on our 
website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com.
Activities during the year
The committee held three scheduled meetings during the year. 
Senior representatives from the external auditor, the finance director 
and the Group head of audit and assurance attended each of these 
meetings. The chair of the audit committee met with the finance 
director and the external audit partner individually during the year. 
The committee’s authorities and calendar of work remain in line with 
the requirements of the Code and FRC’s Guidance on Audit 
Committees.
The main activities of the committee during the year have included:
 > review of the half- and full-year results;
 > review of the significant management judgements reflected in the 
results including certain contracts in Construction & Infrastructure 
affected by timetable slippages and increased costs;
 > discussion with the external auditor over its audit plans  
and reports;
 > assessment of the Company’s internal financial controls; 
 > review of internal audit reports and of the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function; MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 71
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
 > consideration of the external audit effectiveness, independence 
and reappointment;
 > review of fraud and bribery prevention measures and matters 
arising from the raising concerns line;
 > review of the Group’s risk register and principal risks at both the 
July and December audit committee meetings; and
 > reporting to the Board on its proceedings and findings.
The committee’s detailed review of the year-end position assisted 
the Board in making the going concern statement set out on  
page 29. The committee considered and approved the proposed 
methodology and key assumptions in the long-term viability 
statement (see page 49 for further information).
At each meeting, the committee receives a report on the internal 
controls framework and the internal audit activities. This year it 
received information on risk management tools being implemented 
within the Construction & Infrastructure division, reviews carried out 
by internal audit, management’s response to the reports and any key 
trends emerging during the year. The Group head of audit and 
assurance meets separately with the chair of the committee at least 
twice a year and has direct access whenever required. 
The committee also reviews:
 > the effectiveness of the Company’s financial controls and systems 
of internal control by approving the internal audit plan, reviewing 
the findings and by reviewing the scope of work and reports of the 
external auditors. The detailed actions for a resolution of any 
identified weaknesses are closely monitored by the committee 
through to completion; and 
 > the management of risk by reviewing the risk assessment process 
and corporate and divisional risk registers twice yearly. These 
form an element of the internal audit planning process.
The Company’s whistleblowing procedures are supported by the 
operation of an external call line for raising concerns, which enables 
the Company’s employees and other workers on its sites to report 
concerns anonymously and in confidence. The existence of the 
external call line is covered with all employees on induction and is 
publicised via the Group’s intranets and on construction site notice 
boards. Reports of whistleblowing are presented to the audit 
committee at each audit committee meeting, together with the 
results of investigations into such calls and any follow up actions. 
Any significant matter arising from a call would be brought to the 
attention of the committee without delay, although no such matters 
arose during the year. 
Full descriptions of the risk management and internal controls 
processes are set out below.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
One of the key compliance requirements of the Code is for the 
Board to confirm that the annual report and financial statements 
(‘annual report’), taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy (see pages 6 to 9). To enable the Board 
to make this declaration, a formal process is embedded in the 
year-end process to ensure the committee and the Board as a 
whole have access to all relevant information and, in particular, 
management papers on significant issues faced by the Group. The 
committee receives a paper from management detailing the 
approach taken in preparing the annual report. The committee and 
the Board as a whole receive drafts of the annual report in sufficient 
time to facilitate their review and enable them to challenge the 
disclosures where necessary. In addition, the Group’s external 
auditor reviews the consistency between the narrative reporting of 
the annual report and the financial statements.
Significant issues 
In carrying out its duties, the committee is required to assess 
whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and to 
challenge the robustness of significant management judgements 
reflected in the financial results. This process involves reviewing 
relevant papers prepared by management in support of the policies 
adopted and judgements made. 
These papers are discussed with management, the external auditor 
and, where appropriate, the Group head of audit and assurance. In 
addition, the committee reviews the year-end report to the audit 
committee from the external auditor based upon its work performed 
and findings from the annual audit. 
The significant accounting issues considered by the committee 
during the year were areas where management are required to use 
significant judgement. These issues are listed below:
 > Exceptional operating item  
Exceptional operating items have been separately disclosed within 
the Group’s consolidated income statement. The committee has 
reviewed papers prepared by management showing how these 
costs have been identified and calculated. It has challenged both 
the quantum of the charge and its presentation in the consolidated 
income statement and is satisfied that these costs have been 
treated appropriately.
 > Contract receivables and payables  
The recognition of revenue and margin on long-term contracts in 
the financial statements, and the associated contract receivables 
and payables, require management to exercise considerable 
judgement. In addition to updates on the key contract issues at 
monthly Board meetings, at which management identify any 
significant differences in contract valuations that exist with either 
client or supplier, the committee has reviewed the status of these 
key contract issues at each audit committee meeting. 
 > Impairment of goodwill  
The value of goodwill is supported by a value in use model 
prepared by management. This is based on cash flows extracted 
from the Group’s budget and strategic plan, which have both been 
approved by the Board. The committee has reviewed the model 
and assessed the assumptions used by management in 
discussion with management and the external auditor. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 72
 > Valuation of shared equity receivables  
The valuation of shared equity receivables is reliant upon the 
assumptions made by management and the accompanying 
valuation model. Key assumptions include the discount rate, 
redemption rates and house price inflation. The committee has 
reviewed the papers supporting the assumptions.
 > Going concern  
The committee reviewed papers supporting the going concern 
assessment which was compiled based on the latest 
management forecasts. In addition a number of sensitivities were 
considered to determine the effect on headroom against the 
Group’s committed facilities. The review covers a 36-month 
period from the 31 December 2015 balance sheet date.
The committee has additionally discussed each issue with the 
external auditor and sought its opinion based upon the work they 
have performed during the audit. Based upon its review and 
discussions with both management and the Group’s external and 
internal auditors, the committee is satisfied that, after raising 
appropriate challenge, the judgements outlined above are 
reasonable and that the appropriate disclosures have been included 
in the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
External auditor
To fulfil its obligations, the committee reviewed the external auditor’s 
presentation of its policies and safeguards to ensure its continued 
independence within the meaning of all regulatory and professional 
requirements and to ensure that the objectivity of the audit 
engagement partner and audit staff had not been impaired. Those 
policies and safeguards, together with the Company’s own policy on 
engaging the external auditor for non-audit work, enabled the 
committee to confirm that it was satisfied with Deloitte LLP’s 
continued independence and objectivity. 
External audit process
As part of its responsibility for assessing the effectiveness of the 
external audit, the committee discussed the external audit plan at 
the audit committee meeting held in July and reviewed progress with 
the audit plan at the meeting held in December, noting at that time 
the significant issues being addressed by the external auditor. At the 
meeting prior to the announcement of the preliminary results, the 
committee reviewed the external auditor’s fulfilment of the agreed 
audit plan and the major issues highlighted as part of the external 
audit. In addition, the internal evaluation on the external audit 
process was undertaken with the assistance of the Group head of 
audit and assurance and senior members of the Company’s and the 
divisions’ finance teams. The feedback, which covered matters 
including the quality of the process, the sufficiency of resources 
employed by the external auditor, its communication skills and its 
objectivity and independence, was then reviewed by the committee 
as part of its assessment of the external auditor’s effectiveness.
Policy on the auditor providing non-audit services
The Company’s policy on the engagement of the external auditor for 
non-audit related services is designed to ensure that the provision of 
such services does not impair the external auditor’s independence 
or objectivity. Certain categories of services are excluded entirely 
from the external auditor, in particular those which would be subject 
to direct review by the audit firm as part of the statutory audit or 
which could involve the external auditor in managerial decisions or 
judgements. Other categories, such as audit-related services or 
work which, because of the auditor’s existing knowledge of the 
Group’s business could be more effectively carried out by it, may,  
if not on the list of prohibited services, be carried out by the external 
auditor subject to the advance approval of the finance director or,  
if the fees for such services exceed an absolute limit or a specified 
proportion of the audit fee, the advance approval of the audit 
committee. No non-audit services to the Company provided by 
Deloitte LLP in 2015 required the approval of the committee.  
The fees for non-audit services during the year are set out in note 3 
to the consolidated financial statements on page 111 and total 
£11,000 in respect of tax compliance and disclosure services for  
one of our Investments’ joint venture companies. The committee has 
reviewed the nature of the work and level of fees for these services 
and concluded that they have not affected Deloitte LLP’s objectivity 
or independence. 
Reappointment of external auditor
Deloitte LLP has been the Company’s auditor since the Group was 
established from the reverse takeover of William Sindall plc in 1994 
and the audit has not been put out for tender since that time. There 
are no contractual obligations which restrict the committee’s choice 
of external auditor. The committee has noted the changes to the 
Code for FTSE 350 companies, the recent findings of the 
Competition Commission and the FRC’s Guidance for audit 
committees relating to the tendering of the external audit contract 
every 10 years. Whilst not subject to the provisions of the Code 
relating to FTSE 350 companies, the committee is keeping under 
consideration the timing of a formal tender, having regard to the 
regulatory requirements including the European Union audit 
legislation and to the timing of the rotation of the current audit 
engagement partner. Having regard to the considerations referred to 
above, the committee has satisfied itself that Deloitte LLP, the 
external auditor, remains independent and effective. The committee 
has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed. 
Risk management and internal controls 
The Board has reserved for itself specific responsibility for the 
formulation of the risk management strategy of the Group, the 
system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness. 
Certain of these responsibilities have been delegated to the audit 
committee as outlined below and in the risk review on page 41.  
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve certain business objectives due to circumstances 
which may reasonably be foreseen and, can only provide reasonable 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk management process and the system of internal controls 
have been in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of 
the annual report and accord with the FRC’s Internal Control 
Revised Guidance for Directors, and the Code.
GOVERNANCE / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 73
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
The committee has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the 
system of internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2015 
and for the period to the date of this report. The process included a 
formal review conducted by the committee of the Group risk register, 
as well as a review of the results of internal audit work and the overall 
effectiveness of the process.
Risk management
The risk management system is designed to identify principal risks 
attached to the Group’s strategy and objectives and root cause for 
each risk, and to confirm the internal controls in place to mitigate the 
risk and any further actions required. The Board combines a 
top-down risk review with a complementary bottom-up approach to 
ensure that risks are fully considered. This process includes the 
identification and assessment of the key sustainability risks facing 
the business, which include environmental, social and governance 
risks. Internal control and risk management processes are 
embedded in the operations of the divisions. A consolidated report 
of each of the divisional risk reviews together with risks identified at 
Group level are compiled in a Group risk register which is reviewed 
by the committee at least twice yearly. Further details of the Group’s 
approach to risk and the principal risks identified as facing the Group 
are highlighted in the risk review on pages 40 to 48. In addition, the 
Board devotes time during some of the scheduled Board meetings 
to considering specific commercial issues which at the time 
represent the greatest risks to the achievement of the Group’s 
objectives and the mitigating actions in place to address them.
Internal controls
The system of internal controls, which includes financial, operational 
and compliance controls, is based on a process of identifying, 
evaluating and managing risks. The committee assesses the 
effectiveness of the internal controls system on an ongoing basis. 
The key features of the Group’s system of internal control are as 
follows:
 > Group structure 
The Group’s operating structure comprises five divisions, each 
with its own management board which is given authority and 
responsibility for managing its division within a framework of 
overarching Group policies, reporting lines and detailed delegated 
authorities, which ensure that decisions and approvals are made 
at the appropriate level. Whilst responsibility for managing each 
division is delegated to the individual divisional management 
board as far as practicable, responsibility for certain of the 
Group’s key functions, including treasury, internal audit, pensions 
and insurance, is retained at the Company level.  
 > Financial reporting system 
The Board recognises that an essential part of the responsibility  
for running a business is the effective safeguarding of assets, the 
proper recognition of liabilities and the accurate reporting of 
profits. The Company has in place internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to its financial reporting process 
and the Group’s process for preparation of the consolidated 
accounts.  
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting  
system which is regularly reviewed and updated, together with a 
management reporting system established in each division for 
monthly reporting to the Board. In addition, the internal audit plan 
for the year will include financial reviews to validate the integrity of 
the divisions’ management accounts. 
 > Investment and capital expenditure  
There are detailed procedures and defined levels of authority, 
depending on the value and/or nature of the investment or 
contract, in relation to corporate transactions, investment, capital 
expenditure, significant cost commitments and asset disposals.  
 > Tender, project selection and contract controls 
Individual tenders are subject to detailed review with approvals 
required at relevant levels and at various stages from 
commencement of the bidding process through to contract 
award. As part of this process, the financial standing of both 
clients and key subcontractors is assessed. In addition, robust 
procedures exist to manage the ongoing risks associated with 
contracts with monthly reviews of each contract’s performance. 
 > Working capital  
The Group continually monitors current and forecast cash  
and working capital balances through a regime of daily and 
monthly reporting. 
 > Internal audit  
The Group head of audit and assurance is responsible for 
managing the internal audit function, overseeing the divisional 
heads of internal audit and assisting with risk management 
practices. An audit plan for each year is drawn up following  
review of the divisional and Group risk registers and discussion 
with management and the audit committee and is approved in 
advance by the audit committee. Internal audit and assurance 
work carried out during the year included operational, project  
and financial reviews across the Group. The results of these 
reviews were recorded in audit reports and presented to the  
audit committee. The status of agreed management actions to 
address identified operational weaknesses is actively tracked  
until implementation. 
The Group head of audit and assurance reports to the Board 
monthly on a range of performance metrics including the current 
status of agreed audit actions and progress against the annual  
audit plan. 
The internal audit process is supplemented by a rolling programme 
of peer group reviews within the two largest divisions, which assist  
in the professional development of the individual staff concerned 
whilst, at the same time, providing a mechanism for the cross-
fertilisation of ideas and best practice throughout each division. 
These reviews are overseen by the divisional heads of internal audit 
and tracking of agreed management actions is included within the 
overall internal audit process.  MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 74
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Annual statement
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to introduce our directors’ remuneration report for the 
year ended 31 December 2015. The report is split into three 
sections, namely: (i) this annual statement; (ii) the remuneration 
policy (which sets out the shareholder approved director’s 
remuneration policy); and (iii) the annual report on remuneration 
(explaining payments made in the year under review and how the 
policy will be operated for 2016). As no changes are being made to 
the remuneration policy, only the annual statement and the annual 
report on remuneration will be subject to a vote by shareholders at 
the forthcoming AGM on 5 May 2016.
Review of remuneration for 2015
The Group’s adjusted operating profit is up 34%. While margins in 
Construction & Infrastructure have remained suppressed (albeit with 
a second half of the year improvement as a result of the 
considerable progress made in closing out its older, lower margin 
construction contracts in London and the South), Fit Out delivered 
an excellent result together with strong contributions from the Urban 
Regeneration and Affordable Housing divisions. This produced a 
PBTA for 2015 which triggered an 80.3% of salary bonus award. 
However, reflecting the challenging market conditions over the last 
three years, the long-term incentive awards granted in 2013 based 
on a three-year performance period ending 31 December 2015 
failed to vest, with performance against earnings per share (‘EPS’) 
and relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’) targets falling below the 
threshold targets.
Remuneration arrangements for 2016
Following a review of the current remuneration policy, the 
committee was satisfied that the policy remains fit for purpose 
and aligned to the long-term strategy and, therefore, shareholder 
interests. Consistent with the general workforce increase, the 
base salary increase for John Morgan was limited to 3%. In 
recognition of the size of his role and responsibility levels and 
the significant contribution that Steve Crummett has made over 
the last 12 months in driving the performance of the Group 
and development of relationships with the divisions both on a 
financial and more general basis, the committee increased his 
salary by 9% from 1 January 2016. No changes were made to 
benefit or pension provision, the quantum and structure of the 
annual bonus (100% based on challenging financial targets) 
or the structure of long-term incentive provision (delivered 
though LTIP awards over shares worth up to 150% of salary 
based on stretching three-year EPS and TSR targets). 
Remuneration policy
As the three-year remuneration policy was originally approved by 
shareholders under a binding vote at the 2014 AGM, the committee 
is intending to review the remuneration policy during 2016 to ensure 
that it remains appropriate for the Group’s longer-term strategy and 
is planning to present the policy to shareholders for a binding vote at 
the 2017 AGM.
Alignment and dialogue with shareholders
While the committee was delighted with the support received from 
shareholders in respect of last year’s remuneration report and 
remuneration policy, the committee remains mindful of our 
shareholders’ views and concerns. We hope to continue to receive 
your support at the forthcoming AGM.
Patrick De Smedt
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
23 February 2016 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 75
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY
The key aim of the remuneration policy is to align the interests of the executive directors with those of shareholders by supporting delivery of 
the Group’s strategy. In setting the remuneration policy, the committee takes into consideration amongst other matters, investor guidelines 
and the maximum amount of remuneration that each executive director could receive should all targets be met. Each of the key elements of 
the remuneration package is designed to drive the creation of long-term shareholder value, without encouraging the executive directors to 
take inappropriate risks. 
Base salary
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance targets
Set to attract, retain and 
motivate talented individuals.
Base salary is reviewed annually  
by the committee or, if appropriate, 
in the event of a change in an 
individual’s position or 
responsibilities.
Salary levels are set by reference to 
market rates, taking into account 
individual performance, 
experience, company performance 
and the pay and conditions of 
other senior management in the 
Group and of the workforce 
generally. The committee may on 
occasion recognise an increase in 
circumstances such as assumed 
additional responsibility or an 
increase in the scale or scope of 
the role.
There is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase. 
Current salary levels are presented 
on page 82.
N/A
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance targets
To provide a market-competitive 
level of benefits.
Current benefits include travel 
allowance, private medical 
insurance, income protection 
insurance and life assurance.  
Other benefits may be provided 
where appropriate.
The travel allowance is £17,000. 
The value of other benefits is 
based on the cost to the Company 
and is not pre-determined. 
N/A MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 76
GOVERNANCE / DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Pension
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance targets
To provide a pension 
arrangement to contribute 
towards retirement planning.
The Company will contribute to the 
defined contribution pension 
scheme, The Morgan Sindall 
Retirement Benefits Plan (‘the 
Retirement Plan’) or to personal 
pension arrangements at the 
request of the individual.
The Company may also consider a 
cash alternative (eg where a 
director has reached the HMRC’s 
lifetime or annual allowance limit).
Employer contributions are 10% of 
base salary. 
Directors who are members of the 
Retirement Plan may elect to 
exchange part of their salary or 
bonus award in return for pension 
contributions, where the Company 
will enhance the additional 
contributions by half of the saved 
employer’s National Insurance 
Contribution (‘NIC’).
N/A
Annual bonus
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance targets
Rewarding the achievement of 
demanding annual performance 
metrics. 
Annual bonus is normally payable 
in cash. 
Performance targets are reviewed 
annually by the committee. 
The committee has discretion to (i) 
override the formulaic outturn of 
the bonus to determine the 
appropriate level of bonus payable 
where it believes the outcome is 
not truly reflective of performance 
and to ensure fairness to both 
shareholders and participants; 
and/or (ii) require some or all of the 
annual bonus to be deferred into 
shares. 
Clawback provisions apply for 
overpayments due to material 
misstatement, error or gross 
misconduct. The period over which 
amounts may be clawed back is 
three years.
The maximum opportunity is 100% 
of base salary.
All or a majority of the bonus will 
be based on PBTA, set relative to 
the Group’s budget. 
A minority of the bonus may be 
based on non-financial, strategic 
and/or personal objectives to 
provide a rounded assessment of 
Group and management’s 
performance.
The PBTA targets incorporate an 
appropriate sliding scale range 
around a challenging target.  MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 77
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
2014 LTIP
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance targets
To balance performance pay 
between the achievement of 
financial performance 
objectives and delivering 
sustainable stock market 
out-performance. 
To encourage share 
ownership and provide further 
alignment with the interests of 
shareholders. 
Annual awards of conditional 
shares or nil (or nominal) cost 
options are granted with vesting 
dependent on the achievement 
of performance conditions over 
a three-year period. 
Performance targets are 
reviewed annually by the 
committee for each new award. 
Dividends that accrue during the 
vesting period may, at the 
committee's discretion, be paid 
in cash or shares at the time of 
vesting. The calculation of the 
dividend equivalent may assume 
the reinvestment of dividends. 
Clawback provisions apply for 
overpayments due to material 
misstatement, error or gross 
misconduct. The period over 
which amounts may be clawed 
back is three years.
150% of base salary. The awards are subject to 
performance conditions 
based on the Company’s EPS 
and on relative TSR compared 
to a group of UK-listed peers.
For both the EPS and TSR 
conditions, no more than 25% 
of the awards will vest for 
achieving threshold 
performance, increasing to 
100% vesting for achievement 
of stretching performance 
targets. 
All employee sharesave plan
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance targets
To encourage share 
ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders. 
This is an HMRC approved plan 
under which regular monthly 
savings are made over a period 
of three years and can be used 
to fund the exercise of an option 
to purchase shares at a 
discount of up to 20% of the 
market price at grant.
Prevailing HMRC limits apply. N/A MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 78
GOVERNANCE / DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Non-executive directors’ fees
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance targets
Set to attract, retain and 
motivate talented individuals.
Fees are paid in cash.
Additional fees may be paid to 
the chairs of the committees 
and the senior independent 
director to reflect their additional 
responsibilities.
The committee is guided by fee 
levels in the non-executive 
director market and may 
recognise an increase in certain 
circumstances such as 
assumed additional 
responsibility or an increase in 
the scale or scope of the role.
Normally reviewed on an  
annual basis.
As for the executive directors, 
there is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase. 
N/A
 > The annual bonus performance measures are all or predominantly 
focused on PBTA as this is the key measure of how successful the 
Group is in managing its operations. Any element based on 
non-financial targets would be determined on how well the 
executive directors perform against annual non-financial, strategic 
and/or personal targets, set to ensure that they are linked to the 
strategic objectives of the Group. 
 > The long-term incentive performance measures, EPS and TSR, 
reward long-term financial growth and significant long-term 
returns to shareholders. Targets take account of internal strategic 
planning and external market expectations for the Group and are 
set appropriate to the economic outlook and risk factors prevailing 
at the time, ensuring that such targets remain challenging in the 
circumstances, whilst remaining realistic enough to motivate and 
incentivise management. The TSR performance condition is 
monitored on the committee’s behalf by New Bridge Street, whilst 
EPS is derived from the Group’s audited financial statements.
 > Employees across the Group below Board level may be eligible to 
participate in an annual bonus arrangement. Long-term incentive 
awards and/or discretionary share options may be awarded to 
certain other senior executives, for which the maximum 
opportunity and the performance conditions may vary by 
organisational level. All employees are eligible to participate in  
The Morgan Sindall Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
 > The committee will operate the incentive plans in accordance with 
their respective rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where 
relevant. The committee, consistent with market practice, retains 
discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and 
administration of certain plan rules. These include (but are not 
limited to) the following:
 – who participates;
 – the timing of the grant of award and/or payment;
 – the size of an award (up to plan/policy limits) and/or a payment; 
 – where the result indicated by the relative TSR performance 
condition may be scaled back (potentially to zero) in the event 
that the committee considers that financial performance has 
been unsatisfactory and/or the outcome has been distorted due 
to the TSR for the Company or any comparator company being 
considered abnormal;
 – discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the 
event of a change of control or reconstruction;
 – determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified 
categories) for incentive plan purposes;
 – discretion to pay or award shares to the value of dividends 
accrued during the vesting period;
 – adjustments required in certain circumstances (eg rights  
issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends);
 – the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for 
exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original 
purpose.
REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 79
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this directors’  
remuneration policy report, authority was given to the Company  
to honour any commitments entered into with current or former 
directors (such as, the payment of a pension or the vesting or 
exercise of past share awards).
Executive directors’ remuneration
The committee takes account of remuneration levels offered 
to other senior executives within the Group as well as pay 
awards affecting Group employees generally when considering 
policy in relation to executive directors. When considering the 
executive directors’ remuneration structure and levels for 2016, 
the committee reviewed the salaries and proposed incentive 
arrangements for the senior executives in the divisions to 
ensure that there was a coherent approach. The committee 
does not formally consult with employees in respect of the 
design of the Company’s executive directors’ remuneration 
policy, although the committee will keep this under review. 
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications 
with investors. The committee considers the AGM to be an 
opportunity to meet and communicate with investors and considers 
shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year. 
This feedback, together with any additional feedback received from 
time to time, is considered as part of the Company’s annual review 
of remuneration policy. The committee will also seek to engage 
directly with major shareholders and representative bodies should 
any material changes be made to the directors’ remuneration policy. 
Major shareholders and representative bodies were consulted at the 
end of 2013 in respect of the replacement share plans and again at 
the end of 2014/beginning of 2015 in respect of the revised LTIP 
policy. Details of the votes cast for and against the resolution to 
approve last year’s remuneration report are set out in the annual 
report on remuneration.
Remuneration scenarios for the executive directors
The following charts show, for illustrative purposes only, an estimate 
of the potential future remuneration payable for the executive 
directors under the policy at different levels of performance. The 
charts highlight that the performance-related elements of the 
package comprise a significant portion of the executive directors’ 
total remuneration at on-target and maximum performance.
In these charts:
 > Base salary levels are as at 1 January 2016.
 > The value of benefits has been estimated.
 > The value of pension receivable is the equivalent of 10% of  
base salary. 
 > Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the 
annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP, 
on-target performance assumes, for simplicity, 50% is earned 
under the annual bonus plan and 50% is achieved under the LTIP 
whereas maximum performance assumes full vesting under both 
plans (100% of salary under the annual bonus plan and 150% of 
base salary under the LTIP). 
 > Share price movement and dividend accrual have been  
excluded from the above analysis.
Chief Executive £000
Total ﬁxed pay Annual bonus Long Term Incentive Plan
£250 £500 £750 £1000 £1250 £1500 £1750
£1,740,500 Maximum 41% 27% 32%
£549,875 Minimum 100%
£1,127,328 On-target 48% 22% 30%
Maximum
Minimum
On-target
Finance Director £000
Total ﬁxed pay Annual bonus Long Term Incentive Plan
£250 £500 £750 £1000 £1250 £1500
£1,390,100 41% 27% 32%
£440,725 100%
£901,172 48% 22% 30%
Directors’ recruitment and promotions
The committee takes into account the need to attract, retain and 
motivate the best person for each position, without paying more 
than is necessary.
For external appointments, the committee would seek to align the 
remuneration package with the remuneration policy as approved by 
shareholders, including the maximum limit for the annual bonus of 
100% of salary and a maximum LTIP award of up to 150% of base 
salary. The committee may also make awards or payments in 
respect of deferred remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving 
a previous employer. The committee will look to replicate the 
arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible. In doing so, the 
committee will take account of relevant factors including the value of 
deferred remuneration, the currency (that is, cash or shares), 
performance conditions and the time over which they would have 
vested or been paid. MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 80
GOVERNANCE / DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
For an internal appointment, any incentive amount awarded in 
respect of a prior role may be allowed to vest on its original terms,  
or adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. Any 
other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment 
may continue.
The initial notice period for a service contract may be longer than the 
policy of a 12-month notice period, provided it reduces to 12 months 
within a short space of time.
The committee may also agree that the Company will meet certain 
relocation and/or incidental expenses as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new non-executive director, the fee 
arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved 
remuneration policy at that time.
Directors’ service contracts and payments for loss of office 
All executive directors’ service agreements are terminable on  
12 months’ notice. In circumstances of termination on notice, the 
committee will determine an equitable compensation package, 
having regard to the particular circumstances of the case. The 
committee has discretion to require notice to be worked or to make 
payment in lieu of notice or to place the director on garden leave for 
the notice period. 
In case of payment in lieu or garden leave, base salary, employer 
pension contributions and employee benefits will be paid for the 
period of notice served on garden leave or paid in lieu. The 
remuneration committee will endeavour to make payments in 
phased instalments and to apply mitigation in the case of offsetting 
payments against earnings elsewhere. 
The annual bonus may be payable in respect of the period of the 
bonus scheme year worked by the director; there is no provision for 
an amount in lieu of bonus to be payable for any part of the notice 
period not worked. The bonus would be payable at the normal date.
Long-term incentives granted under the LTIP will be determined by 
the LTIP rules which contain discretionary good leaver provisions for 
designated reasons (that is, participants who leave early on account 
of injury, disability, death, a sale of their employer or business in 
which they were employed, statutory redundancy, retirement or any 
other reason at the discretion of the committee). In these 
circumstances a participant’s awards will not be forfeited on 
cessation of employment and instead will vest on the normal vesting 
date. In exceptional circumstances, the committee may decide that 
the participant’s awards will vest early on the date of cessation of 
employment. In either case, the extent to which the awards will vest 
depends on the extent to which the performance conditions have 
been satisfied and a pro rata reduction of the awards will be applied 
by reference to the time of cessation (although the committee has 
discretion to disapply time pro rating if the circumstances warrant it).
In respect of legacy awards outstanding under the Executive 
Remuneration Plan 2005 (‘the ERP’), the awards will be determined 
by the ERP rules which contain discretionary good leaver provisions 
for designated reasons (that is, participants who leave early on 
account of injury, disability, a sale of their employer or business in 
which they were employed, statutory redundancy, retirement or any 
other reason at the discretion of the committee). In these 
circumstances a participant’s awards will not be forfeited on 
cessation of employment and instead will vest either on the normal 
vesting date or on cessation of employment, at the discretion of the 
committee, subject to the performance conditions. The awards will, 
unless the committee in its discretion decides otherwise, be scaled 
back pro rata to reflect the reduced period. In the case of death of 
the participant, the award will vest at that time and the performance 
conditions will be deemed to be satisfied. The award will not be time 
pro rated. 
The service agreements do not contain specific provisions for 
enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the 
Company.
The dates of the executive directors’ contracts who served during 
the year are:
John Morgan 20 February 2012
Steve Crummett 25 February 2013
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office. 
 
Non-executive directors’ terms of engagement
All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement being 
an initial period of three years which thereafter may be extended by 
mutual consent, subject to the requirements for re-election and the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (‘the FCA’) and the 
relevant schedules of the Act. 
Appointment letter date
Month/year initial three-year 
term was extended
Adrian Martin 28 November 2008 November 2011
Patrick De Smedt 26 November 2009 November 2012
Malcolm Cooper 9 November 2015 –
Simon Gulliford 24 February 2010 February 2013
Liz Peace 5 November 2012 November 2015
All of the above non-executive directors are subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. 
REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 81
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The information provided in this part of the directors’ remuneration 
report, that is subject to audit, has been highlighted.
Remuneration committee
Members
Patrick De Smedt (Chair)
Malcolm Cooper (from 9 November 2015)
Simon Gulliford 
Liz Peace 
All members are independent.
Responsibilities
The committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with 
the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the executive 
directors and it sets their salaries and remuneration packages. In 
addition, the committee monitors the structure and level of 
remuneration for other senior executives in the Group and is 
aware of pay and conditions in the workforce generally.  
The terms of reference, setting out the duties of the committee, are available on our 
website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com.
Activities of the committee
The committee met on three occasions during the year and 
attendance at meetings is disclosed in the corporate governance 
report on page 65. The meetings covered the normal business 
of confirming performance-related pay for the year ended 
31 December 2015 and setting bonus and long-term incentive 
targets for 2016. Additional consultation between committee 
members and between the chair of the committee and the chief 
executive took place outside of formal meetings. 
External advice received
During the year, the committee received independent advice from 
New Bridge Street (‘NBS’), part of Aon plc, in relation to its 
consideration of the structure of the executive directors’ 
remuneration for 2015 and 2016 and other matters considered by 
the committee during the year. The committee also consulted the 
chief executive but not in relation to his own remuneration. NBS also 
provided advice to the Company on accounting for share awards 
and the operation of the Company’s share option schemes but 
provided no other material services to the Company or the Group, 
although another part of the Aon plc group has provided some 
limited broking services to associated companies in the Group.  
The committee is comfortable that these services do not prejudice 
NBS’s position as an independent adviser to the committee.
The fees paid by the Company to NBS during the financial year for 
advice to the committee were £33,485 (2014: £75,315), of which 
£17,437 (2014: £34,900) related to the advice to the Company 
referred to above.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of 
Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective and impartial. 82 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
GOVERNANCE / DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT
Shareholder voting at AGM
At last year’s AGM held on 7 May 2015, the directors’ remuneration policy and the directors’ remuneration report (excluding the remuneration 
policy) for the year ended 31 December 2014 received the following votes from shareholders:
Directors’ remuneration policy Annual statement and annual report on remuneration
Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 35,592,847 98.46 36,137,232 99.61
Against 557,603 1.54 142,578 0.39
Total votes cast (for and against) 36,150,450 100.00 36,279,810 100.00
Votes withheld¹ 131,594 – 4,564 –
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 36,282,044 – 36,284,374 –
1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2016
Base salaries
In setting the 2016 base salaries, the committee considered the budgeted level of increases in base salary for senior executives below Board 
level and the workforce generally, which averaged 3%, and determined that John Morgan should receive the same increase. In respect of 
Steve Crummett, the committee reviewed the size of his role and responsibility levels together with the significant contribution that he has 
made over the last 12 months in driving the performance of the Group and the development of relationships with the divisions both on a 
financial and more general basis. Following this review, the committee determined that Steve Crummett should receive a 9% salary increase 
from 1 January 2016.
Accordingly, annual base salaries for the executive directors for 2016 will be as follows:
From 1 January 2016  
£
From 1 January 2015  
£ Increase
John Morgan 476,250 462,419 3%
Steve Crummett 379,750 348,398 9%
 
Pension arrangements
The Company will contribute up to 10% of base salary to a personal pension plan and/or as a cash supplement. Consistent with all 
employees participating in the Retirement Plan, relevant executive directors may exchange part of their gross salary and bonus awards in 
return for pension contributions. Where additional pension contributions are made through the salary exchange process, the Company 
enhances the contributions by half of the saved employer’s NIC. 
Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus potential for 2016 will remain at 100% of base salary. To ensure that management is focused on the financial 
performance of the Company in 2016, 100% of the bonus will be based on a PBTA target range set in relation to the Group’s budget. 
The committee has chosen not to disclose the targets in advance for the forthcoming year as these are set in relation to the Group’s budget, 
which is considered commercially sensitive. Retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be disclosed in next 
year’s annual remuneration report.
The annual bonus will be subject to clawback provisions. 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
CONTINUED 83 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Long-term incentives
The committee intends to make awards to the executive directors under the 2014 LTIP.
As per the 2015 LTIP awards, the awards to be granted in 2016 will be set at 150% of base salary. Two thirds of awards (100% of salary) will 
be based on an EPS performance target and the remaining one third of awards (50% of salary) will be based on a condition measuring the 
Company’s TSR compared with seven of its UK-listed peers, over a three-year period.
EPS performance condition
The vesting range for the EPS targets is shown graphically below:
0% 1% 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% 9% 10% 11% 12% 13% 14% 15% 16% 17% 18% 19% 20%
EPS growth + RPI % pa from 2015 (base year) to 2018 (end year) 
100% 
75%
50%
25%
0%
100% vesting 
above RPI +15% pa 
40% vesting 
at RPI +10% pa 
12.5% vesting at 
RPI +5% pa 
% of EPS element of award vesting (100% of salary) 
 
TSR performance condition (one third of the awards)
The TSR comparator group comprises Balfour Beatty plc, Carillion plc, Costain Group plc, Galliford Try plc, Interserve Plc, Keller Group plc 
and Kier Group plc. The target range for the TSR performance condition is shown graphically below:  
% of TSR element of award vesting (50% of salary) 
Morgan Sindall Group plc TSR position relative to the comparator group 
100% 
80%
60%
40%
0%
20%
62.5% vesting if TSR
equals 3rd position
No vesting below median 
Median 2nd 
100% vesting if TSR equals 2nd position or better 
25% vesting
at median
In addition to the vesting being determined by the stepped scale of TSR performance shown above, there are two additional conditions 
governing the level of vesting. Specifically, the result indicated by the TSR performance condition may be scaled back (potentially to zero) in 
the event that the committee considers that:
 > financial performance has been unsatisfactory; and/or 
 > the outcome has been distorted due to the TSR for the Company or any comparator company being considered abnormal.
The LTIP awards will be subject to clawback provisions. 
  84 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
GOVERNANCE / DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
CONTINUED
Fees for the non-executive directors
The chairman’s fee is determined by the committee while the non-executive directors’ remuneration is determined by the Board (excluding 
non-executive directors) within the limits set by the Articles and is based on market data, together with external advice as appropriate. Fees 
were increased by 3% for 2016. As part of the review of non-executive directors fees the Company has agreed, in line with market practice, to 
pay the senior independent director a fee of £6,000. The additional fees for committee chairs remain unchanged. Accordingly the annual fees 
from 1 January are as follows: 
2016  
£
2015  
£ Increase
Chairman 143,220 139,050 3%
Base fee 44,800 43,497 3%
Additional fees:
Audit committee chair 7,500 7,500 –
Remuneration committee chair 6,000 6,000 –
Senior independent director 6,000 – 100%
Non-executive directors receive no other benefits and do not participate in short-term or long-term incentive schemes.
Fees receivable by the executive directors serving on other boards
At the discretion of the Board, executive directors are allowed to act as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any fees 
relating to those posts. Steve Crummett is a non-executive director and chair of the audit committee at Consort Medical plc, for which he 
receives a fee of £46,000 per annum. 
Dilution and share usage under employee share plans
Shares required for the 2007 Employee Share Option Plan are satisfied by shares purchased in the market via the Company’s employee 
benefit trust and shares for the Company’s other share plans may be satisfied using either new issue shares or market purchased shares 
although the Company’s present intention is to use market purchase shares to satisfy these awards. However, it retains the ability to use new 
issue shares instead and may decide to do so up to the dilution limits recommended by the Investment Association (10% of issued ordinary 
share capital for all employee share plans over a 10-year period and, within this limit, no more than 5% of issued ordinary share capital for 
executive or discretionary share plans). The outstanding level of dilution against these limits equates to 3.02% of the current issued ordinary 
share capital under all employee share plans, of which 3.02% relates to discretionary share plans. 
Separately, the employee benefit trust currently holds 466,425 shares which may be used to satisfy awards. 
  85 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Directors’ remuneration (audited) 
Fees/ 
basic salary  
£000
Benefits¹
£000 
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Annual cash
bonuses
2
£000
Value of 
long-term
incentives
3
£000
Employee 
termination 
payments 
£000
Total 
remuneration 
£000
Executive directors
John Morgan
2015 462 26 46 371 – – 905
2014 449 22 45 – – – 516
Steve Crummett
2015 348 23 35 280 – – 686
2014 338 19 34 – – – 391
Non-executive directors
Adrian Martin
2015 139 – – – – – 139
2014 135 – – – – – 135
Patrick De Smedt
2015 49 – – – – – 49
2014 48 – – – – – 48
Malcolm Cooper
4
2015 6 – – – – – 6
2014 – – – – – – –
Simon Gulliford
2015 43 – – – – – 43
2014 42 – – – – – 42
Liz Peace
2015 51 – – – – – 51
2014 50 – – – – – 50
Geraldine Gallacher
5
2015 – – – – – – –
2014 42 – – – – – 42
1 Benefits for the executive directors comprise a travel allowance, private medical insurance, income protection insurance and life assurance. 
2 The table below shows performance against PBTA targets for 2015 representing 100% of the annual cash bonus potential: 
 
Threshold 
target  
£m
50% target 
£m
Maximum 
target 
£m
Actual 
performance 
£m
Percentage 
of salary
Adjusted Group PBTA at 31 December 2015 30.1 32.0 35.8 34.3 80.3%
3  Based on awards granted in 2013 under the ERP, which were due to vest on 26 February 2016 subject to EPS and relative TSR performance for the year ended 31 December 
2015. As set out in the table below, the Company did not meet the threshold targets resulting in no share awards vesting:
 Performance condition Threshold target 50% target Maximum target Actual performance % Vesting
Adjusted EPS 67.50p 75.1p 90p 63p 0
Relative TSR Median N/A Second position Below median 0
Total vesting 0
4 Malcolm Cooper joined the Company on 9 November 2015.
5 Geraldine Gallacher stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2014. 86 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
GOVERNANCE / DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
CONTINUED
Share awards granted during the year (audited)
 
Type of  
award Date of grant
Basis of award 
granted
Share price  
at date of grant
Number of shares 
over which award 
was granted
Face value of
award
1
 
£
% Vesting at 
threshold
Performance 
period
John Morgan LTIP 2 March 2015
150% of 
salary £7 .029 98,680 £693,629 16.67%
Three financial 
years to
 31 December 
2017 Steve Crummett LTIP 2 March 2015
150% of 
salary £7 .029 74,348 £522,597 16.67%
1 Based on the average share price for the five dealing days preceding the date of grant. The closing share price on 2 March 2015 was £7.50.
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
Through participation in performance-linked share-based plans, there is strong encouragement for senior executives to build and maintain a 
significant shareholding in the business.
The committee has adopted a formal policy requiring the executive directors to build and maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent 
to 200% of base salary (increased in line with best practice from 100% of salary from the 2015 AGM). Until such time as this threshold is 
achieved there is a requirement for executives to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of vested incentive awards. John Morgan’s 
holding is well in excess of this requirement while Steve Crummett, who joined the Board in February 2013, is still working towards the 
guideline. 
The interests of the directors, all of which are beneficial, in the shares of the Company are given below. 
31 December 2015  
No. of shares
31 December 2014  
No. of shares
Adrian Martin 12,000 12,000
John Morgan 4,004,352 3,999,322
Steve Crummett 14,615 12,200
Patrick De Smedt 2,000 2,000
Malcolm Cooper
1
– N/A
Simon Gulliford 11,350 3,350
Liz Peace 1,375 –
1  Malcolm Cooper joined the Company on 9 November 2015.
There have been no changes in the interests of the directors between 31 December 2015 and 23 February 2016.
Directors’ outstanding share incentives 
Details of the executive directors’ interests in long-term incentive awards as at 31 December 2015 and movements during the year are as 
follows:  87 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Performance shares 
Date of  
award
No. of awards 
outstanding 
as at  
1 January  
2015
No. of  
shares 
awarded
No. of 
dividend 
equivalent 
shares 
awarded
No. of  
shares  
vested
No. of  
shares  
lapsed
No. of awards 
outstanding 
as at  
31 December 
2015
End of 
performance 
period
Date  
awards  
vest
John Morgan 21.5.2012 68,224 – – – (68,224) – 31.12.2014 21.5.2015
26.2.2013 81,186 – – – – 81,186 31.12.2015 26.2.2016
19.5.2014 55,687 – – – – 55,687 31.12.2016 19.5.2017
2.3.2015 – 98,680 – – – 98,680 31.12.2017 2.3.2018
Total 205,097 98,680 – – (68,224) 235,553
Steve Crummett 26.2.2013 91,751 – – – – 91,751 31.12.2015 26.2.2016
19.5.2014 41,956 – – – – 41,956 31.12.2016 19.5.2017
2.3.2015 – 74,348 – – – 74,348 31.12.2017 2.3.2018
Total 133,707 74,348 – – – 208,055
Notes
1 The awards granted in 2012 under the ERP failed to vest with EPS and TSR for the year ended 31 December 2014 falling below the threshold targets. 
2 The awards granted in 2013 under the ERP failed to vest with EPS and TSR for the year ended 31 December 2015 falling below the threshold targets. 
3 The awards of performance shares made in 2014 are subject to adjusted EPS growth targets and a TSR performance condition with full vesting of 50% of the awards for achieving 
adjusted EPS growth of RPI+10% per annum, reducing on a sliding scale to 12.5% vesting for achieving EPS growth of RPI+4% per annum. There is no vesting for this part of an 
award for EPS growth less than RPI+4% per annum. The other 50% of the award is subject to the same TSR condition described above.
4 The awards of performance shares over 150% of salary granted in 2015 are subject to adjusted EPS growth targets and a TSR performance condition. For awards over 100% of 
salary, awards vest in full for achieving adjusted EPS growth of RPI+18% per annum. reducing on a sliding scale to 12.5% vesting for achieving EPS growth of RPI+4% per annum. 
There is no vesting for this part of an award for EPS growth less than RPI+4% per annum. For awards over the remaining 50% of salary, the award is subject to the same TSR 
condition described above.
Share options 
Date of  
grant
No. of options 
outstanding 
as at  
1 January 
2015
No. of  
options 
exercised
No. of  
options 
lapsed
No. of options 
outstanding 
as at  
31 December 
2015
End of 
performance 
period
Exercise  
price
Date from 
which 
exercisable
John Morgan 20.5.2005 107,736 (107,736) – – 31.12.2007 £7.24 20.5.2008
5.4.2006 81,016 – – 81,016 31.12.2008 £12.59 5.4.2009
17 .3.2010 106,364 – – 106,364 31.12.2012 £5.55 17 .3.2013
Total 295,116 (107,736) – 187,380
Notes
1 John Morgan exercised 107,736 share options on 19 May 2015. The share price on the date of exercise was £7.92. 
2 The outstanding options granted in 2006 and 2010 have satisfied their performance condition and are exercisable.
3 The outstanding options detailed above will, if not lapsed or exercised earlier, lapse 10 years from the date of grant. 
The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2015 was £7.40 and the range during the year was £6.13 to £8.64. 
Payments for loss of office (audited)
There were no payments made in respect of a loss of office during the year under review. 
Payments to former directors (audited)
The threshold performance condition in respect of the ERP long-term incentive awards granted on 21 May 2012 to Paul Smith, David Mulligan 
and Paul Whitmore was not met and the awards lapsed on 21 May 2015. No other payments were made to former directors during the year.  88 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
GOVERNANCE / DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
CONTINUED
Percentage change in remuneration levels 
The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the chief executive between the 2014 and 2015 financial years, 
compared to that for the average of all employees of the Group: 
Change
Chief executive
Salary 3.0%
Benefits 18.2%
Bonus 100.0%
1
Average employee
Salary 2.7%
Benefits (2.2%)
Bonus 64.2%
1 Reflects that no bonus was paid for 2014.
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The following table sets out the percentage change in profit, dividends and overall spend on pay in 2015 compared to 2014:
2015 2014 Change
Adjusted EPS (pence) 63.0 46.7 +35%
Dividends paid during the year (£m) 11.8 11.5 +3%
Employee remuneration costs (£m) 368.9 325.8 +13%
Seven-year performance graph and table 
The graph below shows the TSR for the Company’s shares over the last seven financial years. It shows the value to 31 December 2015 of 
£100 invested in Morgan Sindall Group plc on 1 January 2009 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index 
(excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE All Share Index (Construction and Materials Sector). The other points plotted are the values at 
intervening financial year ends.
Total shareholder return
Morgan Sindall Group plc FTSE All Share Index (excluding investment trusts) FTSE All Share Index (Construction and Materials Sector)
250
200
150
100
50
0
Value (£)
31 December
2008
31 December
2009
31 December 
2010
31 December
2011
31 December
2012
31 December
2013
31 December
2014
31 December
2015 89 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
The total remuneration figures for the chief executive during each of the last seven financial years are shown in the table below. Consistent 
with the calculation methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total annual bonus 
award based on that year’s performance and the long-term incentive award based on the three-year performance period ending in the 
relevant year. The annual bonus pay-out and long-term incentive award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also 
shown for each of these years. 
2015 2014 2013 2012 2012 2011 2010 2009
Chief executive John Morgan¹ Paul Smith
2
Total remuneration (£000) 905 516 507
3
671 1,327 1,025 1,096 796
Annual bonus % 80 – –
3
30 26 85 100 27
LTIP share awards vesting % – – – – 49 – – 25
LTIP share options vesting % – – – 46 46 – – –
1 John Morgan was appointed chief executive on 5 November 2012, having previously been executive chairman. 
2  Paul Smith resigned on 5 November 2012 and ceased employment on 31 December 2012.
3  John Morgan waived his bonus entitlement for 2013. 
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Patrick De Smedt
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
23 February 2016
  90 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Other disclosures
The Act requires the directors to present a fair review of the business during the year to 31 December 2015 and of the position of the 
Company at the end of the financial year together with the financial statements, auditor’s report and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties which the Group faces. The strategic report can be found on pages 2 to 56. The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require 
certain information to be included in a corporate governance report which can be found on pages 62 to 73.
There were no significant events since the balance sheet date. An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group and 
details of research and development activities are included in the strategic report. Information about the use of financial instruments by the 
Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Pages 2 to 94, which include the corporate governance report and the strategic report, together with the notice of AGM including the 
explanatory notes and sections of the annual report incorporated by reference, form part of the directors’ report which is presented in 
accordance with, and with reliance upon, applicable English company law. The liabilities of the directors in connection with this report shall 
be limited as provided by English law.
The table below sets out where key information can be found across the annual report:
Subject Page reference
Dividends See page 113 of the consolidated financial statements.
Capital structure (details of the issued share capital) See page 123 of the consolidated financial statements.
Directors > See page 85 of the remuneration report detailing the directors who 
served during the year.
 > Biographical details of the directors of the Company who are seeking 
election and re-election are set out on pages 58 and 59.
 > Details of directors’ interests, including interests in the Company’s 
shares, are disclosed in the directors’ remuneration report on pages  
86 to 87.
The Morgan Sindall Employee Benefit Trust (‘the Trust’) Details of the shares held by the Trust may be found in the consolidated 
financial statements on page 123.
Environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) disclosures Details of the Group’s approach to diversity and ESG disclosures can be 
found in the responsible business review on pages 50 to 56, the risk 
review on page 44 and in the corporate governance report on page 68.
Morgan Sindall Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) Details of the Group’s LTIP are set out in note 25 of the consolidated 
financial statements on page 124 and the annual report on remuneration 
on page 83.
Greenhouse gas emissions All disclosures on the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions, 
as required to be disclosed under Schedule 7 of The Large and  
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (pursuant to the Act, Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report Regulations 2013), are contained in the responsible business 
review on page 54.
Capital structure
At each AGM the Board seeks authorisation from its shareholders to allot shares. The directors were granted authority at the AGM on 7 May 
2015 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of £110,412. That authority will apply until the conclusion of this year’s AGM and a 
resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at this year’s AGM, as explained further in the notice to shareholders accompanying this 
report. 91 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors’ power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash, as explained in the notice 
accompanying this report. The Board confirms that the Company has not used this authority in the last three years and there are no 
immediate plans to make use of this provision.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or 
(if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision) as the Board as defined in the Company’s Articles may decide. 
Subject to the Articles, the Act and other shareholders’ rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Subject to the Act, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than 75% in 
nominal value of the issued shares of that class (calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares), or with the sanction of a special 
resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares. 
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be 
deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Voting
Subject to any other provisions of the Articles, every member present in person or by proxy at a general meeting has, upon a show of hands, 
one vote and, upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him or her. In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior holder who 
tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, 
seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding (the first-named 
being the most senior).
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held by him or her if any call or other sum then payable by 
him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice (as defined in the Articles) after 
failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and the directors are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of shares which may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, except:
 > that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and
 > pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA whereby certain employees of the Company require its approval to deal in the Company’s shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
voting rights.
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM on 7 May 2015, a resolution was passed giving the directors authority to make market purchases of Company shares up to 
4,416,479 shares at a maximum price based on the market price of a share at the relevant time, as set out in the resolution. No purchases of 
shares were made during the year pursuant to this authority. The authority expires on 7 August 2016 and a resolution to renew this authority 
will be proposed at this year’s AGM, as explained further in the notice to shareholders accompanying this report.
Dividends and distributions
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board. 
Subject to the Act, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in 
the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Company’s shares from a 
person with a 0.25% interest if such a person has been served with a restriction notice (as defined in the Articles) after failure to provide the 
Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act. 92 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
GOVERNANCE / DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
Rights under employee share schemes
The Legis Trust Limited, as Trustee of the Trust, held 1.05% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2015 on trust for 
the benefit of the employees and former employees of the Group and their dependants. The voting rights in relation to these shares are 
exercised by the Trustee and there are no restrictions on the exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of any offer relating to, those shares. 
The Trust agreed to waive its right to both the final and interim dividends payable in 2015 which equated to 1.24% of the total dividend paid.
Powers of directors
Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed 
by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business or not. In particular, the 
Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets (present 
and future) and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the 
Company or of any third party.
Directors’ indemnities
The Articles entitle the directors of the Company to be indemnified, to the extent permitted by the Act and any other applicable legislation, out 
of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or incur any liability in connection with the execution of their duties as 
directors. Neither the indemnity nor the insurance cover provides cover in the event that a director (or officer or company secretary as the 
case may be) is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In addition, and in common with many other companies, the Company had during the year and continues to have in place directors’ and 
officers’ insurance in favour of its directors and other officers in respect of certain losses or liability to which they may be exposed due to their 
office. The indemnity is categorised as a ‘qualifying third-party indemnity provision’ for the purposes of the Act and will continue in force for 
the purposes of the Act and for the benefit of directors (or officers or company secretary as the case may be) on an ongoing basis. 
The Company also had and continues to have in place a pension trustee’s liability insurance policy in favour of the trustees of the Retirement 
Plan in respect of certain losses or liabilities to which they may be exposed due to their office. This constitutes a ‘qualifying pension scheme 
indemnity provision’ for the purposes of the Act. 
Amendment of Articles of Association
The Company’s constitution, known as the Articles of Association, is essentially a contract between the Company and its shareholders, 
governing many aspects of the management of the Company. The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Company’s 
shareholders and are available on the Company’s website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com. 
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 23 February 2016, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more total voting rights attaching to the 
Company’s shares in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA: 
Name of holder No. of shares % holding
Direct/ 
indirect holdings
Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 6,194,562 13.98 Indirect
John Morgan 4,004,352 9.04 Direct
Old Mutual plc 3,551,194 8.02 Indirect
Standard Life 2,679,262 6.05 3.64% Indirect
2.41% Direct
Ameriprise Financial Inc. 2,627,969 5.93 Indirect
JO Hambro Capital Management Group Ltd
1
2,239,565 5.06 Direct
Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd
2
2,010,042 4.54 Indirect
John James Clifford Lovell 1,715,273 3.87 Direct
1 As at 23 February 2016 JO Hambro Capital Management Group Ltd had notified the Company via RDIR that its total direct shareholding in the Company was 3,932,132.
2 As at 23 February 2016 Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd had notified the Company via RDIR that its total indirect shareholding in the Company was 1,742,658. 93 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Related party transactions
There were no related party transactions in the year to 31 December 2015.
Change of control
The Group’s banking facilities which are described in the finance review on page 29 require repayment in the event of a change of control. 
The Group’s facilities for surety bonding require provision of cash collateral for outstanding bonds upon a change of control.  In addition, the 
Company’s employee share incentive schemes contain provisions whereby, upon a change of control, outstanding options and awards 
would vest and become exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
occurring because of a takeover bid. 
Political contributions
No contributions were made to any political parties during the current or preceding year. 
Disclosure of information to the external auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware and each director has taken all reasonable steps that he or she ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is 
aware of that information. This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
External auditor 
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as external auditor and a resolution to reappoint it will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM. 
Annual general meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at the offices of Jefferies Hoare Govett, Vintners Place, 68 Upper Thames Street, London EC4V 3BJ 
on 5 May 2016 at 10.00am. The formal notice convening the AGM, together with explanatory notes, can be found in the separate circular 
accompanying this document and is available on the Company’s website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com. Shareholders will also find 
enclosed with this document a form of proxy for use in connection with the meeting. 
The directors’ report from pages 90 to 93 inclusive was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Clare Sheridan
Company Secretary
23 February 2016 94 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’s) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with  
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’. Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to:
 > select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 > make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 > state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the financial statements; and
 > prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
 > properly select and apply accounting policies;
 > present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
 > provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
 > make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 > the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
 > the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they 
face; and
 > the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of directors and is signed on its behalf by:
 
John Morgan   Steve Crummett
Chief Executive   Finance Director 
23 February 2016   23 February 2016 95 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report 96
Consolidated financial statements 100
Company financial statements 129
Shareholder information 135 96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
to the members of Morgan Sindall Group plc
Opinion on nancial statements of Morgan Sindall Group plc 
In our opinion:
 > the nancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 
and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
 > the Group nancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’s) as 
adopted by the European Union;
 > the Parent Company nancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework; and
 > the nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
nancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The nancial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the 
Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash ow statement, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Signicant 
accounting policies, the Critical accounting judgements and estimates, the related Group notes 1 to 28, the Company Balance sheet, the 
Company statement of changes in equity, signicant accounting policies and the related Company only notes 1 to 2. The nancial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group nancial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. The nancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company nancial statements is 
applicable law and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of 
accounting contained on page 29 and the directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Group on page 49.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 > the directors’ conrmation on page 41 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 > the disclosures on pages 42 to 48 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 > the directors’ statement on page 29 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least  
12 months from the date of approval of the nancial statements;
 > the director’s explanation on page 49 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and 
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Independence 
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we conrm that we are independent of 
the Group and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also conrm we have not provided 
any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards. 97 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Recognition of contract revenue, margin and 
related receivables and liabilities
For construction companies there is considerable 
judgement in assessing the appropriate contract 
revenue and margin to recognise.
Revenue and margin are recognised based on the 
stage of completion of individual contracts, calculated 
on the proportion of total costs at the reporting date 
compared to the estimated total costs of the contract. 
This involves the assessment of the valuation of work 
performed, claims and liquidated damages; the 
completeness and accuracy of forecast costs to 
complete; and in turn the evaluation of the related 
receivables and liabilities at each reporting date.
Revenue from construction contracts at 31 December 
2015 was £1,784.9m (2014: £1,624.3m) as set out in 
note 1. Amounts due from construction contract 
customers was £166.1m (2014: £241.5m) and trade 
receivables were £170.0m (2014: 176.7m) as set out in 
note 15.
The Group has reported contract losses of £46.9m in 
relation to legacy contracts as exceptional operating 
items.
We evaluated the design and implementation of controls over revenue recognition, amounts due from 
construction contract customers and contract debtors. We also carried out site visits for a number of 
contracts in the year.
We selected a sample of contracts to allow us to assess and challenge the most signicant and more 
complex contract positions and the accounting thereon under the percentage of completion 
methodology. The sample selected was based on both quantitative and qualitative factors.
For this sample of contracts, we critically assessed the forecast costs to complete, variations within 
contract revenue and contract costs, and the completeness and validity of provisions arising from 
customer disputes. 
This assessment included agreeing contract valuation positions to third party certicates, reviewing 
contract terms and conditions, interviewing and challenging contract managers and commercial 
directors and reviewing correspondence with customers and solicitors. 
For the sample of contracts selected we tested the recoverability of amounts due from construction 
contract customers and the related receivables by agreeing to certications and cash receipts.
We assessed the completeness and validity of allowances recorded based upon the liabilities that 
may arise from disputes with customers or rectication works required through interviewing and 
challenging contract managers, commercial directors and a review of correspondence with 
customers and solicitors.
We assessed the nature of the items disclosed as exceptional to determine whether they met the 
denition included in the Group’s accounting policies on page 109 and whether the denition had 
been applied consistently.
Impairment of goodwill 
Under accounting standards, goodwill must be tested 
annually for impairment, which requires a comparison 
between the carrying amount of the cash generating 
unit (‘CGU’) and its recoverable amount. 
Determination of the recoverable amount incorporates 
signicant judgements based on assumptions about 
future protability and cash ows for the related 
businesses; and the application of appropriate 
long-term growth rates and discount rates.
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2015 
was £213.9m (2014: £213.9m).
We challenged the assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill, described in note 9 to the 
nancial statements, which calculates the recoverable amount. Our challenge focused on:
 > assessing the appropriateness of the CGUs identied and goodwill allocation during the period; 
 > assessing the appropriateness cash ow projections relative to previous performance, current 
order book, and Ofce for National Statistics guidance on construction growth rate; 
 > benchmarking against the wider peer group; and 
 > recalculating the discount rates and perpetuity rates used. 
We challenged management’s sensitivity analysis on the cash ow projections and the discount rate 
and utilised our internal valuation experts to assist in the assessment of the appropriateness of the 
discount rate. 
Carrying value of land and work in progress 
The determination of net realisable value is a key area 
of judgement due to the assumptions made by 
management on future expected sales values and 
development opportunities. 
Carrying value of inventory at 31 December 2015 was 
£247.3m (2014: £202.2m as set out in note 14.
For a sample of land and development appraisals, we have evaluated the assumptions made which 
underpin the assessments, such as market values, local demand and likelihood of success of 
planning applications, by scrutinising them against recent sales information and external market data 
on house prices and commercial property values. We have tested the future development cost 
assumptions against detailed site appraisals and to contractual documentation. We have reviewed 
and challenged the site appraisals for reasonableness against externally available data to benchmark 
the inherent assumptions against wider market forecasts of cost increases, likely sales rates and 
planning developments.
Valuation of shared equity loan debtors
The determination of the fair value of the loans issued 
under the shared equity schemes in the Affordable 
Housing division requires judgement in relation to the 
discount rate, rate of expected default and forecast 
house price growth.  
 
Carrying value of shared equity loan debtors at 
31 December 2015 was £20.3m (2014: £20.4m) as set 
out in note 13.
We have reviewed, challenged and sensitised the assumptions in accounting for shared equity 
schemes and assessed the model methodology, as disclosed in note 13. The assumptions have been 
benchmarked against similar products in the market place, current market data on house price 
growth, redemptions rates, discount rates and performance of the shared equity scheme to date. 
Management has set out their key accounting judgements and estimates in relation to each of the risks above on page 109. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the signicant issues considered by the audit committee discussed on 
pages 71 to 72. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the nancial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 98 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 
Our application of materiality
We dene materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the nancial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £2.5m (2014: £2.7m), which is 7.5% (2014: 7.5%) of the ve–year average prot before tax and 
exceptional operating items, and approximately 1% (2014: approximately 1%) of net equity. We use prot before tax and exceptional operating 
items as it represents a key performance measure for the Group. Prot before tax and exceptional operating items can vary signicantly year 
on year, dependant on factors like key contract performance, while the overall nature and scale of the Group’s activities remains broadly 
unchanged. To reect this dynamic in determining an appropriate materiality level, we use a ve year rolling average prot before tax and 
exceptional operating items as a benchmark.
We agreed to report to the audit committee all audit differences in excess of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m), as well as differences below that threshold 
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identied 
when assessing the overall presentation of the nancial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including 
Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on this assessment, our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at the signicant 
components which were selected based on our assessment of the identied risks of material misstatement 
identied above. These represent the principal business units within the Group’s reportable segments. We 
have performed full audit procedures for the signicant components which account for 96% (2014: 97%) of 
the Group’s revenue, 84% (2014: 78%) of the Group’s adjusted prot before tax and 90% (2014: 93%) of the 
Group’s net assets. 
Our audit work on the remaining components was determined based on our assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations in those components. The 
components which had individual materially signicant balances were subject to an audit of specic account 
balances and the remaining components were subject to analytical review procedures by the Group audit 
team.
Our audit work on components was executed to a lower level of materiality ranging from 50% – 70% of 
Group materiality (2014: 50% – 70%).
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to 
conrm our conclusion that there were no signicant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
nancial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specied account 
balances.
The Group audit team communicated regularly with all component audit teams and carried out a 
programme of planned visits so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the 
Group audit team visited each of the Group’s principal business units at least once a year. The Senior 
Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team participated in all of the close meetings 
of the Group’s components. The Senior Statutory Auditor is the audit partner for the Group’s most 
signicant component, the Construction & Infrastructure Division.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the nancial year for which the nancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the nancial statements.
Revenue
Proﬁt for tax 
and exceptionals
Net assets
Full audit scope 90%
Audit of speciﬁc balances 7%
Analytical review 3%
Full audit scope 96%
Audit of speciﬁc balances 4%
Analytical review 0%
Full audit scope 84%
Audit of speciﬁc balances 12%
Analytical review 4%
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT CONTINUED 
to the members of Morgan Sindall Group plc 99 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 > the Parent Company nancial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the annual report 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual  
report is:
 > materially inconsistent with the information in the audited nancial statements; or
 > apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
 > otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We 
conrm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the nancial statements 
and for being satised that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the nancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on 
Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, 
understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent 
partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the nancial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the nancial statements sufcient to give reasonable assurance 
that the nancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signicant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
nancial statements. In addition, we read all the nancial and non-nancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited nancial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
 
Mark Beddy FCA
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, UK
23 February 2016 100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 2014
Notes
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Exceptional 
operating 
items (note 3) 
£m
Total 
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue 1 2,384.7 – 2,384.7 2,219.8
Cost of sales (2,171.5) (46.9) (2,218.4) (2,038.8)
Gross prot 213.2 (46.9) 166.3 181.0
Administrative expenses (184.0) – (184.0) (160.3)
Share of net prot of joint ventures 12 9.6 – 9.6 6.3
Other gains and losses
– – – 1.9
Operating (loss)/prot before amortisation of intangible assets
38.8 (46.9) (8.1) 28.9
Amortisation of intangible assets
9
(2.2) –
(2.2) (2.4)
Operating (loss)/prot 36.6 (46.9) (10.3) 26.5
Finance income 5 1.2 – 1.2 1.0
Finance expense 5 (5.7) – (5.7) (4.7)
(Loss)/prot before tax 3 32.1 (46.9) (14.8) 22.8
Tax 6 (4.7) 9.5 4.8 (4.8)
(Loss)/prot for the year 27.4 (37.4) (10.0) 18.0
Attributable to:
 Owners of the Company 27.5 (37.4) (9.9) 18.1
 Non-controlling interests (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1)
(Loss)/prot for the year 27.4 (37.4) (10.0) 18.0
(Loss)/earnings per share
Basic 8 (22.6p) 42.3p
Diluted 8 (22.3p) 41.6p
There were no discontinued operations in either the current or comparative years.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/prot for the year (10.0) 18.0
Items that will not be reclassied subsequently to prot or loss:
Actuarial (loss)/gain arising on dened benet obligation 19 (0.1) 0.1
Deferred tax on retirement benet obligation 20 (0.1) (0.2)
(0.2) (0.1)
Items that may be reclassied subsequently to prot or loss:
Movement on cash ow hedges in equity accounted joint ventures 12 – (0.2)
Foreign exchange movement on translation of overseas operation (0.4) (0.2)
Other movement on cash ow hedges 0.2 –
(0.2) (0.4)
Other comprehensive expense (0.4) (0.5)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (10.4) 17.5
Attributable to:
  Owners of the Company (10.3) 17.6
 Non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.1)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (10.4) 17.5 101 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets 9 217.3 218.1
Property, plant and equipment 10 20.8 19.2
Investment property 11 8.8 9.5
Investments in joint ventures 12 50.3 55.0
Other investments – 0.3
Shared equity loan receivables 13 20.3 20.4
Retirement benet asset 19 1.4 0.8
Non-current assets 318.9 323.3
Inventories 14 246.7 202.2
Trade and other receivables 15 353.6 442.4
Cash and cash equivalents 27 115.7 87.6
Current assets 716.0 732.2
Total assets 1,034.9 1,055.5
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (674.5) (690.1)
Current tax liabilities (3.5) (5.2)
Finance lease liabilities 18 (1.6) (1.6)
Borrowings 27 (12.8) –
Provisions 21 (0.1) (1.2)
Current liabilities (692.5) (698.1)
Net current assets 23.5 34.1
Trade and other payables 17 (17.8) (22.0)
Finance lease liabilities 18 (1.8) (2.5)
Borrowings 27 (45.0) (31.9)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (11.9) (16.5)
Provisions 21 (16.9) (16.6)
Non-current liabilities (93.4) (89.5)
Total liabilities (785.9) (787.6)
Net assets 249.0 267.9
Equity
Share capital 24 2.2 2.2
Share premium account 32.0 30.9
Other reserves (1.0) (0.8)
Retained earnings 216.5 236.2
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 249.7 268.5
Non-controlling interests (0.7) (0.6)
Total equity 249.0 267.9
The consolidated nancial statements of Morgan Sindall Group plc were approved by the Board on 23 February 2016 and signed on its 
behalf by:
John Morgan   Steve Crummett
Chief Executive   Finance Director 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating activities
Operating (loss)/prot (10.3) 26.5
Adjusted for:
 Amortisation of intangible assets 9 2.2 2.4
 Share of net prot of equity accounted joint ventures 12 (9.6) (6.3)
 Depreciation 10 5.5 4.8
 Share option expense 25 2.0 0.7
 Prot on disposal of interests in joint ventures – (1.9)
 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.3) (0.2)
 Movement in fair value of shared equity loan receivables 13 (1.4) (1.8)
 Non-cash impairment of investments – 1.0
 Non-cash exceptional operating items 3 46.9 –
Additional pension contributions 19 (0.7) (0.7)
Disposals of investment properties 11 0.7 0.5
Repayment of shared equity loan receivables 13 1.5 1.1
Decrease in provisions 21 (0.8) (6.6)
Operating cash inow before movements in working capital 35.7 19.5
Increase in inventories (44.5) (41.2)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 41.5 (55.7)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (20.3) 85.1
Movements in working capital (23.3) (11.8)
Cash inow from operations 12.4 7.7
Income taxes paid (1.7) (4.4)
Net cash inow from operating activities 10.7 3.3
Investing activities
Interest received 1.3 0.9
Dividend from joint ventures 12 0.7 0.8
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.4
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (6.2) (5.7)
Purchases of intangible xed assets (1.4) –
Net decrease/(increase) in loans to joint ventures 12 13.6 (0.9)
Proceeds on disposal of interests in joint ventures – 5.9
Payment for the acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and other businesses – (5.1)
Proceeds on disposal of other investments – 0.3
Net cash inow/(outow) from investing activities 8.6 (3.4)
Financing activities
Interest paid (4.7) (4.9)
Dividends paid 7 (11.8) (11.5)
Repayments of obligations under nance leases (1.9) (1.5)
Proceeds from borrowings 27 25.9 8.8
Proceeds on issue of share capital 24 1.1 4.0
Proceeds on exercise of share options 0.2 –
Net cash inow/(outow) from nancing activities 8.8 (5.1)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 28.1 (5.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 87.6 92.8
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 115.7 87.6 103 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Share capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total equity
£m
1 January 2014 2.2 26.9 (0.4) 228.8 257.5 (0.5) 257.0
Total comprehensive income – – (0.4) 18.0 17.6 (0.1) 17.5
Share option expense – – – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7
Tax relating to share option expense – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Issue of shares at a premium – 4.0 – – 4.0 – 4.0
Dividends paid – – – (11.5) (11.5) – (11.5)
1 January 2015 2.2 30.9 (0.8) 236.2 268.5 (0.6) 267.9
Total comprehensive income – – (0.2) (10.1) (10.3) (0.1) (10.4)
Share option expense – – – 2.0 2.0 – 2.0
Issue of shares at a premium – 1.1 – – 1.1 – 1.1
Exercise of share options and vesting of share awards – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Dividends paid – – – (11.8) (11.8) – (11.8)
31 December 2015 2.2 32.0 (1.0) 216.5 249.7 (0.7) 249.0
Other reserves
Other reserves include:
 > Capital redemption reserve of £0.6m (2014: £0.6m) which was created on the redemption of preference shares in 2003.
 > Hedging reserve of (£0.6m) (2014: (£0.8m)) arising under cash ow hedge accounting. Movements on the effective portion of hedges are 
recognised through the hedging reserve, whilst any ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement. Cumulative movements recognised 
through the hedging reserve are recycled through the income statement on disposal of the associated joint ventures.
 > Translation reserve of (£1.0m) (2014: (£0.6m)) arising on the translation of overseas operations into the Group’s functional currency.
Retained earnings
Retained earnings include shares that are held as ‘treasury shares’ and represent the cost to Morgan Sindall Group plc of shares purchased 
in the market and held by the Morgan Sindall Employee Benet Trust (the ‘Trust’) to satisfy options under the Group’s share incentive 
schemes. The number of shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2015 was 466,425 (2014: 545,767) with a cost of £3.5m (2014: £4.1m). 104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Reporting entity
Morgan Sindall Group plc (the ‘Group’ or ‘Company’) is domiciled 
and incorporated in the UK. The nature of the Group’s operations 
and its principal activities are set out in note 2 and in the strategic 
report on pages 2 to 3.
Basis of preparation 
(a) Statement of compliance
The consolidated nancial statements have been prepared on the 
going concern basis as discussed in the nance review on page 29 
and in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and, 
therefore, comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
(b) Basis of accounting
The consolidated nancial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, except where otherwise indicated. 
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These consolidated nancial statements are presented in pounds 
sterling which is the Group’s functional currency. All nancial 
information, unless otherwise stated, has been rounded to the 
nearest £0.1m.
(d) Adoption of new and revised standards
(i) New and revised accounting standards adopted by the Group
During the year, the Group has adopted the following new and 
revised standards and interpretations. Their adoption has not had 
any signicant impact on the amounts or disclosures reported in 
these nancial statements.
 > Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle. Amends the following 
standards:
 – IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’. Amends the denition of 
vesting condition and market condition and adds denitions for 
performance condition and service condition.
 – IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. Requires contingent 
consideration to be re-measured at fair value at each 
reporting date.
 – IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. Requires disclosure of the 
judgements made by management in applying the aggregation 
criteria to operating segments. Claries that reconciliation of 
segment assets is only required if segment assets are reported 
regularly to the chief operating decision maker.
 – IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’. Claries that the ability to 
measure short-term receivables and payables on an 
undiscounted basis has not been removed.
 – IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible 
Assets’. Claries that the gross amount of property, plant and 
equipment is adjusted in a manner consistent with a revaluation 
of the carrying amount.
 – IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Claries how payments to 
entities providing management services are to be disclosed.
 > Annual improvements 2011-2013 cycle. Amends the following 
standards:
 – IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting 
Standards’. Claries which versions of IFRSs can be used on 
initial adoption. 
 – IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. Claries that IFRS 3 excludes 
from its scope the accounting for the formation of a joint 
arrangement in the nancial statements of the joint arrangement 
itself.
 – IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’. Claries the scope of the 
portfolio exception in paragraph 52.
 – IAS 40 ‘Investment property’. Claries the inter-relationship of 
IFRS 3 and IAS 40 when classifying property as investment 
property or owner-occupied property.
 > IAS 19 (amended) ‘Employee Benets’. Claries the requirements 
that relate to how contributions from employees or third 
parties that are linked to service should be attributed to periods 
of service.
(ii) New and revised accounting standards and interpretations 
which were in issue but were not yet effective and have not 
been adopted early by the Group
At the date of publishing these nancial statements the following 
new and revised standards and interpretations were in issue but 
were not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted 
by the EU). None of these new and revised standards and 
interpretations have been adopted early by the Group:
 > Annual improvements 2012-2014 cycle
 > IAS 1 (amended) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’
 > IAS 12 (amended) ‘Income Taxes’
 > IAS 16 (amended) ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’
 > IAS 19 (amended) ‘Employee Benets’
 > IAS 27 (amended) ‘Separate Financial Statements’
 > IAS 28 (amended) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’
 > IAS 38 (amended) ‘Intangible Assets’
 > IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
 > IFRS 11 (amended) ‘Joint Arrangements’: Accounting for 
acquisitions of interests in joint operations
 > IFRS 14 ‘Regulatory Deferral Accounts’
 > IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
 > IFRS 16 ‘Leases’
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed 
above will have a material impact on the nancial statements of the 
Group in future periods, except as follows:
 > The directors are in the process of assessing the potential impact 
of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 on the recognition and disclosure 
requirements in relation to revenue recognition and leases 
respectively.
The accounting policies as set out below have been applied 
consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated nancial 
statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated nancial statements incorporate the nancial 
statements of the Company and the entities controlled by the 
Company, together with the Group’s share of the results of joint 
ventures made up to 31 December each year.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities 
incurred and equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree. Consideration transferred also includes the 
fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Acquisition related costs are expensed 
in administrative expenses as incurred. All identiable assets and 
liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed are initially 
measured at their fair values at the acquisition date. 105 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any 
non-controlling interest and the acquisition date fair value of any 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree as compared with the 
Group’s share of the identiable net assets are recognised as 
goodwill. Where the Group’s share of identiable net assets acquired 
exceeds the total consideration transferred, a gain from a bargain 
purchase is recognised immediately in the income statement after 
the fair values initially determined have been reassessed.
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities that are controlled by the Group. Control is 
exerted where the Group has the power to govern, directly or 
indirectly, the nancial and operating policies of the entity so as to 
obtain economic benets from its activities. Typically, a shareholding 
of more than 50% of the voting rights is indicative of control. 
However, the impact of potential voting rights currently exercisable is 
taken into consideration.
The nancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated nancial statements of the Group from the date that 
control is obtained to the date that control ceases. The accounting 
policies of new subsidiaries are changed where necessary to align 
them with those of the Group.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated 
subsidiaries are identied separately from the Group’s equity therein. 
They are initially measured at the non-controlling interests’ share of 
the net fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised or at fair 
value, as determined on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. 
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the 
amount of those interests at the date of the original business 
combination and the non-controlling interest’s share of the changes 
in equity since the date of the combination.
(b) Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby two or 
more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint 
control, which requires unanimous consent for strategic, nancial 
and operating decisions.
(i) Joint ventures
A joint venture generally involves the establishment of a corporation, 
partnership or other entity in which each venturer has an interest 
and joint control over strategic, nancial and operating decisions. 
The results, assets and liabilities of jointly controlled entities are 
incorporated in the nancial statements using the equity method 
of accounting.
Goodwill relating to a joint venture which is acquired directly is 
included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not 
amortised. After application of the equity method, the Group’s 
investments in joint ventures are reviewed to determine whether any 
additional impairment loss in relation to the net investment in the 
joint venture is required, and if so it is written off in the period in 
which those circumstances are identied. When there is a change 
recognised directly in the equity of the joint venture, the Group 
recognises its share of any change and discloses this, where 
applicable, in the statement of comprehensive income.
Where the Group’s share of losses exceeds its equity accounted 
investment in a joint venture, the carrying amount of the equity 
interest is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is 
discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal 
or constructive obligations. Appropriate adjustment is made to the 
results of joint ventures where material differences exist between a 
joint venture’s accounting policies and those of the Group.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
(ii) Joint operations
Construction contracts carried out as a joint arrangement without 
the establishment of a legal entity are joint operations. The Group’s 
share of the results and net assets of these joint operations are 
included under each relevant heading in the income statement and 
the balance sheet.
(c) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income 
and expense arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated nancial statements. Unrealised gains 
arising from transactions with equity accounted investments are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in that investment. 
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Revenue and margin recognition
Revenue and margin are recognised as follows:
(a) Construction contracts
Revenue comprises the fair value of construction carried out in the 
year, based on an internal assessment of work carried out. Once the 
outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, margin 
is recognised in the income statement on a stage of contract 
completion basis by reference to costs incurred to date and total 
forecast costs on the contract as a whole. Losses expected in 
bringing a contract to completion are recognised immediately in the 
income statement as soon as they are forecast. Where the outcome 
of variations is uncertain, the Group only recognises revenue and 
associated margin where it is probable that the client will approve 
the variation. Where the outcome of claims is uncertain, the Group 
only recognises revenue when negotiations have reached an 
advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will 
accept the claim.
Where houses for open market sale are included in a construction 
contract as part of a mixed-tenure development, revenue on open 
market sales is recognised at fair value on sale completion. The 
margin recognised is consistent with the construction contract 
element of the development.
(b) Service contracts
Revenue is measured through an internal assessment of work 
carried out based on time incurred and materials utilised or 
percentage of completion depending upon the nature of the service. 106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
Revenue and margin recognition continued
(c) Sale of development properties
Revenue from the sale of development properties is measured at the 
fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is 
recognised when the signicant risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the buyer, there is no continuing 
management involvement with the properties and the amount of 
revenue can be estimated reliably.
The transfer of risks and rewards vary depending on the individual 
terms of the contract of sale. For properties, transfer usually occurs 
when the ownership has been legally transferred to the purchaser. 
Revenue from the sale of properties taken in part exchange is not 
included in revenue.
(d) Pre-contract costs
Costs incurred prior to the award of a contract are expensed until 
the point where it becomes probable that the contract will be 
obtained. Only after it is probable that the contract is forecast to be 
protable, costs that are directly related to obtaining the contract 
and which are separately identiable and can be measured reliably 
are recognised as contract assets. Pre-contract costs are expensed 
in the income statement over the period of the contract.
Where pre-contract costs are reimbursable, the amount received is 
applied against amounts expensed with any surplus over this 
amount being applied to costs which have been recognised as 
contract assets.
(e) Mobilisation costs
Mobilisation costs are those costs specically incurred to enable 
performance of obligations in a contract after its award and form an 
integral part of the overall costs of a contract. Such costs are 
amortised over the period of the contract except where the contract 
becomes loss making, in which case the balance is immediately 
expensed.
(f) Government grants
Funding received in respect of developer grants, where funding is 
awarded to encourage the building and renovation of affordable 
housing, is recognised as revenue on a stage of completion basis 
over the life of the project to which the funding relates.
Funding received to support the construction of housing where 
current market prices would otherwise make a scheme nancially 
unviable is recognised as revenue on a legal completion basis when 
the properties to which it relates are sold.
Government grants are initially recognised as deferred income at fair 
value when there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply 
with the conditions attached and the grants will be received.
Leases
The Group as lessee:
(a) Finance leases
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and 
rewards incidental to ownership are classied as nance leases. 
Finance lease assets are recognised as assets of the Group at an 
amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of 
the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception 
of the lease. Subsequent to recognition, nance lease assets are 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.
The lease liability is included in the balance sheet as a nance lease 
liability. Lease payments are apportioned between nance charges 
and the reduction of lease liabilities so as to achieve a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges 
are charged directly to the income statement.
(b) Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Finance income and expense
Finance income and expense is recognised using the effective 
interest method.
Income tax
The income tax expense represents the current and deferred tax 
charges. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
Current tax is the Group’s expected tax liability on taxable prot for 
the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of 
previous years.
Taxable prot differs from that reported in the income statement 
because it is adjusted for items of income or expense that are 
assessable or deductible in other years and is adjusted for items that 
are never assessable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount of 
assets and liabilities for nancial reporting purposes and the 
corresponding tax bases used in tax computations. Deferred tax is 
not recognised for the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither 
accounting nor taxable prot, or differences relating to investments 
in subsidiaries and joint ventures to the extent that it is probable that 
they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is not 
recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial 
recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences which result in 
an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to 
pay less tax, at a future date, at the tax rates expected to apply 
when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not 
that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
discounted and are only offset where there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset current tax assets and liabilities.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 107 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill 
(i) Initial recognition
Goodwill arises on business combinations and represents the 
excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Group’s share of the 
identiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date. Where 
the cost is less than the Group’s share of the identiable net assets, 
the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement as 
a gain from a bargain purchase.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 
has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to 
being tested for impairment at that date.
(ii) Subsequent measurement
Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
In respect of equity accounted investments, goodwill acquired 
directly is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
(iii) Impairment
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of 
impairment testing. The cash-generating units to which the goodwill 
has been allocated is the smallest identiable group of assets that 
generates cash inows that are largely independent of the cash 
inows from other assets or group of assets. The largest group to 
which goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes is the 
operating segment level.
(b) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets identied on acquisition by the Group that 
have nite useful lives are recognised at fair value and measured at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Those 
that are acquired separately, such as software, are recognised at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives. The estimated useful life and amortisation 
method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the 
effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a 
prospective basis. The estimated useful lives for the Group’s nite life 
intangible assets are between one and 12 years.
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold and leasehold property, plant and equipment are stated at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment 
loss. Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the 
assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives using the 
straight-line method on the following basis:
 > plant and equipment between 8.3% and 33% per annum
 > freehold property 2% per annum
 > leasehold property over the period of the lease
Assets held under nance leases are depreciated over their 
expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where 
shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. Residual values of 
property, plant and equipment are reviewed and updated annually. 
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they become 
available for productive use.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing the 
proceeds from disposal against the carrying amount and are 
recognised in the income statement.
Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and/or 
capital appreciation is stated at its fair value at the balance sheet 
date. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 
investment property are included in the income statement for the 
period in which they arise.
Fixed asset investments
Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less provision for 
any impairment in value. Investments are reviewed for impairment at 
the earlier of the Company’s reporting date or where an indicator of 
impairment is identied.
Shared equity loan receivables
The Group has granted loans under shared equity home ownership 
schemes allowing qualifying home buyers to defer payment of part 
of the agreed sales price, up to a maximum of 25%, until the earlier 
of the loan term (10 or 25 years depending upon the scheme), 
remortgage or resale of the property. On occurrence of one of these 
events, the Group will receive a repayment based on its contributed 
equity percentage and the applicable market value of the property 
as determined by a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Early or part repayment is allowable under the scheme 
and amounts are secured by way of a second charge over the 
property. The loans are non-interest bearing.
The shared equity loans receivable are designated at fair value 
through prot or loss. Fair value movements are recognised in 
operating prot and the resulting nancial asset is presented as a 
non-current receivable. Fair value movements include accreted 
interest. There have been no transfers between categories in the fair 
value hierarchy in the current and preceding year.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
The cost of work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, 
other direct costs and related overheads. Net realisable value is the 
estimated selling price less applicable costs.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method with an appropriate allowance for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts recognised in the income statement when 
there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method.
Retirement benet schemes
(a) Dened contribution plan
A dened contribution plan is a post-retirement benet plan under 
which the Group pays xed contributions to a separate entity and 
has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. The 
Group recognises payments to dened contribution pension plans 
as staff costs in the income statement as and when they fall due. 
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a 
cash refund or reduction on future payments is available. 108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
Retirement benet schemes continued
(b) Dened benet plan
A dened benet plan is a post-retirement plan other than a dened 
contribution plan. The Group’s retirement benet obligation is 
recognised in the balance sheet and represents the decit or surplus 
in the Group’s dened benet scheme. The calculation is performed 
by a qualied actuary on an annual basis using the projected unit 
credit method. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to 
the present value of any economic benets available in the form of 
the unconditional right to refunds from the scheme or reductions in 
future contributions to the scheme. The retirement benet obligation 
is calculated by estimating the amount of future benet that 
employees have earned in return for their service in the current and 
prior periods and discounting this to its present value. Any 
unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of the plan’s 
assets are deducted.
The cost of the plan is charged to the income statement based on 
actuarial assumptions at the beginning of the nancial year. Where 
the calculation results in a benet to the Group, the asset recognised 
is limited to the net of the total unrecognised past service costs and 
the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in 
future contributions to the plan.
When the benets of the plan are improved, the portion of increased 
benet relating to past service by employees is recognised in the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period 
until the benets become vested. Where the benets vest 
immediately, the expense is recognised in the income 
statement immediately.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of 
comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and 
the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Impairment of nancial assets
Financial assets, other than shared equity loan receivables, are 
assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. 
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, 
as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial 
recognition of the nancial asset, the estimated future cash ows of 
the investment have been reduced. For loans and receivables, the 
amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash 
ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of nancial assets is reduced by the 
impairment loss directly for all nancial assets with the exception of 
trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the 
use of a provision for impairment losses. When a trade receivable is 
uncollectible, it is written off against the provision. Subsequent 
recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the 
provision. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance are 
recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss 
previously recognised decreases and this decrease can be 
objectively related to an event that occurred after the impairment 
was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is 
reversed through the income statement.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments (share 
awards or share options) to certain employees. Equity-settled 
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of 
grant and are recognised as an employee expense, with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period from the date of 
grant to the date on which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the awards or options.
Derivative nancial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative nancial instruments are used in joint ventures to hedge 
long-term oating interest rate and Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’) 
exposures and in Group companies to manage their exposure to 
foreign exchange rate risk.
Interest rate swaps, RPI swaps and foreign exchange forward 
contracts are stated in the balance sheet at fair value. At the 
inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the 
relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for 
undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the 
inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group 
documents whether the hedging instruments that are used in 
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair 
values or cash ows of hedged items.
Where nancial instruments are designated as cash ow hedges  
and are deemed to be effective, gains and losses on remeasurement 
relating to the effective portion are recognised in equity and  
gains and losses on the ineffective portion are recognised in  
the income statement, both to the extent of the Group’s equity 
accounted investment.
There have been no transfers between categories in the fair  
value hierarchy in the current and preceding year.
Dividends
Dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a 
liability in the consolidated nancial statements in the period in  
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 109 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES
for the year ended 31 December 2015
The preparation of nancial statements under IFRS requires the 
Company’s management to make judgements, assumptions and 
estimates that affect the application of accounting policies and the 
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense. Actual 
results may differ from these estimates. Assumptions and estimates 
are reviewed on an ongoing basis and any revisions to them are 
recognised in the period in which they are revised.
The following items are those that management consider to be 
critical due to the level of judgement and estimation required:
 > Accounting for construction and service contracts
 Recognition of revenue and prot is based on judgements made 
in respect of the ultimate protability of a contract. Such 
judgements are arrived at through the use of estimates in relation 
to the costs and value of work performed to date and to be 
performed in bringing contracts to completion, including 
satisfaction of maintenance responsibilities. These estimates are 
made by reference to recovery of pre-contract costs, surveys of 
progress against the construction programme, changes in work 
scope, the contractual terms under which the work is being 
performed, including the recoverability of any unagreed income 
from variations and the likely outcome of discussions on claims, 
costs incurred and external certication of the work performed. 
The Group has appropriate control procedures to ensure all 
estimates are determined on a consistent basis and subject to 
appropriate review and authorisation.
 > Impairment of work in progress
 In assessing whether work in progress is impaired, estimates are 
made of future sales revenue, timing and build costs. The Group 
has controls in place to ensure that estimates of sales 
revenue are consistent, and external valuations are used 
where appropriate.
 > Goodwill and intangible assets 
 IFRS 3 requires the identication of acquired intangible assets as 
part of a business combination. The methods used to value such 
intangible assets require the use of estimates. Future results are 
impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to 
the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the 
income statement and balance sheet.
 Goodwill is not amortised but is tested at least annually for 
impairment, along with the nite life intangible assets and other 
assets of the Group’s cash-generating units. Tests for impairment 
are based on discounted cash ows and assumptions (including 
discount rates, timing and growth prospects) which are inherently 
subjective. The Group performs various sensitivity analyses in 
respect of the tests for impairment, as detailed in note 9.
 The useful lives of the Group’s nite life intangible assets are 
reviewed following the tests for impairment annually.
 > Recognition and measurement of the fair value of shared 
equity loans
 The Group’s balance sheet includes loans that arose on the sale 
of properties under shared equity home ownership schemes 
which are recognised and measured at fair value through prot or 
loss. The Group makes estimates of fair value of the loans on a 
portfolio basis. Key assumptions used by management in making 
these estimates include market value growth, the discount rate, 
the anticipated loan duration and the expected rate of debtor 
default. Assumptions made in relation to these inputs are set out 
in note 13 and have a material impact on the carrying value of the 
loan portfolio recognised on the balance sheet and the fair value 
movement recognised in the income statement.
 > Provisions
 In valuing the provision for the Group’s retained insurance risks, 
assumptions are made on the rate of occurrence and severity of 
events for which the Group will bear liability and external 
valuations are used where appropriate. When valuing provisions 
for known legal claims, assessment of the likely success and 
value of any claim is based on internal and external advice.
 > Disclosure of exceptional operating items
 The Group has presented certain items of a one-off and material 
nature as exceptional operating items in the income statement 
and notes to the consolidated nancial statements. These items 
have been disclosed because the directors view their 
presentation as relevant to the understanding of the Group’s 
underlying nancial performance. Judgement is required to 
determine which items are disclosed as exceptional. Inclusion 
within this category is restrictive and is applied consistently.  110
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue from construction contracts 1,784.9 1,624.3
Other services 110.8 98.8
Construction revenue 1,895.7 1,723.1
Regeneration revenue 489.0 496.7
Total revenue 2,384.7 2,219.8
Finance income of £1.2m (2014: £1.0m) is excluded from the table above.
2 Business segments
For management purposes, the Group is organised into ve operating divisions: Construction & Infrastructure, Fit Out, Affordable Housing, 
Urban Regeneration and Investments. The divisions’ activities are as follows:
 > Construction & Infrastructure: offers design, construction and infrastructure services working on projects, and in frameworks and strategic 
alliances of all sizes across a broad range of markets including commercial, defence, education, energy, healthcare, industrial, leisure, 
retail, transport and water. The division’s professional services business offers multi-disciplinary engineering and design 
consultancy services.
 > Fit Out: Overbury specialises in t out and refurbishment projects, operating through multiple procurement routes. Morgan Lovell 
specialises in ofce design and build, providing an end-to-end service which includes workplace consultancy and furniture solutions.
 > Affordable Housing: Partnership Housing specialises in the delivery of mixed-tenure developments, building and developing homes for 
open market sale and for social/affordable rent, and new build house contracting and planned maintenance. Property Services includes 
the division’s response maintenance activities offering facilities management and planned and responsive repairs to social housing 
providers and public buildings.
 > Urban Regeneration: works with landowners and public sector partners to unlock value from under-developed assets to bring about 
sustainable regeneration and urban renewal through the delivery of new mixed-use communities. Typically creates commercial, retail, 
residential, leisure and public realm facilities.
 > Investments: creates long-term strategic partnerships to realise the potential of under-utilised property assets, promotes sustained 
economic growth through regeneration and drives cost efciencies through innovative and integrated estate management solutions. The 
division covers a wide range of markets including asset backed, education, healthcare and social care, residential, student 
accommodation, leisure and infrastructure.
Group Activities represents costs and income arising from corporate activities which cannot be meaningfully allocated to the operating 
segments. These include costs such as treasury management, corporate tax coordination, insurance management, company secretarial 
services, interest revenue and interest expense. The divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segmental information as 
presented below:
2015
Construction & 
Infrastructure
£m
Fit Out
£m
Affordable 
Housing
£m
Urban 
Regeneration
£m
Investments
£m
Group 
Activities
£m
Eliminations
£m
Total
£m
External revenue 1,230.5 606.2 424.5 110.4 13.1 – – 2,384.7
Inter-segment revenue 1.9 0.4 1.3 – – – (3.6) –
Total revenue 1,232.4 606.6 425.8 110.4 13.1 – (3.6) 2,384.7
Operating prot/(loss) before amortisation of 
intangible assets and exceptional operating items 3.8 24.0 8.6 12.9 (1.5) (9.0) – 38.8
Amortisation of intangible assets – – (0.6) (1.6) – – – (2.2)
Exceptional operating items (46.9) – – – – – – (46.9)
Operating prot/(loss) (43.1) 24.0 8.0 11.3 (1.5) (9.0) – (10.3)
Other information:
Average number of employees 3,570 653 1,416 65 93 31 5,828 111 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
2014
Construction & 
Infrastructure
£m
Fit Out
£m
Affordable 
Housing
£m
Urban 
Regeneration
£m
Investments
£m
Group 
Activities
£m
Eliminations
£m
Total
£m
External revenue 1,159.0 503.6 419.6 112.7 24.9 – – 2,219.8
Inter-segment revenue 12.7 3.3 3.0 – – – (19.0) –
Total revenue 1,171.7 506.9 422.6 112.7 24.9 – (19.0) 2,219.8
Operating prot/(loss) before amortisation of  
intangible assets and exceptional operating items 3.5 15.0 6.0 10.0 0.9 (6.5) – 28.9
Amortisation of intangible assets – – (0.6) (1.8) – – – (2.4)
Operating prot/(loss) 3.5 15.0 5.4 8.2 0.9 (6.5) – 26.5
Other information:
Average number of employees 3,507 592 1,478 55 89 29 5,750
During the year ended to 31 December 2015 and the year ended 31 December 2014, inter-segment sales were charged at prevailing market 
prices and signicantly all of the Group’s operations were carried out in the UK.
3 (Loss)/prot for the year
(Loss)/prot before tax for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015
£m
2014
£m
Exceptional operating items – impairment of trade and other receivables in relation to two old construction contracts 46.9 –
Government grants received (11.5) (3.1)
The exceptional operating item relates to the impairment of amounts recoverable on two construction contracts identied in 2013, both of 
which were transferred as part of the acquisition of the design and project services division of Amec in 2007. Both contracts have the 
Secretary of State for Defence as the overall employing party. One contract relates to the design and construction of a oating jetty, the other 
to the design and construction of living accommodation and infrastructure, both around the Faslane Naval Base in West Scotland.
Commercial resolution has been achieved on one of these contracts, whilst on the other the Board has assessed its options to recover 
amounts, looking at a range of potential likely outcomes from pursuing legal and/or commercial settlement routes. Based upon this 
assessment and taking into account the risks and costs associated with pursuing legal remedies an exceptional item of £46.9m has been 
charged, which is non-cash in nature.
Auditor’s remuneration
2015
£m
2014
£m
Audit of the Company’s annual report 0.1 0.1
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries and joint ventures 0.6 0.6
Total audit fees 0.7 0.7
Other services – 0.1
Total non-audit fees – 0.1
Total fees 0.7 0.8
4 Staff costs
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 323.1 285.2
Social security costs 36.1 31.7
Other pension costs (note 19) 9.7 8.9
368.9 325.8 112
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
5 Finance income and expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest receivable from joint ventures 0.9 0.8
Other interest income 0.3 0.2
Finance income 1.2 1.0
Interest payable on bank overdrafts and borrowings (2.9) (1.6)
Interest payable on nance leases (0.2) (0.3)
Loan arrangement and commitment fees (2.0) (1.9)
Other interest payable (0.6) (0.9)
Finance expense (5.7) (4.7)
Net nance expense (4.5) (3.7)
Included within other interest payable in 2015 is a discount unwind of £0.4m (2014: £0.5m) in relation to deferred consideration on the 
acquisition of an increased investment in a joint venture and £0.2m (2014: £0.4m) discount unwind on deferred land payments.
6 Tax
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax (credit)/expense:
Corporation tax 0.3 3.4
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.4) 0.9
(0.1) 4.3
Deferred tax (credit)/expense:
Current year (4.7) 0.8
Adjustment in respect of prior years – (0.3)
(4.7) 0.5
Income tax (credit)/expense for the year (4.8) 4.8
Corporation tax is calculated at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) of the estimated assessable (loss)/prot for the year.
After exceptional items the Group has recognised a net loss for the year. This loss has resulted in tax losses carried forward. As the Group 
expects to generate prots in subsequent years capable of being offset against these carried forward tax losses, a deferred tax asset has 
been recognised in respect of the tax losses. The table below reconciles the tax charge for the year to tax at the UK statutory rate:
Current tax expense:
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/prot before tax (14.8) 22.8
Less: post tax share of prots from joint ventures (9.6) (6.3)
(24.4) 16.5
UK corporation tax rate 20.25% 21.50%
Income tax (credit)/expense at UK corporation tax rate (4.9) 3.5
Tax effect of: 
 Gain on disposal of joint ventures not giving rise to a tax liability – (0.4)
  Non-taxable income and expenses 0.2 (0.2)
 Tax liability upon joint venture prots
1
1.7 1.1
 Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.4) 0.6
 Expected forthcoming change in tax rates upon deferred tax balance (1.7) –
 Other 0.3 0.2
Income tax (credit)/expense for the year (4.8) 4.8
1 Certain of the Group’s joint ventures are partnerships for which prots are taxed within the Group rather than within the joint venture.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 113 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
7 Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 15.0p per share 6.5 –
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 15.0p per share – 6.4
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 12.0p per share 5.3 –
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 12.0p per share – 5.1
11.8 11.5
The proposed nal dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 17.0p per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and 
has not been included as a liability in these nancial statements.
8 Earnings per share
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/prot attributable to the owners of the Company (9.9) 18.1
Adjustments:
 Exceptional operating items net of tax 37.4 –
 Amortisation of intangible assets net of tax 1.8 1.9
 Deferred tax credit arising due to change in UK corporation tax rates (1.7) –
Adjusted earnings 27.6 20.0
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares (m) 43.8 42.8
Dilutive effect of share options and conditional shares not vested (m) 0.6 0.7
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares (m) 44.4 43.5
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (22.6p) 42.3p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (22.3p) 41.6p
Adjusted earnings per share 63.0p 46.7p
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 62.2p 46.0p
The average market value of the Company’s shares for the purpose of calculating the dilutive effect of share options and long-term incentive 
plan shares was based on quoted market prices for the year that the options were outstanding. The weighted average share price for the 
year was £7.66 (31 December 2014: £7.70).
A total of 1,174,560 share options that could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were excluded from the above calculations 
because they were anti-dilutive at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: 268,056). 114
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Other
intangible
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 213.9 29.9 243.8
Additions – 1.4 1.4
31 December 2015 213.9 31.3 245.2
Accumulated amortisation
1 January 2014 – (23.3) (23.3)
Amortisation – (2.4) (2.4)
1 January 2015 – (25.7) (25.7)
Amortisation – (2.2) (2.2)
31 December 2015 – (27.9) (27.9)
Net book value at 31 December 2015 213.9 3.4 217.3
Net book value at 31 December 2014 213.9 4.2 218.1
Goodwill represents the value of people, track record and expertise acquired within acquisitions that are not capable of being individually 
identied and separately recognised. Goodwill is allocated at acquisition to the cash-generating units that are expected to benet from the 
business combination. The allocation is as follows: Construction & Infrastructure £151.1m (2014: £151.1m), Affordable Housing (Partnership 
Housing) £46.8m (2014: £46.8m) and Urban Regeneration £16.0m (2014: £16.0m).
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. In testing 
goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment, the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit has been determined from value in 
use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the forecast revenue and margin, discount rates 
and long-term growth rates by market sector. Forecast revenue and margin are based on past performance, secured workload and workload 
likely to be achievable in the short to medium term, given trends in the relevant market sector as well as macroeconomic factors.
Cash ow forecasts have been determined by using Board approved strategic plans for the next ve years. Cash ows beyond ve years 
have been extrapolated using an estimated nominal growth rate of 2.2% (2014: 2.2%). This growth rate does not exceed the long-term 
average for the relevant markets.
Discount rates are pre-tax and reect the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specic to the cash-generating 
units. The risk-adjusted nominal rates used for the cash-generating units with goodwill balances are 11.0% (2014: 11.5%) for Construction & 
Infrastructure, 12.0% (2014: 12.0%) for Affordable Housing (Partnership Housing) and 12.5% (2014: 13.0%) for Urban Regeneration.
In carrying out this exercise, no impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets has been identied.
The Group performed various sensitivity analyses which involved reducing future cash ows from 2016 to 2020 by either 25% or 50% and 
increasing pre-tax discount rates by 100bps. The results of these analyses showed that the value in use of the cash-generating units 
continued to exceed their carrying value.
Other intangible assets represent:
 > contracts and related relationships where there is a historical experience of a relationship and the real prospective opportunity of repeat 
work. These will be fully amortised by 2019.
 > software and IT systems. These will be fully amortised by 2020. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 115 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
10 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold 
property and 
land
£m
Leased
property
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
1 January 2014 2.4 8.3 41.2 51.9
Additions 2.4 0.8 2.7 5.9
Disposals – (0.2) (0.8) (1.0)
1 January 2015 4.8 8.9 43.1 56.8
Additions – 2.5 4.9 7.4
Disposals – (0.7) (1.4) (2.1)
31 December 2015 4.8 10.7 46.6 62.1
Accumulated depreciation
1 January 2014 – (4.9) (28.7) (33.6)
Depreciation charge – (1.1) (3.7) (4.8)
Disposals – 0.2 0.6 0.8
1 January 2015 – (5.8) (31.8) (37.6)
Depreciation charge – (1.2) (4.3) (5.5)
Disposals – 0.7 1.1 1.8
31 December 2015 – (6.3) (35.0) (41.3)
Net book value at 31 December 2015 4.8 4.4 11.6 20.8
Net book value at 31 December 2014 4.8 3.1 11.3 19.2
The Group’s obligations under nance leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. The carrying value of plant and equipment 
which is subject to nance leases is £2.1m (2014: £3.2m). No other assets have been pledged to secure borrowings. 
11 Investment property
2015
£m
2014
£m
Valuation
1 January 9.5 10.0
Disposals (0.7) (0.5)
31 December 8.8 9.5
Investment properties comprise certain residential properties constructed by the Group as part of larger mixed-tenure projects for rental to 
social or private residential clients.
The property rental income earned by the Group from its investment property, which is leased out under operating leases with terms of 
between six months and two years, amounted to £0.5m (2014: £0.5m). Direct operating expenses arising on properties generating rent and 
vacant properties in the year amounted to £0.2m (2014: £0.2m). 
All operating lease contracts contain market review clauses in the event that the lessee exercises its option to renew. The lessee does not 
have an option to purchase the property at the expiry of the lease period.
The Group does not have any contractual obligations for the repairs or maintenance of its investment properties.
The fair value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2015 is based on a valuation carried out at that date by the directors. The 
valuation, which conforms to International Valuation Standards, was determined based on the market comparable approach that reects 
recent transaction prices for similar properties. The fair value measurement is classied as Level 3 as dened by IFRS 7 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures’. 116
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
12 Investments in joint ventures
The Group has the following interests in signicant joint ventures:
Claymore Roads (Holdings) Limited 50% share
Claymore Roads (Holdings) Limited is a joint venture with Infrastructure Investments (Roads) Limited and is responsible for the upgrade and 
operation of the A92 between Dundee and Arbroath in Scotland.
English Cities Fund Limited Partnership 12.5% equity participation
English Cities Fund is a limited partnership with the Homes and Communities Agency and Legal & General to develop mixed-use 
regeneration schemes in assisted areas. Joint control is exercised through the board of the general partner at which each partner is 
represented by two directors and no decision can be taken without the agreement of a director representing each partner.
HB Community Solutions Living Limited 50% share
HB Community Solutions Living Limited is a joint venture with the founders of HB Villages Limited and is developing supported independent 
living accommodation for adults with learning and physical disabilities across the UK. Joint control is exercised through the board of directors 
which includes three members appointed by the holders of each class of ordinary shares.
Health Innovation Partners Limited 50% share
Through the Health Innovation Partners joint venture, the Group has a 25% interest in Strategic Transformation Real Innovation and Delivery 
Excellence LLP (‘STRIDE’), a joint venture with Arcadis BAC Limited and Burton Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. STRIDE was set up as the 
Trust’s Strategic Infrastructure and Efciency Partner to deliver efciency savings and infrastructure projects over the next 10 years. Joint 
control is exercised through the board of directors who are appointed in proportion to the holdings of each class of ordinary shares.
hub West Scotland Limited 54% share
hub West Scotland Limited is a joint venture between Wellspring Partnership Limited (itself a joint venture of Morgan Sindall Investments 
Limited with Apollo (Hub West) Limited), Scottish Futures Trust Investments Limited, East Dunbartonshire Council, East Renfrewshire Council, 
West Dunbartonshire Council, Glasgow City Council, Greater Glasgow Health Board, The Board of Strathclyde Fire and Rescue, Strathclyde 
Joint Police Board and Clydebank Property Company Limited. The joint venture is delivering a pipeline of public sector health, education and 
community projects in the Glasgow area.
ISIS Waterside Regeneration (General Partner) Limited 50% equity participation
ISIS Waterside Regeneration is a joint venture with British Waterways to undertake regeneration of waterside sites.
Lingley Mere Business Park Development Company Limited 50% share
Lingley Mere Business Park Development Company Limited is a joint venture with United Utilities and is developing new ofce space and 
ancillary facilities in Warrington, Cheshire.
Morgan-Vinci Limited 50% share
Morgan-Vinci Limited is a joint venture with Vinci Newport DBFO Ltd and is responsible for the construction and operation of the Newport 
Southern Distributor Road.
PSBP NW Holdco Limited 45% share
PSBP NW Holdco limited is a joint venture with Equitix and the Department for Education. The joint venture was set up to design, build, 
nance and maintain 12 schools in the North West of England under the Priority Schools Building Programme. Joint control is exercised 
through the board of directors who are appointed in proportion to the holdings of each class of ordinary shares.
Slough Regeneration Partnership LLP 50% share
The Slough Regeneration Partnership LLP is a partnership with Slough Borough Council to operate a Local Asset Backed Vehicle (‘LABV’) 
developing a series of sites in Slough over an initial term of 15 years extendable by 10 years.
St Andrews Brae Developments Limited 50% share
St Andrews Brae Developments Limited is a joint venture with Miller Homes which is developing residential housing and apartments in 
Bearsden, Glasgow.
The Bournemouth Development Company LLP 50% share
The Bournemouth Development Company LLP is a partnership with Bournemouth Borough Council to operate a LABV developing a series of 
sites in Bournemouth over a 20-year period.
The Compendium Group Limited 50% share
The Compendium Group Limited is a joint venture with The Riverside Group Limited and is a company formed to carry out strategic 
development and regeneration projects of a primarily residential nature. 117 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
Wapping Wharf (Alpha) LLP 50% partner
Wapping Wharf (Alpha) LLP is a joint venture with Umberslade which is developing the rst phase of residential apartments within the 
Harbourside Regeneration Area of Bristol.
Investments in equity accounted joint ventures are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
1 January 55.0 54.0
Equity accounted share of net prots 9.6 6.3
Loans advanced to joint ventures 8.6 13.2
Loans repaid by joint ventures (22.2) (12.3)
Non-cash impairment – (1.0)
Disposals – (4.2)
Dividends received (0.7) (0.8)
Movement on cash ow hedges – (0.2)
31 December 50.3 55.0
All of the dividends received in the current and prior year were paid in cash.
Summarised nancial information related to equity accounted joint ventures is set out below. Other includes joint ventures that are not 
individually material. 
ISIS Waterside Regeneration 
(General Partner) Limited Other
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets (100%) – – 116.8 125.8
Current assets (100%) 47.1 67.3 193.2 196.0
Current liabilities (100%) (6.4) (19.1) (60.4) (64.5)
Non-current liabilities (100%) – – (164.1) (191.9)
Net assets reported by equity accounted joint ventures (100%) 40.7 48.2 85.5 65.4
Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest (50%) 20.4 24.1
Other adjustments (0.8) (0.1)
Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in the joint venture 19.6 24.0
Revenue (100%) 40.5 31.2 122.2 118.0
Expenses (100%) (34.2) (24.4) (109.4) (110.9)
Net prot (100%) 6.3 6.8 12.8 7.1
At 31 December 2015, ISIS Waterside Regeneration (General Partner) Limited had current loans of £1.1m (2014: £14.9m) and incurred £0.4m 
of nance expense for the year (2014: £0.4m).
Results of equity accounted joint ventures:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Group share of prot before tax 9.6 6.3
Group share of tax – –
Group share of prot after tax 9.6 6.3 118
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
13 Shared equity loan receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
1 January 20.4 19.7
Net change in fair value recognised in the income statement 1.4 1.8
Repayments (1.5) (1.1)
31 December 20.3 20.4
During the year, there were repayments of shared equity loan receivables of £1.5m (2014: £1.1m). All repayments were at values at or above 
the values held in the accounts.
The Group’s maximum credit exposure is limited to the carrying value of the shared equity loan receivables granted. The Group’s credit 
risk is partially mitigated as the shared equity loan receivables are secured by way of a second charge over the property. The change in 
the fair value attributable to a change in the credit risk during the year was £nil (2014: £nil). There were two defaults during the year 
(2014: one default).
Basis of valuation and assumptions made
There is no directly observable fair value for individual loans arising from the sale of specic properties under the scheme, and therefore the 
Group has developed a model for determining the fair value of the portfolio of loans based on national property prices, expected property 
price increases, expected loan defaults and a discount factor which reects the interest rate expected on an instrument of similar risk and 
duration in the market. Details of the key assumptions made in this valuation are as follows:
2015 2014
Assumption
Period over which shared equity loan receivables are discounted:
 First Buy and Home Buy schemes 20 years 20 years
 Other schemes 9 years 9 years
Nominal discount rate 6.6% 6.7%
Weighted average nominal annual property price increase 2.8% 3.2%
Forecast default rate 2.0% 2.0%
Number of loans under the shared equity scheme outstanding at the year end 669 709
The fair value measurement for shared equity loan receivables is classied as Level 3 as dened by IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures’.
Sensitivity analysis
At 31 December 2015, if the nominal discount rate had been 100bps higher at 7.6% and all other variables were held constant, the fair value 
of the shared equity loan receivables would decrease by £0.7m with a corresponding reduction in both the result for the period and equity 
(excluding the effects of tax).
At 31 December 2015, if the period over which the shared equity loan receivables (excluding those relating to the First Buy and Home Buy 
schemes) are discounted had been 10 years and all other variables were held constant, the fair value of the shared equity loan receivables 
would decrease by £0.7m with a corresponding reduction in both the result for the period and equity (excluding the effects of tax).
14 Inventories
2015
£m
2014
£m
Work in progress 246.7 202.2
Work in progress comprises land and housing, commercial and mixed-use developments in the course of construction. 119 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
15 Trade and other receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts due from construction contract customers (note 16) 166.1 241.5
Trade receivables (note 27) 170.0 176.7
Amounts owed by joint ventures (note 26) 0.8 3.3
Prepayments 10.1 11.9
Other receivables 6.6 9.0
353.6 442.4
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Trade receivables are stated after provisions for impairment losses of £1.2m (2014: £8.3m). 
16 Construction contracts
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts due from construction contract customers (note 15) 166.1 241.5
Amounts due to construction contract customers (note 17) (53.9) (48.9)
Carrying amount at the end of the year 112.2 192.6
Contract costs incurred plus recognised prots less recognised losses to date 6,637.4 6,732.1
Less: progress billings (6,525.2) (6,539.5)
112.2 192.6
Contract costs incurred plus recognised prots less recognised losses to date and progress billings include contract activity which the Group 
has not recognised in the income statement as it occurred prior to historical acquisitions.
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are stated at cost plus the prot attributable to that contract, less any impairment losses. 
Progress payments for construction contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable. Amounts due to construction contract customers 
represent amounts received in excess of revenue recognised on construction contracts.
17 Trade and other payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables 161.5 167.7
Amounts due to construction contract customers (note 16) 53.9 48.9
Amounts owed to joint ventures (note 26) 0.2 0.2
Other tax and social security 33.2 17.0
Accrued expenses 396.2 429.2
Deferred income 4.5 8.6
Other payables 25.0 18.5
Current 674.5 690.1
Other payables 17.8 22.0
Non-current 17.8 22.0
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. No interest was incurred on outstanding 
balances. Non-current other payables have been discounted by £1.1m (2014: £1.7m) to reect the time value of money. 
Current and non-current other payables include £7.0m and £7.0m respectively (2014: £nil and £13.6m) related to the discounted deferred 
consideration due on the acquisition of an additional interest in ISIS Waterside Regeneration (General Partner) Limited. 120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
18 Finance lease liabilities
Minimum lease payments
Capital element of lease 
payments
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts payable under nance leases:
  Within one year 1.7 1.8 1.6 1.6
 In the second to fth years inclusive 1.9 2.6 1.8 2.5
3.6 4.4 3.4 4.1
Less: future nance charges (0.2) (0.3) n/a n/a
Present value of lease obligations 3.4 4.1 3.4 4.1
Current lease liability 1.6 1.6
Non-current lease liability 1.8 2.5
3.4 4.1
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its property, plant, machinery and equipment under nance leases. The average lease term is 
ve years (2014: seven years). For the year ended 31 December 2015, the average effective borrowing rate was 4.0% (2014: 5.0%). Interest 
rates are xed at the contract date. All leases are on a xed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent 
rental payments.
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling. The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
19 Retirement benet schemes
Dened contribution plan
The Morgan Sindall Retirement Benets Plan (‘the Retirement Plan’) was established on 31 May 1995 and currently operates on dened 
contribution principles for employees of the Group. The assets of the Retirement Plan are held separately from those of the Group in funds 
under the control of the Trustees of the Retirement Plan. The total cost charged to the income statement of £9.7m (2014: £8.9m) represents 
contributions payable to the dened contribution section of the Retirement Plan by the Group.
As at 31 December 2015, contributions of £1.4m (2014: £1.1m) were due in respect of December’s contribution not paid over to the Retirement 
Plan. The Company, with the consent of the Trustees, can decide how to use monies held in a dened contribution general account.
Dened benet plan
The Retirement Plan includes a dened benet section comprising liabilities and transfers of funds representing the accrued benet rights of 
active and deferred members and pensioners of pension plans of companies which are now part of the Group. These include salary related 
benets for members in respect of benets accrued before 31 May 1995 (and benets transferred in from The Snape Group Limited 
Retirement Benets Scheme accrued up to 1 August 1997). No further dened benet membership rights can accrue after those dates.  
The scheme duration is an indicator of the weighted-average time until benet payments are made. For the scheme as a whole, the duration 
is around 15 years.
The last triennial valuation of the Retirement Plan was undertaken on 5 April 2013. The ongoing liabilities of the Retirement Plan were 
assessed using the projected unit credit method and the assets were taken at realisable market value. The actuarial valuation also showed 
that the dened benet liabilities were partly funded and the value of the assets of £9.2m represented 77% of the value of these liabilities on 
an ongoing funding basis. The next triennial valuation is due to be undertaken as at 5 April 2016.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 121 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
The present value of the dened benet liabilities were measured using the projected unit credit method. The following table shows the key 
assumptions used:
2015
%
2014
%
Key assumptions used:
Discount rate 3.8 3.4
Expected rate of salary increases 4.3 4.1
Rate of ination 2.3 2.1
Rate of future pension increases
1
3.0–3.5 3.0–3.5
Average life expectancy for pensioner retiring now at age 65 (years) 87.5 87.4
Average life expectancy for pensioner retiring in 20 years at age 65 (years) 89.4 89.4
1 Depending on their date of joining, members receive pension increases of 3.0% or 3.5%.
The charge for the year has been included in nance expense. Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
2015 2014
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Total
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Total
£m
1 January 11.3 (10.5) 0.8 9.3 (9.3) –
Finance income/(expense) 0.3 (0.3) – 0.4 (0.4) –
Actuarial (losses)/gains (0.7) 0.6 (0.1) 1.3 (1.2) 0.1
Contributions from sponsoring company 0.7 – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7
Benets paid (0.3) 0.3 – (0.4) 0.4 –
31 December 11.3 (9.9) 1.4 11.3 (10.5) 0.8
The effect on the dened benet liabilities of changing the key nancial assumptions is set out below:
Increase in 
liabilities
£m
Decrease in discount rate of 50bps 0.7
Increase in ination rate of 50bps 0.1
Increase in average life expectancy of one year 0.3
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised during the year (0.1) 0.1
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised (2.9) (2.8)
The Retirement Plan assets comprise 55% corporate bonds (2014: 56%), 43% gilts (2014: 43%) and 2% cash (2014: 1%).
The expected return on the Retirement Plan assets is determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the 
current investment policy. Expected yields on xed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
The history of the Retirement Plan assets, liabilities and decit is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of the Retirement Plan liabilities (9.9) (10.5) (9.3) (10.4) (9.4)
Fair value of the Retirement Plan assets 11.3 11.3 9.3 8.9 8.1
Surplus/(decit) in the Retirement Plan 1.4 0.8 – (1.5) (1.3)
The amount of contributions expected to be paid to the Retirement Plan during 2016 is £0.7m (2015: £0.7m). 122
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
20 Deferred tax
Asset 
amortisation 
and 
depreciation
£m
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
and tax losses
£m
Retirement 
benet 
obligation
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Total
£m
1 January 2014 (16.5) (0.1) – 0.6 (16.0)
Charge to income statement – (0.3) – (0.2) (0.5)
Charge to other comprehensive income – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Credit to equity – – – 0.2 0.2
1 January 2015 (16.5) (0.4) (0.2) 0.6 (16.5)
Credit to income statement 0.1 2.7 – 0.2 3.0
Charge to other comprehensive income – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Credit to equity – – – 0.1 0.1
Effect of change in tax rate:
 Credit to income statement 1.7 – – – 1.7
 Charge to equity – – – (0.1) (0.1)
31 December 2015 (14.7) 2.3 (0.3) 0.8 (11.9)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities, as shown above, have been offset as the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had unused tax losses of £18.3m (2014: £3.5m) available for offset against future prots. A deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of £14.6m (2014: nil) of these losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the 
remaining £3.7m (2014: £3.5m) due to the unpredictability of future prot streams against which the losses may be utilised. Losses may be 
carried forward indenitely. 
The UK corporation tax rate is set to reduce to 19% during 2017 and to 18% during 2020. All closing deferred tax balances have been 
calculated using a rate of 18% as they will not materially reverse before the tax rate change is effective, except for the deferred tax relating to 
tax losses, which has been calculated using the tax rates expected to apply when the tax losses are utilised.
21 Provisions
Current liabilities
Employee 
provisions
£m
Total
£m
1 January 2014 2.2 2.2
Utilised (1.0) (1.0)
1 January 2015 1.2 1.2
Utilised (1.1) (1.1)
31 December 2015 0.1 0.1
Employee provisions relate to redundancy and other costs associated with contracts that did not novate to the Group on the acquisition of 
certain trade and assets.
Non-current liabilities
Employee 
provisions
£m
Insurance 
provisions
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
1 January 2014 0.4 13.2 8.6 22.2
Utilised – (2.5) (1.0) (3.5)
Additions – 3.2 0.2 3.4
Released – – (5.5) (5.5)
1 January 2015 0.4 13.9 2.3 16.6
Utilised – (2.6) (0.3) (2.9)
Additions – 4.1 – 4.1
Released – (0.9) – (0.9)
31 December 2015 0.4 14.5 2.0 16.9
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 123 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
Employee provisions comprise obligations to former employees other than retirement or post-retirement obligations.
Insurance provisions comprise the Group’s self-insurance of certain risks and include £3.5m (2014: £2.4m) held in the Group’s captive 
insurance company, Newman Insurance Company Limited.
Other provisions include onerous lease commitments and property dilapidations. The amount released in 2014 related to property 
dilapidation and onerous lease provisions within Construction & Infrastructure which were no longer required.
The majority of the non-current provisions are expected to be utilised within ve years. 
22 Operating lease commitments
At 31 December, the Group had the following future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:
2015 2014
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Within one year 6.3 4.3 10.6 6.4 5.1 11.5
Within two to ve years 11.3 4.1 15.4 11.4 5.5 16.9
After more than ve years 7.9 – 7.9 4.7 – 4.7
31 December 25.5 8.4 33.9 22.5 10.6 33.1
The operating lease expense in the year was £12.3m (2014: £11.3m).
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain properties and other items.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of four years (2014: three years) and rentals are xed for an average of four years (2014: three years).
23 Contingent liabilities
Group banking facilities and surety bond facilities are supported by cross guarantees given by the Company and participating companies in 
the Group. There are contingent liabilities in respect of surety bond facilities, guarantees and claims under contracting and other 
arrangements, including joint arrangements and joint ventures entered into in the normal course of business.
As at 31 December 2015, contract bonds in issue under uncommitted facilities covered £221.6m (2014: £208.1m) of contract commitments of 
the Group.
24 Share capital
2015 2014
Number £m Number £m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each:
1 January 44,079,565 2.2 43,259,364 2.2
Exercise of share options 216,438 – 820,201 –
31 December 44,296,003 2.2 44,079,565 2.2
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid. Ordinary shares are entitled to dividends when declared and each share carries the right to one vote 
at a meeting of the Company.
Shares
216,438 shares were issued during 2015 in respect of options exercised under The Morgan Sindall Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
(‘SAYE’) for a total consideration of £1.1m (2014: 820,201 shares were issued for a total consideration of £4.0m). No other shares were issued 
during the year.
Own shares
Own shares at cost represent 466,425 (2014: 545,767) shares in the Company held in the Trust in connection with The Morgan Sindall 
Employee Share Option Plan 2007 (‘ESOP 2007’), The Morgan Sindall Executive Remuneration Plan 2005 (‘ERP 2005’), The Morgan Sindall 
2014 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2014 LTIP’) and The Morgan Sindall 2014 Share Option Plan (‘2014 SOP’). The Trustees of the Trust purchase 
the Company’s shares in the open market with nancing provided by the Company on the basis of regular reviews of the share liabilities of 
the relevant schemes. All of the shares held by the Trust were unallocated at the year end and dividends on these shares have been waived. 
Based on the Company’s share price at 31 December 2015 of £7.40 (2014: £6.20), the market value of the shares was £3.5m (2014: £3.4m). 124
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
25 Share-based payments
The Group recognised a share option expense of £2.0m (2014: £0.7m) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.  
The Group has ve share option schemes: 2014 LTIP, 2014 SOP, ESOP 2007, ERP 2005 and SAYE. Details of the vesting conditions and 
other information of these schemes are set out in the directors’ remuneration report on page 83.
Details of the share awards and options granted during the year and the valuation methodology are as follows:
Share awards under 2014 LTIP
Share options 
under SAYE
Share options 
under 2014 
SOP
Awards with 
TSR condition
Awards with  
EPS condition
Number of shares/options granted 266,168 323,839 982,156 1,049,093
Weighted average fair value at date of grant (per share) £3.87 £7.50 £1.87 £1.75
Weighted average share price at date of grant £7.50 £7.50 £8.03 £7.50
Weighted average exercise price n/a n/a £6.15 £7.03
Valuation model Stochastic Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes
Expected term (from date of grant) 3.0 years 3.0 years 3.1 years 6.5 years
Expected volatility
1
25.9% n/a 25.2% 32.4%
Expected dividend yield
2
0.0% 0.0% 3.4% 3.6%
Risk free rate 0.8% 0.8% 0.7% 1.4%
1 For the share awards with a TSR condition, volatility has been calculated over the period of time commensurate with the expected award term immediately prior to the date 
of grant.
2  Under the 2014 LTIP, award holders may receive the value of any dividends paid during the vesting period in respect of their vested shares at the end of the vesting period. 
Consequently, the fair value is not discounted for value lost in respect of dividends.
The following table provides a summary of the options granted under the Group’s employee share option schemes during the current and 
comparative year:
2015 2014
Number
of share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (£)
Number
 of share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (£)
Outstanding at 1 January 1,633,613 6.48 3,217 ,776 6.04
Granted during the year 2,031,249 6.64 40,000 6.40
Lapsed during the year (292,106) 7.22 (704,962) 6.23
Exercised during the year (530,834) 5.92 (919,201) 5.13
Outstanding at 31 December 2,841,922 6.62 1,633,613 6.48
Exercisable at 31 December 496,400 8.46 1,066,016 9.93
Weighted average remaining contractual life 4.9 years 2.9 years
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £7.74 (2014: £6.86).
The options outstanding at 31 December 2015 had exercise prices ranging from £4.37 to £15.81.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 125 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
26 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below. All were on an arm’s length basis.
Trading transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into transactions to provide construction and property development services with related parties, 
all of which were joint ventures, not members of the Group. Transactions and amounts owed at the year end in relation to joint ventures are 
as follows:
Provision of goods and 
services
Amounts owed by/(to)  
related parties
Joint venture
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Ashton Moss Developments Limited – – (0.2) (0.1)
Claymore Roads (Holdings) Limited 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
ECf (General Partner) Limited 1.9 2.4 – –
HB Community Solutions Limited 1.7 1.9 – –
HB Villages Development Limited – 0.2 – 0.2
HB Villages Limited 1.2 0.3 0.4 0.3
HB Villages Tranche 2 Limited – 0.2 – 0.2
hub West Scotland Projectco 1 Limited 0.2 0.1 – –
Hull Esteem Consortium PSP Limited – 4.1 – –
Leyton Mount Development LLP 1.0 12.5 – 1.9
PSBP NW Holdco Limited 1.5 – – –
PSBP NW ProjectCo Limited 26.7 – – –
Slough Regeneration Partnership Community Projects LLP 12.1 6.6 – 0.1
St Andrews Brae Developments Limited – – – 0.1
Strategic Transformation Real Innovation and Delivery Excellence  LLP – – 0.3 –
The Bournemouth Development Company LLP 0.1 0.4 – 0.1
The Compendium Group Limited 5.8 7.0 – –
Wapping Wharf (Alpha) LLP 0.2 0.2 – 0.1
Wellspring Partnership Limited 1.3 0.9 0.1 0.1
53.8 36.9 0.6 3.1
Amounts owed by/(to) 
related parties
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed by related parties (note 15) 0.8 3.3
Amounts owed to related parties (note 17) (0.2) (0.2)
0.6 3.1
Remuneration of key management personnel
The Group considers key management personnel to be the members of the group management team, and sets out below in aggregate, 
remuneration for each of the categories specied in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee benets 7.5 4.6
Post-employment benets 0.3 0.4
Termination benets – 0.5
Share option expense 1.2 0.4
9.0 5.9
Directors’ transactions
There have been no related party transactions with any director in the year or in the subsequent period to 23 February 2016.
Directors’ material interests in contracts with the Company
No director held any material interest in any contract with the Company or any Group company in the year or in the subsequent period to 
23 February 2016. 126
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
27 Financial instruments
Net cash
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value. The carrying amount of these assets 
approximates to their fair value. Net cash is dened as cash and cash equivalents less borrowings and non-recourse project nancing as 
shown below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 115.7 87.6
Non-recourse project nancing due in less than one year (12.8) –
Borrowings due between two and ve years (45.0) (15.0)
Non-recourse project nancing due after more than one year – (16.9)
Net cash 57.9 55.7
Included within cash and cash equivalents is £28.9m (2014: £33.8m) which is the Group’s share of cash held within jointly controlled operations.
The Group has £175m of committed loan facilities, of which £15m mature in May 2017, £20m in September 2017 and £140m in September 
2018. Additional project nance borrowings of £12.8m (2014: £16.9m) were drawn from separate facilities to fund specic projects. These 
project nance borrowings are without recourse to the remainder of the Group’s assets. 
Average daily net debt during 2015 was £53.4m (2014: net debt £8.8m).
Financial risks and management
The Group has exposure to a variety of nancial risks through the conduct of its operations. Risk management is governed by the Group’s 
operational policies, which are subject to periodic review by the Group’s internal audit team and twice yearly review by management. The 
policies include written principles for the Group’s risk management as well as specic policies, guidelines and authorisation procedures in 
respect of specic risk mitigation techniques such as the use of derivative nancial instruments. The Group does not enter into derivative 
nancial instruments for speculative purposes.
The following represent the key nancial risks resulting from the Group’s use of nancial instruments:
 > credit risk
 > liquidity risk
 > market risk
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of nancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a nancial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations and results primarily from the Group’s trade receivables and amounts due from construction contract customers.
The degree to which the Group is exposed to this credit risk depends on the individual characteristics of the contract counterparty and the 
nature of the project. The Group’s credit risk is also inuenced by general macroeconomic conditions. The Group does not have any 
signicant concentration risk in respect of amounts due from construction contract customers or trade receivable balances at the reporting 
date with receivables spread across a wide range of customers. Due to the nature of the Group’s operations, it is normal practice for 
customers to hold retentions in respect of contracts completed. Retentions held by customers at 31 December 2015 were £59.6m (2014: 
£60.4m). These will be collected in the normal operating cycle of the Group.
The Group manages its exposure to credit risk through the application of its credit risk management policies which specify the minimum 
requirements in respect of the creditworthiness of potential customers, assessed through reports from credit agencies, and the timing and 
extent of progress payments in respect of contracts.
The risk management policies of the Group also specify procedures in respect of obtaining Parent Company guarantees or, in certain 
circumstances, use of escrow accounts which, in the event of default, mean that the Group may have a secure claim. The Group does not 
require collateral in respect of amounts due from construction contract customers or trade receivables.
The Group manages the collection of retentions through its post completion project monitoring procedures and ongoing contact with 
customers to ensure that potential issues that could lead to the non-payment of retentions are identied and addressed promptly. The Group 
assesses amounts due from construction contract customers and trade receivable balances for impairment and establishes a provision for 
impairment losses that represents its estimate of incurred losses.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 127 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
2015 2014
Gross trade 
receivables 
£m
Provision for 
impairment 
losses 
£m
Gross trade 
receivables 
£m
Provision for 
impairment 
losses
£m
Not past due 120.2 – 122.2 –
Past due 1 to 30 days 21.9 – 24.8 –
Past due 31 to 120 days 8.3 0.1 7.1 –
Past due 121 to 365 days 11.7 0.3 8.3 0.7
Past due greater than one year 9.1 0.8 22.6 7.6
171.2 1.2 185.0 8.3
The movement in the provision for impairment losses on trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
1 January 8.3 8.6
Amounts written off during the year (6.3) –
Amounts recovered during the year (0.5) (0.3)
Other movements in the provision (0.3) –
31 December 1.2 8.3
The average credit period on revenue is 26 days (2014: 29 days). No interest is charged on the trade receivables outstanding balance. Trade 
receivables overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £49.8m (2014: £54.5m) which are past due at the 
reporting date for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a signicant change in credit quality and the Group considers that 
the amounts are still recoverable. The average age of these receivables is 111 days (2014: 161 days).
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the 
date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and 
spread across the Group’s operating segments. Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess 
of the provision for impairment losses. No collateral is held by the Group as security.
At the reporting date, there were no trade and other receivables which have had renegotiated terms that would otherwise have been 
past due.
(b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its nancial obligations as and when they fall due. The ultimate responsibility for 
liquidity risk rests with the Board.
The Group aims to manage liquidity by ensuring that it will always have sufcient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal 
and stress conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
Liquidity is provided through cash balances and committed bank loan facilities. Additional project nance borrowings were drawn during the 
year to fund specic projects. These project nance borrowings are without recourse to the remainder of the Group’s assets. 
The Group reports cash balances daily and invests surplus cash to maximise income whilst preserving credit quality. The Group prepares 
weekly short-term and monthly long-term cash forecasts, which are used to assess the Group’s expected cash performance and compare 
with the facilities available to the Group and the Group’s covenants.
Key risks to liquidity and cash balances are a downturn in contracting volumes, a reduction in the protability of work, delayed receipt of cash 
from customers and the risk that major clients or suppliers suffer nancial distress leading to non-payment of debts or costly and time 
consuming reallocation and rescheduling of work. Certain measures and key performance indicators are continually monitored throughout 
the Group and used to quickly identify issues as they arise, enabling the Group to address them promptly. 128
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
27 Financial instruments continued
Key amongst these are continual monitoring of the committed order book and the regeneration and development pipeline, including the 
status of orders and likely timescales for realisation so that contracting volumes are well understood; monitoring of overhead levels to ensure 
they remain appropriate to contracting volumes, continual monitoring of working capital exceptions (overdue debts and conversion of work 
performed into certicates and invoices); continual review of levels of current and forecast protability on contracts; review of client and 
supplier credit references; and approval of credit terms with clients and suppliers to ensure they are appropriate.
The Group does not have any material derivative or non-derivative nancial liabilities with the exception of trade and other payables, current 
tax liabilities, nance lease liabilities and retirement benet obligations. Trade and other payables are generally non-interest bearing and, 
therefore, have no weighted average effective interest rates. Retirement benet obligations are measured at the net of the present value of 
retirement benet obligations and the fair value of the Retirement Plan assets. Finance lease liabilities are carried at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments. Trade and other payables are due to be settled in the Group’s normal operating cycle. An analysis of the maturity 
prole for nance lease liabilities is contained in note 18.
(c) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates or equity prices, will affect the Group’s 
income or the carrying amount of its holdings of nancial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to achieve a level of 
market risk that is within acceptable parameters as set out in the Group risk management framework.
Interest rate risk
The Group is not exposed to signicant interest rate risk as it does not have signicant interest bearing liabilities and its only interest bearing 
asset is cash invested on a short-term basis.
Certain of the Group’s equity accounted joint ventures enter into interest rate swaps to manage their exposure to interest rate risk arising on 
oating rate bank borrowings.
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ interest rate swap contracts have a nominal value of £14.3m (2014: £14.9m) and xed interest payments 
at an average rate of 5.1% (2014: 5.1%) for periods up until 2033.
The Group’s share of the fair value of swaps entered into at 31 December 2015 by joint ventures is estimated at a £0.8m liability (2014: £0.8m 
liability). These amounts are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. All interest rate swaps are 
designated as hedging instruments and are effective as cash ow hedges. The fair value thereof has been taken to the hedging reserve.
Currency risk
The majority of the Group’s operations are carried out in the UK and the Group has an insignicant level of exposure to currency risk on sales 
and purchases. The Group’s policy is to hedge foreign currency transactions where they are material, at which point derivative nancial 
instruments are entered into so as to hedge forecast or actual foreign currency exposures. 
In order to hedge foreign currency exposures for a construction joint arrangement the Group entered into foreign exchange forward contracts 
with third-party banks during the year, and has entered into corresponding contracts with the joint arrangement. The Group has designated a 
portion of the contracts with the banks, equal to its share of the joint arrangement, as hedging instruments for the purposes of the 
consolidated nancial statements. The fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts with the third party banks is an asset of £0.5m 
(2014: £nil) and the fair value of the contracts with the other joint arrangement partners is a liability of £0.3m (2014: £nil). The fair value of 
forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from 
quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts and is classied as Level 2 as dened by IFRS 7 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures’. 
Capital management
The Board aims to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market condence and to sustain the future 
development of the business, and its approach to capital management is explained fully in the nance review on pages 28 and 29.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company, 
comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. The cash and 
cash equivalents are supplemented by the £175m of committed bank facilities expiring in 2017 and beyond.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year and the Group is not subject to any capital 
requirements imposed by regulatory authorities.
28 Subsequent events
There were no signicant subsequent events that affected the nancial statements of the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 129 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
at 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets
Tangible assets 1.5 0.9
Investments 1 421.7 374.6
Retirement benet asset 1.4 0.8
Fixed assets 424.6 376.3
Trade debtors 0.2 –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings
 – due within one year 52.6 52.6
 – due after one year 4.0 59.0
Deferred tax asset 0.6 0.7
Other debtors 1.5 0.5
Prepayments and accrued income 2.2 2.2
Cash at bank and in hand 22.1 37.2
Current assets 83.2 152.2
Liabilities
Bank overdrafts (58.2) (110.3)
Finance lease obligations (0.5) (0.2)
Trade payables (1.4) (0.6)
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (280.7) (308.7)
Corporation tax payable (1.9) (0.9)
Other tax and social security (0.3) (0.2)
Other payables (0.6) (0.6)
Accrued expenses (4.6) (2.4)
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (348.2) (423.9)
Net current liabilities (265.0) (271.7)
Total assets less current liabilities 159.6 104.6
Bank loans (45.0) (15.0)
Finance lease obligations (0.7) (0.1)
Provision for liabilities 2 (11.3) (11.9)
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year (57.0) (27.0)
Net assets 102.6 77.6
Shareholders’ funds
Share capital 2.2 2.2
Share premium account 32.0 30.9
Capital redemption reserve 0.6 0.6
Special reserve 13.7 13.7
Prot and loss account 54.1 30.2
Shareholders’ funds 102.6 77.6
The nancial statements of the Company (company number 00521970) were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 
23 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
John Morgan  Steve Crummett
Chief Executive  Finance Director 130
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Share capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Special 
reserve
£m
Prot and loss 
account
£m
Shareholders’
funds
£m
1 January 2014 2.2 26.9 0.6 13.7 33.7 77.1
Prot for the year – – – – 7.2 7.2
Other comprehensive income:
 Actuarial gain arising on retirement benet asset – – – – 0.1 0.1
 Tax arising on actuarial gain on retirement benet asset – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Total comprehensive income – – – – 7.1 7.1
Share option expense – – – – 0.7 0.7
Issue of shares at a premium – 4.0 – – – 4.0
Tax relating to share option expense – – – – 0.2 0.2
Dividends paid – – – – (11.5) (11.5)
1 January 2015 2.2 30.9 0.6 13.7 30.2 77.6
Prot for the year – – – – 33.7 33.7
Other comprehensive income:
 Actuarial gain arising on retirement benet asset – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
 Tax arising on actuarial gain – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Total comprehensive income – – – – 33.5 33.5
Share option expense – – – – 2.0 2.0
Issue of shares at a premium – 1.1 – – – 1.1
Exercise of share options and vesting of share awards – – – – 0.2 0.2
Dividends paid – – – – (11.8) (11.8)
31 December 2015 2.2 32.0 0.6 13.7 54.1 102.6 131 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Basis of accounting
The separate nancial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’). The Company meets 
the denition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 (‘FRS 100’) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, 
the Company has prepared its nancial statements in accordance with  Financial Reporting Standard 101 (‘FRS 101’) ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Company’s accounting policies are consistent with those described in the consolidated accounts of Morgan Sindall Group plc, except 
that, as permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to 
share-based payments, nancial instruments, capital management, presentation of a cash ow statement and related party transactions. 
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated accounts. In addition, disclosures in relation to retirement benet 
schemes (note 19), share capital (note 24) and dividends (note 7) have not been repeated here as there are no differences to those provided 
in the consolidated accounts.
These nancial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as discussed in the nance review on page 29, and under the 
historical cost convention. The nancial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency, and unless 
otherwise stated have been rounded to the nearest £0.1m.
Prot of the Parent Company
The Company has taken advantage of section 408 of the Act and consequently the statement of comprehensive income (including the prot 
and loss account) of the Parent Company is not presented as part of these accounts. The prot of the Parent Company for the nancial year 
amounted to £33.7m (2014: £7.2m). 132
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Investments
Subsidiary 
undertakings
£m
Other 
investments
£m
Total
£m
Cost
1 January 2015 377.8 0.3 378.1
Additions 47.4 – 47.4
Disposals – (0.3) (0.3)
31 December 2015 425.2 – 425.2
Provisions
1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 (3.5) – (3.5)
Net book value at 31 December 2015 421.7 – 421.7
Net book value at 31 December 2014 374.3 0.3 374.6
A list of all subsidiary and associated undertakings owned by the Group is shown below: 
Name of undertaking Direct or indirect holdings
Proportion of 
shares held
Lovell Partnerships Limited Direct 100
 Lovell Bow Limited Indirect 100
 Lovell Director Limited Indirect 100
  Lovell Guf Limited Indirect 100
 Lovell Plus Limited Indirect 100
 Lovell Property Rental Limited Indirect 100
 The Compendium Group Limited Indirect 50
Magnor Plant Hire Limited Direct 100
Morgan Lovell plc Direct 100
Morgan Sindall Holdings Limited Direct 100
 Morgan Sindall Construction & Infrastructure Ltd Indirect 100
  Bluestone Limited Indirect 100
  MS (MEST) Limited Indirect 100
   Morgan Est Rail Limited Indirect 100
   Morgan Utilities Limited Indirect 100
   UUGM Limited Indirect 100
Morgan Sindall Investments Limited Direct 100
 Claymore Roads (Holdings) Limited Indirect 50
 Community Solutions for Education Limited Indirect 100
  PSBP NW Holdco Limited Indirect 45
 Community Solutions for Emergency Services Limited Indirect 100
 Community Solutions for Health Limited Indirect 100
 Community Solutions for Leisure Limited Indirect 100
  Community Solutions for Leisure (Basildon) Limited Indirect 100
 Community Solutions for Regeneration Limited Indirect 100
  Community Solutions for Regeneration (Bournemouth) Limited Indirect 100
   The Bournemouth Development Company LLP Indirect 50
  Community Solutions for Regeneration (Slough) Limited Indirect 100
   Slough Regeneration Partnership LLP Indirect 50
  Towcester Regeneration Limited Indirect 100
 Community Solutions Limited Indirect 100
 Community Solutions Management Services Limited Indirect 100
  Community Solutions Management Services (Hub) Limited Indirect 100
   Community Solutions HUB SubDebt Limited Indirect 100
   Community Solutions Living Limited Indirect 100
    HB Community Solutions Holdco Limited Indirect 78.75
    HB Community Solutions Living Limited Indirect 50
   Hampshire LIFT Management Services Limited Indirect 50
   Health Innovation Partners Limited Indirect 50
 Community Solutions Partnership Services Limited Indirect 100
 Hamsard 3134 Limited Indirect 100
  Wessex Delivery LLP Indirect 60
 Hamsard 3135 Limited Indirect 100
 Morgan Sindall Investments (Lancashire Fire Stations) Limited Indirect 100
 Morgan Sindall Investments (Newport SDR) Limited Indirect 100
  Morgan-Vinci Limited Indirect 50 133 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
Name of undertaking Direct or indirect holdings
Proportion of 
shares held
 Wellspring Partnership Limited Indirect 90
  hub West Scotland Limited Indirect 54
Morgan Sindall Professional Services Limited Direct 100
 Morgan Sindall Professional Services (France) Limited Indirect 100
  Morgan Sindall Pharmachem SAS
1
Indirect 100
 Morgan Sindall Professional Services (Switzerland) Limited Indirect 100
  Morgan Sindall Professional Services AG
1
Indirect 100
 UNPS Limited Indirect 100
Morgan Sindall Property Services Limited Direct 100
 Lovell Powerminster Limited Indirect 100
  Manchester Energy Company Limited Indirect 100
Muse Developments Limited Direct 100
 Bromley Park (Holdings) Limited Indirect 50
 Chatham Place (Building 1) Limited Indirect 100
  Chatham Place Building 1 (Commercial) Limited Indirect 100
 Chatham Place (Phase 1) Estate Manco Limited Indirect 100
 Chatham Square Limited Indirect 100
  Ashton Moss Developments Limited Indirect 50
 ECf (General Partner) Limited Indirect 33.33
 Eurocentral Partnership Limited Indirect 99.2
 Hulme High Street Limited Indirect 50
 Hulme Management Company Limited Indirect 33.33
 ICIAN Developments Limited Indirect 100
 Intercity Developments Limited Indirect 50
 Lewisham Gateway Developments (Holdings) Limited Indirect 100
  Lewisham Gateway Developments Limited Indirect 100
   Lewisham Gateway (Plot A & B) Management Company Limited Indirect 100
   Lewisham Gateway Estate Management Company Limited Indirect 100
 Lingley Mere Business Park Development Company Limited Indirect 100
 Logic Leeds Management Company Limited Indirect 50
 Muse (Brixton) Limited Indirect 100
 Muse (ECf) Partner Limited Indirect 100
  English Cities Fund Limited Partnership Indirect 12.5
 Muse (Warp 4) Partner Limited Indirect 100
 Muse Chester Limited Indirect 100
 Muse Developments (Northwich) Limited Indirect 100
 Muse Properties Limited Indirect 100
 North Shore Development Partnership Limited Indirect 100
  Northshore Management Company Limited Indirect 100
 Plot 2000, Phase 2 (Ashton Moss) Management Company Limited Indirect 100
 Rail Link Europe Limited Indirect 100
 Sovereign Leeds Limited Indirect 100
 St Andrews Brae Developments Limited Indirect 50
 Stockport Exchange Phase 2 Limited Indirect 100
 Wapping Wharf (Alpha) LLP Indirect 50
 Warp 4 General Partner Limited Indirect 100
  ISIS Waterside Regeneration (General Partner) Limited Indirect 50
  Warp 4 General Partner Nominees Limited Indirect 50
  Warp 4 Limited Partnership Indirect 100
Newman Insurance Company Limited
1
Direct 100
Overbury plc Direct 100
Backbone Furniture Limited Direct 100
Barnes & Elliott Limited Direct 100
Bluebell Printing Limited Direct 100
 Sindall Eastern Limited Indirect 100
Elec-Track Installations Limited Direct 100
Hinkins & Frewin Limited Direct 100
Lovell Partnerships (Northern) Limited Direct 100
Lovell Partnerships (Southern) Limited Direct 100
Morgan Est (Scotland) Limited Direct 100
 Morgan Beton And Monierbau Limited Indirect 100
Morgan Lovell London Limited Direct 100
Morgan Sindall Trustee Company Limited Direct 100
Morgan Utilities Group Limited Direct 100 134
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
Name of undertaking Direct or indirect holdings
Proportion of 
shares held
Roberts Construction Limited Direct 100
Sindall Limited Direct 100
SMHA Limited Direct 100
Stansell Limited Direct 100
T J Braybon & Son Limited Direct 100
The Snape Group Limited Direct 100
 Snape Design & Build Limited Indirect 100
 Snape Roberts Limited Indirect 100
Vivid Interiors Limited Direct 100
Wheatley Construction Limited Direct 100
1  With the exception of Newman Insurance Company Limited, registered and operating in Guernsey, Morgan Sindall Professional Services AG, registered and operating in 
Switzerland, and Morgan Sindall Pharmachem SAS, registered and operating in France, all undertakings are registered in England and Wales or Scotland and the principal place 
of business is the UK. 
The proportion of ownership interest is the same as the proportion of voting power held except English Cities Fund, details of which are 
shown in note 12 of the consolidated nancial statements.
Newman Insurance Company Limited has a year end of 30 November coterminous with the renewal date for the insurance arrangements in 
which it participates.
2 Provisions
Employee 
provisions
£m
Insurance 
provisions
£m
Total
£m
1 January 2014 0.4 11.0 11.4
Utilised – (1.7) (1.7)
Additions – 2.2 2.2
1 January 2015 0.4 11.5 11.9
Utilised – (1.9) (1.9)
Additions – 2.2 2.2
Released – (0.9) (0.9)
31 December 2015 0.4 10.9 11.3
The Company has provisions for self-insurance in respect of claims incurred but not yet received and employee provisions which comprise 
obligations to former employees that are not related to retirement or post-retirement obligations. The majority of the provisions are expected 
to be utilised within ve years. 
1 Investments continued 135 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
Financial calendar 2016
Financial year end 31 December 2015
Preliminary results announcement 23 February 2016
Annual general meeting and trading update 5 May 2016
Final dividend:
 Ex-dividend date 28 April 2016
 Record date 29 April 2016 
 Payment date 23 May 2016
Half year results announcement August 2016
Interim dividend payable October 2016
Trading update November 2016
Registrar
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as lost 
certicates, changes of address, change of ownership or dividend 
payments and requests to receive corporate documents by email 
should, in the rst instance, be directed to the Company’s Registrar 
and clearly state the shareholder’s registered address and, if 
available, the full shareholder reference number:
By post: Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, 
Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ.
By telephone: +44 (0) 370 707 1695. Lines are open from 8.30am 
to 5.30pm (UK time), Monday to Friday).
By email: webcorres@computershare.co.uk
Online: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus
Registering on the Registrar’s website enables you to view your 
shareholding in Morgan Sindall Group plc including an indicative 
share price and valuation, check your holding balance and 
transactions, change your address or bank details and view or 
request outstanding payments. If you wish to view your 
shareholding, please log on to www.investorcentre.co.uk and select 
Sign In if you already have an Investor Centre user ID or click 
Register if you are a new user, then follow the instructions.
Dividend mandates
Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly 
to a UK bank or building society account and wish to do so should 
complete a mandate instruction available from the Registrar on 
request or at www.investorcentre.co.uk within the Downloadable 
Forms section.
Website and electronic communications
The 2015 annual report and other information about the Company 
are available on its website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com.  
The Company operates a service whereby you can register to receive 
notice by email of all announcements released by the Company.
The Company’s share price (15 minutes delay) is displayed on the 
Company’s website.
Shareholder documents are now, following changes in Company law 
and shareholder approval, primarily made available via the 
Company’s website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com, unless a 
shareholder has requested to continue to receive hard copies of 
such documents. If a shareholder has registered their up-to-date 
email address, an email will be sent to that address when such 
documents are available on the website. If shareholders have not 
provided an up-to-date email address and have not elected to 
receive documents in hard copy, a letter will be posted to their 
address that is recorded on the register of members notifying them 
that the documents are available on the website. Shareholders can 
continue to receive hard copies of shareholder documents by 
contacting the Registrar.
If you have not already registered your current email address, you 
can do so at www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Investors who hold their shares via an intermediary should contact 
the intermediary regarding the receipt of shareholder documents 
from the Company.
The Group has a wide range of information that is available on its 
website, www.corporate.morgansindall.com including:
 > Finance information – annual and interim reports, nancial news 
and events
 > Share price information
 > Shareholder services information
 > Press releases both current and historical
Multiple accounts
Shareholders who receive more than one copy of communications 
from the Company may have more than one account in their name 
on the Company’s register of members. Any shareholder wishing to 
amalgamate such holdings should write to the Registrar giving 
details of the accounts concerned and instructions on how they 
should be amalgamated.
Shareholder alerts
Unsolicited mail, investment advice and fraud
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly 
available and, as a consequence, some shareholders may receive 
unsolicited mail. In addition, many companies have become aware 
that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or 
correspondence, typically from overseas ‘brokers’, concerning 
investment matters. 
These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and 
their activities have resulted in considerable losses for some 
investors. It is not just the novice investor that has been deceived in 
this way; many of the victims have been successfully investing for 
several years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any 
unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 
company reports.
Please keep in mind that rms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
If you receive any unsolicited mail or investment advice:
 > Make sure you get the correct name of the person and 
organisation.
 > Check the Financial Services Register at www.fca.org.uk,
 > Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact  
the rm.
 > Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are  
no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out  
of date.
 > Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised rm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details.
 > Use the rm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want  
to call it back.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 136
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED
 > Search the list of unauthorised rms and individuals to avoid doing 
business with at www.fca.org.uk/scams.
 > Report a share scam by telling the FCA using the share fraud 
reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams.
 > If the unsolicited phone calls persist, hang up.
 > If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, 
contact The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 
(LON20771), London W1E 0ZT or visit the website at 
www.mpsonline.org.uk.
If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to 
receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you 
should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Share dealing services
You can buy shares through any authorised stockbroker or bank 
that offers a share dealing service in the UK, or in your country of 
residence if outside the UK.
A telephone dealing service has also been arranged with Stocktrade 
which provides a simple way of buying or selling Morgan Sindall 
Group plc shares. Basic commission is 1%, subject to a minimum 
commission of £25. Sales are carried out on a 10-day settlement 
basis with purchases on a two-day basis. When purchasing shares, 
payment must be made by debit card at the time of dealing. For 
further information, please call 0131 240 0414 and quote reference 
‘Morgan Sindall dial and deal service’.
Annual general meeting (‘AGM’)
The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.00am on  
Thursday 5 May 2016 at the ofces of Jefferies Hoare Govett, 
Vintners Place, 68 Upper Thames Street, London EC4V 3BJ.  
The Notice of Annual General Meeting can be found in the  
investors section on the Morgan Sindall Group plc website,  
www.corporate.morgansindall.com.
Electronic Voting
Shareholders can submit proxies for the 2016 AGM electronically  
by logging on to www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy. Electronic proxy 
appointments must be received by the Company’s registrar no later 
than 10.00am on Tuesday 3 May 2016 (or not less than 48 hours 
before the time xed for any adjourned meeting). 
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2015
Number of 
accounts
% of total 
accounts
Number of 
shares
% of total 
shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 822 52.32 394,554 0.89
1,001 to 5,000 517 32.91 1,109,351 2.51
5,001 to 100,000 174 11.08 4,049,907 9.14
100,001 to 1,000,000 48 3.05 13,935,863 31.46
Over 1,000,000 10 0.64 24,806,298 56.00
1,571 100.00 44,295,973 100.00
Shareholder communication
Email: cosec@morgansindall.com
Telephone: 020 7307 9200
Registered ofce
Kent House, 14-17 Market Place, London W1W 8AJ 
Registered in England and Wales, No: 00521970 
Advisers
Brokers
Jefferies Hoare Govett 
Numis Securities Limited
Solicitors
Slaughter and May 
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
Independent auditor
Deloitte LLP
London Designed and produced by Emperor, London
Copywriting provided by SGC Communications Ltd
Project photography on pages 12-13, 19 and 27 by Darren Carter,  
Morgan Sindall Construction & Infrastructure Ltd
Board photography by Simon Jarratt Photography
Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certied paper.
Park is an EMAS certied company and its Environmental Management  
System is certied to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of  
any waste associated with this production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Galerie Satin, a paper containing 15% recycled 
bre and 85% virgin bre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC
 
 
certied forests.  The pulp used in this product is bleached using an  
elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
Forward looking statements
This document may include certain forward looking statements, beliefs or opinions that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as 
assumptions about future events. These forward looking statements can be identied by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or 
current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, 
should, would, could or other words of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very 
nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and 
the Group’s plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. 
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in forward looking statements are changes in the 
global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and 
future business combinations or dispositions.
The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether 
those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Morgan Sindall Group plc
Kent House
14-17 Market Place
London W1W 8AJ
Company number: 00521970
 @morgansindall
 www.corporate.morgansindall.com
