 National Express… 
Cologne to California
 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MacBook Pro
Excellence 
We constantly strive 
to be excellent in all 
that we do
Safety 
We only do what 
is safe and stop any
unsafe behaviour
Community
We are active in 
the communities we 
serve to generate 
economic, social and 
environmental value
Customers 
We place them at the
heart of our business
and relentlessly meet
their expectations
People
We develop the talents,
reward the exceptional
performance and respect
the rights of all our employees
Our Values
National Express Group is a leading public 
transport operator with bus, coach and 
rail services in the UK, Continental Europe, 
North Africa, North America and the 
Middle East
Our Vision
Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our 
customers by consistently delivering frequent, 
high performing public transport services 
which offer excellent value. 
 
Read more p18
Visit our Group website to read our latest news, access 
investor information and find out more about how we operate.
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Unless otherwise stated, all operating profit, operating margin and EPS data refer to normalised results, which can be found on the face of the Group Income 
Statement in the first column. The definition of normalised profit is as follows: IFRS result found in the third column, excluding intangible asset amortisation, 
exceptional items and tax relief thereon. The Board believes that the normalised result gives a better indication of the underlying performance of the Group.
Underlying revenue compares the current year with the prior year on a consistent basis, after adjusting for the impact of currency. 
In UK Bus, commercial revenue is that from fare-paying customers and excludes concessions and contracted services. In UK Coach, core express revenue 
is that from the scheduled National Express network.
Constant currency basis compares the current year’s results with the prior year’s results translated at the current year’s exchange rate.
Operating margin is the ratio of normalised operating profit to revenue.
‘Return on capital employed’ (‘ROCE’) is normalised operating profit divided by tangible and intangible assets.
‘Return on assets’ (‘ROA’) is normalised operating profit divided by tangible assets.
Operating cash flow is the cash flow equivalent of normalised operating profit. Free cash flow is the cash flow equivalent of normalised profit after tax. 
A reconciliation is set out in the table within the Group Finance Director’s review.
EBITDA is ‘Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation’. It is calculated by taking normalised operating profit and adding depreciation, 
fixed asset grant amortisation, normalised profit on disposal of non-current assets and share-based payments.
Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents (cash overnight deposits and other short-term deposits) and other debt receivables, offset by borrowings 
(loan notes, bank loans and finance lease obligations) and other debt payable (excluding accrued interest).
Gearing ratio is the ratio of net debt to EBITDA over the last 12 months, including any pre-acquisition EBITDA generated in that 12-month period by businesses 
acquired by the Group during the period.
The annual punctuality measure for c2c is the moving annual average (‘MAA’) public performance measure (‘PPM’) to 6 February 2016.
Safety Incidents measure those for which the Group is responsible and is based on the Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index used in the UK rail industry. 
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) is the profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding those 
held in the Employee Benefit Trust which are treated as cancelled. Strategic Report
 1 Financial highlights
 2 National Express Group at a glance
 4 Chairman’s letter 
 5 Investment case
 6 Market overview
 8 Group Chief Executive’s review
 14 Our business model and strategy 
 16 Our strategy at a glance 
 18  Managing our resources and relationships
 26 Key performance indicators 
 28 Risk and risk management 
 30 Principal risks and uncertainties 
 32 Group Finance Director’s review
 38 Spain and Morocco 
 40 North America
 42 UK Bus
 44 UK Coach
 46 Rail
Corporate Governance 
 50  Chairman’s introduction to governance
 52 Governance in practice
 54 Board of Directors
 56 Governance Report
 64 Audit Committee Report
 68 Nomination Committee Report
 70 Safety & Environment Committee Report
 72 Directors’ Remuneration Report
 83 Annual Report on Remuneration
 96 Other statutory information
 100 Directors’ responsibilities statement
Financial Statements
 101 Independent Auditor’s Report
 106 Group Income Statement
 107  Group Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 
108  Group Balance Sheet
 109  Group Statement of Changes in Equity
 110 Group Statement of Cash Flows
 111 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
172  Company Balance Sheet
 173 Notes to the Company Accounts
Additional Information
1 86  Shareholder information
187  Dividends and financial calendar
1 88  Glossary
190  Five Year Summary
 1 91 Corporate information
Strong financial performance
 Group revenue increased by 3.8% to £1.92 billion on a constant currency basis; 
up 2.8% on a reported basis (2014: £1.87bn)
 Group normalised operating profit up 15.5% to £193.5 million (2014: £167.6m*)
 Group normalised profit before tax rose by 25.2% to £150.1 million (2014: £119.9m*)
 Statutory Group profit before tax grew by 87.1% to £124.4 million (2014: £66.5m) 
with no exceptional costs in 2015
 Group ROCE increased to 11.7% (2014: 10.7%*)
 Year-on-year normalised EPS growth of 23.8% to 23.4 pence (2014: 18.9p*)
 Free cash flow of £111.0 million, £11.0 million ahead of target (2014: £164.8m)
 Net debt increased by £81.2 million to £745.5 million, reflecting £105.8 million 
spent on acquisitions and growth capital expenditure
 Full year proposed dividend of 11.33 pence, up 10% year-on-year (2014: 10.3p)
Group revenue (£m)
£1,919.8m
Free cash flow* (£m)
£111.0m
1,919.8
1,867.4
1,891.3
2013
2014
2015
111.0
164.8
167.1
2013
2014
2015
ROCE* (%)
11.7%
Operating profit* (£m)
£193.5m
11.7
10.7
10.8
2013
2014
2015
193.5
167.6
177.2
2013
2014
2015
Dividend per share (p)
11.33p
Operating margin* (%)
10.1%
11.33
10.3
10.0
2013
2014
2015
10.1
9.0
9.4
2013
2014
2015
Summary of results 2015
Normalised basis IFRS basis
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 1,919.8 1,867.4 1,919.8 1,867.4
Operating profit 193.5 167.6 167.8 114.2
Profit before tax 150.1 119.9 124.4 66.5
Profit for the year 121.6 98.1 109.1 60.6
Basic earnings per share (pence) 23.4 18.9 20.9 11.6
Net debt 745.5 664.3 745.5 664.3
*  Historical results restated to adjust for the impact of Rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as exceptional items.
Front cover
One of our new German trains departs Cologne 
station – a key destination for our new rail services. 
Read more about them on page 48–49
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
1 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Spain and Morocco: 
Bus and Coach
• ALSA
ALSA is the leading 
company in the Spanish 
road passenger transport 
sector, and was acquired by 
National Express in 2005. 
With over 100 years’ 
experience, it operates 
long-distance, regional and 
urban bus and coach services 
across Spain and in Morocco. 
Apart from its bus and 
coach services, the 
business also operates 
service areas and other 
transport-related businesses, 
such as fuel distribution.
Revenue
£502.2m
2014: £538.1m
Operating profit
£71.5m
2014: £75.0m*
 
Read more p38
North America: Bus
• Durham School Services 
• Stock Transportation 
• Petermann 
• National Express Transit
Our business in North America 
has two areas of activity: 
student transportation and 
transit services. 
We operate in 36 US states 
and four Canadian provinces. 
The student transportation 
business operates through 
medium-term contracts 
awarded by local school 
boards to provide safe and 
reliable transport for students, 
and is the second largest 
private operator in 
North America.
Revenue
£683.2m
2014: £620.2m
Operating profit
£66.8m
2014: £59.5m
 
Read more p40
Rail
• c2c
• National Express 
Rail Germany
National Express operates 
the industry-leading c2c 
franchise which serves 
London and South Essex. 
It is an important commuter 
route serving 25 stations 
on the line out of Fenchurch 
Street Station, London. 
We started to operate contracted 
rail services in Germany in 
December 2015 running the 
Rhine-Münster-Express and the 
Rhine-Wupper-Bahn. In June 
2015 we were awarded two 
contracts to operate Rhine-Ruhr 
Express services, the first 
starting in December 2018, and 
the second in December 2020.  
We have also been named as 
preferred bidder to operate 
services on the Nuremburg 
S-Bahn network.
Revenue
£168.4m
2014: £151.6m
Operating profit
£0.6m
2014: £(10.1)m*
 
Read more p46
Operating profit 
by end market
Spain and Morocco 34%
North America 32%
UK Bus 18%
UK Coach 16%
Rail 0%
National Express Group at a glance
A leading transport provider  
with a well balanced portfolio
The Group operates in the UK, Continental Europe, North Africa, North 
America and the Middle East and at the end of the year we employed 
over 44,000 people and operated over 27,000 vehicles. Passengers 
made more than 867 million journeys on our services in 2015. 
The National Express name first appeared on UK coaches in 1972, 
and the Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1992.
*  FY2014 normalised results restated 
to adjust for the impact of Rail and 
Middle East costs previously treated 
as exceptional items
2 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group revenue  
by end market
Spain and Morocco 26%
North America 35%
UK Bus 15%
UK Coach 15%
Rail 9%
New markets
Bahrain
In February 2015, our joint  
venture, Bahrain Public Transport 
Company, began operating new 
bus services across Bahrain.  
The ten-year contract included  
the introduction of 141 new 
vehicles to Bahrain.
International opportunities
Our bid team continues to explore 
selected opportunities which 
leverage our skills in bus, coach  
and rail markets.
  Our new bus fleet serves Manama 
and surrounding areas in Bahrain
UK: Bus
• National Express 
West Midlands 
• National Express Coventry 
• Xplore Dundee 
• Midland Metro
National Express is the market 
leader in the UK’s largest 
urban bus market outside of 
London. Services are operated 
from nine garages across the 
West Midlands. We also run 
bus services in the cities of 
Coventry and Dundee. 
In addition, we operate the 
Midland Metro light rail service 
between Birmingham and 
Wolverhampton. 
Revenue
£286.4m
2014: £281.0m
Operating profit
£37.5m
2014: £34.0m
 
Read more p42
UK: Coach
• National Express 
• Eurolines 
• The Kings Ferry
National Express is the  
largest operator of scheduled 
coach services in the UK.  
The business operates high 
frequency services linking 
over 900 destinations across 
the country. We are the UK 
partner in the Eurolines 
network which serves over 
500 destinations across 
Europe and North Africa. 
The Kings Ferry is also part  
of the UK Coach business  
and is a long-established 
provider of commuter coach 
travel services in London 
and the south of England.
Revenue
£281.2m
2014: £275.2m
Operating profit
£32.3m
2014: £28.0m
 
Read more p44
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
3 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Chairman’s letter
Governance 
highlights 
• As a Board, we aspire to apply 
high standards of governance to 
our conduct around the Board 
table and we commit to ensure 
that these standards, values and 
behaviours are applied consistently 
by the Executive team and cascaded 
throughout the Group.
• During the year, we have continued 
to refresh the Board to ensure that, 
as the Group evolves, we have 
Directors with the right and 
appropriate balance of skills, 
experience, independence and 
relevant knowledge in order to 
deliver our strategy and fulfil our 
duties as Directors.
• In line with Code recommendations, 
the Board recognises and values 
the importance of maintaining 
healthy and open communications 
with our shareholders to ensure 
mutual understanding of the 
Group’s strategy, objectives, 
governance and performance.
Operational excellence is 
driving our success
Sir John Armitt CBE
Chairman 
25 February 2016
Dear shareholder, 
I am delighted that National Express has 
again delivered a strong set of results in 
2015. The focus on operational excellence, 
across the Board, from Dean and 
throughout the business is helping us 
to increase revenues, profit and margin, 
drive cash and returns to shareholders 
and generate new growth opportunities.
New markets
During the year we commenced operations in 
two new markets: Bahraini bus and German 
rail. I cannot recall a time when an established 
transport company like ours began significant 
new operations in two foreign markets in the 
same year. It is testament to the management 
capabilities we have in place at the senior, 
Group level and in local teams to have 
achieved such a feat.
As we have repeatedly said, our ability 
to generate growth in new markets is 
contingent upon us securing and sustaining 
a reputation for operational excellence. 
I believe that successful operations in these 
two new markets will only strengthen these 
credentials further and hope they will also 
help us open other growth opportunities.
Existing businesses
Equally, however, we are focused on 
ensuring we sustain a reputation for 
operational excellence in our existing 
markets. Our customer satisfaction scores, 
contract retention rates and passenger 
growth figures demonstrate that we have 
also made good progress here. Our 
financial results for the year – with revenue, 
profit and margin up in every division – 
show the benefits of this focus.
Dividend
It is because of this performance, with free 
cash flow again beating our target, and our 
confidence on outlook that the Board is 
recommending that the full year dividend 
is increased to 11.33p, representing 10% 
growth for the year as a whole. This 
dividend is paid in line with our policy – 
announced during 2015 – of two times 
Group earnings cover. Subject to approval 
by shareholders, the final dividend will be 
paid on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on 
the register on 29 April 2016.
Board
In this year’s Annual Report and Accounts 
we have included a ‘Governance in practice’ 
section to capture the active role the Board 
play across the business, from meeting 
frontline staff and customers to challenging 
senior management. I believe this is 
welcome additional disclosure which gives 
shareholders and other stakeholders an 
insight into the varied work undertaken 
by the Board and I hope you find it useful 
and interesting.
Following the announcements last year that 
both Sir Andrew Foster and Jackie Hunt 
would be standing down, we made three 
appointments in 2015 to strengthen the 
Board in key areas.
Matthew Crummack brings significant 
experience in digital commerce which 
has become a critical area of activity 
within National Express. Matthew has 
already made a valuable contribution 
and complements the Board with a 
retail focused customer perspective.
Mike McKeon joined the Board during the 
year and as well as becoming a member 
of the Safety & Environment Committee is 
Chair of the Audit Committee. After 
spending 15 years as a Group Finance 
Director with wide-ranging international 
experience, Mike provides expert oversight 
in these crucial areas. 
Dr Ashley Steel was appointed last year 
and took up her position on the Board in 
January 2016. As a former Vice Chairman 
at KPMG, and their Global Chair for its 
transport, leisure and logistics practice, 
she brings a distinguished career in and 
significant track record of the sector.
I look forward to continuing to work with 
Matthew, Mike, Ashley and all the Board 
in 2016.
Sir John Armitt CBE
Chairman
25 February 2016
Strategic Report
 Read more p50
4 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Investment case
A sound investment case…  
our diversity is our strength
A best in class public transport operator*
Spain and Morocco North America UK Bus UK Coach Rail Group
Margin %
14.2 9.8 13.1 11.5 0.4 10.1
Best in class %
NX NX 14 NX 5 NX
* By margin
A sound strategy in place
  Read more p14–17
Delivering operational  
excellence
• Best in class Group margin of 10.1%
• Revenue growth of 3.8% at constant 
currency
• £9.0 billion of long-term contracted 
or concessionary revenues
• Sustainable long-term earnings 
including long-term rail earnings
Generating superior  
cash and returns
• Free cash flow of £111 million
• Sustainable free cash flow generation 
of £100 million per annum
• Dividend up 10%
• Group ROCE increased by 100bps 
to 11.7%
• Surplus cash to be invested in targeted 
bolt-on acquisitions
Creating new business 
opportunities
• Over £1.1 billion of new contracts won 
during the year
• Rail – won two new German rail contracts 
worth €1.0 billion of contracted revenues; 
bidding for a further three in 2016. 
Shortlisted for East Anglia in the UK
• UK Bus – shortlisted for Manchester 
Metrolink 
• Spain and Morocco – awarded a contract 
within the Imserso scheme in Spain and 
commenced operations in Khouribga, 
our fourth city in Morocco
• Middle East – commenced operations of 
first contract in the region in Bahrain, and 
shortlisted in two further cities in the region
• Six bolt-on acquisitions in 2015 with five 
in North America and one in Spain
Well balanced portfolio Stable long-term finance 
in place and commitment 
to investment grade rating
Divisional split by revenue Gearing ratios 2015 2014 Covenant
Net debt/EBITDA 2.45x 2.25x < 3.5x
Net interest cover 6.6x 6.3x > 3.5x
Ratings Grade Outlook
Moody’s Baa3 Stable
Fitch BBB- Stable
Dividend policy based 
on 2x Group earnings
Spain and Morocco 26%
North America 35%
UK Bus 15%
UK Coach 15%
Rail  9%
2015 2014
Basic EPS 23.4 18.9*
Dividend 11.33 10.3
*  FY2014 normalised EPS restated to adjust for the impact 
of rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as 
exceptional items
Modal split by revenue Strong debt maturity profile
 Drawn  Bond  Available*  Bridge facility
Bus 24%
School Bus/Transit 35%
Coach 32%
Rail  9%
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
31
46
350
30
450
Bond yield 6.4%
19
416
237
66
5
2
3 4
5
1
*  Available cash and undrawn committed facilities at 
31 December 2015.
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
5 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Market overview
Understanding trends  
and opportunities
Here we give an overview on how the megatrends are shaping demand 
for travel and public transport and the opportunities ahead.
Economic environment 
The propensity to travel is generally affected by levels of economic 
activity, as represented by GDP growth. Although levels of 
transportation and mobility remain relatively stable through the 
economic cycle, periods of GDP growth generate additional 
volume demand and pricing benefit.
Opportunity: The UK and North America are showing relatively 
stable growth whilst the Spanish economy appears to be 
strengthening, with demand for public transport likely to 
improve as the economy grows and employment levels rise.
Average GDP growth
 Ave 2010-2015  Ave 2016-2017
UK Spain US Germany Morocco Bahrain
5.0
-1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
Global urban population growth is propelled by the 
growth of cities of all sizes
 Urban areas smaller than 500,000 
 Cities of 500,000 to 1 million 
 Medium-sized cities of 1 to 5 million
 Large cities of 5 to 10 million 
 Megacities of 10 million or more
1990 2014 2030
5,000
4,000
Population (millions)
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
increasingly in demand. In addition population growth in the UK and 
North America will drive further demand for public transport services.
Opportunity: UK population growth is forecast to grow by 7% 
over the next decade driving the need for further public transport 
services, whilst the combination of an ageing and increasingly 
social and ethnically diverse population will drive the need for 
new products and services to meet changing customer needs.
Deregulation, liberalisation and outsourcing
Our markets are created when state provision of public transport is 
transferred to the private sector. There are different models for this, 
with examples ranging from the deregulated markets of our UK Bus 
and UK Coach divisions, through the concessions and franchises 
of Spain, Morocco and Rail, to the school bus and transit contracts 
of North America.
This is supported by a trend towards market liberalisation, such 
as European Union directives focused on opening up rail networks. 
Cost saving is increasingly a factor too, through recognition of the 
superior efficiency of privately operated services.
Opportunity: The current size of the European public transport 
market is estimated to be approximately €150 billion*. Liberalisation 
of the German and Spanish rail markets present opportunities for 
growth. (* OECD data.)
Urbanisation and demographic changes
Our services benefit from increasing urbanisation around the world, 
in particular driving demand for bus operations. Existing towns and 
cities are expanding, in addition to the creation of new centres of 
population. Globally, in 2014, 54% of the world’s population lived in 
urban centres and it is projected to grow to 66% by 2050, whilst 
73% of the population in Europe and 82% of the population In North 
America already live in urban centres. These trends are driving the 
requirement for additional transportation services, both within and 
between locations, so our Bus, Coach and Rail operations are 
Modal shift
Modal shift is the move by individuals from one form of transport to 
another. For National Express, the relevant move is from the private 
car to bus, coach and rail travel. The biggest reason for this is an 
increase in the cost of motoring, such as insurance pricing, and the 
increasing use of mobile devices, such as tablets and smartphones, 
while travelling, although other factors such as environmental 
concerns and congestion can also be important. Geopolitical and 
demographic changes in the Middle East are increasing demand 
for affordable, safe public transport. Technology and innovation are  
playing their part, with travel apps providing real-time information as 
well as customised targeted offers helping to generate incremental 
demand for journeys on public transport. Digital platforms are 
increasingly providing customers with end to end journey planning 
and ticketing tools delivering greater convenience for passengers. 
Opportunity: The proliferation of real-time travel information and 
mobile devices improves the customer experience making public 
transport increasingly more attractive compared with the car, whilst 
the introduction of smartcards and contactless cards not only 
provides greater convenience for customers but help to build 
stronger customer relationships.
Environment and congestion
Environmental concerns continue to have an influence on customer 
behaviour. Bus, coach and rail services are significantly more 
environmentally friendly forms of transport than the private car or air 
travel, reducing both the level of carbon emissions per person travelling 
and travel congestion. Society as a whole and individuals are becoming 
increasingly concerned about the effect of emissions on the environment 
and are explicitly choosing public transport as an alternative.
Opportunity: Improved access to city centre locations, such 
as priority bus lanes, for environmentally friendly transport.
6 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Here we put each of our markets into context and highlight the main drivers across all our divisions.
 Spain and Morocco
  Read more p38
ALSA holds the market-leading position in the regulated and highly 
segmented bus and intercity coach market in Spain and also 
operates in four cities in Morocco. Three levels of government 
regulation apply in Spain: national (long-distance coach), regional 
(regional coach) and city (urban bus). Each concession is exclusive 
to the operator, based on compliance with the public service 
obligation. Intercity competition comes from state-backed rail and 
low cost airlines. Bus and coach concessions are awarded through 
competitive public tender, typically every ten years.
Market size
€3.8bn
Concessions
175
• 175 concessions: 123 intercity coach concessions, 36 urban 
bus contracts, 16 others
• Concessional renewal and new urban contract wins in Spain 
and Morocco
• Revenue management generating passenger and revenue 
growth in Spain
• Continuing urbanisation of the Moroccan economy with rapid 
migration to the major cities
 North America
  Read more p40
National Express is the second largest player in the North American 
school market with a 13% share of the outsourced school bus 
market. 33% of the market is outsourced with recent increases in 
outsource conversion being driven by pressure on public funding. 
This trend is likely to continue as school district budgets remain 
constrained. Typically customers are local school boards where local 
relationships are key and service delivery is very important. National 
Express also operates in the North American public transit market, 
29% of which is outsourced and where there is an increasing demand 
for accessible public transportation services, for fixed route, 
paratransit and employee shuttle services.
Market size
$24bn
Operates
21,800
school buses
• Bolt-on acquisition opportunities in school bus
• New business growth from winning contracts in school bidding 
season and through new Transit contracts
 UK Bus
  Read more p42
The largest five operators represent around 70% of the UK 
deregulated bus market, with the remainder of the market made up 
of a large number of private operators. Active competition comes 
from national and local bus operators, as well as private car and 
rail. In the short term the market has been impacted by economic 
pressures from austerity and local unemployment, but longer term, 
economic regeneration and environmentally driven public transport 
present growth opportunities over the car.
Market size
£4.8bn
(UK excluding London) 
Operates
1,677
buses, focused in the West 
Midlands and Dundee markets
• Increase passenger volumes through investment in vehicles, 
technology and people and through delivering high quality services
• Low barriers to entry – flexibility and scale of operations is key
• Devolved local transport budgets and services to regional 
combined authorities may present opportunities to enter new 
regional markets
 UK Coach
  Read more p44
National Express has the only nationwide network of services with 
other competitors tending to focus on specific regions or corridors. 
Selective competition comes from rail, particularly on discounted 
fares, and from large bus operators and localised services. Drivers 
for demand include the level of fare discount to rail, cost of private 
motoring and environmental friendliness. Customer satisfaction is 
also an important driver for longer-term loyalty through consistent 
service and high customer safety standards.
Market size
£300m
of contested revenues in the 
scheduled coach market
Destinations
900+
UK scheduled coach 
market leader
• Revenue growth through competitive pricing, better distribution 
channels and greater understanding of customers and their needs
• Longer term implementation of improved retailing systems
 Rail
  Read more p46
The UK rail market is a regulated market and is broadly 
dispersed between UK private train operators and overseas state 
market participants. In the past ten years, growth has been 
driven by passenger volumes with the levels of economic activity 
and employment also drivers. A new framework for future UK 
franchises is seeing franchise durations settle between seven 
and 15 years with the introduction of a quality element alongside 
pricing. Meanwhile the German rail market is liberalising and 
offering growth opportunities.
Market size
£8.5bn
of UK franchise revenues per 
annum, with over £6 billion 
of franchise revenues up for 
renewal over the next five years 
(based on proposed Department 
for Transport pipeline)
€9bn
currently accessible German 
regional and urban market
• c2c rail franchise through to 2029
• Submitted bid to operate the East Anglia rail franchise with 
a decision due in summer 2016
• Our first two German rail franchises commenced operations 
in December 2015 for 15 years with two more commencing 
in December 2019 and December 2020 for 14 years and 
13 years respectively
• Growth through further bid wins in Germany and the UK
• Liberalisation of Spanish rail market a future opportunity
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
7 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Group Chief Executive’s review
Delivering growth  
in all divisions
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive
25 February 2016
“ Our strategy of consistently focusing on operational 
excellence to drive cash and returns, as well as opening 
up new growth opportunities, continues to deliver.”
Introduction
National Express had a very successful year. 
Revenue, profits and margins have increased 
in every division on a constant currency 
basis. We continue to generate a strong 
and sustainable cash flow, which underpins 
a 10% increase in our proposed full year 
dividend and helps us to invest for further 
growth. Indeed, we started operations in 
two new markets, Germany and Bahrain, 
during 2015 and made a number of targeted 
acquisitions in North America and Spain 
in line with our growth strategy. 
I believe these results demonstrate that 
our strategy of consistently focusing on 
operational excellence to drive cash and 
returns, as well as opening up new growth 
opportunities, continues to deliver. National 
Express has a uniquely diversified portfolio of 
industry-leading businesses which, through 
careful management, have provided growing 
returns for shareholders and generated new 
expansion opportunities. I believe that by 
maintaining this management focus on 
consistently delivering our strategy we will 
continue to drive returns and open new 
growth opportunities. Before I expand in 
more detail on this, I would like to outline the 
highlights from our results during the year.
Highlights from the year
My first priority as Chief Executive is safety. It 
is one of our core values and is the first issue 
I discuss on my weekly call with Managing 
Directors, at each Divisional Board meeting 
consistently for our customers the services 
they want, at attractive prices. Across the 
Group we carried over 2% more passengers 
than in 2014, helping to increase Group 
revenue by 3.8% on a constant currency 
basis. Group profit before tax increased by 
25.2% on a normalised basis and by over 
87% on a statutory basis. We have again 
driven improved returns with Group ROCE 
up 100 basis points to 1 1.7% and a strong 
and sustainable free cash flow of £1 1 1 million, 
beating our target of £100 million. This strong 
performance allows the Board to propose an 
increase in the full year dividend to 1 1.33p, an 
increase of 10% and funded within our 
robust policy of two times earnings cover. 
With c2c and German Rail securing our 
long-term future in rail, the Board announced 
a new policy at 2015’s half year results, to 
include rail profits in the dividend calculation.
UK Coach’s innovative digital marketing 
approach is being complemented with new 
partnership deals to both deliver our services 
more effectively to existing customers and 
reach new markets. This has been 
augmented by further contract wins, 
especially in the second half of the year. In 
the core coach business we carried nearly 
2% more passengers in 2015 compared 
with 2014 and increased revenue across the 
division as a whole by 2.2% to £281.2 million. 
With a relentless attention to costs and 
efficiency, UK Coach has delivered a 15.4% 
increase in profit and a margin improvement 
of 130 basis points to 1 1.5%.
In UK Bus the emphasis on partnership 
is working, with, for example, our record 
investment in new vehicles during 2015 
complemented by local authority investment 
at crucial pinch points. This is helping to drive 
strong passenger growth on these new 
Platinum routes. Alongside Centro we have 
helped lead the industry with the launch of the 
multi-operator, multi-modal Swift smartcard, 
which is also available as Pay As You Go. 
Together innovations and investment like this 
and at the PLC Board. As long as I am Chief 
Executive of National Express, it will remain 
our priority. I am therefore pleased we have 
made further progress in improving on our 
key safety measure: the Fatalities and 
Weighted Injuries (‘FWI’) index. Since 201 1 
we have reduced the harm caused by our 
business on this measure by 56%. We have 
also won important safety awards during the 
year, including UK Coach being awarded the 
prestigious British Safety Council ‘Sword 
of Honour’ and our North American School 
Bus division being upgraded to the highest 
possible rating by the Federal Motor Carrier 
Safety Administration, part of the US 
Department of Transportation.
Financially, the Group has performed well 
during 2015. With all divisions helping to 
drive increased revenues, profits and 
margins, I believe the whole business is 
benefiting from a focus on operational 
excellence that requires us to deliver 
have helped secure our highest ever customer 
satisfaction scores in the independent Transport 
Focus survey. This is being reflected in our 
financial results with revenue increasing by 
nearly 2% to £286.4 million and profits growing 
by just over 10% to £37 .5 million. Our margin 
has increased by 100 basis points to 13. 1%.
Our Rail division has delivered an operating 
profit of £0.6 million compared with a £10. 1 
million loss in 2014. These figures reflect the 
fact bidding costs are included in our divisional 
8 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015   
The launch of a new coach service 
between Cardiff and Bristol Airport 
has proved popular with customers 
results and are no longer taken as exceptional 
items. In 2015 we also absorbed over a 
three-fold increase in the premium paid to 
the Government for the c2c service. Targeted, 
digital marketing, combined with the best 
punctuality in Britain, has helped revenues 
from c2c increase by nearly 10% to 
£166.0 million, with overall passenger 
numbers growing by 5.3% and off-peak 
journeys increasing by 7 .6%. We introduced 
the largest timetable change in a generation 
during December to meet both the significant 
passenger growth we have been experiencing 
and the improved central London connections 
specified in the Department for Transport’s 
franchise agreement. We have made 
amendments to address some passenger 
concerns and are working hard to secure 
extra trains to provide additional capacity.
In North America we continue to see the 
benefits of our focus on improving contract 
pricing, including through our ‘up or out’ 
strategy. During the year we secured price 
increases of 5.3% in those contracts that 
went to market, which averaged out at a 
2.8% increase across our whole portfolio. 
We have again maintained very high levels 
of customer retention. Our ‘up or out’ pricing 
strategy means we exit unprofitable contracts 
unless we secure a sufficient price increase 
to ensure profitability; with those tenders 
excluded, we retained 99% of all contracts 
re-bid during 2015; and if those tenders are 
included, we still retained 96% of contracts 
across our whole portfolio. Combined with 
further cost savings, including head office 
efficiencies, these have helped drive an 
increase in profit on a constant currency 
basis of 6. 1% to $102.2 million despite rising 
pressure on driver wages, with our margin 
now at 9.8% (9.6% in 2014). Transit has also 
delivered significant growth in the year, with 
three new contracts secured, an extension 
to an existing contract and one bolt-on 
acquisition helping to increase annualised 
revenues by 45%.
In ALSA, our Spanish and Moroccan division, 
revenue grew by 3.6%, profit increased by 
5.8% and a record number of passenger 
journeys were recorded in the year. This 
growth has been driven in particular by the 
continued successful roll out of our revenue 
management system (‘RMS’) and our 
ongoing growth in Morocco. RMS has 
now been extended to over 200 flows that 
compete directly with the discounted RENFE 
rail services, with revenues up 2% and 
passengers up 3% on these routes. Morocco 
continues its strong growth, with revenues up 
nearly 14% as we expanded our services in 
Tangier and started new operations in our 
fourth city, Khouribga. Following recent press 
reports on the Portuguese Government’s 
proposed cancellation of our Porto bus 
contract – amongst others awarded by the 
previous government – we have just received 
official notification. We will analyse the 
arguments used to overturn a previously 
awarded contract and then consider our 
next steps.
We also successfully launched new Bahraini 
bus and German rail services during the year. 
Our entry into these new markets was 
secured, at least in part, because of our 
reputation for excellence in our existing 
operations. We believe both of these markets 
provide good growth potential and will help 
strengthen our international reputation.
Strategy
Our consistent strategy of focusing on 
operational excellence has demonstrably 
improved returns for shareholders and helps 
position us for further growth opportunities.
Delivering operational excellence
For a number of years I have made the 
case that our success as a business is 
dependent upon us securing and 
maintaining a reputation for operational 
excellence. For our existing customers this 
means consistently delivering the services 
that they want at competitive prices they 
can afford. For new customers it means 
demonstrating to them that we will provide to 
them the service they want in a convenient 
way while offering good value for money. 
This has guided our operating philosophy for 
a number of years now, and I believe these 
results demonstrate the benefits of this 
approach. We carried more passengers in 
2015 than in 2014, with both ALSA and c2c 
carrying record passenger numbers in the 
year. Our customer satisfaction ratings again 
are often market-leading: UK Coach is for the 
third year running the most trusted ground 
transportation brand in the UK Institute of 
Customer Service’s annual survey; UK Bus 
has secured its highest ever customer 
satisfaction scores in the independent 
Transport Focus survey; c2c again has the 
highest customer satisfaction scores for 
reliability and punctuality in London and 
South East franchises in the National Rail 
Passenger Survey; in our North American 
School Bus business 92% of customers say 
they would recommend us on the basis of 
our service, safety and value; and ALSA has 
achieved its best score in five years in the 
annual independent Customer Service Index 
survey conducted by GFK.
This philosophy will also drive growth in our 
existing businesses as we focus on delivering 
continuously improving, ever more punctual 
and value for money services. This means 
identifying opportunities to capture new 
markets, such as UK Coach’s new Bristol 
Airport services launched in March 2015. 
It also means reforming our operations to 
ensure they meet customer aspirations and 
challenges, such as launching the largest 
timetable change in a generation on c2c 
to meet the significant passenger growth 
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
9 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Group Chief Executive’s review continued
  
We have expanded 
our operations in 
Morocco with the 
launch of services 
in Khouribga
  
The new Platinum 
buses launched 
during the year in 
the West Midlands 
offer more leg room  
and free WiFi
“ Our progress in embedding excellence across 
the business has been recognised by leading 
accreditation bodies.”
we have been experiencing and making 
significant progress in the ‘digital’ arena.
For some time we have been looking to 
harness new technology and approaches 
to enhance our customer service and 
operate more efficiently. Our targeted digital 
marketing has already delivered results in UK 
Coach: 88% of emails sent to our customer 
database are now targeted, compared with 
69% in 2014 and 18% in 2013. We have 
already embedded a similar approach in c2c, 
with an increase in off-peak travel a particular 
benefit from this approach, and we are now 
rolling it out to UK Bus and Spain. We 
have already pioneered industry-leading 
innovations, such as the personal 
performance promise supported by 
Automatic Delay Repay and personalised 
performance reports, which c2c is 
launching this year. 
Under a new Group Digital Officer, all 
divisions are auditing their existing digital 
strategies and setting out how they can 
make further, significant progress in the 
coming years. I believe these new 
technologies and approaches provide the 
opportunity to truly bring the customer into 
the heart of our business. They help create 
personalised and tailored relationships with 
our customers, helping to drive innovation 
and service efficiency so we can better 
target customer needs. 
We have also been using new technology to 
improve our safety performance and believe 
there is the opportunity for substantial cost 
savings to be gained through this. Initial pilots 
of ‘DriveCam’ in UK Coach and North 
American School Bus have been very 
positive, already delivering in-year cost 
savings and providing detailed performance 
reports for each driver, allowing tailored 
training programmes to improve driving and 
safety performance. This technology will now 
be rolled out more widely in UK Coach and 
North America and also to UK Bus and 
ALSA. We are also looking to introduce 
‘collision avoidance’ technology that 
could deliver further savings and safety 
improvements. I believe this is an area of 
real opportunity for our business, delivering 
both further safety improvements and 
meaningful cost reduction.
Embracing technology and approaches such 
as those outlined above demonstrates how 
we continue to invest where it makes a real 
difference to our services. In 2015 we 
invested a record £34 million in UK Bus, 
delivering 176 new buses, one third of which 
were our state-of-the-art Platinum buses. 
These buses are seeing strong passenger 
growth and customer satisfaction scores of 
94%. We have also invested in an RMS in 
Spain to effectively counter the competitive 
threat from heavily discounted rail services 
and are launching an enhanced version in UK 
Coach during the year. c2c has also been 
investing in leading-edge customer initiatives 
such as improved apps and WiFi provision, 
first-to-last staffing at all stations and the 
ground-breaking Automatic Delay Repay 
scheme for season ticket holders. This will 
provide compensation for every minute of 
delay beyond two minutes and, as the 
Secretary of State for Transport confirmed 
last year, has set a new standard for the rail 
industry as a whole to follow.
But, equally, these new technologies and 
approaches are part of our continued 
determination to operate as cost efficiently 
as possible. Operating efficiently helps us 
to maintain our prices as competitive as we 
can. We have continued to target 1% cost 
efficiency savings, with £19 million delivered 
in 2015. Over the last three years we have 
taken nearly £80 million out of our cost 
base through efficiency savings and are 
determined to continue to secure 
further savings in the future. 
Our progress in embedding excellence 
across the business has been recognised 
by leading accreditation bodies. c2c has 
had its five-star rating under the European 
Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) 
re-confirmed, with a higher mark this year 
than its last score. UK Bus, UK Coach and 
ALSA have all achieved four-star ratings in 
their initial assessments and are determined 
to emulate c2c’s success. Our North 
American Division has also secured a Bronze 
Award in its first assessment from the Illinois 
Performance Excellence Center (ILPEx). 
2015 also saw us win a record number 
of industry awards.
10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 As I have already mentioned, safety is 
my priority and our Driving Out Harm 
programme, introduced in 2010, continues 
to deliver progress in this crucial area. We 
have achieved a reduction in our key safety 
measure – the FWI index. Since 201 1 we 
have reduced harm on this measure by 56% 
across our business. 2015’s FWI is 12.242, 
compared with 12.307 in 2014 and this 
progress comes despite us carrying more 
passengers and running more services in 
2015. 
It is through this approach to operational 
excellence, combining service quality, 
customer satisfaction, cost efficiency, 
targeted investment and innovation and 
a fundamental focus on safety, that we 
believe we will deliver our vision of earning 
our customers’ lifetime loyalty. As I have 
repeatedly said, passengers are more likely 
to use our services above other choices 
because they are receiving a good service 
at a good price. Equally, contracting 
authorities or businesses are less likely 
to retender services and are more 
likely to award us new contracts if 
we consistently deliver excellence.
I am particularly pleased that our reputation 
is helping to retain significant contracts and 
services. UK Bus has led the industry and 
secured a five year ‘Bus Alliance’ in the West 
Midlands, building on our award-winning 
partnership approach. ALSA successfully 
renewed one and obtained the highest score, 
pending award, in the other for the only two 
national franchises in our portfolio to come 
up for renewal during 2015. ALSA also 
extended the Bilbao Urban Transport 
contract by two years. I have already 
mentioned our industry-leading contract 
retention rate in North American School Bus, 
with a 99% success rate in those contracts 
we wanted to retain.
Superior cash and returns
The success of this strategy this year is also 
evident in our strong cash and returns.
We have again beaten our target for the year, 
delivering £1 1 1 million of free cash flow, £1 1 
million ahead of our initial projection. Maintaining 
a strong and secure cash flow in the coming 
years is important for the dividends we pay 
shareholders and to fund future growth. 
Our net debt has increased by £81 million in 
2015 to £7 46 million, with a gearing ratio of 
2.45 times EBITDA. This increase in net debt 
has been driven by £106 million spent on 
acquisitions and growth capital expenditure 
projects, all of which are accretive within the 
first 12 months and will continue to drive 
further profit growth. As we made clear 
last year, a period of debt reduction and a 
successful programme to embed a strong 
and sustainable cash flow within the 
business provided a firm financial platform, 
allowing us to increase investment to 
capitalise on emerging growth opportunities.
Group ROCE has again increased, up 100 
basis points to 1 1.7%, demonstrating that 
we continue to deploy capital in a disciplined 
manner, targeting enhanced returns. Our 
Group operating margin has also increased 
again this year, up 1 10 basis points to 10. 1%. 
We continue to target both margin and 
ROCE improvement in the coming years.
As well as funding investment and growth, 
our strong performance is also delivering 
improved returns for shareholders. Our 
Group EPS has increased by nearly 24% to 
23.4 pence and our strong and sustainable 
cash flow means the Board is able to 
recommend to shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting a final dividend of 7 .645 
pence per Ordinary share (2014: 6.95p) 
giving a total dividend for the year of 1 1.33 
pence (2014: 10.3p). This represents an 
increase of 10% over 2014 and reflects our 
new policy announced during the year of 
having two times total Group earnings cover. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting to be held on 
1 1 May 2016, the final dividend will be 
paid on 20 May 2016 to Ordinary 
shareholders on the register of members 
at the close of business on 29 April 2016.
Generating new growth opportunities
Last year we identified North America as the 
principal opportunity for increased investment 
to deliver strong growth over the medium 
term. Our experience in the last 12 months – 
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
11 www.nationalexpressgroup.com 11.33p
proposed total dividend
£111.0m
free cash flow
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
  
Our principal focus 
for acquisitions is 
the North American 
School Bus market
including an encouraging pricing environment, 
with over 5% price increases secured on 
renewed contracts during the year – has 
confirmed this view and we will continue to 
target North America for further investment. 
In a highly fragmented market, with over 
1,300 private school bus businesses, we 
believe there is significant scope for the 
identification and integration of operations 
that are adjacent to our more than 220 sites 
across North America. In the last 12 months 
we have made bolt-on acquisitions of this 
type, delivering management synergies and 
improved purchasing power, alongside 
operational improvements. Some of these 
acquisitions have also opened new markets 
to us – for example shuttle services – 
providing credentials in growing sectors. 
From the integration of our significant 
Petermann acquisition four years ago, to 
these recent examples, our management 
team in North America has unparalleled 
experience and expertise in this area. We 
also believe our Transit business provides a 
good opportunity for further growth, building 
on the 45% increase in annualised revenues 
secured this year. 
During the year we also started new 
services in two new markets. Our Bahraini 
bus services began in February and our 
German rail services in December. Both 
began successfully and demonstrate that 
operational excellence and working in 
partnership work internationally. These 
contracts are strengthening our international 
reputation and opening further opportunities 
in local markets. For example, our new 
services in Bahrain are opening other 
contract opportunities within the Middle 
East where we believe the prevailing fiscal 
climate is encouraging authorities to 
increasingly look at public transport as a 
cost effective investment. Across the region, 
we are actively involved in four bid processes 
with annualised revenues of around $220 
million. We believe there is a good pipeline of 
We are also currently working on a bid for 
Manchester Metrolink, which is due to be 
submitted in May, with the contract starting 
in  July 2017 .
Outlook
During 2016 we expect all divisions to 
continue performing well, with good profit 
and cash performance secured as our 
strategy of operational excellence delivers 
the services our customers want. With 
both businesses firmly established, we 
expect our new services in Bahrain and 
Germany to support this as well. We will 
continue to target margin and ROCE 
improvement and are again not anticipating 
any exceptional items during the year. Our 
cash target for the year is again £100 million, 
reflecting our determination to maintain a 
strong and sustainable free cash flow to 
fund targeted investment in further growth 
and improving shareholder returns.
The principal focus for acquisitions will 
remain the North American school bus 
market, where our ongoing strong 
performance and management expertise, 
the encouraging trends in pricing and nature 
of the market mean we are well placed to 
deliver further growth. Investment must 
always meet our strict financial and strategic 
criteria and we are already encouraged by 
the performance of our acquisitions made 
during 2015.
In Spain, we are still preparing for the 
concession renewal process to begin later 
this year. However, the delay in forming a new 
government coupled with the ongoing legal 
challenges in Spain may serve to delay 
elements of the renewal process further. 
While we would expect some pressure on 
margins at renewal, as is normal, any impact 
from the larger concessions would not be felt 
until 2017 if they are indeed re-let this year. 
We expect the impact on our Spanish EBIT 
to be up to €2-3 million in 2017 . Our 
industry-leading team and the ongoing 
further opportunities here and are monitoring 
potential competitions in six countries in the 
Middle East. 
In German rail we commenced our Rhine-
Münster Express (‘RME’) services in 
December 2015. We are pleased with the 
first few months of trading and are targeting 
a break-even result a full year ahead of our 
original plan. Projected revenues for the 
existing RME services are expected to be 
around €72 million in 2016, with later years 
benefiting from the operation of the €1 billion 
Rhine-Ruhr Express services from 2018, 
and subject to a further legal challenge the 
€1.4 billion Nuremberg S-Bahn contract. 
This latest appeal by Deutsche Bahn comes 
despite the local authority believing it 
had successfully demonstrated that the 
conditions set in the previous appeal had 
been met. We will continue to provide any 
necessary information and hope the new 
appeal is concluded quickly so we can 
provide the people of Nuremberg with the 
quality of service they deserve. The German 
rail market remains very attractive, worth 
€6 billion of revenues per year overall. In 
2016 we have three active bids, themselves 
worth a total of €3 billion in revenue over 
the lives of the contracts. 
We submitted a bid in December 2015 for 
the East Anglia rail franchise. The outcome of 
the franchise competition, which is for up to 
ten years, is due to be announced in July, 
with the contract due to start in October 
2016. Our approach to UK Rail remains 
focused on delivering bids that combine 
improved services to customers and 
competitive prices to the Government while, 
crucially, delivering an appropriate return to 
shareholders. We will continue to bid 
selectively. While we continue to monitor the 
UK rail market for any opportunities that meet 
our strict criteria, our current focus is on 
securing smaller, lower risk German rail 
franchises where the risk is acceptable and 
meets our capital-light investment criteria. 
12 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 An integrated approach
Value creation depends on a wide range of tangible and intangible factors. Our focused 
and integrated approach to sustainable value creation across the short, medium and long 
term delivers benefits for shareholders, employees and the communities in which we 
operate.
Our vision
Our Vision defines our Group, setting the overall objective, which is to earn the lifetime 
loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public 
transport services which offer excellent value. 
Our business model and markets
The Group’s markets are shaped by material trends in macro-economic, socio-economic, 
regulatory, competition, human capital and a changing technology landscape; these 
trends present both risks to value creation and significant opportunities and possibilities for 
organisational innovation and new competitive advantage. Our business model is agile and 
responsive, operating in the context of our markets, leveraging our operational experience 
and know-how to provide best in class transport services which, in turn, creates long-term 
sustainable value. 
 Read more p14
Our strategy
Through our strategies of delivering operational excellence, generating superior cash 
returns and creating new business opportunities we are able to deliver strong, 
sustainable results and improve shareholder returns. 
  Delivering operational excellence 
  Generating superior cash and returns 
  Creating new business opportunities
 Read more p16
Key performance indicators
We employ a range of both financial and non-financial Key performance indicators 
(‘KPIs’), which are used to measure the progress of our business as a whole and our 
strategic direction in particular. 
 Read more p26
Resources and relationships
We recognise that we cannot run our business in isolation; our business model and 
strategy are dependent upon a range of factors which are critical to value creation and 
long-term success.
 Read more p18
Risk management 
The Group has a well established governance structure with internal control and risk 
management systems. The risk management process provides a framework to identify, 
assess and manage risks to the Group’s overall strategy and the contribution of its divisions.
 Read more p28
Governance 
Governance provides a framework within which the Board sets its values and delivers 
long-term success for the Company and its investors, whilst recognising its duties 
towards the wider stakeholder community.
 Read more p50
refinement of our competitive strengths such 
as our RMS, means we are determined to 
retain our market share and compete 
effectively.
We believe there are further growth 
opportunities within Morocco, the Middle 
East and German rail, and we will remain 
active in all these markets. With these 
markets well established, the Group is 
now considering entering other new 
markets. Our Business Development team 
continues to examine opportunities for 
further diversification where through 
targeted bids we can provide the authorities 
with a winning combination of high quality 
and price leadership.
In January 2016, the Group entered into 
new bank facilities totalling £450 million. This 
comprised a £350 million bridging facility, in 
anticipation of the refinancing of the Group’s 
existing £350 million bond which matures in 
January 2017 , and a £100 million general 
corporate purpose facility. These new 
facilities provide us with flexibility to the timing 
of the bond refinancing (until January 2019) 
and we would anticipate a significant 
reduction in our future interest charge of 
around £5 million at such time as we choose 
to refinance.
We anticipate significant savings of around 
£30 million from lower fuel costs in 2018 
compared with 2015, where currently 42% 
of the Group’s annual fuel requirement for 
that year is hedged at an average price of 
31 pence. This compares with an average 
price of 42 pence in 2016. 
We will also – of course – target further 
improvements in our safety results and 
look to further harness the opportunity and 
efficiency provided by new technology in 
delivering better safety performance and 
lower associated costs. We believe there is 
a real opportunity for progress here. New 
technology will continue to allow us to 
develop an increasingly personalised 
relationship with customers, generating 
demand and securing loyalty. But it will not 
deflect us from a continued focus on price 
leadership – including rolling out an ever 
more sophisticated RMS further – consistent 
attention on cost efficiency and maintaining 
our reputation as an excellent operator. 
Our uniquely diversified portfolio of 
companies has provided both a stability 
of earnings and new sources of growth 
in recent years. We will continue to pursue 
targeted bolt-on acquisitions and selective 
new bidding opportunities that build on our 
recent successes in Bahrain, Germany and 
Spain. We believe that by continuing to apply 
our model of operational excellence in these 
markets, we will deliver the services our 
customers value, create new sources of 
growth and thereby continue to generate 
good returns for our shareholders.
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
13 www.nationalexpressgroup.com We serve our   
customers
 Community
 Government
1
With operational 
excellence
Funding  
investment
Driving  
growth
 People
 Safety
2 4 4
To create  
proﬁt and cash
Generating  
shareholder  
value
3
Our business model and strategy
Delivering long-term shareholder value  
with the right business model and strategy
At National Express we believe our business model should start with our customers. By serving our 
customers with operational excellence, we are able to create profit and cash, thereby generating 
shareholder value. The cash we generate is used to fund investment in the business, which drives 
further growth enabling us to better serve our customers. Allied to this, our core values of 
excellence, safety, customers, people and community inform us as to how we should operate.
14 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We serve our customers
The customer is at the heart of what we do at National Express, 
whether they be fare-paying passengers, government and local 
authorities, or the wider community; and our mission is to 
relentlessly meet their expectations. Our Vision is to earn the lifetime 
loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high 
performing public transport services which offer excellent value.
Transporting 867 million passengers a year
By understanding and meeting the needs of our customers in 
our local markets, we strive to deliver high levels of customer 
satisfaction and encourage more passengers to use our services.
With operational excellence
To create profit and cash,  
generating shareholder value
Not only do our customers require high performing transport 
services, but they also need high levels of safety. At National 
Express, safety is our highest priority in whatever we do across 
the business and is a key tenet of our core values. High safety 
standards also help to drive sustainable growth for the Group 
through building customer loyalty and winning new business in 
our existing markets and opening up new markets such as the 
German rail market and the urban bus market In Bahrain. The 
quality of our people, our employees, is integral to the provision 
of high safety standards with continual training and focus on 
safety standards at the core of our operations.
Profit and cash
Ultimately delivering operational excellence through excellent 
customer service drives revenue and profit growth across the 
Group and generates cash which can then be re-invested back 
into each of our businesses to drive further improvements for our 
customers and also fund new business opportunities, driving 
higher returns for our shareholders. 
Shareholder value
Through our robust and sustainable business model we aim to 
deliver shareholder value through higher returns with growth in 
dividends supported by growth in earnings and strong cash flows.
Funding investment Driving growth
Our strong cash flow generation enables us to fund continual 
investment across the business with the provision of new fleet, 
technologies and services, driving improvements for our 
customers and encouraging further growth in passenger demand.
We also use our strong cash generation to invest in new business 
opportunities which drives further growth in our core markets as 
well as developing our position in new markets, such as Germany 
and the Middle East.
Our strategy
Our Vision
Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers 
by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public 
transport services which offer excellent value.
Our Values
Our five values continue to underpin the Vision and help 
us to prioritise what we focus on. 
Community People
Safety Excellence
Customers
 Read more p18
Our three strategic priorities
Our focus on operational excellence allows us to deliver long-
term sustainable growth, through the generation of strong 
and sustainable cash flows and returns, enabling us to create 
new business opportunities in both our core divisions and in 
new markets.
  Delivering operational excellence 
by driving revenue growth and margin progression
  Generating superior cash and returns 
A strong cash flow and improving return on capital 
will drive better returns for our shareholders
  Creating new opportunities 
through our unique portfolio of international bus, 
coach and rail businesses
 Read more p16
1
2
3
4 4
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
15 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Our strategy at a glance
Delivering on our strategy with 
a strong track record on improving returns
*  European Foundation for Quality Management – recognises operational excellence and awards ratings to businesses based on a number of criteria including quality of leadership 
and strategic direction together with development and improvement of people, partnerships and processes in order to deliver value-adding products and services to their customers
Our strategy Performance Future outlook Measuring our progress Key risks to manage
Delivering  
operational 
excellence
Driving revenue growth and margin 
progression in our core divisions by 
delivering excellent customer service 
• Excellent year in our c2c franchise, with 
revenue growth of 9.5% and record 
passenger numbers; named as 
Passenger Operator of the Year
• A record year for passenger numbers 
in ALSA, with the Spanish revenue 
management system and further 
significant growth in Morocco, where 
passenger volumes grew by 15%
• 92% customer satisfaction in North 
America with a 99% retention rate in 
School Bus
• UK Coach’s further development of 
customer relationship management 
(‘CRM’) and revenue management, 
coupled with new strategic partnerships 
drove an increase of 130 basis points in 
operating margin, whilst our focus on 
safety was rewarded with the award of 
the British Safety Council Sword of 
Honour
• UK Bus achieved an EFQM* four-star 
rating at its first attempt and its highest 
ever Transport Focus passenger 
customer satisfaction scores
•  Continuing programme of fleet upgrades 
in UK Bus to further improve the quality 
of our services
• ALSA: further implementation of revenue 
management
• Targeting further passenger growth 
in UK Coach through our digital and 
revenue management initiatives
• North America: leveraging customer 
reputation to win new business
• Leveraging rail credentials in c2c in the 
UK and RME in Germany to win further 
franchises
• Continue to draw on our international 
reputation for excellence to expand in 
new markets, with an active pipeline of 
bids within Europe and the Middle East
Metric: Revenue growth (%)
North 
America
UK 
Bus
UK 
Coach
Rail
15
12
9
6
3
0
14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15
Spain &
Morocco
KPI definition 
Revenue growth year on year on 
a constant currency basis.
Comment 
Continuing to see revenue growth on a 
constant currency basis In all divisions, 
with a particularly strong performance 
in c2c.
• Delivery of service standards
• Managing disruption to services
• Concession and contract renewal
• Managing stakeholder relationships 
eg to improve transport infrastructure
 Read more p30
Metric: Margin (%)
Spain &
Morocco
North 
America
UK 
Bus
UK 
Coach
Rail
15
10
5
0
-10
14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15
-5
KPI definition 
Operating margin is the ratio of 
normalised operating profit to revenue.
Comment 
Margin gains across each of 
the businesses.
•  Control of cost base
• Managing margin risk with renewal 
of concessions and contracts
 Read more p30
Generating superior 
cash and returns
A strong cash flow and improving return 
on the capital we invest will drive better 
returns for our shareholders
• Operating cash flow of £165 million
• Free cash flow of £111 million, 
£11 million ahead of target
• Group return on capital improved 
by 100 basis points to 11.7%
• Targeting £100 million free cash flow pa
• Free cash to be deployed in investing 
in growth opportunities in existing and 
new markets
• Leveraging our expertise to take 
advantage of capital-light opportunities
Metric: Operating cash conversion (%)
North 
America
UK 
Bus
UK 
Coach
Rail
150
120
90
60
30
0
14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15   1415
N/A
Spain &
Morocco
KPI definition 
Operating cash conversion is the ratio 
of operating cash flow to normalised 
operating profit.
Comment 
Continuing strong free cash flow 
generation driven by strong operating 
performances in our UK Bus and 
Coach businesses and an improved 
working capital performance in our 
Spanish business.
• Maintaining cash discipline through 
periods of profit growth and expansion
• Maintaining disciplined approach to 
capital expenditure
• Management of working capital
 Read more p30
Creating new 
opportunities
Our unique portfolio of international bus, 
coach and rail businesses gives National 
Express a significant opportunity to grow 
in selected new markets
• Successful mobilisation and 
commencement of first two rail 
contracts in Germany
• Won two further German rail contracts 
and preferred bidder for Nuremberg 
S-Bahn
• Commenced operations for urban bus 
service in Bahrain
• Five bolt-on acquisitions in North America
• Built around $110 million of annual 
revenues in US Transit
• Further bid wins in UK and German rail 
– shortlisted for East Anglia in the UK
• Further bid wins in bus in the Middle East
• New opportunities in Morocco
• Further selective bolt-on acquisitions 
in North America
Metric: Contract wins by value (£m)
800
600
400
200
0
15
North 
America
15
UK 
Coach
15
Rail
15
Spain &
Morocco
KPI definition 
Value of contracts won.
Comment 
Contract wins across all divisions 
including new contract wins in German 
rail, the award of the Imserso contract 
for pensioner travel In Spain and further 
new contract wins in US Transit.
• Winning new business on attractive 
economic terms
• Building sufficient scale in new markets
• Managing operational and safety risk in 
setting up in new markets
• Appropriately skilled management team 
to develop and deliver new opportunities
 Read more p30
16 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our strategy Performance Future outlook Measuring our progress Key risks to manage
Delivering  
operational 
excellence
Driving revenue growth and margin 
progression in our core divisions by 
delivering excellent customer service 
• Excellent year in our c2c franchise, with 
revenue growth of 9.5% and record 
passenger numbers; named as 
Passenger Operator of the Year
• A record year for passenger numbers 
in ALSA, with the Spanish revenue 
management system and further 
significant growth in Morocco, where 
passenger volumes grew by 15%
• 92% customer satisfaction in North 
America with a 99% retention rate in 
School Bus
• UK Coach’s further development of 
customer relationship management 
(‘CRM’) and revenue management, 
coupled with new strategic partnerships 
drove an increase of 130 basis points in 
operating margin, whilst our focus on 
safety was rewarded with the award of 
the British Safety Council Sword of 
Honour
• UK Bus achieved an EFQM* four-star 
rating at its first attempt and its highest 
ever Transport Focus passenger 
customer satisfaction scores
•  Continuing programme of fleet upgrades 
in UK Bus to further improve the quality 
of our services
• ALSA: further implementation of revenue 
management
• Targeting further passenger growth 
in UK Coach through our digital and 
revenue management initiatives
• North America: leveraging customer 
reputation to win new business
• Leveraging rail credentials in c2c in the 
UK and RME in Germany to win further 
franchises
• Continue to draw on our international 
reputation for excellence to expand in 
new markets, with an active pipeline of 
bids within Europe and the Middle East
Metric: Revenue growth (%)
North 
America
UK 
Bus
UK 
Coach
Rail
15
12
9
6
3
0
14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15
Spain &
Morocco
KPI definition 
Revenue growth year on year on 
a constant currency basis.
Comment 
Continuing to see revenue growth on a 
constant currency basis In all divisions, 
with a particularly strong performance 
in c2c.
• Delivery of service standards
• Managing disruption to services
• Concession and contract renewal
• Managing stakeholder relationships 
eg to improve transport infrastructure
 Read more p30
Metric: Margin (%)
Spain &
Morocco
North 
America
UK 
Bus
UK 
Coach
Rail
15
10
5
0
-10
14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15
-5
KPI definition 
Operating margin is the ratio of 
normalised operating profit to revenue.
Comment 
Margin gains across each of 
the businesses.
•  Control of cost base
• Managing margin risk with renewal 
of concessions and contracts
 Read more p30
Generating superior 
cash and returns
A strong cash flow and improving return 
on the capital we invest will drive better 
returns for our shareholders
• Operating cash flow of £165 million
• Free cash flow of £111 million, 
£11 million ahead of target
• Group return on capital improved 
by 100 basis points to 11.7%
• Targeting £100 million free cash flow pa
• Free cash to be deployed in investing 
in growth opportunities in existing and 
new markets
• Leveraging our expertise to take 
advantage of capital-light opportunities
Metric: Operating cash conversion (%)
North 
America
UK 
Bus
UK 
Coach
Rail
150
120
90
60
30
0
14 15 14 15 14 15 14 15   1415
N/A
Spain &
Morocco
KPI definition 
Operating cash conversion is the ratio 
of operating cash flow to normalised 
operating profit.
Comment 
Continuing strong free cash flow 
generation driven by strong operating 
performances in our UK Bus and 
Coach businesses and an improved 
working capital performance in our 
Spanish business.
• Maintaining cash discipline through 
periods of profit growth and expansion
• Maintaining disciplined approach to 
capital expenditure
• Management of working capital
 Read more p30
Creating new 
opportunities
Our unique portfolio of international bus, 
coach and rail businesses gives National 
Express a significant opportunity to grow 
in selected new markets
• Successful mobilisation and 
commencement of first two rail 
contracts in Germany
• Won two further German rail contracts 
and preferred bidder for Nuremberg 
S-Bahn
• Commenced operations for urban bus 
service in Bahrain
• Five bolt-on acquisitions in North America
• Built around $110 million of annual 
revenues in US Transit
• Further bid wins in UK and German rail 
– shortlisted for East Anglia in the UK
• Further bid wins in bus in the Middle East
• New opportunities in Morocco
• Further selective bolt-on acquisitions 
in North America
Metric: Contract wins by value (£m)
800
600
400
200
0
15
North 
America
15
UK 
Coach
15
Rail
15
Spain &
Morocco
KPI definition 
Value of contracts won.
Comment 
Contract wins across all divisions 
including new contract wins in German 
rail, the award of the Imserso contract 
for pensioner travel In Spain and further 
new contract wins in US Transit.
• Winning new business on attractive 
economic terms
• Building sufficient scale in new markets
• Managing operational and safety risk in 
setting up in new markets
• Appropriately skilled management team 
to develop and deliver new opportunities
 Read more p30
There are a number of KPIs which help 
us manage parts of the business.
 Read more p26
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
17 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Excellence
We constantly strive  to be excellent in all  that we do
Safety
We only do what  is safe and stop any  unsafe behaviour
Customers
We place them at the  heart of our business  and relentlessly 
m e e t  t h e i r e x p e c t a t i o n s
People
We develop the talents,  reward the exceptional  performance and 
respect  the rights of all our employees
Community
We are active in  the communities we  serve to generate  economic, 
s o c i a l a n d  e n v i r o n m e n t a l v a l u e
Managing our resources and relationships
Living our Values – 
the foundation of our business 
Our Vision and Values remain the foundation of our business. 
Five years after their launch they are more relevant than ever 
to how we operate as a business.
During 2015, Dean Finch, our Group Chief 
Executive, set out a 2020 Vision to ‘Drive 
Best Value’ and position us internationally 
as a widely recognised market leader. 
Making further progress on our Vision and 
Values was at the heart of the strategy to 
achieve this ambition. 
Our experience in recent years has only 
strengthened our belief that customers 
increasingly want quality services at value 
prices. Delivering on our Vision and Values 
remains the best way to help us achieve this.
Excellence
Excellence was added as a new Value 
in 2014 and during 2015 we made 
significant progress in embedding the 
approach across the business and secured 
external accreditations to demonstrate this. 
Embedding excellence to us means 
focusing on delivering the services 
customers expect – frequent, punctual, 
taking them where they want to go – in an 
efficient manner so we can provide them 
at good value. 
We are therefore very pleased that all 
divisions have now achieved an excellence 
accreditation. During the year c2c had its 
Five-star EFQM rating re-confirmed, 
securing a higher mark in this assessment 
than its last. UK Bus, UK Coach and ALSA 
have all achieved four-star EFQM ratings in 
their first assessments and are determined 
to emulate c2c’s success as soon as 
possible. North America also secured a 
Bronze Award in their first assessment by 
the Illinois Performance Excellence Center. 
We have also had a record year for external 
awards, including c2c being named 
Passenger Operator of the Year at the 
National Rail Awards and others outlined 
below. A full list is available on our website. 
Safety
Safety is our highest priority as a 
business. Overall responsibility for safety 
sits with Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 
and our Divisional Managing Directors who 
set out annual plans and priorities for 
improved performance.
Safety performance – Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index
 Group 
 UK Bus
 UK Coach 
 Spain & Morocco
 North America
 UK Rail
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
0
25
20
15
10
5
30
18 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Safety in North America School Bus
Arthur D Little has been engaged as an independent safety 
consultant at National Express since 2010, and worked 
alongside National Express to create and launch the Driving 
Out Harm safety programme. Since the programme was 
developed we have conducted five annual assessments of 
each of the divisions’ safety progress and performance, with 
additional specific reviews of safety as required, typically 
following a serious incident and to assist with safe mobilisation 
of new businesses. Ultimately we report to the PLC Board and 
make recommendations for improvements. Through our work 
we have visited a wide range of operational locations in all 
businesses (US, Canada, Bahrain, Germany, the UK, 
Morocco and Spain). From our experience of a wide variety 
of client organisations we consider Driving Out Harm to be 
an exemplar safety programme with very strong leadership 
from the Chief Executive down, and highly effective safety 
governance from the Executive and PLC Board.
Our 2015 safety review activity in North America has revealed 
a number of specific areas of further progress in safety:
• A significant reduction in employee lost time injuries over 2014
• Upgrading and strengthening of operational leadership roles 
(eg in Philadelphia and Shelby County)
• Strengthening of the central safety team, with appointment 
of new Senior Vice President Safety who is providing strong 
leadership and bringing insights from the high standards in 
the petro-chemicals sector
• An upgrading of the safety performance rating to the highest 
possible level by the relevant national body – the Federal 
Motor Carrier Safety Administration, part of the US 
Department of Transportation 
• Further upgrades and improvements to the content of driver 
training material (including peer review by UK head of training)
• Further development of the quality and consistency of driver 
training such as through launch of facilitation guides, and 
reviews of training delivery by senior safety roles
• Standards of vehicle maintenance have improved, shown by 
the results of external audits which concluded a measurable 
improvement in results of inspections and improvements in 
preventative maintenance
• Participation with other divisions of National Express in 
the development and launch of the ‘World Class Driving’ 
programme, which sets out a five-year plan for improving all 
aspects of safe driving including people and technology
• In Shelby County, construction and opening of a new 
training centre and significant strengthening of driver 
recruitment
• Development and launch of a programme to reduce the risk 
of worker occupational injuries
Overall, we conclude that the approach to safety in North 
America is very strong – as it is across the Group – and that 
there has been tangible further progress in the management 
of safety in 2015. 
Marcus Beard
Associate Director, Arthur D Little
Safety is the first agenda item on the weekly 
‘CEO call’ with Managing Directors, at 
each Divisional Board and Group Executive 
meeting and at the PLC Board. As a 
measure of the seriousness with which the 
issue is taken, the executive members of 
each of our Divisional Boards and Group 
Executive conducted a combined 653 
Safety Tours during 2015. We will publish 
this figure annually as a demonstration of 
our commitment.
Arthur D Little continues to act as our 
external safety adviser. It has confirmed 
that in the five years since we introduced 
Driving Out Harm, the total responsible 
harm caused by National Express Group 
has reduced by 56%. The progress on this 
measure – our key safety indicator, FWI – is 
demonstrated on the facing page, with 
a Group FWI of 12.242 in 2015, compared 
with 12.307 in 2014. This progress comes 
despite us carrying more passengers and 
running more services in 2015, as this data 
is not normalised. There is also further 
safety data available on our website.
We have also been using new technology to 
improve our safety performance. Initial pilots of 
‘DriveCam’ in UK Coach and North America 
School Bus have been very positive, providing 
detailed performance reports for each driver 
allowing tailored training programmes to 
improve driving and safety performance. This 
technology will now be rolled out more widely 
in UK Coach and North America and also to 
UK Bus and ALSA. 
We have also been very pleased with 
our safety awards during 2015. Two 
highlights in particular were UK Coach 
being awarded the prestigious British 
Safety Council Sword of Honour and 
our North America School Bus division 
being upgraded to the highest possible 
rating by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration, part of the US 
Department of Transportation.
 
The c2c team 
celebrates being 
chosen as Passenger 
Operator of the Year 
at the National 
Rail Awards
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
19 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Managing our resources and relationships continued
Employee, senior management  
and Director numbers by gender  
at end 2015
Male Female
Directors 9 2
Senior managers 58 19
All employees 25,170 18,933
and the ground-breaking Automatic Delay 
Repay scheme for season ticket holders. 
This will provide compensation for every 
minute of delay beyond two minutes and, 
as the Secretary of State for Transport 
confirmed last year, has set a new standard 
for the rail industry as a whole to follow.
Ultimately we believe this reputation is helping 
us to retain significant contracts and services. 
UK Bus has led the industry and secured a 
five-year ‘Bus Alliance’ in the West Midlands, 
building on our award-winning partnership 
approach. Of the two national franchises to 
come up for renewal during 2015, ALSA has 
successfully renewed one and has obtained 
the highest score, pending award, in the 
other. Our contract retention rate in North 
American School Bus is industry-leading, 
with a 99% success rate in those contracts 
we wanted to retain.
People
Each division continues to conduct 
an annual employee survey, except 
in ALSA where they hold one every 
two years. These surveys are run by 
independent companies: VaLUENTiS in 
the  UK; TNS Employee Insights in North 
America; and ALCOR in ALSA. The 
table on the right demonstrates the 
employee engagement score from our 
surveys over the last three years. The data 
demonstrates our consistently high results 
across all divisions. In 2015 specifically, all 
divisions that conducted a survey reported 
an increased result, except UK Rail. The 
Corporate centre broke its own record 
for the highest score in the VaLUENTiS 
database.
Our surveys also ask employees whether 
they would “recommend National Express 
as a good place to work” and whether 
“safety is taken seriously in my business”. 
The data again demonstrates the 
consistently high score we achieve 
and the progress made.
Our 2020 Vision sets out a radical and 
significant commitment to invest in our staff. 
The ambition is that working for National 
Express is a badge of pride and a mark 
of industry leadership. This is why we are 
rolling out our Master Driver programme 
so widely and aim that all engineers are 
‘Master Technicians’ by 2020. The 
Customers
As we have already made clear, our Vision 
and Values are focused on providing for 
our customers. Our Vision is to earn their 
lifetime loyalty. For our existing customers 
this means consistently delivering the 
services that they want at competitive 
prices they can afford. For new customers 
it means demonstrating to them that we will 
provide to them the service they want in a 
convenient way while offering good value 
for money.
We carried more passengers in 2015 than 
in 2014, with both ALSA and c2c carrying 
record passenger numbers in the year; 
UK Coach also carried record passenger 
numbers during important holiday periods. 
We measure ourselves against independent 
customer satisfaction ratings and are 
delighted that they again demonstrate we 
are often market-leading: 
• UK Coach is for the third year running the 
most trusted ground transportation brand 
in the UK Institute of Customer Service’s 
annual survey
• UK Bus has secured its highest ever 
customer satisfaction scores in the 
Transport Focus survey
• c2c again has the highest customer 
satisfaction scores for reliability and 
punctuality in London and South East 
franchises in the most recent National 
Rail Passenger Survey
• 92% of our North American School Bus 
business customers say they would 
recommend us on the basis of our 
service, safety and value
• ALSA has achieved its best score 
in five years in the annual independent 
Customer Service Index survey 
conducted by GFK
To continue to deliver though we must 
continue to invest and innovate. For 
example, under a new Group Digital Officer, 
all divisions are setting out how they can 
make further, significant progress in the 
coming years in this important area. 
New digital technologies and approaches 
provide an opportunity to truly bring the 
customer into the heart of our business 
and help create personalised and tailored 
relationships as well as drive innovation. 
We believe we have a proud record to 
build on. c2c, for example, has been 
investing in leading-edge customer 
initiatives such as improved apps and WiFi 
provision, first-to-last staffing at all stations 
 
During the year, we secured a 
five-year Bus Alliance in the 
West Midlands
Employee engagement score*
 2013  2014  2015
900
750
600
450
300
150
0
North
America
UK
Bus
UK
Coach
UK
Rail
*  Maximum score is 1,000. Spain conducts employee 
satisfaction surveys bi-annually and so is excluded
20 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 feedback from the staff who have been 
through the Master Driver programme 
so far has been very positive.
As well as this investment in our staff we are 
delighted that our innovative ‘Health Bus’, 
which provides medical advice and 
treatment on board to our UK Bus staff, has 
been recognised in several industry and HR 
awards. We have also recently launched the 
‘National Express Network’ of our 
graduates across the business so they can 
meet, work on joint projects and also move 
between divisions to gain broad 
experience. We have also maintained our 
commitment to apprenticeships, with 111 
in the Group in 2015.
We were also very proud to become the 
first private transport group to commit to 
becoming a voluntary Living Wage 
employer. After announcing our 
commitment that all divisions would secure 
Living Wage Foundation accreditation by 
the end of 2017 , UK Bus became the first in 
January 2016. We have also committed 
that across the Group, in any country we 
operate in, we will always pay at least 10% 
above the national minimum wage.
These survey results, the commitment to 
invest in our staff and the innovations we 
are bringing to this area demonstrate the 
seriousness with which we take our People 
Value to ‘develop the talents, reward the 
exceptional performance and respect the 
rights’ of our employees.
We have a number of policies in place 
to protect the rights of our employees. 
All of these, including our workplace 
and human rights policies, are published 
on our website. We investigate and take 
appropriate action to deal with any alleged 
breaches of these policies. Wherever our 
employees choose to be represented by 
unions, we actively seek to maintain 
relationships based on mutual respect 
and transparency.
Community
As a major transport company, we play a 
vital role in the daily life of the communities 
in which we operate. So we recognise the 
importance of being a good neighbour in 
everything we do. We also have a duty to 
protect the wider environment around us.
We have strong links with local stakeholders 
and maintain a regular dialogue on business 
issues of mutual concern. For example, 
where changes are planned to routes we 
engage with local political and community 
representatives to build understanding of 
our position. In addition, annual stakeholder 
surveys are conducted to measure local 
opinion and capture concerns.
During the year, UK Bus increased its 
neighbourhood engagement with the 
appointment of community champions in 
each garage and the selection of a local 
charity to support. The employees in each 
garage were asked to choose a charity 
which was relevant to them and would 
become the beneficiary of fundraising 
events. Although they were launched 
midway through the year, the partnerships 
have already raised over £13,500 for 
community groups.
Through its Youth Promise, UK Coach has 
continued to work with The Prince’s Trust 
providing transport for the Palace to Palace 
charity cycle ride and offering mentoring and 
work-experience opportunities to young 
people. UK Coach also offered similar work 
placements and training to young people  
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
0
North
America
UK
Bus
UK
Coach
UK
Rail
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
0
North
America
UK
Bus
UK
Coach
UK
Rail
Safety is taken seriously in my business
 2013  2014  2015
I would recommend my company as a good place to work
 2013  2014  2015
 
We were proud to become the first 
private transport group to commit 
to pay the Living Wage
Employee engagement survey questions
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
21 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Managing our resources and relationships continued
• The Group’s site energy has increased by 
7 .49% against the 2013 baseline and 
2.46% year on year as a result of 
business expansion in Morocco, North 
America and Bahrain. Accuracy of 
reporting from 2014 has also contributed 
to this increase
• An increased volume of waste to landfill 
has caused carbon emission to increase 
by 5.43%, however, against the 2013 
baseline we have achieved a 1.77% 
reduction. UK Rail saw waste recycling 
levels reach 96%, an increase of 1% on 
the previous year, despite a rise in total 
waste, surpassing the 90% franchise 
agreement target
• The reduction in water consumption 
was due to improved data collection 
and accuracy of results
• Total carbon emissions per passenger 
kilometre reduced by 7 .27% in 2015, 
and 1.79% against the 2013 baseline. 
The significant rise to passenger numbers 
in Morocco is of particular note. As the 
business grows, this metric is likely to see 
year-on-year fluctuations within a 
longer-term trend for improved efficiency
Managing our environmental 
impacts
Under our Community value, and as part 
of the Group’s climate change strategy 
for 2020, we are committed to working 
in partnership with our stakeholders to 
mitigate the impacts of climate change.
As a public transport company, we are 
constantly striving to reduce our emissions 
through the use of innovative fuel efficiency 
technologies, carbon reduction programmes 
(linked to energy and water use in buildings) 
and the broader supply chain to address our 
static emissions. 
In 2015, we delivered a strong environmental 
performance that witnessed significant 
improvements and achievements in the 
areas of voluntary carbon reporting, climate 
change leadership, and environmental 
excellence. 
We made significant progress towards 
achieving our environmental performance 
targets to reduce fuel/traction energy, 
site-based energy, waste, water and total 
carbon emissions per million passenger 
kilometres (‘pass/km’) from our business 
activities. 
• In 2014-15 our fuel and traction energy 
consumption saw a reduction from 
8.80% to 2.55% against the 2013 
baseline. This has been driven by the 
increase in passenger numbers in ALSA’s 
Moroccan market
from Whizz-Kidz. Through our partnership 
with Whizz-Kidz we also became patron of 
its Accessible Travel Alliance. UK Coach 
has also set up a network of community 
ambassadors in each coach station, to 
drive local activity in future.
The National Express Foundation, in its 
fourth year, has continued to support young 
people through educational bursaries and 
grants to community groups. Since its 
launch in 2012, more than 8,000 young 
people have benefited from nearly 
£400,000 of grants from the Foundation. 
In 2016, the amount National Express 
Group contributes to the Foundation has 
increased by 50% to £150,000 a year. In 
the USA, the National Express Giving 
Foundation awarded US$115,000 
to students, community groups and 
employees in need.
The Employee Charity Panel, which 
supports UK employees who carry out 
fundraising or volunteer for community 
groups made 53 awards during the year
In North America, we have continued to 
provide our buses to support the Special 
Olympics and various Stuff the Bus and 
Toys for Tots collection events. We have 
also continued our programme of donating 
surplus buses to community organisations. 
Across the Group, we made charitable 
donations totalling £530,431 (2014: 
£582,012)
Driving excellence in environmental performance – KPI targets 2014-2017
KPIs  Metric
2013
(baseline) 2014 2015
% change
2014/15
% change
against 2013
(baseline)
Fuel/Traction energy
*
3% reduction in energy use 
(fuel and electricity) 
MWh/million 
passenger km 77.64 82.97 75.67 (8.80)% (2.55)%
Site energy
20% reduction in consumption tCO
2
e 40,049 42,016 43,050 2.46% 7.49%
Waste
80% reduction in non-hazardous 
waste to landfill metric tonnes 5,750 5,357 5,648 5.43% (1.77)%
Water
10% reduction in consumption m
3
n/a 1,008,363 978,922 (2.92)% –
Total carbon emissions
4% reduction in carbon emissions 
per pass/km
tCO
2
e
per million
pass/km 22.95 24.24 22.47 (7.27)% (1.79)%
*  2013 figure based on passenger kilometre data which includes UK Coach data which is not calculated on the same basis in 2013 as for 2014 and 2015 
22 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 National Express greenhouse gas emissions 2013 v 2014 v 2015 by division 
(all scopes)  2013  2014  2015 
350,000  
300,000
250,000
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
0
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail North
America
Leased
vehicles &
business travel
Bahrain
tCO
2
e   
Spain &
Morocco
Carbon emissions by division
National Express divisions
2013
(tCO
2
e)
2014
(tCO
2
e)
2015
(tCO
2
e)
% change 
(2014/15)
Spain & Morocco 303,351 296,214 311,985 5.32%
UK Bus 143,485 142,312 138,822 -2.45%
UK Coach 107173 104,381 99,714 -4.47%
UK Rail 42,816 44,724 43,408 -2.94%
North America 237,314 236,979 232,577 -1.86%
Bahrain – – 12,862 –
Leased vehicles & 
business travel 611 441 642 45.58%
Group total 834,750 825,051 840,010 1.81%
Carbon emissions 
Each of the divisions within the Group has 
shown a year-on-year reduction in carbon 
emissions with the exception of ALSA. 
In ALSA’s case carbon emissions have 
increased due to a substantial business 
growth in Morocco. Investment in new 
fleet, driver training and monitoring, and 
investment in site-based energy efficiency 
initiatives have supported this reduction. 
2015 also saw operations start in Bahrain 
with emissions reported for the first time.
As a Group we have focused on improving 
data collection and reporting to improve 
accuracy. The benefits of this approach can 
be seen in ‘Leased vehicles & business 
travel’ which saw a 45% increase in carbon 
emission on the previous year. 
2015 saw a 1.8% increase in total CO
2
 
emission for the Group from 825,000 
tonnes CO
2
e in 2014 to 840,010 tonnes 
CO
2
e in 2015. The increase in emission was 
driven by new business opportunities in 
Bahrain and organic business growth 
in ALSA’s Moroccan market which saw 
a 2% growth in total passenger numbers 
and a significant increase in passenger 
kilometres to 37 billion in 2015. This growth 
in passenger numbers has been achieved 
with only a 1.8% increase in total Group 
carbon emissions, due to investment in 
new fleet, driver training and on-site 
energy saving initiatives. 
 
Her Majesty The Queen opens 
the extension to the Midland 
Metro tram
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
23 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Managing our resources and relationships continued
Voluntary reporting to the 
Carbon Disclosure Project
In 2015 we received an increase in the 
Carbon Disclosure Project (‘CDP’) score, 
an annual carbon performance reporting 
programme, which supplies data to 
investors, data and index providers, banks 
and brokers for a growing range of uses.
The Group was awarded a disclosure 
performance score of 95 – a ten point 
increase in comparison with the 2014 results.
In 2015, the climate change performance 
methodology was revised to put more 
emphasis on action in terms of science-
based targeting. This is a change which 
the Group has endorsed as a key priority.
This improvement in our score reflects the 
work we have done during the year. We 
continue to measure, verify and manage 
our carbon footprint, through the setting 
and meeting of carbon reduction targets 
and implementing programmes to reduce 
emissions in both our direct operations and 
through our supply chain. The CDP score 
provides the evidence that our climate change 
strategy is delivering tangible results, making 
the Group more efficient and sustainable.
We are committed to providing 
comprehensive information about 
our climate change strategy and risk 
management processes and outcomes. 
To complement the summary provided in 
this report we provide more comprehensive 
information on our Group website at 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com/environment.
Climate change reporting 
and science-based targets
    Commit to report climate change 
information in mainstream reports as 
a fiduciary duty
In 2015 we took some addition steps  
in demonstrating climate change  
best practice. 
Our first commitment is to continue to 
work towards the production and use of 
climate change-related information in our 
Annual Report, as set out in the 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Directors’ 
Reports) Regulations 2013. Endorsing  
this initiative sends a clear signal to 
policymakers that we are committed  
to addressing economic risks and  
seizing opportunities associated 
with climate change.
   Commit to adopt a science-based 
emissions reduction target
The second commitment was to raising 
our ambitions around target-setting  
with the adoption of science-based 
targets. This new approach is a 
significant change for the Group as it 
establishes a long-term trajectory for 
carbon emissions reductions up until 
2050. This still provide flexibility to review 
and compare our short-term KPI targets. 
This science-based approach will help us 
to drive more efficiency and resilience as 
resources become increasingly more 
expensive, particularly those derived 
from fossil fuels. 
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2015 (tCO
2
e)
UK Coach 12%
UK Bus 16%
UK Rail 5%
Leased vehicles & 0% 
business travel (UK)
Spain & Morocco 37%
North America 28%
Bahrain 2%
National Express Group total emissions 
2013 v 2014 v 2015 (tCO
2
e)
2013 2014 2015
900,000
850,000
tCO
2
e
800,000
0
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
National Express carbon disclosure performance (CDP score)
 
Six veteran 
Gurkha soldiers, 
now employed by 
National Express, are 
leading our campaign 
to recruit more 
ex-service personnel
24 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Driving excellence
One of our key goals in achieving 
excellence in our environmental 
performance is to ensure appropriate 
external standards are achieved 
and maintained. 
In 2015, we were able to extend our 
existing ISO/BS energy, environmental 
and sustainable procurement standard 
accreditation across the Group. Significant 
progress was made in our Spanish division, 
maintaining both the ISO 14001:2004 and 
50001:2011 management standards, whilst 
our UK rail division successfully adopted 
the BS 8903 Sustainable Procurement 
standard – the first in the Group.
Improved performance reporting
Monthly reporting is a key monitoring tool 
identifying aspects of our operations where 
we can reduce our impacts – direct and 
indirect – on climate change and accelerate 
our energy and carbon savings. In 2015 all 
divisions adopted a single web-based 
sustainability reporting system for the 
Company’s greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) 
emissions reporting. This has improved 
the consistency of how we collect our 
data, and simplifies the process of 
independent validation.
Pioneering fleet technologies 
The year saw further investment in 
new fleet, such as Euro 6 buses, and 
improvements to driver training and 
analysis. We have facilitated the evaluation 
and sharing of pioneering technology 
across our divisions to improve sustainable 
performance and the fuel efficiency of our 
fleet. We continue to examine innovative 
low carbon solutions, such as hydrogen 
fuel cell and liquid air technology, and are 
retro-fitting older vehicles with ‘traps’ to 
reduce local air pollution. Looking ahead 
we will be adding buses to the fleet which 
use a smart electric system.
Reducing water consumption
During 2015 our water consumption 
reduced by 2.92%. In 2016 we will 
voluntarily disclose our water impacts 
through the Water Disclosure Framework. 
This will take account of all our operational 
sites and those of our suppliers, to help us 
better manage our consumption. 
Gold in Carbon Saver Standard
In 2015 a clear demonstration of our 
continued commitment in driving 
sustainability and cutting our energy costs, 
with proven carbon emissions reduction 
measures over the last four years, saw our 
UK divisions achieving re-certification to 
the Carbon Saver Standard, again 
retaining the top Gold Standard status.
National Express Group 2015 – GHG 
emissions reporting 
National Express has reported on all of 
the emission sources required under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. These 
sources fall within our Consolidated Financial 
Statement. We do not have responsibility for 
any emission sources that are not included 
in our consolidated statement.
Methodology
The method we have used to calculate GHG 
emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised 
edition), together with the latest emission 
factors from recognised public sources 
including, but not limited to, Defra, the 
International Energy Agency, the US 
Energy Information Administration, the US 
Environmental Protection Agency and the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
We have used a materiality threshold of 
5% and have accounted for all material 
sources of GHG emissions. 
We are committed to ensuring that our 
GHG  accounting system, results and 
accompanying reports remain robust, 
continue to enhance our Group-level 
emission performance year on year and are 
in compliance with the mandatory 
requirement of the Carbon Reporting 
Framework (the Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013) – 
a business requirement for GHG emissions 
to be included in the annual report.
Global GHG emissions data for calendar year 2015 2015 2014
Emissions from:
Tonnes
of CO
2
e
Tonnes
of CO
2
e
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 
(GHG Protocol Scope 1) 765,434 750,523
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for 
own use (GHG Protocol Scope 2) 66,317 66,677 
Other upstream emissions (GHG Protocol Scope 3) 8,257 7,853 
Total 840,010* 825,053 
Intensity metrics 2015 2014 2013
% change
 (2014/15
 for KPIs
from 2014)
(Tonnes CO
2
e/£million revenue) 424 442 441 -3.98
Group totals (million pass/km) 37, 380 35,459 36,379 9.80
Total tCO
2
e per million pass/km 22.47 23.27 22.95 7.27%
* Small variable in the figure as a result of rounding.
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
25 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Key performance indicators
Measuring our performance 
across the Group
Operating profit* 
2015: £193.5m
£
m
200
160
120
80
40
0
2013 2014 2015
Free cash flow* 
2015: £111.0m
£
m
200
160
120
80
40
0
2013 2014 2015
Return on capital employed*  
2015: 11.7%
%
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2013 2014 2015
Safety – Fatalities and 
Weighted Injuries (FWI) 
2015: 12.242
20
16
12
8
4
0
2013 2014** 2015
Passenger journeys 
2015: 867m
m
900
750
600
450
300
150
0
2013 2014 2015
Employee engagement score*
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 
900
750
600
450
300
150
0
North
America
UK
Bus
UK
Coach
UK
Rail
*  Maximum score is 1,000. Spain conducts employee 
satisfaction surveys bi-annually and so is excluded.
KPI definition KPI definition
Group normalised operating profit. Free cash flow is the cash flow equivalent 
of normalised profit after tax.
Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) 
is normalised operating profit, divided 
by tangible and intangible assets.
Safety incidents for which the Group 
is responsible is based on the Fatalities 
and Weighted Injuries index used in the 
UK rail industry.
Passenger numbers as measured by the 
aggregate of passenger journeys across 
our five operating divisions.
Our numbers for North America are 
estimated as our School Bus services 
are non-ticketed.
Our employee satisfaction survey is 
conducted by VaLUENTiS, a company which 
is widely used as an employee survey provider 
in the UK transport industry. The survey 
delivers an employee engagement score for 
each individual division, with our score for 
North America being partially estimated from 
data provided by TNS, which conducts the 
employee surveys in North America.
2015 performance 2015 performance
• Further progress in Group operating profit, 
driven by strong performances in our 
UK Bus and Coach operations
• Growth in operating profit in every division
• Operating profit margin increased by 
110 basis points to 10.1%
• Generated £111 million of free cash, 
£11 million ahead of target
• Operating cash flow conversion rate 
of 85%, after significant increase in 
maintenance capital expenditure
• Targeting free cash flow of £100 million per 
annum after returning to more typical levels 
of maintenance capital expenditure
• Strong performances in our UK Coach 
and ALSA operations driving higher 
returns for the Group
• Invested £112 million of net maintenance 
capital, predominantly in growing our 
fleet in our existing operations 
• Invested £36 million in growth capital 
expenditure to support growth in Morocco, 
Rail and revenue management systems 
in our UK and Spanish Coach operations
• Further reduction in FWI over the past 
12 months reflecting ongoing success 
of Driving Out Harm safety programme 
with big improvements in UK Bus 
and Morocco
• 56% improvement in the safety 
performance since introduction 
of Driving Out Harm in 2011.
• Further growth in passenger numbers driven 
by continued investment in fleet, improvement 
in services and attractive fares
• Strong performance in c2c with passenger 
growth up over 5%
• First full year of operations in Tangiers, 
and services commenced in a fourth 
city in Morocco
• 6.4 million passengers in our first year 
in Bahrain
• Our corporate functions have registered 
the highest official engagement score in 
the VaLUENTiS database at 806 versus 
the industry norm of 671
• Our UK Coach division has the highest 
score for all UK bus/coach operators
• c2c has the second highest score for all 
train operating companies in the UK
Why we measure Why we measure
We are focused on driving growth in 
operating profit in order to drive higher 
and sustainable returns for our investors. 
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to 
maximise the cash generation across all our 
operating divisions. We view cash generation 
as a key driver for creating shareholder value.
Our core bus and coach operations are 
strong cash generators, complemented by 
our capital-light model for rail.
We are focused on improving return on the 
capital we invest, in order to drive better 
returns for investors.
We maintain a disciplined approach to 
capital investment, and continue to invest 
in those areas for which we can deliver 
the best returns.
Safety is at the heart of our Vision and 
Values and is our priority for both our 
customers and employees.
High safety standards also help to drive 
sustainable growth through customer 
loyalty and new business wins. 
Passenger journeys are reflective of 
underlying demand for travel. National 
Express is targeting increased passenger 
ridership as a longer-term driver of 
sustainable value.
We run employee surveys to measure the 
engagement of our people. Every year we 
use the results to influence how we make 
National Express a great place to work.
26 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating profit* 
2015: £193.5m
£
m
200
160
120
80
40
0
2013 2014 2015
Free cash flow* 
2015: £111.0m
£
m
200
160
120
80
40
0
2013 2014 2015
Return on capital employed*  
2015: 11.7%
%
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2013 2014 2015
Safety – Fatalities and 
Weighted Injuries (FWI) 
2015: 12.242
20
16
12
8
4
0
2013 2014** 2015
Passenger journeys 
2015: 867m
m
900
750
600
450
300
150
0
2013 2014 2015
Employee engagement score*
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 
900
750
600
450
300
150
0
North
America
UK
Bus
UK
Coach
UK
Rail
*  Maximum score is 1,000. Spain conducts employee 
satisfaction surveys bi-annually and so is excluded.
KPI definition KPI definition
Group normalised operating profit. Free cash flow is the cash flow equivalent 
of normalised profit after tax.
Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) 
is normalised operating profit, divided 
by tangible and intangible assets.
Safety incidents for which the Group 
is responsible is based on the Fatalities 
and Weighted Injuries index used in the 
UK rail industry.
Passenger numbers as measured by the 
aggregate of passenger journeys across 
our five operating divisions.
Our numbers for North America are 
estimated as our School Bus services 
are non-ticketed.
Our employee satisfaction survey is 
conducted by VaLUENTiS, a company which 
is widely used as an employee survey provider 
in the UK transport industry. The survey 
delivers an employee engagement score for 
each individual division, with our score for 
North America being partially estimated from 
data provided by TNS, which conducts the 
employee surveys in North America.
2015 performance 2015 performance
• Further progress in Group operating profit, 
driven by strong performances in our 
UK Bus and Coach operations
• Growth in operating profit in every division
• Operating profit margin increased by 
110 basis points to 10.1%
• Generated £111 million of free cash, 
£11 million ahead of target
• Operating cash flow conversion rate 
of 85%, after significant increase in 
maintenance capital expenditure
• Targeting free cash flow of £100 million per 
annum after returning to more typical levels 
of maintenance capital expenditure
• Strong performances in our UK Coach 
and ALSA operations driving higher 
returns for the Group
• Invested £112 million of net maintenance 
capital, predominantly in growing our 
fleet in our existing operations 
• Invested £36 million in growth capital 
expenditure to support growth in Morocco, 
Rail and revenue management systems 
in our UK and Spanish Coach operations
• Further reduction in FWI over the past 
12 months reflecting ongoing success 
of Driving Out Harm safety programme 
with big improvements in UK Bus 
and Morocco
• 56% improvement in the safety 
performance since introduction 
of Driving Out Harm in 2011.
• Further growth in passenger numbers driven 
by continued investment in fleet, improvement 
in services and attractive fares
• Strong performance in c2c with passenger 
growth up over 5%
• First full year of operations in Tangiers, 
and services commenced in a fourth 
city in Morocco
• 6.4 million passengers in our first year 
in Bahrain
• Our corporate functions have registered 
the highest official engagement score in 
the VaLUENTiS database at 806 versus 
the industry norm of 671
• Our UK Coach division has the highest 
score for all UK bus/coach operators
• c2c has the second highest score for all 
train operating companies in the UK
Why we measure Why we measure
We are focused on driving growth in 
operating profit in order to drive higher 
and sustainable returns for our investors. 
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to 
maximise the cash generation across all our 
operating divisions. We view cash generation 
as a key driver for creating shareholder value.
Our core bus and coach operations are 
strong cash generators, complemented by 
our capital-light model for rail.
We are focused on improving return on the 
capital we invest, in order to drive better 
returns for investors.
We maintain a disciplined approach to 
capital investment, and continue to invest 
in those areas for which we can deliver 
the best returns.
Safety is at the heart of our Vision and 
Values and is our priority for both our 
customers and employees.
High safety standards also help to drive 
sustainable growth through customer 
loyalty and new business wins. 
Passenger journeys are reflective of 
underlying demand for travel. National 
Express is targeting increased passenger 
ridership as a longer-term driver of 
sustainable value.
We run employee surveys to measure the 
engagement of our people. Every year we 
use the results to influence how we make 
National Express a great place to work.
* Historical results restated to adjust for the impact of Rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as exceptional costs
** 2014 FWI data adjusted to reflect a lower number of responsible accidents than previously recorded
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
27 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Risk and risk management
Committed to managing risk  
both effectively and robustly
The Group has a well established 
governance structure with internal control 
and risk management systems. The risk 
management process:
• provides a framework to identify, assess 
and manage risks, both positive and 
negative, to the Group’s overall strategy 
and the contribution of its individual 
component divisions;
• gives business unit management formal 
tools to identify and manage risks in their 
day-to-day operations;
• allows Group Executive management 
to identify and manage the risks that are 
likely to have a more significant impact 
on the financial results and strategy and 
share common issues and solutions 
across the Group; and
• allows the Board to fulfil its governance 
responsibilities by making a balanced 
and understandable assessment of 
the operation of the risk management 
process and its outputs.
Responsibilities and actions
The Board:
• has overall responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness;
• has a mandate to define the Group’s 
risk culture and to determine its 
appetite for risk in order to deliver 
the strategic objectives;
• maintains full control and direction 
over appropriate strategic, financial, 
operational and compliance issues; and
• has put in place an organisational 
structure with formally defined lines 
of responsibility, delegated authorities 
and clear operating processes.
The Audit Committee: 
• has specific responsibility for reviewing 
and validating the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal control and risk 
management systems;
• is responsible for the identification, 
assessment and management of risk, 
including actions taken and processes 
adopted to do so;
• reviews and approves all financial 
information published by the Group; and
• reviews the internal audit programme, 
considers major findings of the internal 
audit investigations and reviews 
management’s financial reporting 
and risk management.
Risk assessment
Each division, plus the Group 
corporate functions, is required to 
make a formal review of all risks to their 
business objectives, assess the impact 
and likelihood of the risk occurring 
and put in place appropriate mitigating 
actions, processes and systems to 
manage the risk.
Risk assessment review
Risk assessment 
Identify 
Assess 
Mitigating actions
Review 
Group Executive 
Committee 
Audit Committee
Board 
Review
Identify
Identify risks to business objectives on 
a bottom up basis: risks are described 
and categorised into Operational, Strategic 
and Financial risks in order to help define 
their precise nature and potential impact 
on the business.
Assess 
Assess and quantify the potential impact 
on business objectives and determine the 
likelihood of the risk occurring. This is done 
on a ‘before’ and ‘after’ basis, where the 
impact of management controls is assessed in 
relation to the probability and severity of a risk.
Mitigating actions
Take mitigating actions and implement 
systems to manage the likelihood and 
impact of the risk. Identify an individual 
with responsibility for each risk.
Review
Risks are considered on a monthly basis 
at divisional level and formally updated 
twice a year. These risks are documented 
on a divisional risk register. Management is 
encouraged to review the risk registers from 
other divisions to identify common issues 
and potential solutions.
Each divisional register, including the Group 
corporate functions register, is consolidated 
into a Group Risk Register.
The Group Executive Committee reviews 
the Group Risk Register twice a year, 
followed by the Group Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee reports in turn to 
the main Board. 
Internal audit
The internal audit function has 
responsibility for monitoring the 
risk management and internal control 
systems and facilitates the twice-yearly 
formal update of the risk registers. Internal 
Audit reports to management and the 
Audit Committee on the extent to which 
internal controls are adequately designed 
and implemented.
28 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 During 2015 the Group focused on the following key areas of risk:
Risk Change Why? Responsible
Concession and contract renewal Continued bidding activity Group Chief Executive and 
divisional Managing Directors
Economic conditions and austerity Continued tight public budgets 
despite improving economic conditions
Divisional Managing Directors
Political and regulatory Ongoing regulatory changes in 
Spain, North America and the UK
Group Chief Executive and 
divisional Managing Directors
Contract bidding Bid assumptions maybe incorrect Group Chief Executive and 
divisional Managing Directors
Contract mobilisation Mobilisation for new bus and rail 
contracts in the Middle East and Germany
Managing Directors of the 
International and Rail divisions
The following are ongoing risks within the business:
Fuel cost Unplanned increases in the price of 
fuel continue to be a risk, despite 
the significant fall in prices since the 
last quarter of 2014
Group Finance Director and 
Group Treasurer
Insurance and claims Continuing claims management and 
safety systems in place
Group Finance Director and Group 
Director of Insurance & Risk
Credit risk Customer debt levels stable, but risk 
of default remains 
Divisional Finance Directors
Currency Exchange rates for key currencies 
generally more stable over the last year
Group Finance Director and 
Group Treasurer
Risk given increased status in 2015
Cyber security The digital world creates many risks for 
a global business including technology 
failures, loss of confidential data and 
damage to brand reputation
Group Financial Director and 
divisional Managing & IT Directors
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
29 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Principal risks and uncertainties
Looking forward, the Group will focus on the following key areas of risk:
Risks Assessment Management Potential impact
Concession and contract renewal
Much of the Group’s business 
is secured through renewing 
contracts and concessions, 
particularly in our North 
America School Bus and Transit 
businesses, in Spain and in Rail.
Approximately 65% of the Group’s total 
revenue is either contract or concession 
based. These contracts vary in length 
and are typically awarded for between 
12 months and 20 years.
Following the successful retention of the 
Essex Thameside rail franchise, the Group 
has been shortlisted as a bidder for the 
Greater Anglia franchise In the UK. The 
Group continues to bid for rail contracts 
in Germany and bus contracts in the 
Middle East.
The concession renewal process in 
Spain has changed, with the most 
significant difference being the removal 
of the incumbent advantage. Following 
a general delay in tendering, ALSA still 
currently expects about 50% of its 
national coach concessions to be bid 
for in 2016 and 2017.
A reputation for high quality services helps 
to win and retain contracts. The Group 
has a good record of retaining contracts 
on a historical basis: no national coach 
concession in Spain has been lost before 
and retention rates in School Bus are 
typically very high (98% in 2015 and 97% 
in 2014).
ALSA is well prepared to submit high quality 
bids on its own and other concessions as 
and when they are called to tender.
High
Economic conditions and austerity
The economic outlook in National 
Express key territories continues 
to be generally positive, although 
government austerity measures in 
the UK and Spain continue to be a 
risk. Whilst some of the Group’s 
businesses have naturally defensive 
characteristics, some of the more 
discretionary parts of the business 
may be adversely affected by 
reduced economic activity.
Risk that revenues in the Bus, Coach and 
Rail businesses in the UK and Spain are 
impacted by lower passenger demand; 
there is also some positive risk that 
the Group will benefit from the prospect of 
modal shift towards its forms of transport. 
In Spain, the division may be affected by 
the effects of austerity but may benefit 
from the outsourcing of further urban 
bus operations.
The Group seeks to mitigate these risks 
through proactive cost control, revenue 
management systems, the careful economic 
modelling of new and existing contracts, 
including sensitivities around expected 
growth rates, and through sharing risk 
with contracting parties.
High
Political and regulatory
The Group’s businesses are 
subject to numerous laws in the 
jurisdictions in which they operate, 
regulating the operation of 
concessions, safety procedures, 
equipment specifications, 
employment requirements, 
environmental procedures 
and other operating issues.
Changes in political and regulatory 
environments can have a significant impact 
on regulated public transport operators, 
from adding significant cost to changing 
the fundamental nature of a market. 
For example:
The proposed new Buses Bill in the UK will 
provide new powers to local government 
that are likely to have a significant impact 
on the bus industry in the medium term.
The Spanish Government has agreed the 
imposition of a fee on new concessions 
and the removal of a 5% incumbency 
advantage on new national intercity 
concessions.
The risk is reduced by maintaining close 
relationships with key stakeholders and 
ensuring that the economic advantages of 
our business models are fully understood 
and considered.
In the longer term, the Group can mitigate 
risk by diversifying its operations into 
other geographies.
Medium
Contract bidding
The Group makes a significant 
investment in bidding for new 
contracts and concessions.
2016 continues to see some 
significant bidding activity, as 
the Group continues to seek 
to expand its operations in the 
Middle East and Germany.
An inherent risk in contract bidding is 
that bid assumptions might prove to be 
incorrect. If the Group’s significant bid 
assumptions prove to be incorrect, this 
could have an adverse effect on results 
of the operations and the Group’s 
financial condition.
The Group seeks to mitigate the risk through 
careful economic modelling of new contracts, 
and by sharing revenue risk with the awarding 
body; for example with the Department for 
Transport in Rail.
Proper mobilisation is a key part 
of ensuring that risk of divergence from 
bid assumptions is minimised. 
Medium
30 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risks Assessment Management Potential impact
Contract mobilisation
The mobilisation to deliver new 
services following a contract 
award is involved, often requiring 
the purchase of new vehicles 
and in some cases, such as in 
Germany and the Middle East, 
the creation of a new 
business operation.
While mobilisation is a core expertise of the 
Group, operating in new geographies and 
cultures increases the complexity and 
challenge of successful new contract 
start-up. The Group successfully launched 
a new bus operation in Bahrain and started 
operating its new RME Rail franchise 
in Germany during 2015.
Start-up activities are formally managed 
with dedicated, skilled local teams 
supported by Group expertise. Close 
senior management oversight ensures 
any key risks or issues are rapidly 
escalated and resolved.
Medium
The following are ongoing risks within the business:
Fuel cost
All of the Group’s businesses are 
exposed to fuel costs – primarily 
diesel for buses and coaches. 
Fuel prices are subject to 
significant volatility due to 
economic, political and climate 
circumstances.
Fuel costs constitute approximately 10% 
of the Group’s costs and consequently, to 
the extent that price increases cannot be 
passed on to customers, increases in fuel 
costs will affect profitability.
The Group seeks to mitigate risks of 
increases in fuel costs by entering into fuel 
swaps and forward purchase contracts in 
line with the Group’s hedging strategy 
discussed on page 36. 
Medium
Insurance and claims
The Group’s policy is to 
self-insure a number of potential 
claims within its business.
There is a risk that a successful claim or 
series of successful claims may result in 
substantially higher charges to profit and 
cash outflow than expected.
Throughout the business, a strong safety 
culture prevails, led by the Safety & 
Environment Committee. Where claims arise, 
they are managed by experienced claims 
handlers and professional advice is obtained 
in order to evaluate and minimise costs to 
the Group. 
Medium
Credit risk
As contractual operations, 
the North American and Spanish 
urban businesses are exposed to 
the risk that customers are either 
late or unable to pay sums owed 
to the Group.
Payment terms and cash collections 
in North America are extremely good. 
In Spain the level of outstanding debt 
is in line with historical levels.
Receivables in each business are closely 
monitored, based on robust and thorough 
documentation; provisions are then made 
where appropriate on a prudent basis for 
a certain level of non-collection. Additional 
contractual terms for interest accrual 
and repayment of outstanding balances 
have been agreed with overdue 
debtors where necessary.
Low
Currency
The Group’s exposure to 
overseas earnings through its 
Spanish and North American 
operations creates a risk that 
movement in exchange rates 
may adversely impact translation 
of profit and cash flows together 
with Group gearing.
Foreign currency movements impact the 
profit, balance sheet and cash flows of 
the Group. Over the course of 2015 the 
Euro continued to depreciate against 
Sterling whereas the US dollar continued 
to appreciate against Sterling. The Group 
holds Euro denominated debt and US 
dollar finance leases.
The Group uses currency debt and currency 
swaps to reduce the impact and mitigate the 
risk. In addition, management has flexibility 
to adjust Group capital allocation.
Low
Cyber security
The digital world creates many 
risks for a global business 
including technology 
failures, loss of confidential data 
damage to brand reputation.
The Group views cyber security 
as an emerging risk, which could 
have serious consequences for 
business operations.
The Group is committed to increase its 
resilience in its security strategy; and seeks 
to assess and manage its ability to effectively 
defend against current and future cyber 
risks by using analysis tools and experienced 
professionals to evaluate and mitigate 
potential impacts.
The Group relies upon a variety of IT 
systems in order to manage and deliver 
services and communciate with our 
customers, suppliers and employees.
We remain focused on the need to maximise 
the effectiveness of our information systems 
and technology as a business enabler and to 
manage both costs and exposure as a result.
Low
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
31 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Group Finance Director’s review
Matthew Ashley
Group Finance Director 
25 February 2016
Revenue, profit and margins grow in all divisions 
driving strong cash generation 
Presentation of results
We present our financial results on two 
bases. Normalised results show the 
performance of the business before 
exceptional items and intangible amortisation, 
since the Board believes this gives the reader 
a clearer understanding of existing business 
performance. IFRS results include these 
items to give the statutory results. 
Revenue
Group revenue for the year was £1,919.8 
million (2014: £1,867 .4m), an overall increase 
of 2.8%. Underlying revenue (on a constant 
currency basis) increased by 3.8%, 
reflecting the strengthening of the US dollar 
against Sterling partially offsetting the 
weakening of the Euro. 
We have delivered revenue growth in local 
currency in all five of our divisions, through 
a combination of pricing, volume growth 
and new business. Rail was the strongest 
performer, up 9.5% in the UK and 11.1% 
overall. This has included significant growth 
in off-peak revenues of 8%, driven by new 
fare promotions and an improved marketing 
programme. Commercial revenues in UK 
Bus increased by 2.6%, seeing very strong 
growth in the use of smartcards. UK Coach 
delivered revenue growth of 2.2% with 
core revenue growth of 3.1% and positive 
momentum in contract revenues in the 
second half of the year.
Revenue in Spain grew by 2.9% and we 
continue to see a positive response to the 
revenue management system installed on the 
main rail-competed corridors. Morocco has 
delivered another strong performance with 
a revenue increase of 13.8% driven by the 
upscaling of operations in Tangier, alongside 
the launch of services in September in a 
fourth city, Khouribga. Together these drove 
an overall increase in revenue for ALSA of 
3.6%. Underlying revenue in North America 
was up 4.0% on a constant currency basis 
and up 2.2% on a reported basis as the 
depreciation of the Canadian dollar to the 
US dollar affected the translation of Canadian 
revenues. The 4.0% growth in constant 
currency reflects the rate increases and 
performance of new contracts, together with 
a number of acquisitions and business wins 
offset by exited contracts from our ‘up or 
out’ programme.
Normalised profit
Group normalised operating profit increased 
by 18.2% to £193.5 million on a constant 
currency basis; up 15.5% on a reported basis 
(2014: £167 .6m). Group like-for-like operating 
profit has increased by 7 .5%, after excluding 
Rail and Middle East bid costs of £9.2 million 
(2014: £25.5m) and a £3.9 million adverse 
foreign exchange variance as set out below. 
This reflected our focus on driving organic 
growth and cost efficiency to protect and 
grow margin. The £19 million of cost 
efficiencies delivered in the year largely 
reflect the rationalisation and restructuring 
programme in 2014 which targeted 
annualised savings of around £15 million.
Group operating profit margin improved by 
110 basis points to 10.1% (with like-for-like 
operating profit margin up 40 basis points 
after adjusting for lower incremental bid 
costs and foreign exchange), despite 
significantly increased franchise premium 
charges in our c2c franchise.
Revenue bridge £m % change
2014 full year revenue 1,867
Currency translation (17)
2014 full year revenue at constant currency 1,850
Organic growth 46 2.5%
Acquisitions 24 1.3%
2015 full year revenue 1,920 3.8%
32 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Profit bridge £m % change
2014 normalised full year operating profit 193.1
Currency (3.9)
Rail and Middle East bid costs in 2014 (25.5)
Restated operating profit at constant currency 163.7
Incrementally lower Rail and Middle East bid costs in 2015 16.3
Like-for-like operating profit 180.0
Growth 27.5
Acquisitions 3.4
Cost inflation (13.0)
Cost efficiency 19.1
Net rail charges (franchise premium) (28.8)
Fuel price benefit 4.7
Weather 0.6
2015 normalised full year operating profit 193.5 7.5%
Segmental profit performance
Our UK Coach and UK Bus businesses 
were the strongest performers, with UK 
Coach profit increasing by 15.4% to 
£32.3 million and operating profit margin 
improving by 130 basis points. UK Bus 
delivered profit growth of 10.3% with 
operating margin improving by 100 basis 
points. Profit in Rail was £0.6 million versus 
a loss of £10.1 million in 2014, reflecting the 
impact of lower incremental rail bid costs 
which combined with strong revenue 
growth in c2c more than offset the 
significantly increased premium charges. 
Profit in ALSA was up 5.8% on a constant 
currency basis, reflecting strong revenue 
growth particularly in Morocco together 
with lower fuel costs and cost efficiencies. 
The reported result for ALSA has been 
adversely affected by the strengthening 
of Sterling versus the Euro over the last 
year, with the result that profit is down 4.7% 
on currency translation. 
In North America profit was up 6. 1% on a 
constant currency basis, with the benefit 
of rate increases and gains from the 
improvement in contract quality as a direct 
result of our ‘up or out’ strategy, together with 
the benefit of acquisitions and new business 
wins. The strengthening of the US Dollar 
versus the Canadian Dollar has adversely 
impacted the net operating profit for North 
America by $1.7 million during the year. On a 
reported basis North America profit grew by 
12.3%, benefiting from the strengthening of 
the US Dollar against Sterling.
Central function costs were £1.9 million 
lower as a result of lower bid costs and cost 
savings delivered through the restructuring 
programme implemented in 2014.
Segmental operating profit
2015
Local
currency
2014*
Local
currency
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Spain and Morocco 98.5 93.1 71.5 75.0
North America 102.2 96.3** 66.8 59.5
UK Bus 37.5 34.0
UK Coach 32.3 28.0
Rail 0.6 (10.1)
German Coach – (1.7)
Central functions (15.2) (17.1)
Group 193.5 167.6
* FY2014 results restated to adjust for impact of Rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as exceptional items
** Operating profit at constant currency, adjusting for Canadian Dollar to US Dollar foreign exchange rate movement in the year
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
33 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Group Finance Director’s review continued
Income from associates rose to £1.8 million 
(2014: £0.3m) and now includes the 
contribution from our joint venture in Bahrain.
Net finance costs decreased to £45.2 
million (2014: £48.0m), benefiting from 
lower interest rates secured on the renewal 
of the revolving credit facility (‘RCF’) in 
November 2014. Normalised profit before 
tax was £150.1 million (2014: £119.9m).
Summary income statement
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Revenue 1,919.8 1,867.4
Operating costs (1,726.3) (1,699.8)
Normalised operating profit 193.5 167.6
Share of results from associates 1.8 0.3
Net finance costs (45.2) (48.0)
Normalised profit before tax 150.1 119.9
Tax (28.5) (21.8)
Normalised profit after tax 121.6 98.1
*  FY2014 results restated to adjust for impact of Rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as exceptional items
The normalised tax charge was 
£28.5 million (2014: £21.8m), a normalised 
effective tax rate of 19.0% (2014: 18.2%). 
The tax charge for 2015 included a number 
of one-off items, with the main ones being a 
release of tax provisions following the 
conclusion of a Spanish tax audit together 
with movements in deferred tax balances 
due to changes in statutory tax rates in the 
countries in which we operate. 
Looking forward, and depending on profit 
mix, new business opportunities and the 
future tax environment including possible 
restrictions on tax deductions for interest 
expense, we expect the normalised 
effective tax rate to gradually increase from 
2017 to a range between 22% and 25%. 
We would expect the cash tax rate to be 
less than 15% for the next two to three 
years as we utilise brought forward tax 
losses, mainly in the US, during this period. 
Normalised profit after tax for the year was 
£121.6 million (2014: £98.1m), giving a basic 
EPS of 23.4 pence (2014: 18.9p). An 
increase of 10% in the final dividend to 
11.33 pence has been declared, reflecting 
our new policy of ensuring that full year 
dividends are covered around two times 
by Group earnings, including earnings 
from the Rail division.
Exceptional items
There were no exceptional items in the year: 
in line with our previously stated policy, 
business development costs associated 
with developing our rail and Middle East 
markets are no longer treated as 
exceptional items and are charged to the 
relevant business division. In 2014, £24.8 
million was invested in the restructuring of 
existing operations in order to maintain their 
market-leading positions and to respond to 
both opportunities and challenges.
Exceptional items
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Restructuring – (25.8)
Strategic rationalisation – (18.3)
Exceptional fuel credits – 19.3
Exceptional items – (24.8)
* FY2014 results restated to adjust for impact of Rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as exceptional items
34 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 IFRS results
Intangible amortisation decreased to £25.7 
million (2014: £28.6m), due to intangible 
assets on some Spanish concessions 
becoming fully amortised. Profit for 
the period, after amortisation was 
£109.1 million (2014: £60.6m). 
Basic EPS, after amortisation 
was 20.9 pence (2014: 11.6p).
IFRS profit
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Normalised profit before tax 150.1 119.9
Exceptional items – (24.8)
Intangible amortisation (25.7) (28.6)
Profit before tax 124.4 66.5
Tax charge (15.3) (5.9)
Profit for the year 109.1 60.6
* FY2014 results restated to adjust for the impact of Rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as exceptional items
Cash management
Cash generation is core to our strategy, 
representing a key driver of shareholder value. 
The Group’s core bus and coach operations 
are strong cash generators, complemented by 
rail’s capital-light model. In recent years the 
Group has targeted improved cash flow 
generation to drive better returns. We believe 
we have a strong, sustainable cash flow in 
place now that allows us to retain a focus on 
ROCE while supporting a capital investment 
programme that maintains fleet age at 
acceptable levels. Our current target is to 
invest around 1. 1 to 1.2 times depreciation.
In 2015, the Group delivered operating cash 
flow of £164.9 million (2014: £222.6m), reflecting 
the increased level of maintenance capital 
expenditure, net of disposals, of £1 1 1.7 million. 
This represents 107% of the depreciation 
charge and was £69 million higher than in 
2014. The majority of the maintenance capital 
investment has been in fleet replacement in 
the UK, Spain and North America.
Working capital saw an outflow of £1 1.8 million 
(2014: inflow of £4.8m) reflecting organic 
growth, new business wins and acquisitions.
£1 1 1.0 million of free cash flow was generated 
over the year (2014: £164.8m), reflecting the 
higher level of maintenance capital expenditure 
described above. This free cash flow was ahead 
of our £100 million target. We will continue to 
target delivery of £100 million of free cash flow 
per annum, which we see as a sustainable level 
of cash generation going forward.
Free cash flow
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Normalised operating profit 193.5 167.6
Depreciation and other non-cash items 104.6 102.1
EBITDA 298.1 269.7
Net maintenance capital expenditure (111.7) (43.2)
Working capital (increase)/decrease (11.8) 4.8
Pension contributions above normal charge (9.7) (8.7)
Operating cash flow 164.9 222.6
Receipts from associates and minorities 0.7 1.3
Net interest paid (43.4) (46.1)
Tax paid (11.2) (13.0)
Free cash flow 111.0 164.8
UK rail franchise exit outflow (2.5) (1.6)
Exceptional cash expenditure (10.0) (19.2)
Cash flow available for growth & dividends 98.5 144.0
*  FY2014 results restated to adjust for impact of Rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as exceptional items
From free cash flow, there was an outflow 
of £10.0 million from the run-off of 2014 
exceptional items, leaving £98.5 million (2014: 
£144.0m) available to invest in growth capital 
projects, bolt-on acquisitions and capital 
return to shareholders. The majority of the 
£36.4m growth capital investment has been in 
growing our fleet on new services such as 
Tangier in Morocco, investment in revenue 
management systems for our coach services 
in the UK and Spain, and investment to 
support our growth in Rail, both in the UK and 
Germany.
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
35 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Group Finance Director’s review continued
During the year we invested in six acquisitions, 
five of which were in our North America School 
Bus and Transit operations, in line with our 
stated strategy to exploit new growth 
opportunities in this market. The acquisition in 
Spain was for an urban bus contract in Madrid. 
Total net consideration was £82 million for the 
acquisitions in North America and £16 million 
for the Spanish acquisition, with a total of 
£69.4 million being paid in 2015.
ROCE is a key factor in our incremental 
investment decisions and we are pleased 
with the progress we have made. The 
Group’s return on capital increased by 100 
basis points to 1 1.7%, excluding Rail and 
Middle East bid costs.
With dividend payments of £54.4 million 
(2014: £51.6m), the net outflow of funds in the 
year after foreign exchange movements was 
£81.2 million (2014: inflow of £81.8m). Net 
debt increased to £7 45.5 million as at 
31 December 2015 (2014: £664.3m) having 
invested £69.4 million on acquisitions and 
£36.4 million in growth capital expenditure 
during the period.
Net funds flow
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flow available for growth & dividends 98.5 144.0
Net growth capital expenditure (36.4) (7.3)
Acquisitions and disposals (69.4) (5.9)
Dividends (54.4) (51.6)
Other, including foreign exchange (19.5) 2.6
Net funds flow (81.2) 81.8
In previous years the focus of our cash flow 
has been on debt reduction and growing 
our dividend. As we stated in last year’s full 
year results, we are now in a strong position 
to exploit new growth opportunities with a 
focus on the North American market, where 
we have a strong track record of growing 
profits. We continue to believe that there are 
excellent opportunities in this market given 
its highly fragmented nature and the 
continuing trend in conversions, and we will 
continue to use our cash flow to generate 
further growth through acquisitions, driving 
future returns for shareholders.
Dividend
As announced at the half year, the strength 
of our cash flow and the continued growth 
of secure, long-term revenue from our 
expanding UK and German rail operations 
led us to review our policy of excluding rail 
earnings from our dividend cover. Our new 
policy is to include rail profits, so that our 
dividend is covered around two times by 
Group earnings. This new policy enables us 
to propose a 10% increase in the full year 
dividend to 11.33 pence.
Treasury management
The Group maintains a prudent approach 
to its financing and is committed to an 
investment grade credit rating. The Board’s 
policy targets a level of debt that allows 
for disciplined investment and ample 
headroom on its covenants, with net debt 
to EBITDA at a ratio of 2.0x to 2.5x in the 
medium term. Both Moody’s and Fitch 
credit ratings have reaffirmed their 
investment grade rating in 2015.
The Group’s key debt ratios as at 
31 December 2015 were as follows:
• Gearing ratio: 2.45 times EBITDA 
(31 December 2014: 2.25x; bank 
covenant not to exceed 3.5x)
• Interest cover ratio: EBITDA 6.6 times 
interest (31 December 2014: 6.3x; bank 
covenant not less than 3.5x)
The Group has a strong funding platform 
that underpins the delivery of its strategy. 
Core funding is provided from non-bank 
sources, to provide improved certainty and 
maturity of funding. At the end of 2015, this 
represented £758.6 million of funding, 
primarily from two Sterling denominated 
bonds comprised of a £350 million bond 
maturing in 2017 and a £225 million bond 
maturing in 2020, a private placement of €78 
million maturing in 2021 and £128 million of 
finance leases. The residual debt balance is 
funded from the Group’s £416 million RCF, 
with a margin of 0.6% over LIBOR and 
maturing in 2020. At 31 December 2015, 
the Group had £440 million in cash and 
undrawn facilities available. 
In January 2016, the Group entered into 
new bank facilities totalling £450 million, 
comprising a £350 million bridging-to-bond 
facility in anticipation of the refinancing of 
the Group’s £350 million bond maturing in 
January 2017 , together with a £100 million 
general corporate purposes facility, 
providing the Group with an appropriate 
level of medium-term liquidity and funding 
headroom. Both facilities are for an initial 
period of 18 months and include options to 
extend the maturity date until January 2019. 
This bridging facility gives the Group ample 
flexibility with respect to the timing of the 
refinancing of the bond, without incurring 
punitive refinancing charges.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had 
foreign currency debt and swaps held as 
net investment hedges. These help mitigate 
volatility in foreign currency profit translation 
with corresponding movements in the 
Sterling value of debt. These corresponded 
to 2.2 times EBITDA earned in the US, held 
in US Dollars, and 2.1 times EBITDA earned 
in Spain and Germany, held in Euros. The 
Group hedges its exposure to interest rate 
movements to maintain a balance between 
fixed and floating interest rates on 
borrowings. It has therefore entered a 
series of swaps that have the effect of 
converting fixed rate debt to floating rate 
debt. The net effect of these transactions 
was that, at 31 December 2015, the 
proportion of Group net debt at floating 
rates was 34% (2014: 28%).
Group tax policy
We are committed to creating shareholder 
value through our strategic goals of 
operational excellence, generating superior 
cash and returns and creating new 
business opportunities, and the Group 
tax strategy supports these goals.
36 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position 
are set out in the Strategic Report. The 
financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Group Chief 
Executive’s review on pages 8 to 13 and 
the Group Finance Director’s review on 
pages 32 to 37. In addition, note 2 to the 
Financial Statements includes the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposure to credit 
risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has a formalised process of 
budgeting, reporting and review, which 
provides information to the Directors 
which is used to ensure the adequacy 
of resources available for the Group to 
meet its business objectives.
The Directors confirm that they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. In reaching this opinion, 
the Directors reviewed assumptions about 
current trading performance, together with 
information from the annual budget 
process, which sets out the Group’s plan 
for 2016, and the strategic planning 
process which determines the Group’s 
trajectory for 2017 to 2020. Accordingly 
the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing 
the annual Financial Statements.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision c2.2 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, 
the Board has assessed the viability of the 
Group over a three-year period to December 
2018. This takes into account the Group’s 
current position and the potential impact of 
the principal risks and uncertainties outlined 
on pages 28 to 31 of the Strategic Report.
The Board has determined that a three-year 
period is an appropriate period over which to 
provide its viability statement, as this is the 
period reviewed by the Board as part of the 
annual strategic planning process. In making 
this statement, the Board carried out a 
robust assessment of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten the business 
model, future performance, solvency and 
liquidity. Sensitivity analysis is applied to the 
cash flows to model the potential effects 
should principal risks actually occur; and 
consideration is given to the availability and 
likely effectiveness of mitigating actions that 
could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact 
or occurrence of the identified risk.
Based on this assessment, the Board confirms 
that it has a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due up to 
31 December 2018.
We pursue a cautious approach to our 
tax affairs which are aligned to business 
transactions and economic activity. Our 
approach to tax can be evidenced by the 
lack of outstanding tax audits as detailed 
in the Annual Report and Accounts.
In order to gain as much certainty as 
possible, tax matters are largely discussed 
in ‘real time’ with the tax authorities in the 
markets in which we operate. We have a 
constructive and good working relationship 
with the various tax authorities. However, 
due to the complexity of tax legislation, the 
Group and tax authorities may sometimes 
have differing opinions. The Group 
manages these risks and accrues for areas 
of tax uncertainty in line with accounting 
standard requirements, where appropriate. 
The Group Tax Department reports on a 
regular basis on the Group’s tax matters, 
with the Board and the Audit Committee 
apprised of any significant tax matters.
Pensions
The Group’s principal defined benefit 
pension schemes are all in the UK. 
The combined deficit under IAS 19 at 
31 December 2015 was £12.6 million 
(31 December 2014: deficit of £11.9m). The 
Group has previously reached agreement 
with the trustees of its key schemes which 
have fixed the deficit payments, under most 
eventualities, to just under £10 million per 
annum until 2017 , calculated on a scheme 
funding basis. The two principal plans are 
the UK Group scheme, which closed to 
new accrual in 2011, and the West Midlands 
Bus plan, which remains open to accrual 
for existing active members only.
The IAS19 valuations at 31 December 2015 
were as follows:
• UK Bus (under the West Midlands 
Integrated Transport Authority Pension 
Fund and the Tayside Transport 
Superannuation Fund): £60.4 million 
deficit (2014: £50.6m deficit)
• UK Group scheme: £34.9 million surplus 
(2014: £30.6m surplus)
• UK Rail/other: £12.9 million surplus (2014: 
£8.1m surplus). The Group’s rail business 
participates in the Railways Pension 
Scheme. This exposure transfers to an 
incoming operator in the event of a 
franchise termination
Fuel Costs
The Group consumes approximately 220 
million litres of diesel each year for which it 
is at risk (ie there is no direct fuel escalator in 
the contract or concession price). This relates 
to the non-rail divisions and represented a 
total cost (including delivery and taxes) to the 
Group in 2015 of £167 million (approximately 
9% of related revenue), at an average fuel 
component cost of 44 pence per litre. The 
Group has adopted a forward fuel buying 
policy in order to secure a degree of certainty 
in its planning. This policy is to hedge fully a 
minimum of 15 months’ addressable 
consumption against movements in price 
of the underlying commodity, together with 
at least 50% of the next nine months’ 
consumption in the contract businesses. 
Currently, the Group is 100% fixed for 2016 at 
an average price of 42 pence/litre (excluding 
delivery and tax), 94% fixed for 2017 at an 
average price of 41p and 42% fixed for 2018 
at 31p. We anticipate fuel savings of around 
£30 million in 2018 when compared with 
2015, assuming the balance of the fuel 
hedging for 2017 and 2018 is transacted 
around the current spot price for fuel. 
The continuing drop in the price of crude 
oil throughout 2015 resulted in an adverse 
movement in the value of these hedges to a 
liability of £83.8 million, which will be offset 
by the lower price paid for fuel in 2016-2018.
Where businesses have freedom to price 
services, this hedge provides sufficient 
protection to recover fuel price increases 
through the fare basket. In contract 
businesses, where price escalation may 
be restricted by a formula independent of 
fuel costs, extended cover, up to the life 
of the contract, may be taken, subject to 
availability and liquidity in the hedging 
market. The latter is rarely available 
beyond three years from the trade date.
Matthew Ashley 
Group Finance Director
25 February 2016
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
37 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Business review: Spain and Morocco
Record passenger numbers through 
revenue management and Morocco
Francisco Iglesias
Chief Executive, ALSA
Spain and Morocco
Overview of 2015
Year ended
31 December
2015
m
2014*
m
Revenue £502.2 £538.1
Normalised 
operating profit £71.5 £75.0
Revenue €691.8 €667.7
Normalised 
operating profit €98.5 €93.1
Operating margin 14.2% 13.9%
*  FY2014 normalised results restated to adjust for the 
impact of bid costs previously treated as exceptional costs
We have delivered improvements in 
productivity with higher fleet utilisation, 
higher mileage per vehicle and improved 
maintenance standards resulting in a 20% 
reduction in breakdowns. The 2% reduction 
in fuel consumption achieved in 2014 has 
been delivered again in 2015. This 2% 
reduction has been driven by a programme 
of consumption improvement measures, 
including fuel efficient driver training. 
Our ongoing focus on improving safety 
standards has delivered a reduction of 15% 
in the Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index 
in the year, with a strong emphasis on 
training and driver assessments helping 
to drive the significant improvement in 
safety performance.
Overview of 2015
ALSA’s continued roll out of its revenue 
management system (‘RMS’), a record year 
for passengers and sustained strong 
growth in Morocco have helped drive 
increases in revenue, profit and margin in 
the division. Total divisional revenue grew 
by 3.6% to €691.8 million (2014: €667 .7m) 
and normalised operating profit rose by 
5.8% to €98.5 million (2014: €93.1m), both 
in constant currency.
In Spain, revenues rose by 2.9% driven 
by the implementation of RMSs on our 
main rail-competed routes which is driving 
growth in both revenue and passengers, 
whilst in Morocco we have seen another 
year of strong growth, with revenue growth 
of 13.8% driven by the upscaling of 
operations and services in Tangier, together 
with the launch of services in a fourth city, 
Khouribga. Operating margin rose to 14.2% 
(2014: 13.9%) driven by revenue growth, 
cost efficencies, lower fuel costs and 
additional income from fuel duty rebates. 
ALSA still achieves the best in class margin 
for a Spanish bus and coach operator.
During the year only two national franchises 
in our portfolio came up for renewal. ALSA 
successfully renewed one and has obtained 
the highest score, pending award, in the 
other. ALSA also extended the Bilbao 
Urban Transport contract by two years 
and was awarded one of the contracts to 
operate part of the Spanish Government’s 
flagship Imserso pension holiday scheme.
With the appreciation of Sterling against 
the Euro during 2015, reported revenues 
and profit declined to £502.2 million 
(2014: £538.1m) and £71.5 million 
(2014: £75.0m) respectively.
Operational excellence
ALSA is widely recognised as an industry-
leading operator and in 2015 received an 
award for Best Practice in Occupational 
Road Safety from the Spanish Foundation 
in Road Safety. In addition ALSA has been 
awarded a four-star rating by the European 
Foundation for Quality Management in a 
first EFQM assessment, and we are 
working towards achieving a five-star 
rating in the next assessment.
2015 has been a record year for the 
number of passengers that ALSA carries, 
with nearly 300 million passenger journeys 
on our services in Spain and Morocco.
We have continued to see a successful 
response to the RMS implemented on the 
nine corridors experiencing the most 
intense competition from RENFE’s 
aggressive rail ticket discounting. With 216 
long haul flows now within the RMS, nearly 
80% of that sector’s passengers and 
revenue are benefiting from this more 
sophisticated pricing approach. For the 
year as a whole, on those routes with RMS, 
we saw a 2% increase in passenger 
numbers and 3% increase in revenue. 
ALSA remains focused on delivering further 
cost efficiencies in order to mitigate the 
impact of lower fares and cost inflation. In 
2015 we drove a higher proportion of sales 
through our digital channels and ticketing 
machines, with nearly a third of transactions 
now conducted this way, leading to a small 
reduction in headcount as we look to 
develop a more flexible sales structure. 
38 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015   
Our business in Morocco continues to grow 
with services now operating in four cities
€m
2014 normalised operating profit 94.1
Bid costs in 2014 (1.0)
Restated operating profit 93.1
Lower bid costs in 2015 0.6
Like-for-like operating profit 
in 2014 93.7
Net impact of revenue growth 4.9
Other cost inflation (9.0)
Cost efficiencies 6.5
Fuel 2.4
2015 normalised operating profit 98.5
Cash and returns
In 2015 ALSA delivered another strong 
performance, generating operating cash 
of €114.6 million with operating cash 
conversion of 116%, with an improvement 
of €9 million in working capital. We have 
invested in a higher level of capital 
expenditure year on year, with growth 
capital expenditure focused predominantly 
on new fleet to support the upscaling of our 
operations in Tangier and the ongoing 
development of the RMS. 
Creating new opportunities
Following on from the very encouraging 
results we have seen with the 
implementation of revenue management 
on some of our intercity routes, we are 
introducing further enhancements to our 
systems that allow even faster decision 
making on fares, drawing on real-time travel 
information and competitor information. We 
will look to roll out this enhanced revenue 
management process across the whole of 
our Spanish business to include both the 
commuter and regional routes. 
We also see further opportunities to 
increase our digital capabilities leveraging 
the Group expertise in customised 
e-marketing, with the development of new 
apps offering improved functionality, 
together with personalised journey 
planners, content and offers; building on 
UK Coach’s leadership, similar programmes 
will be rolled out across the businesses. 
In 2015 we invested in a bolt-on acquisition, 
Herranz, a business which operates around 
70 buses through an urban contract as part 
of the Madrid consortium. This business 
offers synergy benefits with other contracts 
we operate within the city, with the contract 
running through to 2024. We expect this 
acquisition to be accretive within the first 12 
months after transaction and synergy costs 
and we will consider further bolt-on 
acquisitions where they meet our strict 
financial criteria.
Following recent press reports on the 
Portuguese Government’s proposed 
cancellation of our Porto bus contract – 
amongst others awarded by the previous 
government – we have just received official 
notification. We will analyse the arguments 
used to overturn a previously awarded 
contract and then consider our next steps. 
We will continue to monitor future prospects 
for private sector development in the 
domestic rail market and liberalisation of 
other bus markets in Europe where we 
believe we can leverage our expertise 
and reputation to enter new markets.
We continue to see strong growth 
prospects in Morocco, where we started 
operations in Khouribga, our fourth city, 
in 2015. As well as continuing to grow our 
existing operations, we see further growth 
opportunities with the addition of services 
in new cities, building on our reputation 
for operational excellence and customer 
service standards. In 2016 we expect 
to carry more passengers in Morocco 
than in the whole of our Spanish business, 
demonstrating the significant growth 
experienced in recent years and the 
opportunity further expansion in the 
country  provides. Our continuing focus 
is to ensure we are well placed for the 
upcoming concession renewal process 
which may continue to suffer delays 
resulting from legal issues. We still, 
therefore, do not expect any risk of 
significant impact on revenues or profits 
until 2017 . We expect the impact on our 
Spanish operating profit to be up to €2-3 
million in 2017 . As a high quality, innovative 
and efficient operator, we believe that 
ALSA is well positioned to retain and 
secure  concessions as and when 
contracts do come up for renewal. In 
2015 we have successfully retained the 
two small intercity contracts which came 
up  for renewal and our industry-leading 
bidding team will continue to focus on 
developing high quality bids in order to 
retain and win new contracts. When 
the main renewals process does begin, 
we do expect there to be pressure on 
margins, but have already begun 
programmes to mitigate this through, 
for example, further cost efficiencies, 
the ongoing roll out of revenue 
management in Spain and additional 
opportunities for growth in Morocco.
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
39 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Business review: North America
David Duke
Chief Executive, National Express Corporation
North America
Strong bid season and growth 
from acquisitions
Overview of 2015
Year ended
31 December
2015
m
2014
m
Revenue £683.2 £620.2
Operating profit £66.8 £59.5
Revenue US$1,044.3 US$1,003.9*
Operating profit US$102.2 US$96.3*
Operating margin 9.8% 9.6%
Overview of 2015
Our North American business has delivered 
another year of growth in revenue and 
operating profit. On a constant currency 
basis* revenue grew by 4.0% with operating 
profit increasing by 6.1% to $102.2 million 
(2014: $96.3m). 
We continued to focus on increasing 
profitable growth and improving the quality 
of our portfolio, exiting those contracts 
that fall below our minimum return criteria 
(through an ‘up or out’ strategy) and 
growing through acquisitions and 
winning new business which generate 
more attractive returns. We have had a 
successful bidding season, achieving price 
increases of 5.3% on those contracts up 
for renewal and an average price increase 
across the entire portfolio of 2.8%. This 
trend of increasing prices has continued 
into the current bid season.
We have added a further 450 buses from 
new contract wins in 2015 both in School 
Bus and Transit operations. We have had 
a particularly successful year in Transit, 
growing annualised revenues by 45% to 
around $110 million with three new 
contracts, an extension to an existing 
contract and one bolt-on acquisition. 
In line with our strategy to increase 
investment in new growth opportunities in 
North America, we have made five small 
bolt-on acquisitions, with three of those 
made in the final quarter of the year. Over 
the period we have added a net 1,100 
buses, with the new business wins and 
acquisitions more than offsetting the 
contracts we chose to exit.
*  Revenue and operating profit at constant currency, 
adjusting for Canadian Dollar to US Dollar foreign 
exchange rate movement in the year
Change in school bus numbers – 
2015 bid season
Number of 
buses
Regretted losses (100)
Exited per ‘up or out’ strategy (900)
Acquisitions 1,450
Conversion and share shift 450
Organic growth 200
Change in buses operated 
for 2015/16 school year 1,100
Operational excellence
Our North America operation already 
delivers best in class margins. Traditionally, 
the school bus industry is a capital-
intensive, low cash generation business. 
In the past year we have continued to focus 
on increasing the return on capital across 
our portfolio of 500 contracts. By focusing 
on contracts which generate adequate 
capital returns, we have relationship-based 
contracts where our service quality is valued 
by the customer. Where we are not able to 
obtain financial returns above our minimum 
criteria, we have exited the contract – in 
the 2015/16 school year bid season we 
relinquished eight contracts for 900 buses, 
which has contributed to the 20 basis point 
improvement in the operating margin to 
9.8%. We have continued to cascade buses 
where they meet the appropriate age 
criteria, thereby increasing fleet utilisation.
We continue to deliver superior service 
standards, with 92% of our customers 
willing to recommend us on the basis of 
quality of service, safety and value. In 2014 
we experienced pressures on driver 
recruitment with some shortages and wage 
pressure evident. During 2015 we reviewed 
our approach, including starting our 
targeted recruitment rounds earlier and 
We have maintained a relentless focus on 
costs and the streamlining of operations 
and increased operating margin by 20 basis 
points to 9.8%, with the benefits of the ‘up 
or out’ strategy helping to offset pressure 
on drivers’ wages.
$m
2014 normalised operating 
profit 98.0
Exchange movement 
(CAD to USD) (1.7)
2014 normalised operating 
profit at constant currency* 96.3
Net impact of revenue growth 4.8
Acquisitions 5.2
Fuel cost 2.4
Other cost inflation (16.0)
Cost savings including 
synergies 8.6
Weather 0.9
2015 normalised operating profit* 102.2
40 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015   
Five small bolt-on acquisitions were 
made during the year complementing 
our existing businesses
improved wage packages in highly 
competitive markets. While we continue to 
see some wage pressure we are pleased 
that the success of our new approach is 
supported by a 3% improvement in the 
Back to School Survey, with 90% of 
customers satisfied with the service they 
receive. Our focus on service standards 
and our customers is also reflected in our 
industry-leading contract retention rate 
which remains very high, achieving nearly 
99% for the last bidding season, excluding 
those contracts which we have not 
contested as they do not meet our minimum 
returns criteria. 
We continue to leverage our previous 
investment in technology in order to achieve 
further improvements in our operations and 
services, with further improvements in 
maintenance helping to drive cost 
efficiencies and higher service standards, 
and our ability to monitor on-time 
performance is driving higher service 
standards for our customers, with a 1% 
improvement year on year in 2015 to 94.1%. 
In 2015 we piloted a ‘Where’s My Bus’ App 
which provides parents with real-time 
tracking information and we will continue to 
roll this technology out across our business 
in response to positive customer feedback. 
We have also built the first full-sized school 
bus simulator in the US, in our regional training 
centre in Memphis. The ongoing focus on 
safety is demonstrated by a reduction of 5% 
in the Fatalities and  Weighted Injuries index 
accompanied by a reduction in lost time 
injuries. We will continue to strive for higher 
safety standards across our business.
We were delighted that our commitment to 
excellence and our pursuit of continuous 
improvement has been recognised with a 
Bronze Award from the Illinois Performance 
Excellence Center. This is a North American 
equivalent to EFQM and is presented to 
organisations that adopt and apply 
continuous improvement principles. 
Cash and returns
Operating cash flow represented a 
conversion of 61% of operating profit with 
$62 million of operating cash delivered in 
the year. As previously indicated, we have 
returned to a constant level of fleet 
replacement in 2015, in line with 
depreciation. The lower level of cash 
conversion when compared with 2014 
reflects the higher level of capital investment 
in fleet on both new and existing contracts 
together with increased working capital from 
growth in new contracts and acquisitions.
We continue to cascade fleet from our 
exited contracts and actively manage our 
spare capacity within our fleet in order to 
increase asset utilisation and improve 
returns. This drive for more efficient capital 
deployment has delivered a significant 
improvement in return on assets over the 
past three years rising from 17 .2% in 2012 
to 23.9% in 2015. We have delivered over 
$5 million of savings through new strategic 
relationships with suppliers and driven 
further efficiencies in maintenance (through 
increased standardisation of procedures) 
and headquarter costs (through the merger 
of Transit and School Bus corporate 
functions). Alongside disciplined contract 
management and bidding and asset 
management programmes, these measures 
have helped further grow our industry-
leading operating margin by 20 basis points 
to 9.8%. We will continue to employ pricing 
discipline in order to ensure we deliver an 
appropriate return on capital.
Creating new opportunities
Last year we highlighted the attractive 
growth opportunities available in the North 
American school bus market and indicated 
our intention to increase our level of 
investment. The school bus market remains 
highly fragmented with over 1,300 private 
school bus businesses in the US. Our 
experience in the last year has only 
confirmed our belief that there is real 
opportunity in the market.
In 2015, in line with this strategy, we invested 
£82 million in five small bolt-on acquisitions 
that are either close to our existing business 
and we can therefore drive synergies and 
operational improvements, or that provide 
strategic entry to new markets. The 
acquisitions included four school bus 
businesses and one transit employee 
shuttle business, with all acquisitions 
expected to be accretive within the first 12 
months after transaction and synergy costs. 
In January 2016 we have acquired another 
business which operates both School Bus 
and Transit contracts and we have an active 
pipeline of further opportunities. 
We continue to see the transit market as a 
strong business development opportunity 
and look forward to building on a very 
successful year in 2015, where we grew 
annualised revenues by 45%. In most bids, 
vehicles are funded either by the Federal 
government or local authority, resulting in a 
low capital investment requirement and high 
returns on capital. Using our operational 
expertise and superior track record of service 
delivery, we will continue to seek further bid 
opportunities in this attractive market. 
The increasing standardisation of 
procedures across the business will help 
drive further efficiencies. From maintenance 
and purchasing, through to scheduling and 
electronic clocking on, we believe there is 
further progress to be made. We will again 
approach the upcoming bid season in a 
disciplined manner, including addressing 
the ongoing wage pressure the industry is 
experiencing. We will also continue to seek 
further capital-light opportunities through 
conversions and further improve the quality 
of the existing portfolio.
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
41 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Business review: UK Bus
Peter Coates
Managing Director, UK Bus
UK Bus
Partnership approach secures 
groundbreaking Bus Alliance
Overview of 2015
UK Bus had a good year, leading the 
industry with the signing of a five year 
‘Bus Alliance’ in the West Midlands and 
this pioneering approach to partnership is 
driving strong financial results. Commercial 
revenue growth of 3% has been partially 
offset by a reduction in concessionary 
revenues, but has delivered total revenue 
growth for our UK Bus division of 1.9%. 
The reduction in concessionary revenues 
reflects local government austerity 
pressures on Centro leading to a new 
agreement which has reduced 
reimbursement rates. We anticipate 
a further reduction in income from 
concessions in 2016.
Growth
%
Like-for-like commercial 
revenue 3
Mileage 0
Underlying commercial revenue 3
Concession and other revenue (1)
Total revenue 2
Normalised operating profit was strong, 
with growth of 10.3% to £37 .5 million (2014: 
£34.0m), reflecting both revenue growth 
and cost efficiencies. The operating margin 
has increased by 100 basis points to 13.1% 
(2014: 12.1%).
£m
2014 normalised operating profit 34.0
Net impact from revenue growth 3.0
Fuel cost 0.9
Other cost inflation (4.4)
Cost efficiencies 4.0
2015 normalised operating profit 37.5
Operational excellence
Nationally there has been a reduction in 
regional commercial passenger numbers 
as the effects of congestion, reduced petrol 
prices and some changes in shopping 
habits appear to have suppressed demand. 
In the West Midlands our commercial 
passenger numbers are broadly flat, and 
we believe that the actions we are taking 
in partnership with Centro and the local 
authorities in the West Midlands – including 
combining the introduction of premium 
services with local authority investment in 
bus prioritisation – are the right ones to 
drive future increases. 
We believe our partnership approach is 
a key driver of our success, alongside 
investment in quality service standards 
and industry-leading safety. Building on 
our award winning ‘Transforming Bus 
Travel 3’ partnership with Centro – where 
we successfully launched all 83 of our 
pioneering commitments – we have 
recently signed an industry-leading ‘Bus 
Alliance’ with West Midlands Integrated 
Transport Authority (ITA) for five years.
We are delighted that our continued focus 
on delivering operational excellence and 
superior service standards has been 
recognised with a number of further 
industry awards, including the National 
Transport Award for Improvements to Bus 
Services. During 2015 we also achieved 
our highest ever Transport Focus customer 
satisfaction score of 87%, 1 percentage 
point higher than 2014, and 9 percentage 
points higher than 2012.
In 2015, we reinforced our leadership 
credentials on smart ticketing with the 
further roll out of the Swift smartcards to all 
of our buses and trams, in partnership with 
Centro. Swift now provides the industry-
leading capability of multi-operator, 
multi-modal season tickets, alongside Pay 
As You Go and carnets. This is the first such 
card in an ITA and is again a demonstration 
of the strength of our partnership working 
with Centro. We continue to see strong 
growth in the use of Swift across our 
network, with growth of 172% in the year, 
and a smartcard transaction every four 
seconds on our buses. 
Extending our approach to partnership, 
we launched ‘Transforming Tram Travel’ 
in 2015, with Centro. This partnership 
contains 50 commitments to improve the 
Midland Metro and was recognised at the 
Light Rail Awards for ‘Vision of the Year’. 
Towards the end of 2015, Her Majesty The 
Queen opened the first of the city centre 
extensions, with services due to extend 
to Birmingham New Street soon. 
In Dundee we relaunched our services 
with new branding designed by the local 
community. Our Xplore Dundee services 
are leading the way with smartcards – 
for example, we are the first operator in 
Scotland to allow users to load travel 
passes onto the widely held National 
Overview of 2015
Year ended
31 December
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 286.4 281.0
Operating profit 37.5 34.0
Operating margin 13.1% 12.1%
42 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015   
During 2015 we achieved our highest ever 
Transport Focus customer satisfaction 
score of 87%
Entitlement Cards. In line with our approach 
to partnership we hope to shortly launch a 
similar ‘Transforming Bus Travel’ agreement 
in Dundee.
We also continued our strong track record 
of improving safety, both for customers and 
employees, resulting in a lower number of 
injuries and assaults and reduced cost of 
claims. A key focus is occupational health, 
and our ‘Health Bus’ was recognised by 
several industry and HR awards.
UK Bus has been awarded a high four-star 
rating by the European Foundation for 
Quality Management in its first ever EFQM 
assessment, demonstrating a commitment 
to achieving excellent operational standards. 
UK Bus is working towards achieving a 
five-star rating in its next assessment.
Finally UK Bus was the first privately 
owned public transport company to 
introduce the Living Wage Foundation 
Living Wage for all staff.
Cash and returns
The UK Bus business generates an 
excellent return on capital, delivering good 
asset utilisation and profitable returns on 
investment. As we highlighted last year, 
capital investment has risen significantly in 
2015, reflecting a record level of investment 
in new buses. This resulted in a lower level 
of operating cash of £17 million. Our new 
Platinum buses in particular are already 
driving strong growth in passenger volumes.
We continue to maintain our disciplined 
approach to investment, targeting areas 
which will deliver the greatest returns. 
Creating new opportunities
As mentioned above, building on our West 
Midlands partnership, we have unlocked 
local authority funding to complement our 
record investment in new buses during 
2015. On key routes in Birmingham and 
Solihull, the local authorities are investing in 
bus priority measures that will significantly 
improve journey times. Platinum growth is 
already strong and when completed this 
additional priority will increase demand 
further. We will also deploy further Platinum 
routes on these corridors.
Investment will continue to be targeted 
where it makes the most significant 
difference to the business. As well as more 
state-of-the-art Platinum buses, the digital 
marketing lessons learned in c2c and UK 
Coach are being applied to UK Bus. We 
are refocusing advertising spend to digital 
channels and developing an enhanced 
CRM approach to improve targeted 
marketing and personalised communication 
with customers. This will be combined with 
further innovation in pricing to target 
specific groups, for example off-peak 
travellers and families. Further progress 
on ticketing is also targeted with the 
introduction of contactless payment and 
mobile tickets towards the end of this year.
There are further opportunities for cost 
efficiency, with the continued roll out of 
fuel  efficiency measures (alongside the 
continued investment in more fuel efficient 
buses) and driver scheduling optimisation 
software. Sophisticated data analysis is 
also being applied to our engineering 
processes to proactively target vehicles for 
repair. Again, drawing on experience from 
across the Group where its use has 
already delivered cost savings and 
safety improvements, UK Bus is piloting 
‘DriveCam’ and investigating the use of 
collision avoidance technology to achieve 
similar benefits.
In 2015, our tram service was extended into 
the centre of Birmingham, with the first phase 
of the Midland Metro extension opening in 
December and the next phase due to open 
in March 2016. The new, longer trams have 
added nearly 50% additional capacity. 
We have also invested in new services and 
additional routes responding to changing 
patterns in demand. This includes new 
express services to Warwick University 
and routes into Staffordshire, as well as 
contracts to serve new business parks and 
distribution centres for companies such as 
Amazon. We are currently working on a bid 
for Manchester Metrolink, with submission 
in May, and the seven-year contract, plus a 
possible three-year extension, is due to 
commence in July 2017 .
Despite the regional market challenges 
experienced nationwide, UK Bus provides 
a good opportunity for further growth as 
we look to benefit from the stability of a 
five-year ‘Bus Alliance’, combined with 
investment in new vehicles and technology 
and a continued focus on cost efficiency. 
 
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
43 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Business review: UK Coach
Tom Stables
Managing Director, UK Coach
UK Coach
Record passenger numbers 
driving strong growth
Overview of 2015
Year ended
31 December
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 281.2 275.2
Operating profit 32.3 28.0
Operating margin 11.5% 10.2%
Overview of 2015
UK Coach continues to focus on 
delivering frequent, value for money 
services efficiently and marketing them 
in an increasingly personalised and 
targeted way using sophisticated digital 
technologies and techniques. This has 
again been complemented by new 
partnership deals that help customers 
access our services more easily and 
efficiently and reach new markets.
This approach has delivered another year of 
excellent performance, with profit growth of 
15.4% to £32.3 million (2014: £28.0m). This 
means that since the difficult year of 2012, 
UK Coach has delivered a 57% increase in 
operating profit. Operating margin has also 
shown a further increase following on from the 
strong gains in the previous two years, rising 
130 basis points in the year to 1 1.5% (2014: 
10.2%). Passenger numbers on the core 
network also grew by nearly 2%.
Growth %
Passenger yield 1
Passenger volume 2
Change in core express 
revenue 3
Other revenues (1)
Total revenue 2
Total revenue increased by 2.2% to 
£281.2 million (2014: £275.2m). Core 
network revenue increased by 3. 1% with 
new partnership arrangements, digital 
initiatives, additional routes and our 
enhanced marketing and CRM activities 
more than offsetting reduced rail 
replacement revenues and lower contract 
income during the first half of the year.
£m
2014 normalised operating profit 28.0
Net impact of growth and 
new routes 4.2
Cost inflation (4.2)
Cost efficiencies 3.8
Fuel 0.5
2015 normalised operating profit 32.3
Operational excellence
Our customer service strategy has 
continued to focus on providing frequent 
coach services at low prices. Lower prices 
were sustained throughout the year and 
passenger growth has been achieved 
through an active pricing strategy that 
optimises revenues by responding to 
changing market conditions. This has 
been supported by increasing our sales 
distribution through the development of 
existing relationships and the creation of 
new partnership arrangements with 
companies such as Trainline, Singapore 
Airlines, Webloyalty and RBS.
During 2015 we continued to leverage our 
enhanced CRM capabilities, with strong 
price initiatives and targeted marketing 
campaigns – where customer 
communications are more tailored to the 
individual – helping to drive record 
passenger numbers in our core network 
and a very strong year in festivals and 
events. Of the emails we send to our 
database, 88% are now targeted compared 
with 69% in 2014 and 18% in 2013.
Following the success of Christmas Day 
services, first launched in 2013, we achieved 
significant further growth in 2015 with 
additional routes and services resulting 
in a 47% increase in revenues on the day and 
significantly enhancing our customer offer.
While lower in the first half of the year, we 
have secured new contracts in the last six 
months of 2015. For example: we won a new 
three-year contract with British Airways to 
provide buses for Heathrow staff together 
with inter-airport transfer services for both 
passengers and crew; we secured a five-year 
contract for airport work at Stansted, bussing 
passengers between the car parks and 
terminals; and signed a ten-year contract 
with the University of West London for 
student transportation between campuses.
During the year we have further reduced 
the level of vehicle accidents and employee 
injuries and our commitment to high safety 
standards has been recognised with two 
significant safety awards. We were delighted 
to be presented with the prestigious British 
Safety Council Sword of Honour and 
National Express has also been recognised 
by the Royal Society for the Prevention of 
Accidents with a Gold Award. We are the 
first coach operator in the UK to invest in 
‘DriveCam’, a leading safety and driver-aid 
technology, demonstrating our commitment 
to driving up safety standards. The results 
from the initial pilot have been very 
encouraging, including a reduction in costs. 
Alongside the introduction of collision 
avoidance technology, the roll out of these 
safety measures will – we are confident – 
drive a reduction of both accidents and the 
associated costs. We believe this is an 
opportunity for real progress in the 
coming years.
44 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015   
Strong price initiatives and targeted marketing 
campaigns have helped achieve record 
numbers in our core Coach network
Cash and returns
The UK Coach business model has a 
particularly strong return on capital and 
cash generation, outsourcing the majority 
of fleet provision and services to its partner 
operators in a capital-light model. In 2015, 
we delivered another strong performance, 
generating operating cash of £38 million 
with cash conversion of 117% of operating 
profit. Capital expenditure remains primarily 
focused on enhancing our retail systems, 
aimed at delivering improved CRM 
capabilities, enhanced mobile and online 
booking options for customers and a more 
sophisticated RMS. We will also invest 
further in technology to deliver enhanced 
safety results and lower associated costs.
Creating new opportunities
Attractive pricing, coupled with improved 
yield management, will allow the division to 
continue to grow volume, improve load 
factors and drive profitability. We will 
continue to exploit our enhanced CRM 
capabilities developing further tailored and 
customised offers for our customers. 
We see significant opportunities to engage 
with our customers on an increasingly 
personalised level as we implement further 
improvements to our digital platforms, 
providing improved functionality across all 
our digital channels. This is driving higher 
conversion rates for online transactions, for 
example with the introduction of a PayPal 
payment system which significantly reduces 
the transaction times for customers. In 2016 
we will launch an enhanced mobile app 
with greater functionality, including 
personalised journey planners and the 
ability to track and share journey progress, 
together with personalised content and 
offers which should help drive incremental 
revenue growth.
2016 will see the introduction of an even 
more sophisticated RMS across our 
network which will significantly enhance our 
capability to actively manage pricing on a 
real-time basis through the use of dynamic 
pricing technology. This will not only drive 
load factors but also improve route 
profitability. We will also complement this 
with targeted promotional offers and the 
drive to a greater personalised relationship 
with customers.
As well as reviewing our network efficiency, 
we also look to add new routes where we 
see growth opportunities. In 2015 we 
launched new services serving passengers 
between Kent and Gatwick and new 
services to Bristol Airport which should 
drive further growth in 2016 and beyond.
By leveraging the strength of our brand, 
we will continue to grow the number of 
distribution channels to customers, 
together with an ongoing focus on 
operational efficiency. We remain 
committed to maintaining our competitive 
position against rail, our key competitor.
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
45 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Business review: Rail
Andrew Chivers
Managing Director, Rail
Rail
Strong progress in the UK 
and Germany
Overview of 2015
Year ended
31 December
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Revenue 168.4 151.6
Operating profit 0.6 (10.1)
Operating margin 0.4% (6.6%)
*  FY2014 results restated to adjust for the impact of rail 
bid costs previously treated as exceptional items
Overview of 2015
National Express’ Rail division has had 
another successful year with the first full year 
of the new c2c franchise maintaining its 
position as the most punctual operator, 
further success in securing German rail 
contracts and the launch of our first German 
rail services on the Rhine-Münster Express 
(‘RME’) network. 
Total revenue in 2015 increased by 1 1. 1% 
to £168.4 million (2014: £151.6m) supported 
by strong passenger growth of 5.3%. 
Normalised operating profit was £0.6 million 
(2014: loss of £10. 1m), with the results in 2014 
restated to reflect the change in accounting 
treatment for bid costs which had previously 
been treated as exceptional items. The 
improvement in operating profitability is 
also after incurring a significant increase in 
franchise premiums of £29 million under 
the new c2c franchise agreement.
The contribution from our German rail 
business has been minimal given that our 
first services began in mid-December; we 
are pleased with the initial response to our 
services. Although we are only in the first few 
weeks of trading in a new market, we are 
targeting a break-even result a full year ahead 
of our original plan. Projected revenues for 
the existing RME services are expected to be 
around €72 million in 2016, with later years 
benefiting from the operation of the €1 billion 
Rhine-Ruhr Express services from 2018, 
and subject to further legal challenge the 
€1.4 billion Nuremberg S-Bahn contract.
Operational excellence
Our Rail division is at the forefront of the 
Group’s drive for operational excellence. 
In 2015 c2c maintained its position as the 
most punctual UK franchise with an annual 
average of 97 . 1%. We were delighted to be 
recognised with the National Rail Award 
for Passenger Operator of the Year, 
demonstrating our ambition and 
capability to be at the forefront of 
standards for customer service.
We have also been awarded a five-star rating 
by the European Foundation for Quality 
Management for a second successive 
assessment, recording our best ever score, 
demonstrating once again our commitment 
to achieving the highest operational 
standards. This remains an important 
credential for rail bidding.
We continue to introduce industry-leading 
initiatives, including pioneering the 
introduction of an automatic compensation 
scheme for smartcard customers. We have 
seen a very strong uptake of c2c smartcards 
since their introduction, with nearly a quarter 
of all season-ticket holders now using 
them, we believe the highest level for 
any train operator. 
We continue to expand our offering to 
customers and will be the first operator 
outside the Transport for London boundary 
to introduce new contactless payment 
systems next year. Later this year we will 
be introducing digital media screens and 
content on all our trains and enhancing the 
free WiFi services already available, helping to 
keep our passengers connected, productive 
and entertained during their journey.
We have introduced first-to-last staffing at all 
our stations which not only enhances service 
levels for our customers, but also improves 
revenue protection across our network with 
associated margin benefits.
Our strong destination-inspired marketing 
campaigns have helped to drive significant 
incremental growth with off-peak revenues up 
8%, almost double the average growth rate for 
London and the South East, and weekend 
revenues up 15%, resulting in improving load 
factors and driving higher profitability. We also 
introduced the largest timetable change in 
a generation to meet both the significant 
passenger growth we have seen and the 
improved London connections required in our 
franchise agreement with the Department for 
Transport. We have responded to customer 
feedback and amended the timetable to 
address some concerns and are seeking 
to introduce additional trains as quickly as 
possible to meet the current and projected 
future demand.
46 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015   
In 2015 c2c maintained its position as 
top-rated performer of all UK rail franchises 
for punctuality
In December 2015 we saw a successful start 
to the operation of services for our first two 
German rail contracts in North Rhine-
Westphalia and we are pleased with the initial 
response, where we are already seeing an 
improved performance in terms of punctuality 
relative to other operators.
Cash and returns
Rail offers a capital-light model with relatively 
lower margins but high returns on capital. 
In 2015 our Rail division delivered £8.2 million 
of operating cash. In the current year, we 
anticipate a higher level of growth capital 
expenditure than normal as we commence a 
programme of further service improvements, 
in line with our bid plan commitments for c2c.
Creating new opportunities
We will continue our digital marketing 
approach to increase passenger numbers 
and revenue on off-peak services. This will 
be complemented with the enhanced 
personalised services we are rolling out this 
year, including the automatic compensation 
for delays, Personalised Performance 
Reports and live journey information 
available through the c2c Live app.
We have had another successful year in 
Germany, securing a further €1 billion of 
future revenues with the award of two 
contracts to operate services on the 
Rhine-Ruhr Express, in the North Rhine-
Westphalia region. The first of the contracts 
will commence operations in December 
2018, with the second one starting in 
December 2020, with both contracts running 
through to 2033. In addition, we await the 
outcome of a further appeal for the award of 
the Nuremberg S-Bahn where we have been 
announced as preferred bidder. The 
successful conclusion of this appeal would 
add a further €1.4 billion of future revenues 
over a 12-year period. With at least 20 
contracts coming to market in the next three 
years in German rail, we see a strong pipeline 
of opportunities and we will continue to be 
selective in our bidding approach in order 
to drive the best returns. We have already 
successfully pre-qualified for a further 
franchise in 2016 and are currently targeting 
contracts with revenue of around €3 billion. 
c2c is consistently the best performing rail 
franchise in the UK and this strength in 
operational performance is helping to drive 
growth in new rail markets. We submitted 
a bid to operate the East Anglia franchise 
in December 2015, with the award of the 
franchise due in the summer. Should we be 
successful in our bid, we expect to begin 
operating services in October 2016, with the 
contract lasting up to ten years. Beyond this, 
our current focus is on securing smaller, 
lower risk German rail franchises where the 
risk is acceptable and meets our capital-light 
investment criteria. We will, of course, also 
continue to monitor the UK market and 
consider competitions as they arise and 
will bid for new franchises where they 
meet our strict financial criteria. In addition, 
we will continue to monitor the regulatory 
environment across Europe and may look 
to enter other markets as they liberalise.
  Read more about our German 
rail business on pages 48 and 49
 
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
47 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Building our 
presence in 
Europe’s largest 
rail market
The latest addition to our rail business is 
in Germany. National Express became 
the first British company to competitively 
enter the German rail market when it was 
awarded two contracts in February 2013 
to run services in the North Rhine-
Westphalia region. 
With the largest rail market In Europe, the 
German rail market provides an attractive 
growth opportunity for National Express. 
This market is attractive not only due to its 
size, but also due to the capital-light nature 
of some of the rail franchises. In addition, 
the bid costs associated with the tendering 
of rail franchise competitions tend to be 
lower in Germany than in the UK rail market, 
with contracts also typically longer than in 
the UK and margins similar to those in the 
UK, typically around 3-5%. 
Services started on Sunday 12 December 
last year on two lines: the RE7 regional 
express service between Krefeld and 
Rheine and the RB48 regional stopping 
  
Our new trains offer more space 
for passengers than other German 
regional operators
  
Revenue protection is managed by 
a dedicated team equipped with 
the latest technology 
Business review: Rail continued
48 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 service between Bonn and Wuppertal. 
Both lines share the same route between 
Cologne and Wuppertal. The two services 
form part of the Rhine-Münster Express 
(RME) and we expect to carry around 
18 million passengers per annum.
New trains
To operate the new services, we procured 
35 new Bombardier Talent 2 trains on 
behalf of the regional transport authorities 
that are responsible for the routes. They 
comprise sets of three and five carriages 
which can be linked to provide extra 
capacity during peak hours. 
The trains have been fitted to a different 
specification to those run by other German 
operators, with more leg room and 
electricity sockets under every pair of seats. 
They are also fully accessible for disabled 
passengers, and each train can carry up 
to ten bikes securely.
New team
In Britain, when a company takes over 
a rail franchise it transfers the existing 
staff over under TUPE arrangements. 
In Germany it is different, and as a result 
we have successfully recruited a whole 
new team to operate our services.
New drivers were trained for nine months 
to become fully qualified, and these were 
joined by a team of revenue inspectors 
and head office support staff in Cologne. 
We now have a team of just over 100 
working for us.
New way of working
Although the routes are not new services, 
the marketing team in Germany has sought 
to differentiate what we do from the 
previous operator. Adverts have promoted 
a ‘very British’ experience, highlighting the 
new on-board features which passengers 
benefit from. This has helped build 
the National Express profile as the 
new operator in the region.
Future growth
Alongside the start of RME operations, 
2015 has seen further significant 
successes, winning two rail contracts 
to operate services on the Rhine-Ruhr 
Express. We have also been named as 
preferred bidder to operate services on 
the Nuremberg S-Bahn. In a relatively 
short period of time, we have built a 
business worth €2.6 billion of revenues, 
securing our position in the German rail 
market through to 2033. and we have a 
further €3 billion in our active pipeline of 
future bids. 
  
One of our new Talent 2 trains in Cologne 
central railway station 
€2.6bn
projected annual revenue
resulting from contract wins in Germany
35
new trains procured
Our 2015 Strategic Report, from page 
1 to page 49, has been reviewed and 
approved by the Board of Directors 
on 25 February 2016.
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
25 February 2016
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
49 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Chairman’s introduction to governance
Corporate Governance
Committed values  
result in good governance
This year we are reporting in line with 
the 2014 version of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’) which 
applied to the Company for the whole of the 
financial year ended 31 December 2015. 
The full report detailing how we have 
complied can be found on the following 
pages. As a Board, we aspire to apply high 
standards of governance to our conduct 
around the Board table and we commit to 
ensure that these standards, values and 
behaviours are applied consistently by the 
Executive team and cascaded throughout 
the Group. Strong governance remains a 
framework within which the Board sets its 
values and delivers long-term success for 
the Company and its investors whilst 
recognising its duties towards the wider 
stakeholder community. 
I would like to share with you a few key 
areas which have received focus during 
2015 as the Board puts into practice its 
governance procedures.
Board changes and succession 
During the year, we have continued to 
refresh the Board to ensure that, as the 
Group evolves to take account of changing 
external dynamics, we have Directors  
with the appropriate balance of skills, 
experience, independence and relevant 
knowledge in order to deliver our strategy 
and fulfil our duties as Directors. 
In January 2015, the Board appointed 
Matthew Ashley as Group Finance 
Director. Matthew was formerly the Finance 
Director of the UK Bus business, having 
also previously held the position of Group 
Financial Controller. Matthew has made a 
significant contribution to the business in 
his first year and we look forward to his 
continued support in developing and 
implementing Group strategy.
The Board had set itself the specific 
objective of recruiting a Non-Executive 
Director with a strong customer focused 
background with particular emphasis on 
digital marketing expertise. I am delighted 
to report that we filled this role with the 
appointment, in May, of Matthew Crummack 
as an independent Non-Executive Director. 
Matthew brings with him significant 
knowledge of the digital landscape from  
his previous role as CEO at lastminute.com. 
His digital experience is directly relevant to 
National Express as we place customers 
and digital innovation at the heart of our 
strategy and focus on delivering 
continuously improving services. 
I am also delighted to report that we have 
further strengthened the financial expertise 
on our Board with the appointment of  
Mike McKeon. He brings significant 
financial and corporate knowledge, coupled 
with wide-ranging international experience 
through his 15 years in the role of Group 
Finance Director within the listed company 
environment and latterly at Severn Trent plc. 
Mike took over as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee on 1 August. 
The appointment of Dr Ashley Steel as a 
Non-Executive Director and member of the 
Audit Committee from 1 January 2016 is also 
very welcome. Ashley has a distinguished 
track record of providing strategic advice 
to companies across a range of sectors, 
particularly transport, and we will benefit 
from her knowledge and experience. 
Effective engagement 
with shareholders
In line with Code recommendations, 
the Board recognises and values the 
importance of maintaining healthy 
and open communications with 
our shareholders to ensure mutual 
understanding of the Group’s strategy, 
objectives, governance and performance.
As a result of a maintained dialogue with 
our institutional shareholders during the 
first few months of 2015, I am pleased to 
report that we gained a substantial increase 
in the level of shareholder support for our 
remuneration framework from 64% at our 
2014 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)  
to just under 99% at our 2015 AGM. We 
remain committed to an open dialogue  
with our shareholders and to full disclosure 
of the rationale for the decisions made by 
the Remuneration Committee.
Similarly, we engaged with our investors 
ahead of last year’s AGM on presenting 
clearly the Board’s position in response 
to the Teamsters corporate campaign 
against National Express which included 
their requisitioned resolution put to the 
2015 AGM. In line with the Board’s 
recommendation that shareholders 
vote against this resolution, the special 
resolution failed to gain the support of 85% 
of our shareholders and was therefore not 
passed. The Board remains firm that we will 
protect our employees’ right to freedom of 
choice in a free and fair election on whether 
or not to join a union.
Governance in practice
This year, we have included an additional 
section within our Corporate Governance 
Report which provides an insight into how our 
Non-Executive Directors play an active role 
in engaging directly with our businesses 
and workforce. We focus on a variety of site 
visits made during the year by our Non-
Executive Directors to show how they fulfil 
their governance oversight role in a practical 
way through supporting and challenging 
management. I hope you find this new 
section to be of value and that it adds to your 
understanding of how we operate as a Board.
Sir John Armitt CBE
Chairman 
25 February 2016
50 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual General Meeting
This year we are back in our heartland 
in the West Midlands with our AGM 
being held at 2.00pm on Wednesday 
11 May 2016 in Hall 9 at the International 
Convention Centre, Broad Street, 
Birmingham B1 2EA. I would encourage 
you to attend to meet me and the Board.
Sir John Armitt CBE
Chairman
25 February 2016
Code principles
How the Company has complied with the 
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Leadership
How the Board provides leadership for the 
Group and direction for management. 
 Read more p56
Effectiveness
How we seek to build an effective Board with 
the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge. 
 Read more p60
Accountability
How the Board discharges its responsibilities to present 
a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Company’s position and prospects. 
 Read more p62
Relations with shareholders
How we maintain relations with our investors. 
 Read more p62
Remuneration
How we align Executive pay with performance and 
the long-term success of the Company and the 
interests of shareholders. 
 Read more p72
Audit Committee
“ The Audit Committee continues to play a key oversight role in the 
governance of the Company and I am pleased to report to you on 
the work undertaken by the Committee during 2015.”
Mike McKeon, Audit Committee Chair
How the Audit Committee spent its time in 2015
Financial Statements and reports 33%
External audit 10%
Risk management 12%
Internal audit  17%
IT risk strategy/Cyber security 8%
Tax/Treasury 9%
Corporate governance 11%
 Read more p64
Nomination Committee
“ I am pleased to report to you on the work undertaken  
by the Committee during 2015.”
Sir John Armitt CBE, Nomination Committee Chair
How the Nomination Committee spent its time in 2015
New NED appointments 55%
Election/Re-election of Directors 10%
New Executive Director appointment 15%
Succession planning  10%
Board diversity 10%
 Read more p68
Safety & Environment Committee
“ I am pleased to report that in 2015 we continued to make progress in 
our safety performance and in the management of the Company’s 
environmental responsibilities.”
Chris Muntwyler, Safety & Environment Committee Chair
How the Safety & Environment Committee spent its time in 2015
External audit of corporate governance of safety 9%
Driving Out Harm annual review 10%
Safety performance review  40%
Environmental review 33%
Health and wellbeing 8%
 Read more p70
Remuneration Committee
“ I am pleased to report to you on the work undertaken by the 
Committee during 2015.”
Jane Kingston, Remuneration Committee Chair
How the Remuneration Committee spent its time in 2015
Executive Directors’ remuneration 20%
Senior Management Group remuneration  15%
Long-Term Incentive Plan 20%
Bonus awards  20%
Chairman’s fee 5%
Executive Directors’ service contracts 5%
Remuneration budget 5%
Other employee share schemes 5%
Corporate governance – Remuneration Report 5%
 Read more p72
51 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance – Governance in practice
Building a deeper understanding 
of our business
A clear framework for the Board
Governance provides the framework within 
which the Board sets its values and delivers 
long-term success to the Company and its 
investors, balancing this with its duties to 
the wider stakeholder community. 
Every year our Non-Executive Directors 
draw on their respective breadth of 
experience and knowledge when visiting 
frontline operations across the Group. 
These offer a great opportunity to get to 
the heart of business, and deliver a unique 
insight into how the business operates. 
This, in turn, informs Board discussions.
This section illustrates a number of these 
visits. Our Safety and People Values were 
the focus of two visits with another forming 
part of our induction programme for new 
Board members.
Safety – our 
number one priority
Safety is our highest priority in whatever 
we do as a business, and our performance 
is monitored by our Safety & Environment 
Committee. 
All of our Non-Executive Directors are 
members of our Safety & Environment 
Committee which is responsible for 
reviewing and challenging constructively 
the structure, content and operation of the 
safety management arrangements put in 
place by management. Chris Muntwyler 
chairs this Committee and, in addition to the 
formal Committee meetings, receives regular 
input from the Group Safety Director on 
safety performance across the Group and 
its independent monitoring by Arthur D Little.
To complement the formal reporting lines 
in place and to witness first-hand how our 
safety management arrangements are 
embedded within our operations, Chris 
takes the opportunity, wherever possible, 
to visit key sites and engage with local 
management. 
In September, he paid a visit to one of 
our newly acquired businesses in North 
America – Trans Express based in 
Brooklyn, New York. He met with the 
previous owners, including the General 
Manager, Mary Rubino, in order to welcome 
them to National Express and to gain an 
insight into how they manage and live our 
Safety values. 
Following meetings with local management 
and a tour around their bus maintenance 
facility, Chris gained a better understanding 
of their business and the new opportunities 
being explored. Considering the high 
standards and initiatives set across the 
Group, Chris said: “I am very pleased to 
see how dedicated everybody is at Trans 
Express to safety and how stable the 
respective processes are.” He left Trans 
Express with the impression of a very 
strong and motivated team under Mary 
Rubino’s leadership. 
Our first German rail services on the 
Rhine–Münster Express lines launched 
in mid-December with 35 new Talent 
2 electric trains, built by Bombardier, 
which we procured on behalf of the 
local authorities. Prior to the start-up of 
operations, Chris took the opportunity to 
visit the train manufacturer in Berlin to gain 
a first-hand impression of the quality of the 
new trains and to meet with Bombardier 
management. They replace older and, 
in many cases, less accessible trains.
“With these new trains, we hope to 
achieve a dramatic quality and reliability 
improvement for our train customers in the 
Cologne area. Not only did we choose the 
latest and most reliable technology, but 
these trains bear the full National Express 
brand inside and out,” he said.
   
Chris Muntwyler meets the team  
at Trans Express in Brooklyn
  
Jane Kingston tries out the bus 
simulator at Memphis
  
Mike McKeon visits the Customer Service 
Centre in Aurora
52 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 People – a great 
place to work
Jane Kingston, having served on the  
Board over the past two years, took over 
from Sir Andrew Foster as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee on 6 May 2015. 
Given her background, experience and 
specific interest in People issues generally 
across the Group, Jane has created the 
time and opportunity to visit some ten sites 
across all our divisions in the UK, Spain and 
North America in order to better understand 
how she might add value and influence, as 
well as challenge, human resource initiatives 
in her Non-Executive capacity. 
In the North American School Bus business, 
Jane has been impressed by some great people 
on the front line – drivers, maintenance teams – 
all of whom are committed to the safe transport 
of children and serving the client school boards. 
Whilst in the US prior to the September Board 
meeting, Jane was actively involved in an 
employee focus group at the Memphis 
Customer Service Centre. She and the local 
management team wanted to hear directly from 
our people on their thoughts on what it is like to 
work for the Durham School business. 
Jane said: “This initiative worked very 
well with some insightful and positive 
contributions being made at every level. 
The conclusion was reached that Durham 
Schools was a good place to work with some 
thoughtful ideas having emerged which will 
be followed through over the coming year.”
The focus group programme will be 
developed and rolled out across a number 
of sites in North America and the UK.
As part of our talent development and 
succession planning process, we launched the 
‘National Express Network’ in early December. 
The Network, probably the first worldwide 
gathering of its kind within the transport 
industry, enables graduates from our bus, rail 
and coach operations in the UK, Spain and 
North America to learn from each other and 
work more closely together as well as 
maximising their own individual potential. 
Jane attended the launch event held at the 
Warwick Business School along with the 
Executive Directors and other members of 
the Senior Management Group. Jane praised 
the structure of the inaugural meeting of the 
Network which had been well received by our 
young talent pool across the businesses. Jane 
believes that such opportunities to meet Board 
members and the Senior Management Group 
are valuable and inspirational. “This type of 
initiative is very powerful for our graduates, 
enabling their eyes to be opened to the range 
of opportunities available to them during the 
course of their career with National Express. 
They know what they belong to,” she said.
Induction delivers 
broad business 
insights
The objective of an effective induction 
process is to provide a new Director with 
the information he or she will need to 
become as effective as possible in their 
role within the shortest practicable time.
During the year, we appointed three new 
independent Non-Executive Directors 
with each following their own induction 
programme. As part of his induction 
programme, Mike McKeon, Chairman 
of the Audit Committee, visited our North 
American School Bus Customer Service 
Centres in Memphis and Aurora. 
Mike’s visit to a Durham School bus site 
in Aurora coincided with the mid-morning 
return of all the yellow buses simultaneously 
which, in his eyes, created the impression 
of something important happening. “In 
both Memphis and Aurora hundreds of 
our staff had safely delivered that day some 
thousands of children to their school and 
would do the reverse later in the day. No 
doubt this was replicated several thousand 
times over the US and Canada that day and 
it was only later on my trip home it really 
sunk in to me the importance of what our 
staff and ourselves are doing here. 
“Our staff are taking the next generation 
of Americans and Canadians to their 
schooling in safety every day of their school 
lives. That is a significant responsibility and 
great privilege that we, as Board members, 
must not forget.
“This realisation alone merits the trip in my 
eyes and adds greatly to my induction as 
a new Director. It is not something I could 
easily comprehend just by reading a 
document back home,” he said.
Mike was impressed by the caring qualities 
demonstrated by our people: “It was very 
clear to me that what they do really matters 
to them. Staff were enthusiastic and 
engaged with me as a visitor – they wanted 
to tell me what they were doing – a clear 
sign of enthusiasm for the job.”
The benefits of Mike’s direct engagement 
with local management and frontline staff 
within our operations has allowed him to 
understand what we do and, more 
importantly, why we do it. Mike concluded 
by saying: “The bedrock of what I saw in 
our people suggested, above all, that they 
wanted to get the kids to school and back 
safely. Safety is in their DNA.” 
53 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION 1. Sir John Armitt CBE
Chairman (70)
Appointment: 1 January 2013 and 
as Chairman on 1 February 2013 
Experience: Sir John Armitt CBE is currently 
Deputy Chairman of Berkeley Group Holdings PLC, 
Chairman of the City and Guilds Group and a member 
of the Board of Transport for London and of the 
National Infrastructure Commission. He is also 
President of the Institution of Civil Engineers. Sir John 
was Chairman of the Olympic Delivery Authority from 
2007 to 2014 and Chairman of the Engineering 
and Physical Science Research Council from 2007 
to 2012. From 2001 to 2007 he was Chief Executive 
of Network Rail and its predecessor, Railtrack. In 
1997 he was appointed as Chief Executive of Costain 
Group PLC, a position he held until 2001. Before this, 
Sir John was Chief Executive of Union Railways, 
the company responsible for the development 
of the high speed Channel Tunnel Rail Link. This 
followed a 27-year career at John Laing PLC.
2. Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive (49)
Appointment: 15 February 2010 
Experience: Prior to joining National Express, 
Dean Finch was Group Chief Executive of Tube 
Lines from May 2009. Before that he worked for 
over ten years in senior roles within FirstGroup PLC. 
He joined FirstGroup in 1999 having qualified as  
a Chartered Accountant with KPMG, where he 
worked for 12 years specialising in Corporate 
Transaction Support Services, including working 
for the Office of Passenger Rail Franchising on 
the privatisation of train operating companies.
At FirstGroup, he was Managing Director of the Rail 
Division from 2000 to 2004 and then was appointed to 
the main board as Group Commercial Director in 2004, 
before being made Group Finance Director. With the 
completion of the Laidlaw acquisition, he became 
Chief Operating Officer in North America before 
returning to the UK as Group Chief Operating Officer. 
Dean is also currently a Non-Executive Director of the 
Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust.
3. Mike McKeon
Independent Non-Executive Director (59)
Appointment: 3 July 2015 
Experience: Mike McKeon was Group Finance 
Director of Severn Trent plc from 2005 until his 
retirement from the board in 2015. Prior to that, 
between 2000 and 2005, he was Group Finance 
Director of Novar plc. He has held various senior 
roles, both in the UK and internationally, at 
Rolls-Royce plc, CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem 
and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mike is currently 
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee at investment trust, The Merchants 
Trust PLC. He is a Chartered Accountant.
4. Matthew Ashley
Group Finance Director (42)
Appointment: 28 January 2015 
Experience: Matt Ashley joined National Express 
as Group Financial Controller in 2010 from Deloitte 
where he was a Director specialising in transport 
and infrastructure and the auditing of listed 
companies, having previously qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant in 1998. He was then promoted to the 
role of Finance Director of the UK Bus division in 2013 
before becoming interim Group Finance Director in 
October 2014. Matt has no external directorships.
5. Jorge Cosmen
Deputy Chairman (47)
Appointment: 1 December 2005 
Experience: Jorge Cosmen was appointed to the 
Board at the time of the ALSA transaction. He was 
appointed Deputy Company Chairman in October 
2008. He was Corporate Manager for the ALSA 
Group from 1995, becoming Chairman in 1999. 
Between 1986 and 1995, he worked in sales, 
distribution and banking. He is a Business 
Administration graduate and has an International 
MBA from the Instituto de Empresa in Madrid. 
He is a Non-Executive Director of Bankia, 
as well as of other private companies.
Committee membership
 Chairman
 Member
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Safety & 
Environment 
Committee
Director
Sir John Armitt CBE
Jorge Cosmen
Lee Sander
Joaquín Ayuso
Matthew 
Crummack
Jane Kingston
Mike McKeon
Chris Muntwyler
Dr Ashley Steel
Dean Finch*
Matthew Ashley*
*  Dean Finch and Matthew Ashley, as Executive Directors, 
may attend Board Committee meetings at the invitation 
of the respective Committee Chairman. No Director 
attends any discussion or participates in any decision 
concerning their own remuneration.
6. Dr Ashley Steel
Independent Non-Executive Director (56)
Appointment: 1 January 2016 
Experience: Dr Ashley Steel is a former Vice 
Chairman at KPMG and was Global Chair for its 
transport, leisure and logistics practice until her 
retirement from the firm in September 2014. Ashley has 
significant international experience and has advised 
numerous FTSE and Fortune 500 boards. Her other 
sector experience includes professional services, 
technology, media, business services and healthcare. 
Ashley is currently a Non-Executive Director of the 
Civil Aviation Authority and serves on the International 
Business Advisory Board at British Airways. She is 
also Special Advisor to a global aviation technology 
company owned by Warburg Pincus and an 
Independent Non-Executive Director to global law 
firm, Ince & Co. Ashley has a PhD in Management 
from Henley Business School.
A strong and experienced Board  
delivering the right blend of skills
1
2
3
4
5
6
Corporate Governance – Board of Directors
54 7. Chris Muntwyler
Independent Non-Executive Director (63)
Appointment: 11 May 2011 
Experience: Chris Muntwyler is CEO and Chairman 
of the Swiss Management Consulting company 
Conlogic Ltd. He is also Non-Executive Director 
of Panalpina World Transport (Holding) Ltd 
(Switzerland) and the Austrian Post Ltd (Austria). 
During his 27 years at Swissair he held top 
executive positions in Switzerland, Sweden and 
North America. In 1999 he joined DHL Express 
serving as Managing Director of Switzerland, 
Germany and Central Europe and from 2005 to 2008 
as CEO of DHL Express (UK) Ltd based in London.
8. Matthew Crummack
Independent Non-Executive Director (45)
Appointment: 6 May 2015 
Experience: Matthew Crummack is currently a 
Member of the Strategic Advisory Committee of 
lastminute.com group, the online travel and leisure 
retailer, where he was previously CEO from 2011 until 
its acquisition by the Bravofly Rumbo Group in March 
2015. He served as Deputy CEO and Chief Integration 
Officer until 31 December 2015. 
Matthew was formerly a Senior Vice President of 
Lodging at Expedia and has previously worked for 
Nestlé UK and spent eight years at Procter & 
Gamble in a variety of roles. He is also a Director of 
his own UK-based company, Interventus Limited.
9. Joaquín Ayuso
Independent Non-Executive Director (60)
Appointment: 1 June 2011 
Experience: Joaquín Ayuso is Board Vice 
Chairman for Ferrovial, the €8 billion Spanish 
transport infrastructure and services group that 
employs over 70,000 people worldwide. He has 
been with Ferrovial since 1981 and was appointed 
CEO in 2002 and held that position until October 
2009. During this period, Ferrovial expanded 
internationally with business interests in the UK, 
US, Canada, Latin America and Europe. He is 
also currently a Non-Executive Director of Bankia, 
President of the Board of Autopista del Sol SA, 
Independent Director of Hispania Activos 
Inmobiliarios SA and Senior Advisor to AT 
Kearney in Spain and Portugal.
10. Jane Kingston
Independent Non-Executive Director (58)
Appointment: 26 February 2014 
Experience: Jane Kingston served as Group 
Human Resources Director for Compass Group 
PLC from 2006 until her retirement in 2016. Prior 
to this, she served as Group Human Resources 
Director for BPB PLC from 2002 until its acquisition 
by Saint Gobain SA in 2006. 
Jane’s earlier career in HR has spanned a variety of 
sectors including engineering and building materials 
with Enodis PLC and Blue Circle PLC (now Lafarge 
SA) and garment and textiles with Coats Viyella 
PLC, as well as the British car industry. She has 
significant international experience, having had 
responsibility for the people agenda in most parts 
of the world at some point during her career.
11. Lee Sander
Senior Independent Director (59)
Appointment: 1 June 2011 
Experience: Elliot ‘Lee’ Sander is the former Chief 
Executive Officer of the Metropolitan Transportation 
Authority of New York and the former Commissioner 
of the New York City Department of Transportation. 
He is the Chairman of the Regional Plan Association, 
a non-governmental organisation that has played  
a guiding role in the planning of the New York 
Metropolitan area. Lee was Group Chief Executive 
for Global Transportation at AECOM, a global 
architecture and engineering firm. He served as 
President of The HAKS Group, Inc. and The I. Grace 
Company, which also specialised in architecture, 
engineering and construction in the public and 
private sectors. In addition, Lee founded the Rudin 
Center for Transportation Policy and Management  
at New York University. 
12. Sandra Forbes
Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary 
Appointment: 2 June 2014 
Experience: Sandra Forbes is a qualified 
solicitor and, prior to joining National Express, 
was a specialist banking and transport partner 
at Burges Salmon where she was the Head of 
the Corporate and Financial Institutions 
Department and the firm’s Banking Sector 
Head. Sandra is also a Governor at the University 
of the West of England where she chairs the 
Strategic Planning and Performance Committee.
Board tenure
0-2 years
2-4 years
4-6 years
6-10 years
2 female, 3 male
1 male
3 male 
2 male 
Board experience
1 female, 9 male
2 female, 9 male
91%
100%
Finance
Operational
2 female, 9 male
1 female, 8 male
100%
82%
91%
International
Transport
Public board 1 female, 9 male
82% Government/Regulatory 1 female, 8 male
73% Remuneration 1 female, 7 male
Board composition
2 male
2 female, 7 male
9 male
2 female
18%
82%
82%
18%
Executive
Non-Executive
Male
Female
7
8
9
10
11 12
55
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance
Compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 
The Governance Report set out below, 
together with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, is designed to provide shareholders 
with a summary of the Group’s governance 
policies and practices and an explanation 
of how the Company has applied the main 
principles of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the ‘Code’) that was published in 
2014 by the Financial Reporting Council 
and which applied to the Company for 
the whole of the financial year ended 
31 December 2015. The Directors believe 
that the Company has complied with the 
provisions set out in the Code during 2015 
save as described below. A copy of the 
Code is available at www.frc.org.uk.
Until his retirement from the Board following 
the conclusion of the AGM on 6 May 2015, 
Sir Andrew Foster had served on the Board 
for more than nine years and was no longer 
deemed to be independent under the Code. 
Given his significant experience, Sir Andrew 
continued to chair the Remuneration 
Committee until 6 May 2015 upon which 
date Jane Kingston became Chair of that 
Committee. Sir Andrew also remained a 
member of the Nomination and Audit 
Committees until he stepped down as 
a Director as mentioned above. Following 
the appointments of Matthew Crummack 
and Mike McKeon as independent 
Non-Executive Directors on 6 May and 
3 July respectively, the opportunity was 
taken to review the membership of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. As a result of this review 
and the subsequent appointments to the 
Committees as set out on page 58, the 
composition of the Committees became 
in line with Code requirements. The 
appointment of Dr Ashley Steel as an 
additional Non-Executive Director to the 
Board and to the Audit Committee from 
1 January 2016 has strengthened further 
the collective expertise of this Committee.
Leadership
The Role of the Board
The Board provides leadership of the 
Group and direction for management. It 
is collectively responsible and accountable 
to the Company’s shareholders for the 
long-term success of the Group and for 
ensuring the appropriate management 
and operation of the Group in pursuit of 
its objectives. The Board is responsible for 
setting the Group’s strategy, values and 
standards and ensuring that the necessary 
controls and resources are in place to 
deliver these. 
The Chairman and the Group 
Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Group 
Chief Executive are held separately and 
the division of responsibilities between 
these roles is clearly established as 
shown below. The Chairman is responsible 
for leading the Board and ensuring its 
effectiveness. The Group Chief Executive 
is responsible for running the business 
of the Group and implementation of the 
strategy and policies adopted by the Board. 
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors collectively 
represent a robust element of the Board 
and each brings with them his or her own 
expertise gained in a variety of business 
sectors. They constructively challenge and 
scrutinise the performance of management 
and help develop proposals on strategy as 
well as ensuring high standards of financial 
probity and corporate governance. The 
terms and conditions of appointment of the 
Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection at each AGM, on the Company’s 
website and at its registered office during 
normal business hours. The Non-Executive 
Directors disclose to the Board their other 
significant commitments. The procedure 
adopted by the Company in relation to 
Directors’ conflicts of interest is detailed 
on page 96.
Chairman’s responsibilities 
• Chairing and managing the business 
of the Board.
• Together with the Group Chief Executive, 
leading the Board in developing the 
strategy of the business and ensuring 
its effective implementation by the 
Executive management team.
• Ensuring effective dialogue with 
investors concerning mutual 
understanding of objectives.
• In conjunction with the Nomination 
Committee, taking responsibility for 
the composition and replenishment 
of the Board.
• Periodically reviewing with the Board its 
working practices and performance.
• Ensuring there is an effective contribution 
from the Non-Executive Directors and 
a constructive relationship between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman’s other significant 
commitments are detailed in his biography 
on page 54.
Group Chief Executive’s 
responsibilities
• Communicating a shared purpose 
and the culture, vision and values of 
the Group.
• The development and implementation 
of management strategy.
• The day-to-day management of the Group.
• Managing the Executive management 
team.
• Fostering relationships with key 
stakeholders.
• Leading the Group Executive Committee.
• In conjunction with the Group Finance 
Director, communicating the Group’s 
financial performance to investors and 
analysts.
• Liaising with the Chairman to ensure 
effective dialogue with investors  
and stakeholders.
Governance Report
56 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Senior Independent Director
Lee Sander became the Senior 
Independent Director (‘SID’) from 6 May 
2015 replacing Jackie Hunt who stepped 
down from the Board on that date, having 
not sought re-election at the AGM. As well 
as being available to shareholders whose 
concerns have not been resolved through 
normal channels or when such channels 
would be inappropriate, the SID provides 
a sounding board for the Chairman and 
serves as an intermediary for the other 
Directors, where necessary.
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors are responsible for 
the day-to-day management of the Group’s 
businesses, implementation of its strategy, 
policies and budgets and its financial 
performance. Executive management 
meetings comprise the Executive Directors 
and senior management from the divisions 
and are held regularly to discuss current 
issues. The Group Finance Director 
supports the Group Chief Executive in 
developing and implementing strategy in 
relation to the financial and operational 
performance of the Group.
Company Secretary
The Board has access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary, Sandra 
Forbes, who is a qualified solicitor. The 
Company Secretary supports the Chairman 
in the delivery of the corporate governance 
framework and is responsible for advising 
the Board, through the Chairman, on all 
governance matters, including the planning 
of agendas for the annual cycle of Board 
and Committee meetings so that all key 
issues are considered at the appropriate 
times. Every effort is made to ensure that 
information reported to the Board is of 
high appropriateness, comprehensiveness 
and currency. Directors are able to seek 
clarification or amplification from 
management where necessary. 
The Company Secretary also facilitates 
the induction process and assists with 
professional development for Directors 
as required. The Company Secretary acts 
as Secretary to the Board and each of its 
Committees. The appointment or removal 
of the Company Secretary is a matter for 
the Board as a whole. As well as the 
support of the Company Secretary, 
there is a procedure in place for any 
Director to take independent professional 
advice where considered necessary.
Corporate governance framework
The Board discharges its responsibilities for 
the leadership and control of the Group by:
• providing strategic direction and support 
in a manner which maximises 
opportunities to develop the business 
profitability, whilst at the same time 
assessing and managing associated risks;
• engaging at Board meetings with, and 
challenging, the Group Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director and other 
members of the Senior Management 
Group, as appropriate, on the financial 
and operating performance of the 
Group and external issues material 
to the Group’s prospects; and
• ensuring that the financial, management 
and other resources required to meet 
its objectives are in place.
To help discharge its responsibilities, 
the Board has a formal schedule of 
matters specifically reserved for its 
decision, which forms the core of 
the Board’s agenda. The Board has 
also delegated certain aspects of its 
responsibilities to the following principal 
Committees: the Audit Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee, the Nomination 
Committee and the Safety & Environment 
Committee. More details on each of these 
Committees can be found in this report.
Key matters reserved for 
Board approval 
Group strategy and risk management
• Formulation and approval of long-term 
objectives.
• Approval of changes to capital structure.
• Approval of major changes to 
management and control structures.
• Approval of extension of activities into 
new businesses or geographical areas.
Financial and internal controls
• Oversight of risk management and 
internal control framework.
• Approval of Financial Statements and 
results announcements.
• Approval of shareholder 
communications, circulars and notices 
of meetings.
• Approval of the auditor’s remuneration 
and recommendations for their 
appointment/removal.
• Recommendation and declaration 
of dividends.
• Monitoring the Group’s businesses 
against plan and budget.
• Approval of major capital expenditure 
projects.
• Approval of material contracts.
Board membership and Committees
• Appointment of Directors.
• Approval of remuneration of the 
Non-Executive Directors. 
• Setting of Board Committees’ terms 
of reference.
• Approval of new share incentive plans.
Corporate governance
• Undertaking formal performance 
reviews of the Board, Committees 
and individual Directors.
• Determining the independence 
of Directors.
• Receiving reports from the Company’s 
major shareholders.
Policies
• Review and approval of Group policies, 
for example: 
 — health and safety
 — anti-corruption and bribery
 — risk management strategy
 — environment
 — charitable and political donations
 — workplace rights
 — human rights.
57 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance
Board meetings
The Board and its Committees have regular scheduled meetings and hold additional meetings as and when required. Directors are 
expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings, the AGM and any general meetings. The Board 
met eight times during 2015: six meetings were held in the UK, one in Spain and one in the US. During 2015, strategy was reviewed 
as part of both the January and September Board meetings. Each Director attended as follows:
Number of Board meetings
The Board
of Directors
Audit
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Safety &
Environment
Committee
Total meetings in 2015 8 4 4 7 3
Executive Directors
Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 8 – – – –
Matthew Ashley, Group Finance Director
1
8 – – – –
Non-Executive Directors
Sir John Armitt CBE 8 – 4 – 3
Joaquín Ayuso 7(8) – 4 – 3
Jorge Cosmen 8 – 4 – 3
Matthew Crummack
2
5(5) – – 5(5) 2(2)
Sir Andrew Foster
3
 3(3) 2(2) 2(2) 2(2) 1(1)
Jackie Hunt
3
 3(3) 2(2) – – 1(1)
Jane Kingston 8 – – 7 3
Mike McKeon
4
4(4) 2(2) – – 1(1)
Chris Muntwyler 8 4 2(2) – 3
Lee Sander 8 2(2) 2(2) 7 3
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Sandra Forbes, also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
1
 Appointed to the Board on 28 January 2015. From 10 October 2014 until his date of appointment, Matthew was interim Group Finance Director. 
2
 Appointed to the Board on 6 May 2015. Eligible meetings are shown in brackets.
3
 Resigned from the Board on 6 May 2015. Eligible meetings are shown in brackets.
4
 Appointed to the Board on 3 July 2015. Eligible meetings are shown in brackets.
Governance Report continued
Reporting framework
Group Board
Provides leadership of the Group and direction for management. It is 
collectively responsible and accountable to the Company’s shareholders 
for the long-term success of the Group and for ensuring the appropriate 
management and operation of the Group in pursuit of its objectives. 
It sets strategy, values and standards and ensures that the necessary 
controls are in place to deliver these. 
Remuneration 
Committee
Reviews and recommends to the 
Board the Executive 
Remuneration Policy and 
determines the remuneration 
packages of the Executive 
Directors and members of the 
Senior Management Group.
More details on pages 72 to 95
Nomination Committee
Reviews and recommends to the 
Board the structure, size and 
composition of the Board and its 
Committees. It also has oversight 
for succession planning of the 
Board and senior management.
More details on pages 68 and 69
Audit Committee
Reviews and is responsible for 
oversight of the Group’s financial and 
reporting processes; the integrity of 
the Financial Statements; the 
external and internal audit processes; 
and the systems of internal control 
and risk management.
More details on pages 64 to 67
Safety & Environment 
Committee
Reviews and challenges constructively 
the structure, content and operation of 
the safety management arrangements 
put in place by members of the 
Executive management. It also reviews 
and monitors the Group’s environment 
performance and targets.
More details on pages 70 and 71
Group Executive Committee
Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, this Committee comprises 
the Executive Directors, Group General Counsel, Managing Directors of each 
of the businesses and functional heads. It meets on a monthly basis and is 
tasked with considering and approving operational business matters.
In addition, the UK & Middle East, Spanish and North American Executive 
groups meet on a monthly basis and matters dealt with at these meetings 
are reported to the Group Executive Committee.
UK & Middle East 
Executive
Spanish  
Executive
North American 
Executive
58 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 If a Director is unable to attend a Board or 
Committee meeting, he or she still receives 
all the papers and materials for discussion 
at the meeting. He or she will review them 
and then advise the Board Chairman or 
Committee Chairman of their views and 
comments on the matters to be discussed 
so that they can be conveyed to others at 
the meeting. Due to a prior engagement, 
Joaquín Ayuso was unable to participate  
in the additional Board meeting held by 
teleconference in December.
Only members of the Board are entitled to 
attend Board meetings, with the Company 
Secretary in attendance to formally record 
each meeting. This is also the case in 
respect of Committee members and 
meetings. The Executive Directors and 
representatives of management, together 
with the Company’s advisers, are also 
invited to attend Committee meetings as 
required. Directors have the right to raise 
any concerns they may have about the 
running of the Company, or a proposed 
course of action which cannot be resolved, 
and have them recorded in the relevant 
meeting minutes and may also provide 
a written statement to the Chairman for 
circulation to the Board, setting out such 
concerns. During the year the Chairman 
met on several occasions with the 
Non-Executives without the Executive 
Directors present to allow informal 
discussions on a variety of issues.
Board agenda, oversight 
and benchmarking
The Chairman and the Company Secretary 
are responsible for ensuring that the 
Directors receive accurate, timely and clear 
information on all relevant matters so that 
they are properly briefed in advance of 
meetings and the information is of sufficient 
quality to assist Directors in making 
informed contributions and decisions.
The Board regularly and rigorously reviews 
and benchmarks operational and functional 
performance. At each meeting the Board 
receives a report from the Group Chief 
Executive on operational performance, and 
from the Group Finance Director on the 
financial performance of the Group as a 
whole and each of the Group’s businesses 
individually. Other regular reports for the 
Board’s consideration at its meetings 
include capital expenditure requests, key 
project reviews, summary activities of the 
Board Committees and human capital, 
legal, governance and investor relations 
reports. Presentations from either a 
business Managing Director or a functional 
head are also given at each meeting.
The core activities of the Board and its 
Committees are documented and planned 
on an annual basis and a list of matters 
arising from each meeting is maintained 
and followed up at subsequent meetings. 
The main items of business addressed by 
the Board during the year are shown in the 
table above.
Principal Committees of the Board
The main Committees established by 
the Board are the Audit Committee, 
the Remuneration Committee, the 
Nomination Committee and the Safety & 
Environment Committee. Each Committee 
operates within defined terms of reference, 
the full versions of which can be found 
on the Company’s website at 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. Each 
Committee reports its proceedings to the 
Board through the submission of reports 
and minutes as appropriate. A Disclosure 
Committee of the Board is also established 
with its membership comprising the 
Chairman, Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director. This Committee 
meets as required to deal with the control of 
price sensitive information within the Group 
and to ensure that timely announcements 
are made in accordance with the 
Company’s obligations under the Listing 
Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules. Its terms of reference are also 
available on the Company’s website at 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
All Board Committees are authorised to 
obtain legal or other professional advice 
as necessary, to secure the attendance 
of external advisers at their meetings 
and to seek information required from 
any employee of the Group in order to 
perform their duties. 
Reports of each of the principal 
Committees are provided on pages 64 
to 95, and include information on each 
Committee’s membership, duties and 
activities throughout the year.
The Group Chief Executive heads the 
Group Executive Committee which meets 
on a monthly basis and is tasked with 
approving operational business matters. 
In addition, the UK & Middle East, Spanish 
and North American Executives meet on 
a monthly basis and matters dealt with 
at these meetings are reported to the 
Group Executive Committee.
The reporting framework of the Board 
Committees and of the Group Executive 
Committee and its sub-committees is 
shown on page 58.
Board activity throughout 2015 
(excluding standing items)
Strategy, operational and funding
• Reviewed the Group Strategic Plan for 
2016-2018 with external viewpoints 
being provided
• Reviewed strategy updates on a 
quarterly basis
• Reviewed, approved and received 
regular updates on bids in each of 
the Group’s divisions
• Reviewed and approved bolt-on 
acquisitions in North America 
• Received presentations from each of the 
Group’s divisions providing opportunities 
for the Board to engage with members 
of the Senior Management Group
• Reviewed and approved capital 
expenditure requests 
• Reviewed and approved the £1 billion 
Euro Medium-Term Note Programme to 
provide a flexible means of issuing bonds 
in various currencies and maturities
Financial performance
• Considered the financial performance of 
the business and approved the budget 
and key performance targets 
• Reviewed the half year and annual results 
and approved the Annual Report
Leadership and people
• Reviewed the composition of the 
Board and its Committees including 
consideration of diversity in its 
widest sense
• Appointed three new independent 
Non-Executive Directors to the Board
• Reviewed succession planning for senior 
roles and the development of people and 
talent within the Group 
Internal controls and risk management
• Reviewed the Group’s Risk Register and 
reviewed and validated the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal control and risk 
management systems
• Assessed significant and emerging risks, 
quantified the potential impact on 
business objectives and reviewed the 
effectiveness of the mitigating actions 
in place
Governance, stakeholders 
and shareholders
• Reviewed the Group’s five Values and 
the extent to which they continued to 
underpin the Group’s Vision
• Reviewed regular safety updates together 
with the structure, content and operation 
of the safety management arrangements 
in place and the initiatives to enhance the 
Group’s safety profile
• Reviewed and monitored the Group’s 
environmental performance and targets 
including the impact of the business on 
the communities the Group serves and 
the environment
• Reviewed developments in corporate 
governance and received regular key 
legal updates
• Reviewed regular feedback from investors 
and other stakeholders
• Discussed the outcome of the Board 
evaluation and effectiveness review and 
agreed development opportunities
59 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Effectiveness 
Composition of the Board
We seek to build an effective and 
complementary Board which comprises 
the correct balance of individuals whose 
capabilities are appropriate for the scale, 
complexity and strategic positioning of 
our business. The Board consists of an 
appropriate balance of Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors who collectively 
bring a strong and in-depth mix of business 
skills and experience and considerable 
knowledge to assist with Board decisions. 
The process for Board appointments is led 
by the Nomination Committee and is 
described on page 69.
A list of the individual Directors, their 
biographies and Committee memberships 
as at the date of this report are set out on 
pages 54 and 55.
Independence
The Board considers all of the Non-
Executive Directors to be independent 
other than Jorge Cosmen. Sir John Armitt 
was considered to be independent prior 
to his appointment as Chairman. 
Jorge Cosmen is not considered to be 
independent by the Board due to his close 
links with the ALSA business and significant 
interests in the shares of the Company 
which are held through European Express 
Enterprises Ltd. Despite his non-
independence, the Board feels that it benefits 
greatly from Jorge Cosmen’s extensive local 
market knowledge and experience. 
Non-Executive Directors do not participate 
in any of the Company’s share option or 
bonus schemes and their service is 
non-pensionable.
Time allocation
It is in the Board’s interest to ensure that 
all Directors have sufficient time to commit 
to their responsibilities as Directors. The 
Chairman monitors the extent of Directors’ 
other interests to ensure that the 
effectiveness of the individual and the 
Board is not being compromised.
In respect of the appointment of new 
Non-Executive Directors to the Board, 
candidates are made aware of the time 
commitment expected of them which is 
reflected in their individual letters of 
appointment with the Company. The 
Board considers that all the Directors are 
currently able to devote sufficient time and 
attention to their duties and responsibilities 
to the Company.
As part of their continuing development, 
and recognising the significant benefits to 
be derived to both the Company and the 
individual, Executive Directors are permitted 
to accept one external non-executive 
directorship with a non-competing 
company provided they first obtain Board 
approval. Dean Finch continued to hold an 
external directorship of the Royal Free 
London NHS Foundation Trust throughout 
2015. Matthew Ashley does not currently 
hold any external directorships.
Induction of new Directors
On appointment, Directors are offered 
training as appropriate and are thereafter 
encouraged to keep abreast of matters 
affecting their duties as a Director and to 
attend training courses relevant to their role. 
An induction process is in place for new 
Directors, the aim of which is to:
• build an understanding of the nature 
of the Group, its businesses and the 
markets in which it operates.
• establish a link with the Group’s 
employees.
• build an understanding of the Group’s 
main relationships including stakeholders 
and customers.
The following information is provided as 
part of the induction and ongoing training 
and development of Board Directors.
On appointment 
• Governance information in relation to the 
Group, including the terms of reference 
of the Board and its Committees.
• Guidance for Directors of British public 
companies generally including under the 
law, the Code and the rules of the UK 
Listing Authority.
• Board minutes covering the  
previous year.
• Information on key Group policies.
Following appointment 
• Business briefing meetings with the 
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive 
and the Group Finance Director.
• Meeting with the Company Secretary 
to discuss the Group structure, the 
Company’s constitution and Board 
procedures and terms of reference 
of the Board and its Committees.
• Meetings with senior management 
in the five divisions.
• Meeting with the Director of Safety for 
an overview of the Group’s health and 
safety policy and safety record.
• Meeting with the Group’s auditor and 
remuneration consultants.
Board, Committees, and Chairman’s 
performance evaluation
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
Board and its Committees is conducted 
annually in accordance with the 
following cycle:
Year 1 – 
External
Evaluation by independent 
consultants (2014 – 
Advanced Boardroom 
Excellence)
Year 2 – 
Internal
Evaluation focused on Year 
1 issues raised and any 
specific new issues arising 
(questionnaire based)
Year 3 – 
Internal 
Progress review generally 
(questionnaire based) with 
follow-up interviews with 
the Chairman
This year was the second in the Group’s 
three-year performance evaluation cycle. 
The overall aim was to focus on those areas 
identified for development resulting from 
last year’s external Board evaluation 
through assessing current performance, 
progress made and opportunities for 
improvement. These were captured by 
completion of surveys for the Board and 
each Committee comprising a number 
of open questions on the workings 
and effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees. The outcome of the internal 
evaluation was fed back to the Board at 
its meeting in November and a series of 
actions agreed. Lee Sander, the Senior 
Independent Director, led the evaluation 
of the Chairman with participation by both 
Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
Conclusions from the 2015 Internal 
Board Evaluation
The Board concluded that, overall, 
the outcome of the 2015 Internal 
Board Evaluation was very positive in 
respect of the Board, Committees and 
Chairman’s performance. It was agreed 
that the workings of the Board and its 
Committees remained effective and they 
continued to operate to a high level. In 
particular, the Board composition was 
considered strong and reflective of the 
Group’s current operations with a good 
cross section of experience and sector/
non-sector, geographical and functional 
knowledge with relevant expertise. 
Corporate Governance
Governance Report continued
60 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Diversity, in its wider sense, is present 
with four different nationalities. There was 
consensus that the materials presented 
to the Board are of very high quality, with 
this year’s discussion material on strategy 
being singled out for particular praise. 
Good progress has been made against 
the areas for improvement identified in 
the previous external evaluation. 
The review of the performance of the 
Chairman, led by the Senior Independent 
Director, concluded that the Chairman 
continued to operate to a high level, 
having a good understanding of the 
varying interests of shareholders and 
representing a strong and credible 
external face for the Company. 
Progress against 2014 external Board evaluation recommendations 
2014 recommendations Actions taken in 2015
Non-Executive Director composition: 
Non-Executive Director skills to be kept 
under review in relation to future digital 
knowledge and skills needs.
Matthew Crummack, former CEO of lastminute.com Group with the requisite identified 
digital marketing knowledge and skill set, was appointed as an independent Non-
Executive Director on 6 May 2015.
A search led by the Nomination Committee for a new Non-Executive Director to 
replace the departing Chair of the Audit Committee was undertaken over the course 
of Q1 2015 with Mike McKeon, former CFO at Severn Trent PLC, having been 
appointed on 3 July 2015, becoming Audit Committee Chairman on 1 August. 
Additionally, Dr Ashley Steel was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 
2016. She brings valuable transport, leisure and logistics experience. 
Strategy: the Board to further enhance 
its processes for strategy setting.
Measures have been taken to ensure that Group strategy is subject to more 
comprehensive debate and more closely aligned to the annual budget setting process. 
More opportunities for discussion outside of the annual strategy review meetings have 
been created as part of the annual rolling Board calendar. 
Communication to shareholders: the 
Board to continue to develop a more 
structured shareholder engagement plan 
following on from the direct shareholder 
engagement on remuneration undertaken 
in 2014/15.
The Board continues to operate to best practice on shareholder engagement 
as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code. Plans for continuing 
shareholder engagement are on the agenda for discussion at the Remuneration 
Committee and are also discussed and agreed with the Senior Independent 
Director. The Chairman also continues to engage regularly with shareholders.
Succession: the Board to have enhanced 
engagement with the scheduled regular 
review of the Executive succession 
pipeline.
Succession planning for the leadership group is reviewed on an annual basis to fit 
alongside strategy discussion. Detailed reports on succession planning and talent 
management are prepared for Board consideration by the Group HR Director under 
the direction of the CEO.
Board information: the Board to build 
further on exemplary Board information 
provision.
Enhancements continue to be made to the content and delivery of Board and 
Committee papers and presentations. The objective is to ensure that Directors 
continue to receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters 
so that they are properly briefed in advance of meetings and the information is of 
sufficient quality to assist Directors in making informed contributions and decisions.
Risk assessment: the Board to continue 
its proactive approach to risk 
assessment.
The Board’s current robust and proactive process and approach will be continued 
and enhanced to address ongoing operational matters as the Group extends into 
new geographical areas and businesses.
Documentation: the Company Secretary 
to action the appropriate 
recommendations on tightening the terms 
of reference, agenda developments for 
the Board and its Committees.
A thorough review was initiated in 2015 to review the rolling annual agendas of 
the Board and its Committees, the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration 
and Executive Committees and matters reserved for the Board.
An improved framework for the Board and Committees planning process is now in place. 
The key areas for focus in 2016
The conclusions reached and the key areas identified and agreed for the Board’s development for 2016 are set out below.
Area for focus during 2016 Comments
Gender diversity Female representation on the Board currently stands at 18% following the recent 
appointment of Dr Ashley Steel as an additional Non-Executive Director. The Board 
will take every opportunity, when available, to increase the gender diversity of the 
Board further. 
Executive pipeline and  
succession planning
Whilst the Nomination Committee continues to lead the way in the Board’s 
consideration of its own future succession and replacement needs, succession 
planning for the Senior Management Group and the level immediately below remains 
an area where additional engagement and dialogue would be welcomed. 
More external viewpoints to be heard Further opportunities will be created for external presentations to be made to the 
Board on relevant topics.
Educational/development opportunities for 
Directors to be provided
Greater focus on key areas of relevant education and development for Directors will 
be addressed during 2016.
61 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION The outcomes arising from this internal 
evaluation process will be further reported 
in next year’s Annual Report.
Re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, and the Code, all Directors 
of the Company will offer themselves for 
either election or re-election at this year’s 
AGM. Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for specific terms, subject to 
re-election. Non-Executive Directors will 
only be put forward for re-election if, 
following performance evaluation, the 
Board believes the Director’s performance 
continues to be effective and demonstrates 
commitment to the role. 
Accountability
Internal control statement
The Board’s responsibilities
The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. The Board 
maintains full control and direction over 
appropriate strategic, financial, operational 
and compliance issues and has put in place 
an organisational structure with formally 
defined lines of responsibility, delegated 
authorities and clear operating processes. 
The systems that the Board has established 
are designed to safeguard both the 
shareholders’ investment and the assets 
of the Group, and are described as follows: 
Key elements of the control 
framework
Financial reporting process – 
Management and specialists within the 
Finance Department are responsible for 
ensuring the appropriate maintenance of 
financial records and processes to ensure 
that all information is relevant, reliable and 
in accordance with the applicable laws and 
regulations, and distributed both internally 
and externally in a timely manner. A review 
of the consolidation and Financial 
Statements is completed by management 
to ensure that the financial position and 
results of the Group are appropriately 
reflected. All financial information published 
by the Group is subject to the approval of 
the Audit Committee and Disclosure 
Committee, where appropriate.
Performance management – The 
performance of each division and operating 
company against its plan is closely 
monitored by a formal monthly reporting 
process and by the attendance of the 
relevant Executive Directors at monthly 
divisional Executive meetings.
Annual fitness check process – Group 
internal audit undertakes an annual review 
at each operating company to assess the 
integrity of the balance sheet and to check 
the effective operation of key financial 
reporting and information systems controls. 
The results of the reviews are presented to 
both divisional and Group finance with any 
required actions agreed with the relevant 
divisional Finance Director.
Strategic and financial planning – An 
annual budgeting and strategic planning 
process has been established whereby 
each division and constituent operating 
company assesses its competitive position 
and goals, taking account of the strategic 
risks faced. This strategy is translated into 
a financial plan with clear milestones and 
performance indicators.
Capital investment – A clear process 
is in place for the approval of capital 
expenditure, which includes detailed 
appraisal of the benefits of the proposed 
investment and any associated key risks. 
Material capital expenditure requires 
Board approval.
Health and safety – Health and safety 
standards and benchmarks have been 
established in all of our businesses and 
the performance of operating companies 
in meeting these standards is 
closely monitored.
Risk management reporting process 
– Each division and operating company 
evaluates its internal control environment 
and key risks, and the results are reviewed 
at management level and passed to the 
Audit Committee before being presented 
to the Board. This process is reviewed 
on a regular basis to ensure the validity 
and relevance of the key risks included 
in reports. The review covers strategic, 
financial, compliance and risk management 
controls. These procedures are mandated 
and designed to manage the risk in order 
to ensure that the operations achieve their 
business objectives.
Internal audit – The internal control 
system is independently monitored 
and supported by a Group internal 
audit function. The Group internal audit 
function reports to management and 
the Audit Committee on the Group’s 
financial and operational controls, and 
monitors and reviews the extent to which its 
recommendations have been implemented.
Board-level reporting 
on internal control 
During the year the Audit Committee 
reviews regular reports from the internal 
audit function, the external auditor and 
Group Executive management on matters 
relating to internal control, financial 
reporting and risk management. The Audit 
Committee provides the Board with an 
independent assessment of the Group’s 
financial position, accounting affairs and 
control systems. In addition, the Board 
receives regular reports on how specific 
risks that are assessed as material to the 
Group are being managed.
Review of internal control 
effectiveness
The system of internal control and risk 
management, described above, has been 
in place for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of this Annual Report 
and Accounts. Such a system is designed 
to manage, rather than to eliminate, the 
risks inherent in achieving the Group’s 
business objectives, and can therefore 
provide only reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or 
loss. The effectiveness of this system has 
been regularly reviewed by the Directors 
in line with the Guidance on Audit 
Committees, published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in December 2010. 
Where significant control failings or 
weaknesses have been identified, 
appropriate corrective action has 
been taken.
Going concern and longer-term 
viability
The Directors’ going concern and longer-
term viability statements, as required to be 
made under the Code for the year ended 
31 December 2015, are set out on page 37 
of the Group Finance Director’s review. 
Remuneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
including details of Remuneration Policy 
and service contracts, is set out on 
pages 72 to 95.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of 
maintaining good communications with the 
Company’s shareholders to ensure mutual 
understanding of the Group’s strategy, 
objectives, governance and performance.
Corporate Governance
Governance Report continued
62 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 During the year shareholders are kept 
informed of the progress of the Group 
through regular corporate communications: 
the Preliminary Results Announcement, 
the Annual Report and Accounts, the 
Half Year Results Announcement, the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting, 
Interim Management Statements and 
press releases regarding any other 
significant developments, as well as the 
dissemination of regulated information. 
Such communications are made available 
to the London Stock Exchange and are 
simultaneously available on the Company’s 
website, www.nationalexpressgroup.com. 
The Company’s website houses a wide 
range of information about the Group, 
including the Annual Report and Accounts, 
press releases, share price data and links 
to subsidiary company websites.
From time to time the Company invites 
research analysts and institutional investors 
to presentations and site visits that are 
designed to provide more understanding 
of the strengths and capabilities of its 
business operations and strategy. 
Shareholders can receive documentation 
such as the Annual Report and Accounts 
electronically and are also able to cast their 
votes by proxy electronically. The Company 
also has an electronic proxy appointment 
service for CREST members.
Institutional shareholders
The Board is committed to maintaining 
an open dialogue with shareholders 
and recognises the importance of that 
relationship in the governance process. 
A focused and proactive investor 
relations programme is in place. The 
Chairman, Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director have held a number 
of meetings with existing and prospective 
institutional shareholders during the year as 
well as given presentations following the full 
year and half year results. They have also 
met and given presentations to research 
analysts and stockbrokers’ sales teams. 
The Company’s appointed brokers and 
investor relations advisers in turn have 
provided regular confidential feedback 
to the Company on the views of the 
major institutions. 
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director 
and other Non-Executive Directors are also 
given the opportunity to meet institutional 
shareholders and are available by contact 
through the normal channels. During 2015 
the Chairman met with major shareholders 
to discuss the governance and direction of 
the Company. 
During the early part of 2015, members 
of the Remuneration Committee continued 
its focused engagement with the 
Company’s key institutional shareholders 
and representative bodies in order to gain 
a greater understanding of their views on 
Executive Directors’ remuneration. As a 
result of this open dialogue, a restructured 
remuneration package for the Executive 
Directors and a revised Remuneration 
Policy were designed to address the specific 
concerns raised by shareholders. The revised 
Remuneration Policy was put to shareholders 
for a binding vote at the 2015 AGM with the 
resolution being passed by a majority of 99%. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report on  
pages 72 to 95 provides full details of the 
Remuneration Policy which currently applies. 
The Board is provided with regular updates 
on the views and issues raised by the 
Company’s investors. During the year the 
Board received external presentations 
from advisers on shareholder and market 
perception of the Group’s performance 
and strategy. Formal written responses 
are given to correspondence received 
from shareholders, as well as bilateral 
engagement through the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director and 
the Company’s investor relations function.
Analyst coverage
The Company is aware of 15 analysts 
who have published equity research notes 
covering National Express Group PLC 
during 2015 and we provide names 
and contact numbers of their firms on 
our website.
Private shareholders
We welcome contact from our 
private shareholders and are pleased to 
answer their queries. We encourage our 
shareholders to make use of our website 
to access Company reports, notices of 
meeting and general shareholder and 
dividend information. The website also 
provides a direct link to Shareview 
(www.shareview.co.uk) which enables 
shareholders to view and manage their 
shareholder account online.
Annual General Meeting
Notice of the AGM and related papers are 
sent to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the meeting. Last year’s AGM 
included a presentation by the Group Chief 
Executive on the progress of the business 
and an opportunity for shareholders to  
ask questions. All of our Directors were 
available formally to answer questions 
during the meeting and many circulated 
and talked to shareholders informally 
afterwards. Voting on the resolutions was 
conducted by poll. Some 83% of the shares 
in issue were voted and all the resolutions 
were passed with the exception of the 
requisitionists’ resolution.
The results were published on the Group’s 
website shortly after the meeting. We look 
forward to welcoming shareholders to 
our 2016 AGM and updating them on the 
progress of the business this year.
63 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance – Audit Committee Report
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce my first report 
as Chairman of the Audit Committee (the 
‘Committee’), having taken over from 
Jackie Hunt who stepped down from the 
Board on 6 May 2015 and Chris Muntwyler 
who held this position on an interim basis 
pending my own appointment as 
Committee Chairman on 1 August 2015.  
I should like to take the opportunity to 
thank them both for their work in this role 
during the year. I would also like to thank  
Sir Andrew Foster, who served on the 
Committee since 2004, for his valuable 
contributions and welcome, in his place, 
Lee Sander, our Senior Independent 
Director, who joined the Committee on  
6 May. From 1 January 2016, Dr Ashley Steel 
has joined the Committee. As a former Vice 
Chairman at KPMG and Global Chair for its 
transport, leisure and logistics practice, we 
welcome the contribution she will bring to 
the Committee.
Throughout 2015, the Committee has 
continued to play a key oversight role 
for the Board. Through its activities, 
the Committee focuses on maintaining 
the integrity and quality of our financial 
reporting, considering the significant 
accounting judgements made by 
management and the findings of the 
external auditor. It also reviews the 
appropriateness of our system of risk 
management and internal controls, and  
the effectiveness of both our internal and 
external audit processes. The Committee’s 
activities have continued to grow in the light 
of the new best practice recommendations 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2014 (the ‘Code’) and compliance with 
these has enabled the Committee to  
add further value to the Group. The 
Committee’s terms of reference were 
updated in February to reflect changes 
introduced to the Code and which apply to 
the Group for the first time in respect of the 
2015 financial year. These relate to the 
more forward looking nature of the going 
concern statement, a more rigorous 
and regular review of risk management 
and the introduction of a longer-term 
viability statement. We have reported on 
compliance with these new requirements 
in this Audit Committee Report, the 
Corporate Governance Report and 
elsewhere in the Strategic Report. The 
regular challenge and engagement with 
management, internal audit and the 
external auditor, together with the timely 
and clear receipt of a high standard of 
reporting and information from them, 
has enabled the Committee to discharge 
its duties and responsibilities effectively. 
On behalf of the Committee, I thank 
them for their contributions. 
I hope you find my review and the report 
that follows helpful in understanding the 
work of the Committee during the year.
Throughout 2015, the Audit Committee 
has continued to play a key oversight 
role for the Board
Membership
The membership of the Committee during the year ended 31 December 2015 is set out below. Attendance at meetings held during the 
year is shown on page 58.
Members (biographies appear on pages 54 and 55) Position Appointment date
Mike McKeon Committee Chairman and 
Non-Executive Director
Chairman from 1 August 2015 and 
member since 3 July 2015
Chris Muntwyler Former Committee Chairman and 
Non-Executive Director
Member since 21 November 2011 
and Chairman (interim) from 6 May 
to 1 August 2015 
Jackie Hunt
1
Former Committee Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director
Member and Chair from 13 September 2012 
until 6 May 2015
Sir Andrew Foster
1
Non-Executive Director Member from 23 November 2004 
until 6 May 2015
Lee Sander Senior Independent Director Member since 6 May 2015
1
 Retired from the Board on 6 May 2015.
Other attendees at Committee meetings:
Attendee
Company Secretary 
(as Secretary to the Committee)
Company Chairman
Group Chief Executive
Group Finance Director
Head of Group Internal Audit
Group Financial Controller
External Auditor: Deloitte LLP
64 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Qualifications of Audit 
Committee members
I am considered by the Board to meet the 
requirements of the Code that at least one 
Committee member has recent and 
relevant financial experience. 
Role and responsibilities
The primary role of the Committee is to 
assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities with regard to financial 
reporting, risk management and internal 
controls procedures and the work of its 
internal audit function and external auditor. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are 
reviewed annually and are available 
on the Company’s website, 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. 
The Committee’s main duties and 
responsibilities in advising the Board 
include the following:
• reviewing the half year and annual 
Financial Statements including 
accounting policies, key accounting and 
auditing issues, significant financial 
judgements and the financial control 
environment.
• Overseeing the process for selecting the 
external auditor, assessing the continuing 
independence of the external auditor and 
recommending approval of the audit fee 
to the Board. 
• Ensuring that provision of non-audit 
services does not impair the external 
auditor’s independence or objectivity.
• Liaising with the external auditor on 
matters relating to the nature and scope 
of the audit and any issues or concerns 
arising from the audit process.
• Reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal control and risk 
management systems, including fraud 
prevention and operation of the 
Company’s whistleblowing policy. 
• Supervising the planning of activities 
under the internal audit programme and 
reviewing the major findings identified 
from internal audit investigations. 
Meetings
Four Committee meetings were held in 
2015. Details of attendance at these 
meetings can be found on page 58. 
Outside of the meeting process the 
Committee Chairman has regular contact 
with the Executive Directors, other 
Committee members and the internal/
external auditor on a variety of topics. The 
Committee itself meets with both the Head 
of Group Internal Audit and the external 
auditor at least once a year without the 
Executive Directors being present.
At the invitation of the Committee, 
and as appropriate to the matters under 
discussion, meetings may be attended by 
the Executive Directors, other members 
of senior management and internal and 
external auditors. Full minutes are kept by 
the Secretary of the matters considered 
and decisions taken by the Committee.
Audit Committee activity
The key areas of Committee activity during the year, and through to the date of this report, 
included the planning, monitoring, review and approval of the following: 
Financial reporting
• Quality and appropriateness of the half 
year and annual Financial Statements 
(including accounting policies, key areas 
of financial judgement and associated 
reports from the external auditors 
regarding their audit findings).
• Assessment and management of 
significant risks for the Group for the 
2015 financial year.
• The information, underlying assumptions 
and stress test analysis presented in 
support of the going concern statement.
• Consistency and appropriateness of the 
financial control environment.
• Extent to which the Annual Report is fair, 
balanced and understandable.
Viability Statement
• The Committee considered the 
introduction of the new enhanced 
requirements of the Code for the Board 
to assess the Group’s future viability and 
considered the following points before 
recommending to the Board the statement 
on viability included on page 37 .
• An assessment of the prospects of the 
Group, taking into account the Group’s 
current position, opportunities, strategic 
plans and risk appetite.
• The future period over which it is 
appropriate for the Group to assess  
its viability.
• Identification of risks which have the 
potential to affect the Group’s strategic 
plans over the lookout period, including 
those principal risks and uncertainties 
described in the Strategic Report and 
others which could impact the Board’s 
assessment of the Group’s viability.
• Qualification of the risks identified in the 
context of the Group’s internal control 
framework and of potential mitigating 
actions, and the ability of the Group  
to withstand severe but plausible 
downside scenarios.
• Any qualifications necessary to inform 
or support the reader’s understanding 
of the viability statement. 
External audit
• Scope of the 2015 external audit plan 
and fees.
• Review of the effectiveness of the 
external audit process and assessment 
of the performance, continued 
independence and recommendation to 
the Board of the re-appointment of the 
external auditor.
• External audit tendering policy.
• Level of fees paid to the external auditor 
for non-audit services.
• Selection of the new engagement partner 
from Deloitte for the 2016 financial year 
following the mandatory rotation of  
Nigel Mercer after his five years of 
engagement. Stephen Griggs, Head of 
Audit and Risk Advisory for Deloitte in the 
UK, will take up his duties from the start 
of the 2016 financial year.
Risk management and internal 
control
• Scope of the internal control and risk 
management programme.
• Adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal control and risk 
management systems.
• The results of internal audit reviews 
and the progress made against agreed 
management actions.
• The results of internal audit compliance 
testing of financial controls (annual fitness 
checks) within the subsidiaries.
• Bi-annual detailed review of the Group’s 
Risk Register, including significant and 
emerging risks.
• Review of the Group’s IT risk strategy 
and disaster recovery plan.
• Establishment during the year of a Cyber 
Security Committee, chaired by the 
Group Finance Director and constituting 
the Group IT Director, divisional heads 
of IT and the Group’s external security 
consultants. This committee meets 
periodically to assess, prioritise and 
monitor significant cyber security threats 
facing the Group, and to develop plans 
for their management. 
• Review of reports on fraud and 
whistleblowing.
Internal audit
• Scope of the internal audit plans for 
2015 and 2016.
• Effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit 
function and internal controls including 
feedback from divisional managing 
directors.
• Review of annual independence 
compliance statement.
• Selection of a new Head of Group 
Internal Audit following the appointment 
of the previous incumbent to the position 
of Finance Director of the UK Bus division.
Tax and treasury
• Review of the Group’s treasury policy, 
including consideration of the key 
treasury risks facing the Group (foreign 
currency, interest rate, fuel price and 
counterparty risk) and the approach 
to their management.
• Review of the annual update of the 
Group’s tax affairs.
Other
• Review of corporate governance and 
legal  and regulatory compliance. 
• Review and update of the Committee’s 
terms of reference.
• Internal review of the effectiveness of the 
Committee concluding that it continued 
to operate effectively.
• Review and approval of the Committee’s 
report for inclusion in the Annual Report.
65 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial reporting 
and significant financial 
judgements for 2015
• Goodwill impairment 
As it is required to do annually, the 
Committee considered whether the 
carrying value of goodwill and intangible 
assets held by the Group should be 
impaired. The judgements largely related 
to the assumptions applied in calculating 
the value in use of the Spanish Coach 
and Bus and the North American School 
Bus businesses. When testing for 
impairment, the key considerations were 
the underlying cash flows, the discount 
rates and the future growth rates. The 
Committee received a detailed report on 
the outcome of the impairment reviews 
performed by management and took into 
account the views of the external auditor. 
The Committee concluded that the 
goodwill and intangible assets of the 
Spanish Coach and Bus and the North 
American School Bus businesses were 
not impaired and it approved the 
disclosures included in the 2015 
Financial Statements.
• Insurance and other claims 
The Committee considered the 
adequacy of the provisions associated 
with insurance and other claims risks, 
particularly in North America. The 
assessment focused on the advice 
received from a third party actuary in 
connection with the Group’s exposure 
to auto and general liability and workers’ 
compensation insurance claims. 
Consideration was also given to the most 
likely outcome, and associated financial 
effect, of other claims and exposures 
facing the Group. The Committee 
received a report from management 
on North American insurance and 
other claims and considered the views 
of the external auditor. The Committee 
concluded that the insurance and other 
claims provision was fairly stated.
• Taxation 
The Committee considers the adequacy 
and sufficiency of the disclosure of the 
Group’s tax affairs in the Annual Report 
and the appropriateness of the 
accounting treatments adopted to 
reflect the Group’s tax charge, assets 
and provisions in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting 
Standards. Tax legislation across the 
markets in which the Group operates is 
complex, and sometimes management 
and the relevant tax authorities differ in 
the interpretation and application of tax 
law, which can lead to uncertainties in the 
estimation of provisions and recognition 
of deferred tax balances. On complex 
issues management may seek external 
tax advice to ascertain whether 
provisions should be made. Where tax 
exposures can be quantified and meet 
the criteria for recognition, best estimates 
are made and provisions recognised. 
These estimates are based on the 
judgement of senior management in the 
light of the facts and available information, 
and are reviewed by the Committee. 
The Committee also reviews reports 
from the Company’s external auditor as  
to the appropriateness of the judgements 
made by management. The Committee 
is satisfied that the treatment and 
disclosure of the Group’s tax affairs in 
the Consolidated and Company Financial 
Statements are appropriate and sufficient.
• Other matters 
The Committee also considered the key 
assumptions underpinning the Group’s 
defined benefit pension obligations, and 
the accounting for the Group’s financial 
derivatives and the associated tests for 
hedge effectiveness. The Committee 
received reports from management and 
considered the views of the external auditor 
on the appropriateness of the defined 
benefit pension assumptions with 
reference to the latest market assumptions 
and employee pension benefits. Reports 
were also received from management and 
the external auditor on the fair value of the 
Group’s financial derivatives and support 
for the tests for hedge effectiveness, 
particularly on the Group’s fuel derivatives 
following recent changes in market values. 
Following consideration, the Committee 
concluded that the defined benefit pension 
assumptions were reasonable and that 
financial derivatives were fairly stated.
Fair, balanced and 
understandable
At the request of the Board, the Committee 
undertook a formal review of the annual 
report process in terms of preparation, 
quality of content, key themes and 
messages, consistency of information and 
presentation. From the information and 
assurance provided by management and 
the review conducted by the external 
auditor, the Committee was able to confirm 
to the Board that the 2015 Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
necessary information for shareholders  
to assess National Express’ performance, 
business model and strategy.
Risk management and 
internal controls
The Board as a whole, including the 
Committee members, considers the 
nature and extent of National Express’ 
risk management framework and the risk 
profile that is acceptable to achieve the 
Company’s strategic objectives. As a 
result, it is considered that the Board 
has fulfilled its obligations under the Code. 
The Committee continues to be responsible 
for reviewing and monitoring the adequacy, 
design and effectiveness of the Group’s 
ongoing systems of internal control and risk 
management. In that regard, the Committee 
received reports from management and the 
Head of Group Internal Audit as well from 
the external auditor. 
Further details of the internal controls 
are set out on page 62. A summary of the 
Company’s risk management framework 
and an overview of its principal risks are 
detailed on pages 28 to 31.
Internal audit
The Committee has oversight 
responsibilities for the internal audit 
function which is led by the Head of 
Group Internal Audit. 
The purpose of the internal audit function 
is to provide an independent, objective 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal 
controls, risk management and governance 
processes throughout the Group. The 
function adds value by:
• contributing to the continuous 
improvement of internal control 
and related processes, including 
identifying and sharing good practice 
across the Group; 
• addressing the safeguarding of assets, 
compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations and achievement of 
management’s operational objectives;
• promoting business processes that 
deliver effective internal control at 
reasonable cost; and
• providing alignment with the Group’s 
risk management process.
An Internal Audit Charter sets out the 
responsibilities of both the internal audit 
function in terms of its focus, programme 
of activity, scope of investigations and 
reporting lines, and management in terms 
of it providing support and co-operation at 
all levels of the business.
Audit Committee Report continued
Corporate Governance – Audit Committee Report continued
66 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 During 2015, a carefully targeted internal 
audit plan was agreed and undertaken on 
certain of the Group’s operations, systems 
and support functions with subsequent 
reports, including management responses 
and recommended action plan, considered 
by the Audit Committee in January, July 
and November.
The performance of the Group internal 
audit function itself continues to be assessed 
on an ongoing basis and the Committee 
believes it is effective in the role it carries out.
Anti-bribery policy
A Group anti-bribery policy has been 
established and issued to all Group 
companies and is also available 
on the Group’s website at 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. The 
policy prohibits any inducement which 
results in a personal gain or advantage 
to the recipient or any person or body 
associated with them, and which is 
intended to influence them to take action 
which may not be solely in the interests 
of the Group or of the person or body 
employing them or which they represent. 
The prevention, detection and reporting of 
bribery is the responsibility of all employees 
throughout the Group. 
Whistleblowing policy
‘Whistleblowing’ policies are in place in 
each of the Group’s businesses and are 
also available on the Group’s website, 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. The 
Board supports the highest standards of 
corporate governance and ethical practices 
within all its operations and continues to 
review its policies on an ongoing basis. 
The Board has endorsed a set of principles 
which establish the framework for how its 
businesses operate. Key to these is working 
in an open and honest manner. The Group 
is committed to the highest standards 
of quality, honesty, openness and 
accountability. Employees are encouraged 
to raise genuine concerns under the policy 
either by contacting their line manager or 
telephoning a dedicated external helpline. 
Any concerns raised are investigated 
carefully and thoroughly to assess what 
action, if any, should be taken and 
confidential records are maintained. The 
Company Secretary reports any matters of 
significance to the appropriate committee. 
In 2015 there have been no significant 
cases relating to fraud or financial 
misconduct.
External audit
The external auditor is engaged to express 
an opinion on the Company’s Financial 
Statements. The audit includes the review 
and test of the systems of internal financial 
control and the data contained in the 
Financial Statements to the extent necessary 
to express an audit opinion on the truth and 
fairness of the Financial Statements.
External audit tendering policy
The Committee confirms its compliance for 
the financial year ending 31 December 
2015 with the provisions of the Statutory 
Audit Services for Large Companies 
Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibililties) Order 2014. 
The Company last put its external audit 
contract out to tender in 2011, following 
which Deloitte LLP replaced Ernst & Young 
LLP and was appointed as the Group’s 
auditor. The Committee regularly considers 
the marketplace, benchmarking the current 
level of audit services that the Company 
receives along with the fees it pays and 
the value being delivered. The Committee 
recognises that audit tenders and 
transitions to new auditors require 
significant resource. On the basis that the 
quality of service remains high and the audit 
fee represents good value to shareholders, 
the Committee will next tender the audit for 
the year ending 31 December 2021.
Assessment of the effectiveness 
and independence of the 
external auditor and external 
audit process
The Audit Committee assesses and reviews 
on a regular basis the independence and 
effectiveness of the external auditor. As part  
of its determination, the Audit Committee 
reviewed the scope, materiality threshold and 
fees for the external audit plan and received 
and considered the external auditor’s 
assessment of the significant risks affecting 
the Group (as detailed above). The Committee 
also considered a report by the external 
auditor on the firm’s independence which is 
required in order to carry out its professional 
duties and responsibilities as auditor. 
Additionally, the effectiveness of the 2015 
external audit process was formally assessed 
by the Committee to meet the expectations 
set out in provision C3.2 of the Code. This 
was carried out through the use of a survey 
and analysis approach taking into account 
the views and opinions of the Group finance 
team and divisional Finance Directors. In so 
doing, the Committee’s review and qualitative 
assessment focused on feedback and 
insights, process and communication, 
handling of issues and quality of team. The 
Committee is satisfied that the external audit 
process continues to be effective and 
provides an appropriate independent 
challenge to the Group’s senior management.
Having completed its assessment of both 
the external audit process and the external 
auditor for the financial period under review, 
the Committee is satisfied that the auditor 
has performed satisfactorily in 2015, that 
the audit process implemented was 
effective and that the external auditor 
remains independent.
The Committee is therefore happy to 
recommend to the Board that Deloitte LLP 
be put forward for re-appointment at the 
2016 AGM. 
Non-audit services
The Committee has an approved policy on 
the provision of non-audit services by its 
auditor for the following types of service: 
• Services that are considered to have 
‘general pre-approval’ by the Audit 
Committee, by virtue of the approval 
of the policy.
• Services that require ‘specific pre-
approval’, on a case-by-case basis, 
before any work can commence.
• Services that cannot be supplied by the 
external auditor (prohibited services).
The services that have general pre-approval 
are tax, transaction investigation, and 
advisory and corporate finance services. 
The fees for these services are pre-
approved up to £50,000 for each non-audit 
assignment undertaken and subject to an 
overall limit of 75% of the total fees paid to 
the external auditor. For services exceeding 
this limit specific pre-approval is required. 
In deciding whether or not to grant approval 
for the provision of specific services by the 
external auditor, the Audit Committee 
includes in its consideration the 
following factors:
• Whether the external auditor is best 
placed to provide an effective and 
efficient service, given its knowledge  
and understanding of the Company’s 
processes, systems and people.
• The level of non-audit fees paid to  
the external auditor in the year as  
a proportion of the annual external  
audit fee.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken 
by the external auditor during the year 
relates to advice in respect of tax advisory 
and other regulatory services. The split 
between audit and non-audit fees for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 appears in note 6 
to the Consolidated Accounts.
The Committee is aware of the Audit 
Regulation and Directive issued by the 
European Parliament and Council of the 
European Union in 2014 which, it is 
expected, will require changes to both the 
Ethical and Auditing Standards and the 
Code, including the provision of non-audit 
services by auditors. The Group is closely 
monitoring the process by which the Audit 
Regulation and Directive will ultimately be 
adopted in the UK and the Committee will 
make changes as necessary to its policies 
to ensure compliance with the new 
regulation ahead of its effective date.
Committee effectiveness
Feedback from the annual performance 
evaluation of the Board and its Committees, 
as described earlier in this report on pages 
60 and 61, confirmed that the Audit 
Committee continued to be effective in 
fulfilling its duties.
Mike McKeon
Audit Committee Chair 
25 February 2016
67 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Dear shareholder,
The main focus of the Committee this year 
has been to review the composition of our 
Board and its Committees to ensure 
continued effectiveness. Keeping in mind 
the strategic aims of the Company and to 
ensure its ability to compete effectively in 
its marketplace, we have evaluated the 
balance of skills, knowledge, experience 
and diversity on the Board to identify 
those additional key skills required. In 
addition to the Executive appointment of 
Matthew Ashley as Group Finance Director 
in January, which was reported in last 
year’s Nomination Committee Report, three 
further key Board appointments have been 
made this year. 
The Board had set itself the specific 
objective of recruiting a Non-Executive 
Director with a strong customer focused 
background with particular emphasis on 
digital marketing expertise. I am delighted 
to report that we filled this role with the 
appointment, in May, of Matthew Crummack 
to the Board as an independent Non-
Executive Director. Matthew brings with 
him significant knowledge of the 
digital landscape from lastminute.com. 
His experience is directly relevant to 
National Express as we place customers 
at the heart of our strategy and constantly 
focus on delivering continuously 
improving services. 
I am also pleased to report that we have 
further strengthened the financial expertise 
on our Board with the appointment of  
Mike McKeon. He brings significant 
financial and corporate knowledge, coupled 
with wide-ranging international experience 
through his 15 years in the role of Group 
Finance Director within the listed company 
environment. Mike took over as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee on 1 August. 
The appointment of Dr Ashley Steel as a 
Non-Executive Director from 1 January 
2016 is also very welcome. Ashley has 
a distinguished track record of providing 
strategic advice to companies 
across a range of sectors, especially 
transport, and we will benefit from her 
knowledge and experience. 
In the coming year, we shall renew focus 
on reviewing succession plans across the 
Group and lead the process for Board 
appointments in order to align it to the 
Company’s long-term operational needs 
and governance oversight. 
Membership
The membership of the Committee during 
the year ended 31 December 2015 is set 
out below. Four meetings were held during 
the year with attendance by members 
shown on page 58.
Members (biographies appear on pages 54 and 55) Position Appointment date
Sir John Armitt CBE Committee Chair and Company Chairman 1 January 2013
Joaquín Ayuso Independent Non-Executive Director 26 February 2013
Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman 2 June 2008
Chris Muntwyler Independent Non-Executive Director 6 May 2015
Lee Sander Senior Independent Director 6 May 2015
Other attendees at Committee meetings:
Attendee
Company Secretary (as Secretary to the Committee)
Group Chief Executive
Group Human Resources Director
External advisers: as appropriate
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee. 
We continue to strengthen 
our Board in order to compete 
effectively in the marketplace
Corporate Governance – Nomination Committee Report
68 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Role and responsibilities
The primary role of the Nomination 
Committee is to ensure that the Board is 
appropriately structured and has in place 
the correct balance of individuals to 
discharge its duties effectively, and to lead 
the process by which new Board members 
are appointed. It also advises the Board 
on succession planning for Directors. 
The Committee’s terms of reference 
are reviewed annually and are available 
on the Company’s website, 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. 
The Committee’s main duties and 
responsibilities in advising the Board 
are summarised below:
• Responsibility for identifying and 
nominating, for the approval of the Board, 
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and 
when they arise.
• Giving full consideration to succession 
planning, and keeping under review the 
leadership needs of the organisation, 
both Executive and Non-Executive.
• Reviewing the time required from and 
spent by a Non-Executive Director 
in fulfilling his or her duties.
• Leading the process for Board 
appointments and making 
recommendations to the Board; 
preparing a description of the role 
and requirements for any particular 
appointment based on its evaluation 
of the Board as a whole. 
Advisers
During the year, the Committee worked 
with search consultants, the Zygos 
Partnership, to undertake a search for two 
independent Non-Executive Directors. 
We also worked with Russell Reynolds to 
identify candidates for the role of Group 
Finance Director to replace Jez Maiden 
who stepped down from the Board as 
an Executive Director with effect from 
31 December 2014. Neither the Zygos 
Partnership nor Russell Reynolds has any 
other connection to the Company. With 
respect to Dr Ashley Steel’s appointment, 
a search consultancy was not used on this 
occasion. Dr Steel had previously come to 
the attention of the Nomination Committee 
as part of an earlier search process 
conducted during the latter part of 2014 
which had led to the appointment of 
Matthew Crummack. 
Nomination Committee activity
During the year the Committee: 
• made a formal recommendation to the 
Board for the internal appointment of 
Matthew Ashley as Group Finance 
Director with effect from 28 January 2015 
following a search conducted by Russell 
Reynolds and subsequent interview and 
rigorous assessment process;
• evaluated the balance of skills, 
experience, independence, diversity 
and knowledge on the Board and then 
prepared a description of the role and 
capabilities required for the recruitment 
of a new independent Non-Executive 
Director and Audit Committee Chairman;
• oversaw the appointments process for 
three new independent Non-Executive 
Directors and interviewed shortlisted 
candidates, following which the 
appointments of Matthew Crummack, 
Mike McKeon and Dr Ashley Steel were 
subsequently recommended to the Board; 
• recommended to the Board that Lee 
Sander, with his substantial international 
and transport infrastructure experience, 
succeed Jackie Hunt as Senior 
Independent Director with effect from 
6 May 2015; and
• oversaw the induction process for newly 
appointed Non-Executive Directors.
Diversity
The Board takes the view that an increasing 
diversity at Board level is acknowledged 
as an essential element in maintaining a 
competitive advantage. A truly diverse 
Board will include and make good use 
of differences in the skills, regional and 
industry knowledge/experience, 
background, race, gender, independence 
and other qualities of Directors. These 
differences will be considered in determining 
the optimum composition of the Board and 
will continue to be balanced appropriately. 
All Board appointments are made on merit, 
in the context of the skills and experience 
that the Board as a whole requires in order 
to maintain and enhance its effectiveness.
Female representation on the Board is 
currently 18% and we are mindful of the 
recommendations of the Davies Review, 
‘Women on Boards’, published in October 
2015 and the voluntary target of 33% for 
female Board representation to be achieved 
over the next five years. The Board remains 
committed to maintain a minimum ratio of 
18% and we shall take every opportunity, 
when available, to increase the gender 
diversity of our Board further. With respect 
to Board appointments, we also take into 
account the guidance issued by the 
Equality and Human Rights Commission on 
appointments to boards and equality law. 
Committee evaluation
As part of the 2015 internal Board 
performance evaluation, it was confirmed 
that the Committee was both effective 
and efficient in its operation and leadership. 
Areas identified for improvement concerned 
the timing and frequency of meetings and 
undertaking a more regular review of 
the structure, size and composition 
of the Board. 
Sir John Armitt CBE
Nomination Committee Chair
25 February 2016
69 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance – Safety & Environment Committee Report
Dear shareholder,
Safety is our highest priority as a 
Board and is embedded throughout 
our businesses as one of our Values: we 
only do what is safe and stop any unsafe 
behaviour. The management of the 
Group’s environmental impact on the 
communities it serves also forms a key 
component of our Community Value. 
The Safety & Environment Committee 
(the ‘Committee’), comprised solely 
of Non-Executive Directors, plays 
a fundamental role in reviewing and 
challenging the structure, content and 
operation of the safety management 
arrangements which have been put in 
place by the Executive and in monitoring 
environmental performance and targets. 
I am pleased to report that in 2015 we 
continued to make progress in our safety 
performance with a further reduction in the 
Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index (‘FWI’) 
which provides a meaningful measure of 
responsible harm for our businesses. 
Further details on this KPI can be found on 
page 27 . During the year, in line with our 
Global Standard on Safety Audit and 
Management, we commissioned safety 
consultants, Arthur D Little, to conduct its 
annual audit of corporate governance of 
safety in order to provide an expert 
independent review of the effectiveness 
of the Group’s corporate governance 
arrangements implemented throughout 
the course of the year, together with 
recommendations for development. As 
Committee Chairman, I am pleased to 
report that the conclusion they reached 
was that governance of safety continues  
to be strong and effective and has further 
developed over the last 12 months. Their 
independent view was that governance of 
safety continues to be driven down through 
to the divisions by the Group Chief 
Executive’s strong and effective safety 
leadership, enhanced by regular checks of 
divisional progress and performance. The 
Group Safety Director is highly regarded 
both by Board members and in the 
divisions for supporting safety governance 
through reviewing progress, undertaking 
specific interventions following accidents, 
reporting upwards and engaging with 
divisions. The Committee was also pleased 
to note the results of external maintenance 
inspections over 30 locations in our North 
America School Bus business undertaken 
by SGS, the world’s leading inspection, 
verification, testing and certification 
company. SGS considered the results to be 
very good with a noticeable improvement 
over the inspections carried out in 2014.
With respect to the management of the 
Company’s environmental responsibilities, 
I am pleased to report that, for 2015, the 
Group continued to have zero prosecutions, 
enforcement notices or violations. The 
Group received external recognition by the 
Carbon Disclosure Project for its significant 
improvement in environmental performance 
and sustainability as a UK public company: 
for 2015, our disclosure score rose from 
85 to 95, representing a 36 rating point 
movement in just two years. The Committee 
also welcomed management’s presentation 
on the Group’s Environment Strategy 
Review forming part of the Vision and 
ambition for 2020. This strategy has the aim 
of developing and embedding a consistent 
set of processes and procedures across 
the Group’s businesses for environmental 
performance to support a reduction in 
operating costs, delivery of environmental 
commitments and extension of asset life.
Membership
The membership of the Committee during 
the year ended 31 December 2015 is set 
out below. Three meetings were held during 
the year with attendance by members 
shown on page 58. Subsequent to the year 
end, Dr Ashley Steel was appointed to the 
Committee from 1 January 2016.
Members (biographies appear on pages 54 and 55) Position Appointment date
Chris Muntwyler Committee Chairman 11 May 2011
Sir John Armitt CBE Company Chairman 1 January 2013
Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman 14 December 2005
Lee Sander Senior Independent Director 1 June 2011
Joaquín Ayuso Independent Non-Executive Director 1 June 2011
Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director 9 November 2004 until 6 May 2015
Jackie Hunt Former Senior Independent Director 13 September 2012 until 6 May 2015
Jane Kingston Independent Non-Executive Director 26 February 2014
Matthew Crummack Independent Non-Executive Director 6 May 2015
Mike McKeon Independent Non-Executive Director 3 July 2015
Other attendees at Committee meetings:
Attendee
Company Secretary (as Secretary to the Committee)
Group Chief Executive
Group Finance Director
Group Safety Director
Group Property & Environment Director
External advisers: Arthur D Little
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee. 
Strong and effective, with the 
highest levels of leadership 
commitment
70 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Safety & Environment 
Committee activity
The key areas of Committee activity during 
the year, and through to the date of this 
report, included the following:
• Reviewed the findings and approved the 
recommendations of the comprehensive 
external annual Audit of Corporate 
Governance of Safety undertaken by 
Arthur D Little in line with our Global 
Safety Standard.
• Reviewed the findings and approved 
the recommendations from the 2015 
independent review of the Group’s 
Driving Out Harm programme.
• Monitored progress of the divisional 
action plans arising from the Driving 
Out Harm review.
• Approved the world class driver training 
programme forming part of the Group’s 
Vision for 2020.
• Reviewed the independent findings of an 
external maintenance audit undertaken 
at 30 locations in the North America 
School Bus business by SGS. 
• Monitored safety practices and 
procedures across the Group. 
• Reviewed activity in health and wellbeing 
in the Divisions.
• Reviewed environmental policy, strategy, 
management and key environmental 
performance indicators across the 
Group with particular emphasis on 
the environmental Vision and ambition 
for 2020.
The Committee’s terms of reference  
are reviewed annually and are available 
on the Company’s website,  
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. 
Role and responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities are 
summarised below:
• Responsibility for reviewing and 
challenging constructively the structure, 
content and operation of the safety 
management arrangements put in 
place by members of the Executive 
management of the Group’s 
operating companies.
• Reporting, after every Committee 
meeting, to the Board on its observations 
on the safety management arrangements 
in place and reviewing and making 
recommendations to the Board on any 
specific safety management issues 
relating to the Company or any 
subsidiary company.
• Reviewing and monitoring the Company’s 
environmental performance and targets.
The Company’s detailed mandatory report 
on greenhouse gas emissions in all of its 
businesses during 2015 can be found on 
pages 23 to 25.
Committee effectiveness
Feedback from the annual performance 
evaluation of the Board and its Committees, 
which was conducted internally this year  
as described earlier in this report on pages 
60 and 61, confirmed that the Safety & 
Environment Committee continued to  
be effective in fulfilling its duties with no 
particular areas of concern identified for 
development.
Conclusion
The safety of our employees and customers 
is of critical importance to the Board, as 
is the responsible management of our 
environmental obligations. I would like to 
thank Dean Finch and his team for the 
leadership they show in these areas and, 
in particular, their personal engagement 
with safety matters across the Group over 
the course of the past 12 months. It is 
apparent that, increasingly, divisions are 
living and breathing the desirable safety 
culture and tone as set from the top.
Chris Muntwyler 
Safety & Environment Committee Chair
25 February 2016
71 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report
expectations. During 2015, our share price 
increased by 34% which far exceeded the 
returns of our direct competitors. In 
addition, the Executive Directors performed 
strongly against the non-financial targets 
set for 2015. Bonuses equal to 192% of 
salary for the Group Chief Executive and 
150% for the Group Finance Director were 
therefore determined by the Remuneration 
Committee for the year to reflect the strong 
performance of the Executive Directors. In 
accordance with the Remuneration Policy, 
a portion of their bonus has been deferred 
into shares. This will assist with retention of 
the Executive Directors and will align their 
interests with shareholders. The Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) awards granted in 
2013 are due to vest in 2016 at 73.4% of 
maximum which is also reflective of strong 
corporate performance.
We appointed Matthew Ashley to the role 
of Group Finance Director at the end of 
January 2015. The Committee set 
Matthew’s base salary at £300,000 with the 
intention to increase this as he develops in 
his role. Matthew has made a significant 
contribution to the business in his first year 
and performed strongly against the 
objectives set for him at the start of the 
year. Therefore the Committee has 
determined that it would be appropriate 
to increase his salary from £300,000 to 
£325,000 in line with our intention to bring 
him to a more competitive level of base pay 
over time. This new increase positions his 
base pay between the lower quartile and 
median against a comparator group of 
similarly sized businesses. 
The Committee is also increasing the 
salary level of our CEO from £561,000 
to £589,000 which maintains the market 
competitiveness of his salary when 
compared against direct peers and 
companies of similar size. In the last five 
years, he has only received one increase 
(2% in 2014). A 5% increase also reflects 
the aggregate average annual employee 
increase over the last few years and over a 
period during which corporate performance 
has been strong.
Looking at the wider pay environment 
for the Group, I was delighted to learn 
that National Express has become an 
accredited Living Wage employer and the 
UK’s first private transport group to pay the 
Living Wage. With our UK Bus division 
leading the way, hundreds of workers 
across our UK Bus, Coach and Rail 
businesses (including all agency and 
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce my first Directors’ 
Remuneration Report as Chair of the 
Committee, having taken over the role from 
Sir Andrew Foster on 6 May 2015. Andrew 
chaired the Committee from May 2012 and 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
him, on behalf of the Board, for his work as 
Chair and his support during our handover 
period. In addition, I would like to take 
this opportunity to welcome Matthew 
Crummack who joined the Committee 
on 6 May 2015.
Revised Remuneration Policy 
Following our extensive shareholder 
consultation process, which concluded 
during the early part of this year, the 
Remuneration Committee was pleased to 
note that the revised Remuneration Policy, 
which was put to a binding vote at the 
Company’s 2015 AGM in May, received a 
very positive 98.91% support in favour. The 
changes made to our Remuneration Policy, 
which applied from 6 May 2015, seek to 
ensure effective alignment of the interests of 
management with those of shareholders and 
to reward for the long-term success of 
National Express.
For this year, the current Remuneration 
Policy is once again set out in full on 
pages 74 to 82. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration on 
pages 83 to 95 sets out in detail how the 
Company has implemented its Remuneration 
Policy for Directors during 2015 and how it 
will be implemented for 2016.
Company highlights for the 
2015 financial year
The following financial results were 
achieved in 2015:
• Group revenue of £1.92 billion, a 3.8% 
increase on 2014 on a constant 
currency basis.
• Normalised Group profit before tax of 
£150. 1 million which was a 29.3% increase 
on a constant currency basis from the 
prior year.
• Statutory Group profit before tax of  
£124.4 million, which was an 87 . 1% 
increase from the prior year.
• Free cash flow was £1 1 1 million and net 
debt was £7 46 million (2014: £664m). 
Summary of major decisions 
made in 2015
The Group’s financial performance for 
2015 was considerably ahead of 
contracted staff) will benefit as the Living 
Wage is rolled out over the course of the 
next two years.
Following shareholder approval, the National 
Express 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘2015 
LTIP’) was implemented with the first awards 
being made under the 2015 LTIP in June. 
Awards of nil cost options were granted to the 
Executive Directors and to a small number of 
the Senior Management Group whom the 
Committee considers in a position to drive the 
Group’s performance. The awards were made 
subject to stretching performance targets over 
a period of three years. The performance 
conditions set for the 2015 awards were 
based equally on a third each of EPS, 
ROCE and TSR (split between 50% FTSE 250 
comparator group and 50% bespoke index of 
competitors). In the case of the Executive 
Directors, the Committee determined that the 
additional two-year holding period of shares 
post vesting and the malus and clawback 
provisions under the 2015 LTIP would apply. 
Full details of the awards made to the 
Executive Directors under the 2015 LTIP 
in 2015 are set out on pages 87 to 89 of the 
Annual Report on Remuneration. 
The full list of issues considered by the 
Committee during the year are summarised 
on page 83 of the Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
Looking forward
I am confident that the provisions of our 
current Remuneration Policy, which received 
such a positive vote of shareholder support, 
will ensure that the leaders of National 
Express are focused on delivering superior 
returns for shareholders. The introduction of 
the post-vesting holding period for shares, 
the tightening of the malus and clawback 
provisions and the increase in the 
shareholding guidelines to 200% measured 
at the end of a five-year period, will all 
contribute to a longer-term focus from the 
Executive Directors on behalf of 
shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank shareholders for their continued 
support. I am always happy to hear from 
the Company’s shareholders and you can 
contact me via the Company Secretary if 
you have any questions on this Report or 
more generally in relation to the Company’s 
remuneration framework.
Jane Kingston
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
25 February 2016
Annual Statement 
by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
72 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 At a glance
Introduction
In this section, we summarise the purpose 
of our Remuneration Policy and its linkage 
to our corporate strategic objectives, and 
we highlight the performance and 
remuneration outcomes for the 2015 
financial year. More detail can be found in 
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Our principles of remuneration
The Remuneration Policy is based on 
the following broad principles set by the 
Committee to:
• provide a competitive remuneration package 
to attract and retain quality individuals;
• align remuneration to drive the overall 
objectives of the business;
• align the interests of management with 
the interests of shareholders; and
• provide the foundation for overall reward 
and remuneration beyond the specific 
roles falling within the direct remit of the 
Remuneration Committee.
In implementing its policy, the Committee 
gives full consideration to the principles set 
out in the Code with regard to Directors’ 
remuneration and due regard is given to 
the guidance issued by investor protection 
bodies and institutional investors 
more generally.
Remuneration policy is reviewed on an 
ongoing basis against the Committee’s 
broad principles and in light of emerging 
best practice in corporate governance. 
Link to strategy
Our focus is to deliver sustainable growth 
and profitability and we seek to achieve this 
through the following strategic initiatives:
Strategic initiatives Measurement through the Incentives
Revenue growth Short term through the profit targets in the 
annual bonus plan and longer term through 
EPS growth targeted by the LTIP.
Cost efficiency and better margins Targeted through the ROCE metric under 
the Performance Shares and indirectly 
through relative TSR condition attached  
to the Performance Shares.
Operational excellence – safety, 
customers, people, community
Measured by non-financial metrics in the 
annual bonus plan.
Superior cash and returns Measured by free cash flow metric 
in the annual bonus plan and ROCE 
and TSR conditions attached to the 
Performance Shares.
Creating new business opportunities Measured by non-financial metrics in the 
annual bonus plan.
How we have performed in 2015
Bonus KPIs (£m) Threshold Target Maximum Actual
Normalised profit before tax 122.8 136.4 150.0 150.1
Free cash flow 85.2 94.7 104.2 111.0
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for 2015
£’000
Base
salary
Taxable
benefits
Performance-
related bonus
Value of
LTIP vested
Pension
related
benefits
2015
Total
2
2014
Total
Group Chief 
Executive 
– Dean Finch
561 27 1,077 1,395 196 3,256 1,562
Group Finance 
Director 
– Matthew Ashley
1
276 126 413 457 69 1,341 N/A
1
 Appointed on 28 January 2015.
2
 The increase in the single total figure for the Group Chief Executive from 2014 to 2015 is primarily due to the vesting of the 
2013 LTIP award at 73.4% of maximum. The value of the LTIP vested is based upon the average share price for the last 
quarter of 2015 (£3.07). There was no LTIP vesting in 2014. 
Notes
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has 
been prepared in accordance with Schedule 
8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the 
‘Regulations’) and the provisions of the 2014 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’). 
The report consists of the following sections:
• The Annual Statement by the 
Remuneration Committee Chairman;
• The ‘At a glance’ section providing 
a summary overview;
• The current Remuneration Policy 
report which sets out the Company’s 
Remuneration Policy for directors and 
the key factors that were taken into 
account in setting the policy. This policy 
is currently in operation, having been 
approved at the 2015 AGM. It is intended 
that the policy will apply until the 
conclusion of the 2018 AGM; and
• The Annual Report on Remuneration 
which sets out payments made to the 
directors and details the link between 
Company performance and 
remuneration for the 2015 financial year.
The Chairman’s Annual Statement and the 
Annual Report on Remuneration will be 
subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
73 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors
Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Base salary To provide a competitive level of 
salary as the main component of 
fixed remuneration. Enables the 
Group to recruit and retain 
Executive Directors of the calibre 
required to fulfil the role and is key 
to developing and implementing 
business strategy without paying 
more than is necessary to do so.
The salary of individual Executive Directors is paid monthly in cash and  
is normally reviewed annually. 
In determining base salaries, the Committee considers:
• pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250;
• external market conditions;
• general performance of the Company;
• pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group; and
• individual performance, skills, experience in post and potential.
When considering pay increases the Committee will use comparator  
groups that will be based on groups of transport/leisure and general 
sector companies of a similar size. The Committee retains discretion to 
amend the comparator groups as necessary in order to remain relevant.
Any changes to the comparator groups will be disclosed in the part of 
the report setting out the operation of the policy for the future year.
The Committee’s policy is to set base salary  
at an appropriate level taking into account  
the factors outlined in this table.
The maximum annual salary increase will not 
normally exceed the average increase which 
applies across the wider workforce. However, 
larger increases may be awarded in certain 
circumstances including but not limited to:
• increase in scope of responsibilities of the role;
• to apply salary progression for a newly 
appointed Director; and
• where a Director’s salary has fallen significantly 
below market position.
In these circumstances, subsequent increases 
may be staged over a number of years until 
the target positioning (and desired performance) 
is reached.
In such circumstances, the increase will not 
exceed RPI + 10%.
The Company will set out in the section 
headed ‘Statement of implementation of 
Remuneration Policy’ in the following financial 
year the salaries for that year for each of the 
Executive Directors (see page 93).
Not applicable.
Pension-related 
benefits
To provide competitive benefits in 
line with market practice. To 
provide funds to allow Executives 
to save for retirement. Pension 
benefits are a fixed element of 
remuneration.
Executive Directors are provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension 
provision in line with market practice.
The Group CEO receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 35%  
of salary. 
The Group FD receives a pension contribution or a cash supplement  
in lieu of pension at 25% of salary. 
Only basic salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
The Committee’s policy is that the maximum 
cash allowance payable in lieu of a pension  
will be 35%.
Not applicable.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits as 
part of fixed remuneration in line 
with market practice to enable the 
Group to recruit and retain talent.
Executive Directors receive family private healthcare, death in service and 
life assurance cover (4 x base salary), long-term sickness and disability 
insurance, a cash alternative to a fully expensed car, free travel on the 
Company’s services and professional membership subscriptions.
The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits or remove 
benefits in order to remain competitive or to meet the needs of the 
business, for example to provide relocation expenses, including financial, 
tax and legal advice if applicable. Any change to benefit provision will be 
detailed on an annual basis.
The cost to the Company of providing  
the benefits may vary from year to year  
in accordance with market conditions and 
will, therefore, determine the maximum  
amount that would be paid in the form  
of benefits during the policy period.
Not applicable.
Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
Remuneration structure from 2015
The table below sets out the key elements of the Company’s 
Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors which was 
approved at the AGM held on 6 May 2015 and will continue to 
apply for the period of three years from that date. The policy 
balances the desire to align remuneration to the long-term success 
of the business and shareholders whilst also enabling the 
Company to effectively recruit and motivate key individuals. 
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with 
shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant 
changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.  
74 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors
Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Base salary To provide a competitive level of 
salary as the main component of 
fixed remuneration. Enables the 
Group to recruit and retain 
Executive Directors of the calibre 
required to fulfil the role and is key 
to developing and implementing 
business strategy without paying 
more than is necessary to do so.
The salary of individual Executive Directors is paid monthly in cash and  
is normally reviewed annually. 
In determining base salaries, the Committee considers:
• pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250;
• external market conditions;
• general performance of the Company;
• pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group; and
• individual performance, skills, experience in post and potential.
When considering pay increases the Committee will use comparator  
groups that will be based on groups of transport/leisure and general 
sector companies of a similar size. The Committee retains discretion to 
amend the comparator groups as necessary in order to remain relevant.
Any changes to the comparator groups will be disclosed in the part of 
the report setting out the operation of the policy for the future year.
The Committee’s policy is to set base salary  
at an appropriate level taking into account  
the factors outlined in this table.
The maximum annual salary increase will not 
normally exceed the average increase which 
applies across the wider workforce. However, 
larger increases may be awarded in certain 
circumstances including but not limited to:
• increase in scope of responsibilities of the role;
• to apply salary progression for a newly 
appointed Director; and
• where a Director’s salary has fallen significantly 
below market position.
In these circumstances, subsequent increases 
may be staged over a number of years until 
the target positioning (and desired performance) 
is reached.
In such circumstances, the increase will not 
exceed RPI + 10%.
The Company will set out in the section 
headed ‘Statement of implementation of 
Remuneration Policy’ in the following financial 
year the salaries for that year for each of the 
Executive Directors (see page 93).
Not applicable.
Pension-related 
benefits
To provide competitive benefits in 
line with market practice. To 
provide funds to allow Executives 
to save for retirement. Pension 
benefits are a fixed element of 
remuneration.
Executive Directors are provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension 
provision in line with market practice.
The Group CEO receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 35%  
of salary. 
The Group FD receives a pension contribution or a cash supplement  
in lieu of pension at 25% of salary. 
Only basic salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
The Committee’s policy is that the maximum 
cash allowance payable in lieu of a pension  
will be 35%.
Not applicable.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits as 
part of fixed remuneration in line 
with market practice to enable the 
Group to recruit and retain talent.
Executive Directors receive family private healthcare, death in service and 
life assurance cover (4 x base salary), long-term sickness and disability 
insurance, a cash alternative to a fully expensed car, free travel on the 
Company’s services and professional membership subscriptions.
The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits or remove 
benefits in order to remain competitive or to meet the needs of the 
business, for example to provide relocation expenses, including financial, 
tax and legal advice if applicable. Any change to benefit provision will be 
detailed on an annual basis.
The cost to the Company of providing  
the benefits may vary from year to year  
in accordance with market conditions and 
will, therefore, determine the maximum  
amount that would be paid in the form  
of benefits during the policy period.
Not applicable.
In particular, the Committee consulted with a number of major 
shareholders in the formulation of the current Remuneration  
Policy to understand their views and to inform the Committee’s 
approach. The Committee believes that the feedback received  
has been crucial in the development of the new structure which  
is now in place. 
In addition to the components described below, it is the policy  
of the Company to honour any commitments made to a Director 
before this policy took effect or before he/she became a Director. 
Such commitments include the Group Chief Executive’s unfunded 
pension arrangement, which is described on page 80 and his  
Five Year Award, which is described in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
75 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Performance- 
related bonus
To incentivise delivery of 
performance objectives which are 
directly linked to the financial and 
strategic priorities of the business.
A portion of bonus is deferred 
into shares, assisting retention of 
Executive Directors and aligning 
their financial interests with those 
of shareholders.
Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate 
(financial and non-financial) objectives over a one-year performance period. 
A proportion of the bonus payments is subject to mandatory deferral 
into shares for one year from award as follows:
• 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary. 
• 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary. 
• 75% of the bonus earned above 150% of salary (applicable to Group CEO only). 
Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume notional re-investment) 
are paid on these shares.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to standardise the 
percentage of the bonus deferred into shares if this is deemed appropriate in 
the future. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the market price per 
share on the date of the award will be calculated on the basis of the average 
market price share in the five days preceding the date of the grant.
Bonus payments are paid following year end and are not pensionable.
Only the Executive Directors currently participate in the Company’s bonus 
deferral arrangements. Other employees may be invited to participate in  
future years at the Committee’s discretion.
Achievement of each element of the bonus is assessed independently.
Provisions exist that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid 
should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial 
results upon which the bonus was awarded within a two-year period 
following the deferred bonus being awarded. The proportion of the bonus 
that would be subject to this provision would depend on the extent to 
which the original bonus payment turned out to be false following 
the publication of corrected results.
Maximum 200% of base salary. The targets for the bonus in respect of 2016 are as follows:
• 75% bonus is subject to normalised profit and free cash flow targets.
• 25% is subject to non-financial targets.
The Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances to amend the 
weightings of the financial and non-financial elements of the bonus from year  
to year and for each Executive as appropriate. 
The targets attached to the financial condition will typically relate to profit and/or 
cash generation, are set on an annual basis and are intended to be achievable  
at threshold and stretching at maximum. The numerical values of the target will 
not be disclosed in advance as the Committee considers this information 
commercially sensitive. Actual targets, performance achieved and awards will be 
published at the end of the performance period in order that shareholders can 
fully assess the basis for any payouts under the annual bonus.
The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic objectives for the 
year. The non-financial targets include safety, customer, operational excellence 
and people objectives and will be determined by the Committee on an annual 
basis. The proportion of the bonus determined by performance against non-
financial targets will only become payable when the Company achieves a 
threshold level of normalised profit.
It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee 
has determined that there has been an improvement in safety processes, 
procedures and outcomes during the year in the relevant business unit before  
any bonus is paid.
For further details on the measures and targets which applied to bonuses in 2015, 
please see pages 85 and 86. 
The annual bonus contains malus and clawback provisions.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
– Performance 
Shares
To drive performance, aid 
retention and align the interests 
of Executive Directors with 
shareholders. 
The performance conditions  
are aligned with the long-term 
performance of the business, 
thereby driving participants 
to achieve outcomes that 
realise shareholder value.
Performance Share Awards (in the form of conditional awards, nil cost 
options or forfeitable shares) are granted annually and vesting is 
dependent on the achievement of performance conditions measured 
over a three-year period. 
An additional two-year holding period has been introduced to increase 
alignment with shareholders. Dividend equivalents can be paid on  
these shares.
Awards are reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance 
criteria and other features remain appropriate to the Company’s current 
circumstances.
Malus and clawback provisions are attached to awards made under the 
LTIP which apply over a two-year period post vesting.
The Group CEO is eligible to receive a 
conditional award of Performance Shares up  
to an equivalent of 200% of salary per annum.
The Group FD is eligible to receive a 
conditional award of Performance Shares  
up to an equivalent of 150% of base salary  
per annum.
Awards will be subject to stretching performance targets over a period of  
three years. 
The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different 
measures for subsequent awards, as appropriate. No material change will be  
made to the type of performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
For 2016, the awards will be based equally as follows:
• 1/3 earnings per share (‘EPS’).
• 1/3 return on capital employed (‘ROCE’).
• 1/3 total shareholder return (split between 50% FTSE 250 comparator group and 
50% competitors (‘TSR’).
Achievement of threshold performance in respect of the EPS and TSR targets 
results in 30% vesting for each part of the award. Achievement of threshold 
performance in respect of the ROCE target results in 0% vesting.
There is no ability to retest any of the performance conditions.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing 
performance conditions to take account of any events that may arise which would 
mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were not made, the performance condition 
would not constitute a fair measure of the Company’s performance over the period.
Shareholding 
requirement
Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over a five-year period from 2015. The requirement 
for the Group CEO is equivalent to 200% of salary and for the Group FD the requirement is 150% of base salary. 
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.  
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors continued
76 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Performance- 
related bonus
To incentivise delivery of 
performance objectives which are 
directly linked to the financial and 
strategic priorities of the business.
A portion of bonus is deferred 
into shares, assisting retention of 
Executive Directors and aligning 
their financial interests with those 
of shareholders.
Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate 
(financial and non-financial) objectives over a one-year performance period. 
A proportion of the bonus payments is subject to mandatory deferral 
into shares for one year from award as follows:
• 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary. 
• 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary. 
• 75% of the bonus earned above 150% of salary (applicable to Group CEO only). 
Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume notional re-investment) 
are paid on these shares.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to standardise the 
percentage of the bonus deferred into shares if this is deemed appropriate in 
the future. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the market price per 
share on the date of the award will be calculated on the basis of the average 
market price share in the five days preceding the date of the grant.
Bonus payments are paid following year end and are not pensionable.
Only the Executive Directors currently participate in the Company’s bonus 
deferral arrangements. Other employees may be invited to participate in  
future years at the Committee’s discretion.
Achievement of each element of the bonus is assessed independently.
Provisions exist that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid 
should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial 
results upon which the bonus was awarded within a two-year period 
following the deferred bonus being awarded. The proportion of the bonus 
that would be subject to this provision would depend on the extent to 
which the original bonus payment turned out to be false following 
the publication of corrected results.
Maximum 200% of base salary. The targets for the bonus in respect of 2016 are as follows:
• 75% bonus is subject to normalised profit and free cash flow targets.
• 25% is subject to non-financial targets.
The Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances to amend the 
weightings of the financial and non-financial elements of the bonus from year  
to year and for each Executive as appropriate. 
The targets attached to the financial condition will typically relate to profit and/or 
cash generation, are set on an annual basis and are intended to be achievable  
at threshold and stretching at maximum. The numerical values of the target will 
not be disclosed in advance as the Committee considers this information 
commercially sensitive. Actual targets, performance achieved and awards will be 
published at the end of the performance period in order that shareholders can 
fully assess the basis for any payouts under the annual bonus.
The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic objectives for the 
year. The non-financial targets include safety, customer, operational excellence 
and people objectives and will be determined by the Committee on an annual 
basis. The proportion of the bonus determined by performance against non-
financial targets will only become payable when the Company achieves a 
threshold level of normalised profit.
It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee 
has determined that there has been an improvement in safety processes, 
procedures and outcomes during the year in the relevant business unit before  
any bonus is paid.
For further details on the measures and targets which applied to bonuses in 2015, 
please see pages 85 and 86. 
The annual bonus contains malus and clawback provisions.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
– Performance 
Shares
To drive performance, aid 
retention and align the interests 
of Executive Directors with 
shareholders. 
The performance conditions  
are aligned with the long-term 
performance of the business, 
thereby driving participants 
to achieve outcomes that 
realise shareholder value.
Performance Share Awards (in the form of conditional awards, nil cost 
options or forfeitable shares) are granted annually and vesting is 
dependent on the achievement of performance conditions measured 
over a three-year period. 
An additional two-year holding period has been introduced to increase 
alignment with shareholders. Dividend equivalents can be paid on  
these shares.
Awards are reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance 
criteria and other features remain appropriate to the Company’s current 
circumstances.
Malus and clawback provisions are attached to awards made under the 
LTIP which apply over a two-year period post vesting.
The Group CEO is eligible to receive a 
conditional award of Performance Shares up  
to an equivalent of 200% of salary per annum.
The Group FD is eligible to receive a 
conditional award of Performance Shares  
up to an equivalent of 150% of base salary  
per annum.
Awards will be subject to stretching performance targets over a period of  
three years. 
The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different 
measures for subsequent awards, as appropriate. No material change will be  
made to the type of performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
For 2016, the awards will be based equally as follows:
• 1/3 earnings per share (‘EPS’).
• 1/3 return on capital employed (‘ROCE’).
• 1/3 total shareholder return (split between 50% FTSE 250 comparator group and 
50% competitors (‘TSR’).
Achievement of threshold performance in respect of the EPS and TSR targets 
results in 30% vesting for each part of the award. Achievement of threshold 
performance in respect of the ROCE target results in 0% vesting.
There is no ability to retest any of the performance conditions.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing 
performance conditions to take account of any events that may arise which would 
mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were not made, the performance condition 
would not constitute a fair measure of the Company’s performance over the period.
Shareholding 
requirement
Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over a five-year period from 2015. The requirement 
for the Group CEO is equivalent to 200% of salary and for the Group FD the requirement is 150% of base salary. 
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.  
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
77 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Elements of remuneration applying under the previous policy applicable for 2015
Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Long-Term Incentive 
Plan – Matching 
Shares
To drive performance, aid retention and 
align the interests of Executive Directors 
with shareholders.
Participants only receive Matching 
Shares subject to investing into the 
business and therefore this mechanism 
adds an element of buy-in to the 
remuneration. 
The performance conditions are aligned 
with the long-term performance of the 
business, thereby driving participants 
to achieve outcomes that realise 
shareholder value.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching 
Shares that are based on a personal investment in National 
Express Group PLC shares funded either through using an 
annual bonus award to purchase shares or through the 
pledging of shares held not already allocated to the LTIP. 
Matching awards are made on the basis of up to four 
Matching Shares being awarded (based on the value of 
the investment) for each National Express share pledged 
or purchased. 
Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance 
criteria and other features remain appropriate to the 
Company’s current circumstances, and to ensure that there 
are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate 
irresponsible behaviour.
The maximum value of investment in any year is 30% 
of base salary.
Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth. The remaining  
half will be subject to the relative TSR of the Company measured 
against an appropriate group of companies.
Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting 
for each part of the award.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to 
amend existing performance conditions to take account of any 
events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such 
adjustments were not made, the performance condition would 
not constitute a fair measure of the Company’s EPS or TSR 
growth over the period.
Performance conditions for the National Express Group PLC 2015 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘2015 LTIP’)
EPS, TSR and ROCE were chosen for the 2015 LTIP as appropriate measures of the Group’s long-term performance. The table below 
summarises the rationale for the inclusion of these measures in the 2015 LTIP:
Measure Rationale for performance measure
EPS • Important growth measure considered within the Company and a driver of shareholder value.
• Provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging the financial performance of the Company.
• Ensures the annual profit performance targeted by the annual bonus plan flows through to long-term 
sustainable EPS growth.
• The Company calculates performance against this measure by reference to the EPS figures reported in the  
Company’s audited accounts.
TSR • Improves shareholder alignment.
• Consistent with the Company’s objective of providing superior long-term returns to shareholders.
ROCE • Demonstrates how efficiently the Company is operating with the resources available.
If the Committee changes the performance conditions within the life of the Remuneration Policy, it will inform shareholders of the changes 
made and the reason for making any change.
On a change of control, Performance Shares will vest, except to the extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring 
company. Vesting will be subject to any performance conditions and will normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, unless the 
Remuneration Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested shares is considered inappropriate. The number 
or class of shares under award may be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or similar transaction.
Comparison with approach to remuneration across the Group
National Express Group operates internationally and accordingly, the remuneration policy for employees generally reflects the legislative 
and labour market requirements in each separate jurisdiction. The Group will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for 
terms and conditions of employment in each of our business areas, offering pay, terms and conditions that are appropriate to each 
labour market in which we operate. Base pay is set at a level that allows us to recruit and retain staff in each relevant labour market  
and performance-related pay arrangements are based on the achievement of business unit and individual goals, objectively assessed. 
Other than for a small number of senior Executives in each business unit, long-term incentive plans are only applicable at Executive 
Director level.
Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
78 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Elements of remuneration applying under the previous policy applicable for 2015
Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Long-Term Incentive 
Plan – Matching 
Shares
To drive performance, aid retention and 
align the interests of Executive Directors 
with shareholders.
Participants only receive Matching 
Shares subject to investing into the 
business and therefore this mechanism 
adds an element of buy-in to the 
remuneration. 
The performance conditions are aligned 
with the long-term performance of the 
business, thereby driving participants 
to achieve outcomes that realise 
shareholder value.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching 
Shares that are based on a personal investment in National 
Express Group PLC shares funded either through using an 
annual bonus award to purchase shares or through the 
pledging of shares held not already allocated to the LTIP. 
Matching awards are made on the basis of up to four 
Matching Shares being awarded (based on the value of 
the investment) for each National Express share pledged 
or purchased. 
Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance 
criteria and other features remain appropriate to the 
Company’s current circumstances, and to ensure that there 
are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate 
irresponsible behaviour.
The maximum value of investment in any year is 30% 
of base salary.
Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth. The remaining  
half will be subject to the relative TSR of the Company measured 
against an appropriate group of companies.
Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting 
for each part of the award.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to 
amend existing performance conditions to take account of any 
events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such 
adjustments were not made, the performance condition would 
not constitute a fair measure of the Company’s EPS or TSR 
growth over the period.
Performance conditions for the National Express Group PLC 2015 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘2015 LTIP’)
EPS, TSR and ROCE were chosen for the 2015 LTIP as appropriate measures of the Group’s long-term performance. The table below 
summarises the rationale for the inclusion of these measures in the 2015 LTIP:
Measure Rationale for performance measure
EPS • Important growth measure considered within the Company and a driver of shareholder value.
• Provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging the financial performance of the Company.
• Ensures the annual profit performance targeted by the annual bonus plan flows through to long-term 
sustainable EPS growth.
• The Company calculates performance against this measure by reference to the EPS figures reported in the  
Company’s audited accounts.
TSR • Improves shareholder alignment.
• Consistent with the Company’s objective of providing superior long-term returns to shareholders.
ROCE • Demonstrates how efficiently the Company is operating with the resources available.
If the Committee changes the performance conditions within the life of the Remuneration Policy, it will inform shareholders of the changes 
made and the reason for making any change.
On a change of control, Performance Shares will vest, except to the extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring 
company. Vesting will be subject to any performance conditions and will normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, unless the 
Remuneration Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested shares is considered inappropriate. The number 
or class of shares under award may be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or similar transaction.
Comparison with approach to remuneration across the Group
National Express Group operates internationally and accordingly, the remuneration policy for employees generally reflects the legislative 
and labour market requirements in each separate jurisdiction. The Group will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for 
terms and conditions of employment in each of our business areas, offering pay, terms and conditions that are appropriate to each 
labour market in which we operate. Base pay is set at a level that allows us to recruit and retain staff in each relevant labour market  
and performance-related pay arrangements are based on the achievement of business unit and individual goals, objectively assessed. 
Other than for a small number of senior Executives in each business unit, long-term incentive plans are only applicable at Executive 
Director level.
Approach to recruitment remuneration of Executive Directors
In the event that the Company recruits a new Executive Director (either from within the organisation or externally) when determining 
appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors (including but not limited to 
quantum, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from) to ensure that arrangements 
are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to recruit an Executive 
of the required calibre.
The Committee’s policy is for all Executive Directors to have rolling service contracts with a notice period of 12 months, unless on an 
exceptional basis to complete an external recruitment successfully, when a longer initial period reducing to 12 months may be used. 
The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration of any new Executive Director following the same principles as for the 
current Executive Directors (set out in the table above). 
The elements that would be considered by the Company for inclusion in the remuneration package for a new Director are:
• salary and benefits including defined contribution pension participation or a salary supplement in lieu of pension provision;
• participation in the performance-related bonus pro-rated for the year of recruitment to reflect the proportion of the year for which the 
new recruit was in post (maximum of 200% of salary). If the commencement date is after 1 September in the year, no award would 
normally be made for that year;
• participation in the LTIP . The Performance Shares granted will be in line with the grant levels for that grade. In the case of the 
appointment of a new Group Chief Executive, this grant would be a maximum of 200% and for any other position a grant of 150% would 
be made. The grant may be pro-rated depending on the time of appointment through the year; and
• costs relating to but not limited to relocation; London allowance; legal, financial, tax and visa advice, and pre-employment medical checks.
The Committee may make awards on appointing an Executive Director to ‘buy out’ remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a 
previous employer. The Committee would take into account both market practice and any relevant commercial factors in considering 
whether any enhanced and/or one-off annual incentive or long-term incentive award was necessary. Awards made by way of 
compensation for forfeited awards would be made on a comparable basis, taking account of performance achieved (or likely to be 
achieved), the proportion of the performance period remaining and the form of the award. Compensation could be in cash or shares.
In the event of recruitment or retention (other than buy-out awards as described above), the Committee may also grant awards to a new 
or existing Executive Director under Listing Rule 9.4.2 up to an equivalent of 200% of salary per annum. The Remuneration Committee 
does not currently intend to exercise this discretion to grant total awards in excess of 200% of salary and is committed to fully disclose  
the nature and reasons for any such discretion used in future.
79 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Executive Directors 
The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are shown in the table below:
Executive Directors’ service contracts and notice periods
Director Contract date
Notice period from
the Company
Notice period from
the Director
Dean Finch 16 December 2009 12 months 6 months
Matthew Ashley 16 July 2015 12 months 6 months
The service contract of Dean Finch, which is a rolling contract, contains a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to pay an 
amount on termination of employment equal to one year’s salary, salary supplement in lieu of pension and car allowance. The Director will 
not be obliged to mitigate his loss in relation to any payment in lieu of notice. The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions 
when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the 
Company and the circumstances surrounding the departure of the Director justify their use. 
The service contracts for the current Executive Directors are available to view on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee continuously reviews its policies on Executive remuneration and severance in the best interests of shareholders. Guidance 
on best practice expectations is taken into account prior to agreeing Directors’ contractual provisions. 
The Group Chief Executive is entitled, under an unfunded pension arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions 
of 25% of his salary, plus a 5% per annum notional return. On 3 June 2015, the Group Chief Executive was given 12 months’ notice of 
the cessation of this ongoing accrual. The benefits under the unfunded pension arrangement will cease to accrue on 5 June 2016. 
The pension normally becomes payable, at the earliest, on 1 April 2022. All or part of it may be paid as a lump sum. 
Executive Directors are also provided with Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain 
liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
Executive Directors’ external appointments
Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an 
Executive Director. The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services. 
Details of the fee received by the Group Chief Executive in 2015 are shown below:
Director Fee External appointment
Dean Finch £13,700 Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust
Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
80 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Executive Directors’ termination payments
The Company may at its discretion pay in lieu of notice. Payment in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months’ base salary, 
benefits and pension (which may be payable in instalments and subject to mitigation). 
The table below sets out the treatment of other elements of remuneration that would normally apply for Executive Directors whose service 
with National Express terminates:
Reason for termination
Salary and 
contractual benefits 
Performance-related 
bonus awards
Unvested deferred 
bonus awards Unvested LTIP awards Other
Retirement, disability, 
redundancy, death, 
sale of part of 
Company that 
employs participant, 
or any other reason 
that the Remuneration 
Committee decides.
Payment equal to 
the aggregate of 
the basic salary 
and the value of 
any contractual 
benefits for the 
notice period 
including any 
accrued but 
untaken holiday.
Bonus awarded 
(subject to 
satisfaction of 
performance 
targets) for 
the relevant 
financial year.
Award vests on the 
date of cessation 
of employment.
Awards vest on the 
date of cessation of 
employment, unless 
the Remuneration 
Committee 
determines it should 
vest at normal vesting 
date.
The amount of award 
vesting will be subject 
to the satisfaction of 
performance 
conditions as at the 
date the award is 
deemed to vest.
Awards will normally 
be reduced time pro 
rata to reflect time 
elapsed between 
grant and cessation 
of employment.
Fees for 
outplacement 
and legal advice 
may be paid.
1
  Pursuant to Dean Finch’s service contract dated 16 December 2009, if his contract is terminated for reasons other than for an event of default by the Executive (such as gross 
misconduct), he is entitled, subject to the applicable performance conditions, to a pro rata bonus calculated up to the termination date from the commencement of the relevant 
bonus year in which termination takes place.
Subject to the circumstances surrounding the termination, the Committee in its discretion may treat the individual as an approved 
leaver (ie, under the first section in the table above). The Committee will consider factors such as personal performance and conduct, 
overall Company performance and the specific circumstances of the Executive’s departure including, but not restricted to, whether the 
Executive is leaving by mutual agreement with the Company. 
In addition, the Committee will consider the above circumstances in considering whether awards in respect of approved leavers should 
be pro-rated to reflect the service completed.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith:
• in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or
• by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors’ appointments
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company and do not participate in the Group’s pension scheme, 
annual bonus scheme or long-term incentive schemes. Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and are appointed for an 
initial three-year term. Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve for two three-year terms, although their appointment can 
be terminated either by them or by the Company on one month’s written notice. It is open to the Company to invite a Non-Executive 
Director to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms. The letters of appointment for the current Non-Executive 
Directors can be found on the Company’s website, www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
Non-Executive Directors are also provided with Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance and are indemnified by the Company against 
certain liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
81 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION In accordance with the requirements of the Code, all Directors are required to stand for election or re-election by shareholders each year. 
The original appointment dates of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are shown in the table below. The remuneration of any new 
Non-Executive Director will be determined following the same principles as for the current Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors’ appointment dates
Director Date of appointment
Notice period by either
Company or Director
Sir John Armitt CBE 1 January 2013 3 months
Joaquín Ayuso 1 June 2011 1 month 
Jorge Cosmen 1 December 2005 0 months
Sir Andrew Foster
1
1 August 2004 1 month
Jackie Hunt
1
13 September 2012 1 month
Chris Muntwyler 11 May 2011 1 month
Lee Sander 1 June 2011 1 month
Jane Kingston 26 February 2014 1 month
Matthew Crummack 6 May 2015 1 month
Mike McKeon 3 July 2015 1 month
1
 Retired from the Board on 6 May 2015.
The table below sets out the current Company’s Remuneration Policy for the Non-Executive Directors which became effective from the 2015 AGM:
Element Purpose Operation Maximum potential value
Non-Executive 
fees
To attract and retain 
persons of a suitable 
calibre for a group of 
this size and to pay 
fees which are reflective 
of responsibilities and 
competitive with 
peer companies 
without paying more 
than is necessary.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by 
the Board as a whole and those of the Chairman are 
set by the Remuneration Committee. The fees are 
reviewed at appropriate intervals (normally once every 
year). The review takes account of fees paid for 
similar positions in the market, the time commitment 
required from the Director (estimated to be 60 days 
per year for the Chairman and 20 days per year for 
the other Non-Executive Directors) and any additional 
responsibilities undertaken, such as acting as 
Chairman to one of the Board Committees or fulfilling 
the role of Senior Independent Director. 
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive 
pension entitlements or bonuses and may not 
participate in long-term incentive arrangements. 
A travel allowance may be paid to Non-Executive 
Directors for attendance at Board meetings held 
outside the continent in which the Non-Executive 
Director is resident.
The Committee’s policy 
is to set base fees at an 
appropriate level taking 
into account the factors 
outlined in this table.
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Group operates across a number of countries and accordingly sets terms and conditions for employees which reflect the different 
legislative and labour market conditions that operate in each of our jurisdictions. We set Global People Standards to provide a framework 
for recognition and rewards internationally. We will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for terms and conditions of 
employment in each of our business areas. Pay arrangements in our businesses also reflect local performance with personal increases 
based on achievement, individually assessed. National Express believes in the value of continuous improvement, both for the individual 
and for the Company. The Company did not consult with employees in drawing up the Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
When determining the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into account business unit performance, 
including both financial performance and safety improvements in the year. Because of the wide variety in labour market conditions and 
in exchange rate movements, pay rates locally are not normally considered when considering Executive Director base pay reviews.
The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries of the Senior Management Group. LTIP awards are cascaded down below 
Executive Director level to the Senior Management Group, aligning the senior team to deliver value for the Group.
Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
82 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration
The relevant sections of this report have been audited, as required by the Regulations.
Remuneration Committee composition and terms of reference
The individuals who served on the Remuneration Committee during 2015, and those individuals who attended Remuneration Committee 
meetings, are set out below:
Member (biographies appear on pages 54 and 55) Position Appointment Date
Jane Kingston Committee Chair Chair from 6 May 2015 and member since 
26 February 2014
Sir Andrew Foster
1
Committee Chairman Chairman from 10 May 2012 until 
6 May 2015
Lee Sander Senior Independent Director 22 November 2011
Matthew Crummack Independent Non-Executive Director 6 May 2015
1
 Retired from the Board on 6 May 2015.
Role and responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to:
• determine the fees of the Chairman;
• determine the remuneration and conditions of employment (including any termination arrangements) of the Executive Directors and 
the Company Secretary;
• review the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Senior Management Group; and
• select and appoint any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website at www.nationalexpressgroup.com. 
Meetings 
The Committee met seven times during the year. Details of attendance at the formal Committee meetings can be found on page 58.
Remuneration Committee activity
The key areas of Committee activity during the year were as follows: 
• Completed the extensive shareholder consultation commenced in 2014 in connection with the formulation of a revised Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy which was put to a binding vote at the 2015 AGM.
• Considered and approved a new long-term incentive plan for the Executive Directors and Senior Management Group, including the 
types and range of performance conditions to be used, which was approved at the 2015 AGM.
• Approved the remuneration arrangements for the incoming Group Finance Director. 
• Reviewed salary levels for the Executive Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management Group.
• Approved annual bonus payments to the Executive Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management Group having duly 
considered the overall strong financial performance of the Company. 
• Reviewed the Chairman’s fee. 
• Considered and approved 2015 award levels under the new 2015 LTIP .
• Tested performance conditions for awards made under the previous 2005 LTIP granted in 2012.
• Reviewed approach to measuring EPS performance in the light of a change in accounting treatment for bid costs. 
• Set targets for the Group’s 2015 bonus scheme.
• Reviewed the fees paid to the remuneration advisers.
• Reviewed corporate governance and legal and regulatory compliance with regard to Directors’ remuneration.
• Reviewed and updated the Committee’s terms of reference.
• Undertook an internal review of the effectiveness of the Committee, concluding that it continued to operate effectively.
• Reviewed and approved the Committee’s report for inclusion in the 2015 Annual Report.
83 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information that it requires from any employee of the Group. 
The Committee members and management attendees did not participate in any discussions directly relating to their own remuneration 
or performance during the year. 
Advisors to the Committee
Material advice or services were provided to the Committee during the year by:
• PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) – Independent Remuneration Consultants;
• Dean Finch – Group Chief Executive;
• Matthew Ashley – Group Finance Director;
• Mike Goddard – Group HR Director; and
• Sandra Forbes – Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee to make recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration of 
the Senior Management Group. The Group HR Director guided the Committee on reward matters relating to the Executive Directors and the 
Senior Management Group and the broader Group HR strategy and policy. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
During 2015, PwC provided advice to the management of the Group on various matters including pensions, international taxation and 
business consulting.
From time to time, the Company submits the remuneration consultant function to tender. 
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective 
and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
The Committee is satisfied that advice received was appropriate, objective and independent. 
Advisor Fees in relation to remuneration advice (£’000)
PwC 170
Single total figure of remuneration
Executive Directors
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in post during the 2015 
financial year. Comparative figures for 2014 have also been provided.
2015 2014
£’000
Base
salary
Taxable
benefits
1
Performance-
related
bonus
Value
of LTIP
vested
2
 
Pension-
related
benefits
3
Total
Base
salary
Taxable
benefits
1
Performance-
related 
bonus
Value
of LTIP
vested 
Pension-
related
benefits
3
Total
Dean Finch 561 27 1,077 1,395 196 3,256 561 27 778 0 196 1,562
Matthew Ashley
4
276 126 413 457 69 1,341 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
1
  Taxable benefits comprise a cash alternative to a fully expensed car (£20,000 for Dean Finch and £10,500 for Matthew Ashley), health insurance and death in service and life 
assurance cover. Taxable benefits for Matthew Ashley also include £112,000 in respect of relocation expenses.
2
 The value of LTIP vested is based upon the average share price for the last quarter of 2015 (£3.07).
3
 In addition, Dean Finch has an entitlement under an unfunded pension arrangement as described on page 80. From 5 June 2016, benefits under this arrangement will cease to accrue.
4
 Appointed on 28 January 2015.
Base salary
For 2015, the Committee determined that the salary for the Group Chief Executive should remain unchanged at £561,000. Matthew 
Ashley was appointed to the role of Group Finance Director on 28 January 2015. His base salary was set at £300,000 which will be 
increased based upon development in role.
84 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Performance-related bonus
A summary of the 2015 performance-related bonus scheme is summarised below.
The maximum potential bonus payable for 2015 to the Group Chief Executive was 200% of salary and, in respect of the Group Finance 
Director, 150% of salary.
• For the Group Chief Executive, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary, 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% and 
75% of the bonus earned from 150% to 200% of salary was to be deferred. 
• For the Group Finance Director, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% 
of salary was to be deferred.
The amounts deferred under the bonus plan in 2015 are deferred into shares awarded under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan (‘EDBP’) 
for one year. Receipt of the deferred shares is subject to continued service and good leaver provisions under the EDBP . The 2015 bonus 
also includes provisions that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary for the Company to restate 
materially its 2015 results within a two-year period following the deferred bonus being awarded. The proportion of the bonus that would  
be subject to these provisions would depend on the extent to which the original bonus payment turned out to be false following the 
publication of corrected results.
The Committee has reviewed the performance against the conditions attached to the performance-related bonus and, in addition, 
made an assessment of the performance of the Group as a whole during 2015.
The Committee has full discretion in the payment of annual bonuses. For any financial element to be payable, the Group must have 
achieved a threshold level of normalised profit target for the year. In addition, it is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the 
Remuneration Committee has determined that there has been an improvement in safety processes, procedures and outcomes during 
the year. 
In respect of the targets applying to the annual bonus for 2015 for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, a maximum of 150% 
and 1 12.5% respectively of salary was payable based on achievement against a sliding scale of challenging financial targets. A maximum of 
50% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 37 .5% for the Group Finance Director was payable based on non-financial targets that 
encompassed customer, operational excellence and people objectives.
The targets set in relation to non-financial performance are key strategic Group objectives that are tailored to the responsibilities of 
each individual Executive Director and, in aggregate, are considered to be similarly challenging to the range of financial targets set. 
The tables below summarises the performance conditions attaching to the 2015 awards and the actual performance and bonus 
value achieved:
Bonus structure for 2015
Group Chief Executive
Percentage of base salary
Group Finance Director
Percentage of base salary Details
Maximum bonus potential 200% 150% Proportion of bonus subject to 
mandatory deferral into Company 
shares for one year from award
Bonus potential at 90% of 
budgeted normalised profit 
before tax (‘PBT’)
0% 0% Awarded on achieving threshold level
On-target bonus potential at 100% 
of budgeted normalised PBT
50% 37.5% Awarded on achieving budget
Stretch bonus for 110% of budgeted 
normalised PBT
100% 75% Awarded on achieving a stretch target 
of 110% of normalised PBT
Bonus potential at 90% of budgeted 
free cash flow 
0% 0% Awarded on achieving threshold level
On-target bonus potential at 100% 
of budgeted free cash flow
25% 18.75% Awarded on achieving budget
Stretch bonus potential at 110% 
of budgeted free cash flow
50% 37.5% Awarded on achieving a stretch target 
of 110% of budgeted free cash flow
Non-financial targets (underpinned 
by achievement of 90% of budgeted 
normalised PBT)
50% 37.5% Awarded on meeting key strategic 
Group objectives tailored to each 
Executive Director’s responsibilities
85 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION A summary of performance during 2015, the targets set and the extent to which the targets were met is set out in the following tables:
Summary of bonuses paid
Performance
condition Weighting
Threshold
performance
required
On-target
performance
required
Maximum
Performance
required
Actual
performance
Bonus value achievable for
meeting threshold and
maximum performance
(Percentage of salary)
Actual bonus
value achieved
(Percentage of salary)
Dean
Finch
Matthew
Ashley
Dean
Finch
Matthew
Ashley
Normalised profit 50% £122.8m £136.4m £150.0m £150.1m 0%-100% 0%-75% 100% 75%
Free cash flow 25% £85.2m £94.7m £104.2m £111.0m 0%-50%  0%-37.5% 50% 37.5%
Non-financial targets 25% See detail below 0%-50%  0%-37.5% 42% 37.5%
Total awarded 192%
salary
150%
salary
1
£1,077,120 £413,784
Of which deferred 
in shares
75.25%
salary
43.75%
salary
£422,153 £120,687
Of which paid in cash 116.75% 
salary
106.25% 
salary
£654,967 £293,097
1
 Figures are pro-rated based on salary received since joining the Board on 28 January 2015.
Summary of non-financial conditions for 2015
Dean Finch
Objective Performance
Safety
• Deliver a year-on-year improvement in the Fatalities and 
Weighted Injuries index (‘FWI’) for like-for-like operations
• Achieve a successful Arthur D Little audit
• Develop and implement plans to improve professional 
driving and defensive driving techniques across the Group
• Total harm (measured by the FWI) has further reduced year on year 
by 0.5% – a 56% reduction since 2011 
• CEO externally recognised for strong and effective leadership on Safety 
matters. ‘World Class Driver’ initiative launched. During 2015 all drivers 
across the Group have undertaken practical defensive driving training
Business development
• Allocate growth capital to North America and identify 
bolt-on acquisition opportunities that are value enhancing
• Develop revenue management systems in UK Coach 
and in Spain
• Increase liaison with Non-Executive Directors on strategy
• Acquisitions in North America contributed a combined $5.3 million  
of profit during 2015, net of deal and synergy costs
• UK Coach has continued to develop its revenue management capability 
and grown profits for the third consecutive year; Spain has successfully 
rolled out its revenue programme but has still to deliver full benefits
• CEO provided clear direction on key strategic issues referring back  
to NED guidance to ensure delivery
Operational
• Maintain and improve punctuality, reliability and customer 
satisfaction targets across the Group
• Successfully launch Bahrain and RME
• Whilst customer satisfaction targets were positive, punctuality 
improvements in UK Bus and Coach were not fully met
• Bahrain bus contract successfully mobilised in new region, opening 
up the Middle East. In Germany, RME succesfully launched in 
early December
Talent development
• Develop graduate and apprenticeship schemes
• Succession planning
• ’National Express Network’ launched for graduates across all divisions; 
apprenticeship programmes have been developed in a number of 
disciplines across the UK busineses
• Greater focus on MD succession and good progress on identification 
of talent have been undertaken
Investor relations
• Continue to promote strong investor relations and buying 
support for National Express shares
• Success recognised by a 34% increase in the value of the Group 
in a year when the FTSE 250 increased by 8.4%
Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
86 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Matthew Ashley
Objective Performance
Safety
• Deliver a year-on-year improvement in the FWI for  
like-for-like operations
• Achieve a successful Arthur D Little audit
• Total harm (measured by the FWI) has further reduced year on year 
by 0.5% – a 56% reduction since 2011 
• External recognition of strong leadership of the Executive team 
in governance of safety across the Group
Business development
• Allocate growth capital to North America and identify 
bolt-on acquisition opportunities that are value enhancing
• Support the bid for the East Anglia franchise, in particular 
ensuring the integrity of the model and the completeness 
of revenue and costs
• Acquisitions in North America contributed a combined $5.3m of profit 
during 2015 net of deal and synergy costs
• Took the lead review on property and station management, property 
and retail income, digital and IT. CFO’s challenges were considered fair 
and constructive and his input deemed critical to the bid submission
Operational
• Put in place robust financial review mechanisms for the 
new start-up businesses (Bahrain and German rail)
• Develop and implement a plan for the refinancing of 
the £350 million bond expiring in January 2017 including 
appointment of bookrunners
• Financial control improvements identified and appropriate resources 
allocated to implement them. Internal audit follow-ups verified the tight 
controls now in place
•  Following a competitive process, six banks appointed as bookrunners 
and £450 million bridge facility negotiated to allow the Group to repay  
the bond when it expires in 2017
Talent development
• Review the strength of the finance teams and develop plans 
to upgrade talent across the business
• Quickly become established as the Group Finance Director 
developing positive working relationships with the Group 
Chief Executive, Chairman, and the Board and Committees
• Significant effort has been made in upgrading the finance talent, 
both at divisional and corporate level, accomplished through both 
developing and promoting internally and also bringing in fresh talent
• Significant effort has been made in acting as a conduit for information 
between the businesses and the CEO. Recognition by the Non-
Executive Directors on clarity of the budget process was made
Investor relations
• Continue to promote strong investor relations and buying 
support for National Express stock
• Establish strong personal relations with key investors  
and analysts
• CFO has developed in the role significantly during the year and has 
become established in the wider finance community as the Group 
Finance Director
• CFO has now met with most significant shareholders and has had 
success in presenting the investment case for the Group
Based on the above assessment against the objectives set, the Committee determined that the performance of Dean Finch warranted 
42% payout out of a maximum 50% of salary, and Matthew Ashley warranted maximum payout for the non-financial elements of their 
respective bonuses.
LTIP awards
Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards granted under the LTIP in 2013 are scheduled to vest in 2016. The performance 
period relating to these Awards ended on 31 December 2015. Details of the performance conditions and the extent to which they have 
been satisfied are set out below:
Performance Shares and Matching Shares
Performance condition Weighting
Threshold
performance
required (30% vesting)
Maximum
performance
required (100% vesting)
Actual 
performance % vesting
TSR
1
50% Median of
comparator
group
Upper quintile 
of comparator
group
Between
median and
 upper quintile 
(7th out of 
15 companies)
46.7%
EPS
2
50% 2015 EPS of 22.1p 2015 EPS of 24.7p 24.8p 100%
Total 100% 73.4%
1
  TSR was measured against a bespoke comparator group of transport companies taken predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and FTSE Travel & Leisure sectors.
2
  The Committee considered and agreed changes to the performance conditions for outstanding awards made under the previous 2005 LTIP whereby the growth in EPS for 
outstanding awards under this plan would be based on a consistent accounting basis to exclude actual bid costs incurred. This adjustment serves to ensure that the EPS element of 
the LTIP continues to incentivise and reward delivery of normalised EPS growth now that bid costs, with effect from 1 January 2015, are treated as a normalised expense which has the 
impact of reducing normalised EPS in 2015 and subsequent years. Bid costs of £9.2 million for 2015 were added back to the normalised EPS of 23.4p to give an outcome of 24.8p for 
the LTIP awards tested at the end of the year.
Vesting of Awards
Dean Finch was awarded 280,898 Performance Shares and 337 ,076 Matching Shares in 2013 and therefore, following 73.4% of the 
performance conditions being met, a total of 453,283 shares are due to vest in 2016. Matthew Ashley was awarded 94,484 Performance 
Shares and 108,000 Matching Shares in 2013 and therefore a total of 148,522 shares are due to vest in 2016.
87 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Pension entitlements and cash allowances
Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are not entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes. 
The Group Chief Executive receives a 35% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Benefits under the Group Chief Executive’s unfunded pension arrangement will cease to accrue with effect from 5 June 2016.
The Group Finance Director receives a combination of pension contribution and salary supplement worth 25% of salary in total. 
Long-term incentives awarded in 2015
The tables below set out the details of any long-term incentive award granted in the 2015 financial year where vesting will be determined 
according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods. In addition, the Company has 
granted market value options to Dean Finch under the Company share option plan section of the LTIP (‘CSOP Options’) over shares with a  
face value of £30,000.  The exercise price of each CSOP Option is £3.149 per share.  The number of shares that is capable of exercise will 
be reduced by such number of shares as has a market value (at the date of exercise of the linked CSOP Option) equal to the gain made on 
the exercise of the CSOP Option.  Overall, the participant’s pre-tax economic gain from the award is the same as if the CSOP Option was 
not in place.  
Dean Finch
Grant date Award type
Basis on which
award made
Face value
of award
1
 
£’000
Percentage of award
vesting at threshold
performance
(ROCE: 0%)
Performance
period end date
Performance
conditions
11.06.15 LTIP – Nil cost options 200%
of salary
1,123 30% 31.12.17 TSR, EPS and
ROCE equally
weighted
Matthew Ashley
Grant date Award type
Basis on which
award made
Face value
of award
1
 
£’000
Percentage of award
vesting at threshold
performance
(ROCE: 0%)
Performance
period end date
Performance
conditions
11.06.15 LTIP – Nil cost options 150%
of salary
450 30% 31.12.17 TSR, EPS and
ROCE equally
weighted
1  The face value in the tables above has been calculated by multiplying the maximum number of shares that could vest by the closing share price at the date of grant. 
The share price was 315.4p on 11 June 2015.
Performance conditions for LTIP awards made in 2015 
Performance
level
Part A – EPS
condition (1/3
of the award)
Part B – ROCE
condition (1/3
of the award)
Part C – TSR condition
v FTSE 250 comparator
group rank over three years to
31 December 2017
(1/6 of the award)
Part D – TSR condition
v Index
1
 over three years
to 31 December 2017
(1/6 of the award)
1
Vesting percentage
of the award
Below threshold Less than 24.8p Below 9% Below median Below Index 0%
Threshold 24.8p 9% Median Equal to Index 30% (with
exception of
ROCE for which
threshold is 0%)
Target 26.3p 10% Straight line between
median and upper quintile
Straight line
between Index and
Index + 10% pa
50%
Maximum 28.6p or above 12% or above Upper quintile Equal or above
Index + 10% pa
100%
1
 Index comprising of the total returns of three comparator companies.
Straight-line vesting occurs between intermediate points.
Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
88 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Indicative percentage of LTIP awards vesting based on performance to 31 December 2015
The table below sets out the percentage of each extant award that would have vested if the performance conditions had been tested 
at 31 December 2015 (without making any allowance for pro rata reduction for any period of time that is less than the length of the 
performance period).
Award
EPS ROCE TSR measure 1 TSR measure 2
Total  
(max 100%) Weighting Vesting Weighting Vesting Details Weighting Vesting Details Weighting Vesting
2012 – Chief 
Executive’s Five 
Year Award
50% 0% – – Bespoke 
comparator 
group
50% 0.0% n/a – – 0%
2013 – Chief 
Executive’s Five 
Year Award
50% 50% – – Bespoke 
comparator 
group
50% 46.7% n/a – – 48.4%
2014 – Performance 
Shares and Matching 
Shares
50% 100% – – FTSE 250 25% 56.5% Bespoke 
index
25% 70.9% 81.9%
2014 – Chief 
Executive’s Five 
Year Award
50% 51.4% – – FTSE 250 25% 56.5% Bespoke 
index
25% 70.9% 57.6%
2015 – Performance 
Shares
33.3% 30% 33.3% 90% FTSE 250 16.7% 95.3% Bespoke 
index
16.7% 100% 72.6%
The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan (‘EDBP’)
Deferred bonuses awarded in 2015 (based on performance during 2014) will vest on 18 March 2016 as set out in the table below: 
As at
1 January
2015
During year At
31 December
2015
Market
price at date
of vesting
Date of
grant
Date of
vesting Granted Vested Lapsed
Dean Finch 2014 73,378 – 73,378 – 0 291.0p 28.02.14 02.03.15
2015 – 76,643 – – 76,643 18.03.15 18.03.16
The market price per share on the date of award was calculated on the basis of the average market price share in the five days preceding 
the date of the grant.
Deferred shares will be required to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary to restate materially the Company’s 2014 and 2015 results 
within a two-year period following the award of the bonus. The proportion of the bonus subject to these provisions would depend on the 
extent to which the original bonus turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director serving during 2015.  
The table includes only those columns in respect of elements of remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors.
2015 fees
£’000 
2014 fees
£’000 Notes
Sir John Armitt CBE 225 225
Joaquín Ayuso 51 51
Jorge Cosmen 47 47
Sir Andrew Foster 24 57 Resigned on
6 May 2015
Jackie Hunt 26 60 Resigned on
6 May 2015
Jane Kingston 54 40
Chris Muntwyler 63 61
Lee Sander 73 71
Matthew Crummack 32 – Appointed on
6 May 2015
Mike McKeon 28 – Appointed on
6 July 2015
Included in the above is a travel allowance of £4,000 payable to each of Joaquín Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance 
at each Board meeting held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident. Lee Sander attended five meetings 
outside the continent in which he is resident.
89 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION There was no increase in the fees for either the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors from 1 January 2015.
Payments to past Directors 
Other than the payment made to Jez Maiden in respect of the cash element of his performance-related bonus for 2014, as disclosed 
in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, there were no payments made to past Directors.
Payments for loss of office 
There were no loss of office payments made during the year to any person who has served as a Director of the Group.
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings 
Directors’ shareholdings – Executive Directors’ interests and share ownership guidelines
In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has determined that 
the Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over a five-year period from 2015 as set out in the share ownership 
guidelines as described on page 76 of the Remuneration Policy. From 2015, the requirement for the Group Chief Executive is the 
equivalent of 200% of salary and, for the Group Finance Director, the requirement is the equivalent of 150% of salary. Matthew Ashley’s 
shareholding will continue to be built up following his appointment in January 2015.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Executive Directors in office and their connected persons as at 31 December 2015 
and the details of long-term incentive interests are shown below:
Shares held directly
Other
shares held
Shareholding
requirement 
(Percentage of salary)
Current
shareholding
as at 31
December
2015
(Percentage of salary)
1
Beneficially
owned
EDBP interests
not subject to
performance
conditions
LTIP interests
subject to
performance
conditions
Shareholding
requirement
currently met?
Executive Directors
Dean Finch 200% 220% 294,598 76,643 2,148,121 Yes
Matthew Ashley 150% 76% 68,597 0 496,727 No
1
 The share price of 332.8p (as at 31 December 2015) has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary. 
Please see the appendix on page 95 for more information on outstanding LTIP awards.
Directors’ shareholdings – Non-Executive Directors’ interests
Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement. Details of their interests in shares and those of their connected 
persons as at 31 December 2015, all of which are held outright with no attaching performance conditions, are shown below:
At 31 December 2015
Sir John Armitt CBE 6,000
Joaquín Ayuso 0
Jorge Cosmen
1
 88,860,685
Chris Muntwyler 0
Lee Sander 0
Jane Kingston 0
Matthew Crummack 0
Mike McKeon 5,000
1
 Jorge Cosmen’s holding includes shares held by European Express Enterprises Ltd which are shown on page 98 in the list of major shareholdings in the Company.
The Register of Directors’ interests maintained by the Company contains full details of the Directors’ holdings of shares and options over 
shares in the Company. The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 was 332.8p (2014: 248.4p) and the 
range during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 247 .9p to 334.4p.
Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
90 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Changes since year end
There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 31 December 2015 and the date of signing of this 
Annual Report. 
History of CEO’s pay 
The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive over the last six years, valued using the methodology 
applied to the single total figure of remuneration:
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Chief Executive R Bowker
1
D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch
Total remuneration (£’000) 465 1,356 1,454 1,701 1,553 1,562 3,256
Annual bonus payment 
(% maximum opportunity)
0% 100% 100% 78% 95% 93% 96%
LTIP vesting level achieved
2 
(% maximum opportunity)
n/a n/a n/a 32.5% 0% 0% 73.4%
1
 R Bowker resigned as Chief Executive on 10 July 2009.
2
  The incumbent Chief Executive during each of 2010 and 2011 did not have entitlement to any LTIP awards with attaching performance conditions whose final year of performance 
ended during that year.
Comparison of overall performance 
The first graph below shows a comparison of National Express Group PLC’s seven-year total cumulative shareholder return against that 
achieved by the FTSE 250 Index. This index has been selected because the Company is a constituent of this index and the Committee, 
therefore, feels that this is the most appropriate index with which to represent the Company’s relative performance. 
The second graph shows a comparison of National Express Group PLC’s cumulative shareholder return and annual return since the 
commencement of the turnaround of the business from 31 December 2009 (and subsequent recruitment of the current CEO in February 
2010) and also over the last three years against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index. 
31/12/2008 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2011 31/12/2012
FTSE 250 – Cumulative return
31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2015  
240
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
-20
-40
Shareholder returns – seven-year history
National Express Group – Cumulative return
FTSE 250 – Annual return
National Express Group – Annual return
31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2011 31/12/2012 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2015  
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
-20
Shareholder returns – six-year history FTSE 250 – Cumulative return
National Express Group – Cumulative return
National Express Group – Cumulative return (last three years)
FTSE 250 – Cumulative return (last three years) 
FTSE 250 – Annual return
National Express Group – Annual return
91 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The Group achieved a very strong performance during 2015, with revenues, profits and margins up in every division beating the budgeted 
profit before tax by 10%. This excellent result, underpinned by a strong and sustainable free cash flow, merited an increase in the full year 
dividend by 10%.
Rail’s first full year running its new 15-year c2c franchise achieved growth in revenues of 10%; the division ended the year successfully 
mobilising its first German rail services. Good revenue growth combined with tight cost control saw UK Coach increase its margin by 
130 basis points and UK Bus by 100 basis points. ALSA’s revenue management programme in Spain contributed to revenue growth of 
3%; revenue in Morocco grew by 14%. Profit in North America grew by 6% on a constant currency basis due to a successful bid season, 
delivery of the contract margin improvement ‘up or out’ strategy and bolt-on acquisitions net of deal and synergy costs. The Group also 
commenced operations in a second new market in the year, running bus services in Bahrain.
Together, this performance contributed to a very strong share price performance in the year compared to both our peer group and the market. 
Group Chief Executive pay increases compared with total remuneration for UK employees 
The following table sets out the change in certain elements of the remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2014 to 
2015 compared with the average percentage change for the UK employee population. 
The Group uses the UK workforce (who receive taxable benefits and bonus) as an appropriate comparator group as this avoids 
complicated exchange rate adjustments that would have to be used if we included employees in the Group’s overseas operations 
in the calculation.
The Group Chief Executive’s remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable 
benefits and annual bonus (including any amount deferred) on the basis used for determining the single figure. The UK employee 
remuneration is based on the base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of those UK employees who received taxable benefits 
and bonuses. 
Average percentage increase/decrease from 2014 to 2015
Base salary Taxable benefits Performance-related bonus
Group Chief Executive 0% 0% 38.4%
1
UK employee remuneration 2.0% -8.0% 43.9%
1
  Under the current Remuneration Policy, the total variable pay for the CEO reduced from 470% to 400% of salary weighted equally between an increase in short-term (from 150%  
to 200%) and balanced by a reduction in long-term (from 320% to 200%) remuneration. The increase from 2014 to 2015 is therefore primarily due to an increase in maximum bonus 
opportunity.
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below sets out the total spend on pay in the 2015 financial year and 2014 financial year compared with distributions 
to shareholders:
2015
(£m)
2014
(£m)
% increase from
2014 to 2015 
Overall Group spend on pay including Directors 879.1 850.3 3.4%
Profit distributed by way of dividend 54.4 51.6 5.4%
Profit distributed by way of share buyback – – –
Statement of voting at 2015 AGM
At the AGM held on 6 May 2015, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
 For Against
Resolution text 
Number
of votes
Percentage
of proxy
votes cast
Number
of votes
Percentage 
of proxy
votes cast
Total
votes cast
Percentage 
of issued
share capital
voted
1
Votes
withheld
2
2.  To approve 
the Directors’ 
Remuneration 
Policy report
408,174,050 98.91 4,491,155 1.09 412,665,205 80.64 16,293,308
3.  To approve the  
Annual Report  
on Remuneration
413,984,166 99.10 3,757,165 0.90 417,741,331 81.63 11,201,974
1
 The total voting rights in the Company as at the date of the meeting were 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5p each, each carrying one vote on a poll. 
2
 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolutions.
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
92 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016
Executive Directors’ base salaries
The Committee determined that the salary for the Group Chief Executive would be increased from £561,000 to £589,000 with effect 
from 1 January 2016. The Committee agreed that this increase was warranted in order to maintain the market competitiveness of his 
salary when compared against direct peers and companies of similar size. In the last five years, Dean Finch has only received one 
increase (2% in 2014) over a period during which corporate performance has been strong. 
Matthew Ashley was appointed to the role of Group Finance Director on 28 January 2015. His base salary upon appointment was set at 
£300,000. As Matthew has made a significant contribution to the business in his first year and performed strongly against the objectives 
set for him, the Committee determined that it would be appropriate to increase his salary from £300,000 to £325,000, in line with our 
intention to bring him to a more competitive level of base pay over time. This new increase, effective from 1 January 2016, positions his 
base pay between the lower quartile and median against a comparator group of similarly sized businesses, and still allows for future salary 
progression as he completes his development in the role. 
Pension entitlements and cash allowances
The Group Chief Executive will receive a 35% salary supplement and the Group Finance Director will receive a pension contribution and 
salary supplement worth 25% of salary in total. 
Benefits under the Group Chief Executive’s unfunded pension arrangement will cease to accrue with effect from 5 June 2016. 
Performance-related bonus
The annual bonus for the 2016 financial year will operate on the same basis as the arrangements in place during 2015.
The structure of the annual bonus for 2016 will be as follows:
• a maximum bonus of 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and of 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director;
• the proportion of the bonus linked to non-financial measures will be 25% based on operational excellence, safety standards and other 
strategic objectives;
• a proportion of bonus earned will be deferred in shares for one year. For 2016, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary,  
50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary and, for the Group CEO, 75% of bonus earned above 150% of salary  
will be deferred; and
• the remaining 75% of the bonus will be based on achievement of financial targets, namely profit before tax and free cash flow.
When setting the bonus target for 2016, the Committee has taken into account:
• stock market consensus for 2016 profit;
• the Directors’ commitment to continue to record all bid costs as normalised operating expenses;
• the significant increase in rail franchise premium in c2c compared with 2015; 
• the increased competitive pricing pressure from RENFE in Spain; and
• the intercity concession renewal process in Spain.
Targets will be set on a basis consistent with accounting measures, ie, without reference to exceptionals.
The Committee will set calibrated targets for the bonus measures and intends to disclose actual performance against these targets in next 
year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report. As a matter of commercial sensitivity, the Committee has decided not to disclose performance 
targets in advance. 
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentive awards granted in the 2016 financial year will be granted in accordance with the policy detailed in the Remuneration 
Policy section of this report. Awards will be made worth 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the Group 
Finance Director.
The performance measures, their weightings and targets for the 2016 awards will be as set out below. EPS targets will be set consistent 
with normalised EPS for accounting purposes, in particular after the deduction of bid costs. 
Metric Weighting
Threshold
(EPS, TSR: 30% vesting
ROCE: 0% vesting) Target (50% vesting) Maximum (100% vesting)
2018 financial year EPS 1/3 25.6p 27.1p 29.5p
Average ROCE financial years 2016-2018 1/3 9% 10% 12%
Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 1/6 Median – Upper quintile
Relative TSR vs Bespoke Index
1
1/6 Equal to Index – Index + 10% pa
1
 Notional index comprising Go-Ahead Group, First Group and Stagecoach Group.
Straight-line vesting will occur between intermediate levels of performance.
Performance will be measured over a three-year period and awards will be subject to a two-year holding period post vesting.
93 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance – Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors
The chart below illustrates the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors under three different performance 
scenarios: (i) Minimum; (ii) On-target; and (iii) Maximum:
3,500
Remuneration (£’000)
26% 100%
33%
20%
47%
52% 30%
37%
37%
100%
30%
18%
35%
35%
Minimum On-target
Dean Finch
Maximum Minimum On-target
Matthew Ashley
Maximum
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
Fixed Annual variable PSP variable
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: (i) Fixed; (ii) Annual variable; and (iii) Multiple reporting period, 
which are set out in the future policy table below:
Element Descriptions
Fixed Total amount of salary, pension and benefits
Annual variable Performance Related Bonus (including deferred element)
Multiple reporting variable Long-Term Incentive Plan
Assumptions used in determining the level of payout under given scenarios are as follows:
• Salaries are as at 1 January 2016 for both the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
• Benefits are those paid to both the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director in 2015 (excluding one-off relocation benefits).
• Performance Share Awards are granted at the maximum level permitted under the policy.
• Minimum performance scenario assumes fixed pay only and no variable payments.
• On-target performance scenario assumes performance in line with the Company’s expectations, resulting in 30% of maximum vesting 
in respect of long-term incentive awards and 50% of maximum payout, assuming 50% achievement of personal objectives, in respect of 
the annual bonus. Whilst the bonus scheme has targets for threshold, on-target and maximum, the LTIP only has targets for threshold 
and maximum for some metrics. The value shown above in the on-target scenario includes the values for on-target bonus and threshold 
LTIP performance.
• Maximum performance scenario assumes outstanding level of performance, ie maximum bonus and full vesting of long-term incentives.
Share price appreciation is not allowed for.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
With effect from 1 January 2016, it was agreed that, in order to maintain market positioning, the Chairman’s fee would be increased by 
2.2% from £225,000 to £230,000 to reflect general levels of movement in Chairman fees. The fees of the Non-Executive Directors would 
be increased by 4.26% from £47 ,000 to £49,000 to reflect general levels of increase in Non-Executive Director fees. The current fees for 
the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2016 are as follows:
Role Fees (£’000)
Chairman 230
Non-Executive Director 49
Senior Independent Director 5
Chairman of Board Committee 10
In addition, a travel allowance of £4,000 is payable to Joaquín Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at Board meetings 
held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
94 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Appendix
LTIP Awards to Executive Directors
LTIP Share
Awards
At
1 January
2015 Granted Exercised Expired
At
31 December
 2015
Market price
on date
of award
Market price
at date
of exercise
Date of
 award
Date from
 which
 exercisable
Expiry
date 
Dean 
Finch
Performance
Shares 
240,069 – – 240,069 – 228.4p – 11.04.12 11.04.15 11.10.15
Matching
Shares 
288,080 – – 288,080 – 228.4p – 11.04.12 11.04.15 11.10.15
Performance
Shares 
280,898 – – – 280,898 199.9p – 10.04.13 10.04.16 10.10.16
Matching
Shares 
337,076 – – – 337,076 199.9p – 10.04.13 10.04.16 10.10.16
Performance
 Shares 
204,520 – – – 204,520 279.5p – 09.04.14 09.04.17 09.10.17
Matching
Shares 
245,424 – – – 245,424 279.5p – 09.04.14 09.04.17 09.10.17
Performance
Shares 
– 356,303 – – 356,303 315.4p – 11.06.15 05.03.18 05.03.20
Five Year
Award
261,407 – – – 261,407 211.7p – 03.08.12 03.08.17 03.08.18
Five Year
Award 
257,973 – – – 257,973 210.0p – 23.05.13 23.05.18 23.05.19
Five Year
Award 
204,520 – – – 204,520 279.5p – 09.04.14 09.04.19 09.04.20
LTIP Share
Awards
At
1 January
2015 Granted Exercised Expired
At
31 December
 2015
Market price
on date
of award
Market price
at date
of exercise
Date of
 award
Date from
 which
 exercisable
Expiry
date 
Matthew 
Ashley
Performance
Shares 
38,192 – – 38,192 – 228.4p – 11.04.12 11.04.15 11.10.15
Matching
Shares 
40,392 – – 40,392 – 228.4p – 11.04.12 11.04.15 11.10.15
Performance
Shares 
94,484 – – – 94,484 199.9p – 10.04.13 10.04.16 10.10.16
Matching
Shares 
108,000 – – – 108,000 199.9p – 10.04.13 10.04.16 10.10.16
Performance
 Shares 
68,793 – – – 68,793 279.5p – 09.04.14 09.04.17 09.10.17
Matching
Shares 
82,548 – – – 82,548 279.5p – 09.04.14 09.04.17 09.10.17
Performance
Shares 
– 142,902 – – 142,902 315.4p – 11.06.15 05.03.18 05.03.20
By order of the Board
Jane Kingston
Remuneration Committee Chair
25 February 2016
95 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Corporate Governance
This section contains additional 
information which the Directors are 
required by law and regulation to 
include within the Annual Report.  
This section, along with the 
information from the Chairman’s  
letter on page 4 to the Statement  
of Directors’ Responsibilities on  
page 100, constitutes the Directors’ 
Report in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
The information to be included in the 
Annual Report and Accounts, where 
applicable under Listing Rule 9.8.4R, is 
set out in this section or otherwise on 
the following pages:
Page
Long-term incentive schemes 126
Waiver of dividends 155
Strategic Report
The Company is required by the 
Companies Act 2006 to include a strategic 
report in this document. The information 
that fulfils the requirements of the strategic 
report can be found on pages 1 to 49, 
which are incorporated in this report by 
reference.
Company status
The Company (company number: 2590560) 
was incorporated under the Companies 
Act 1985 as a limited company on 1 1 March 
1991 and re-registered as a public company 
on 20 October 1992 as National Express 
Group PLC. The Company holds a premium 
listing on the London Stock Exchange’s main 
market for listed securities (LON: NEX) and is a 
constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index.
Disclaimer
This Annual Report and Accounts is 
intended to focus on matters which are 
relevant to the interests of shareholders 
of the Company. The purpose of this 
Annual Report and Accounts is to assist 
shareholders in assessing the strategies 
adopted and performance delivered by 
the Company and the potential for those 
strategies to succeed. It should not be 
relied on by any other party or for any 
other purpose.
Forward looking statements are made 
in good faith, based on a number of 
assumptions concerning future events 
and information available to Directors at 
the time of their approval of this report. 
These forward looking statements should 
be treated with caution due to the inherent 
uncertainties underlying any such forward 
looking information. The user of this 
Annual Report and Accounts should 
not rely unduly on these forward looking 
statements, which are not a guarantee of 
performance and which are subject to a 
number of uncertainties and other facts, 
many of which are outside the Company’s 
control and could cause actual events to 
differ materially from those in these 
statements. No guarantee can be given of 
future results, levels of activity, performance 
or achievements.
Branches outside the UK
The Group has branches in Spain.
Results and dividends
The profit on ordinary activities before  
tax from continuing operations for the  
year ended 31 December 2015 was  
£124.4 million (2014: £66.5m) and a  
profit attributable to equity shareholders 
of £107 .0 million (2014: £59.1m) was 
transferred to reserves.
The Directors recommend a final dividend 
for the year of 7 .645p per ordinary share 
(2014: 6.95p) which, together with 
the interim dividend of 3.685p per ordinary 
share (2014: 3.35p), paid on 25 September 
2015, gives a total dividend for the year of 
11.33p per share (2014: 10.3p). Subject  
to shareholder approval, the final dividend 
will be paid on 20 May 2016 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register of members  
at the close of business on 29 April 2016.
Directors
The Directors of the Company as at the 
date of the approval of this Annual Report 
are listed on pages 54 and 55, together 
with their biographical details and 
identification of the Board Committees 
on which they serve.
On 28 January 2015 Matthew Ashley was 
appointed as an Executive Director and 
Group Finance Director, having fulfilled 
the role of interim Group Finance Director 
from 10 October 2014 following the 
announcement that Jez Maiden would be 
stepping down as an Executive Director 
with effect from 31 December 2014.  
On 6 May 2015, Sir Andrew Foster 
and Jackie Hunt both retired from the 
Board having not sought re-election at the 
Company’s AGM. On the same day, the 
Board appointed Matthew Crummack a 
Non-Executive Director of the Company. 
On 3 July 2015 Mike McKeon was 
appointed a Non-Executive Director of  
the Board and, subsequent to the financial 
year end, Dr Ashley Steel was appointed  
an additional Non-Executive Director 
with effect from 1 January 2016.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to its Articles of Association and 
relevant statutory law and to any direction 
that may be given by the Company in 
general meeting by special resolution, 
the business of the Company shall be 
managed by the Directors, who may 
exercise all powers of the Company 
which are not required to be exercised 
by the Company in general meeting.
Appointment and replacement 
of Directors
The rules for the appointment and 
replacement of Directors of the Company 
are set out in the Articles of Association, 
the UK Corporate Governance Code  
(the ‘Code’), the Companies Act 2006 and 
related legislation. In accordance with the 
Code, all the Directors will retire at the 2016 
AGM and offer themselves for election or 
re-election. The Board is satisfied that each 
of those Directors standing for election  
or re-election is qualified by virtue of their 
skills, experience and contribution to  
the Board. 
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Board has a procedure in place to 
deal with a situation where a Director 
has a conflict of interest, as required by 
the Companies Act 2006. As part of this 
process, the members of the Board 
prepare a list of other positions held and 
all other conflict situations that may need 
authorising either in relation to the Director 
concerned or his or her connected 
persons. The Board considers each 
Director’s situation and decides whether to 
approve any conflict situations, taking into 
consideration what is in the best interests 
of the Company and whether the Director’s 
Other statutory information
96 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 ability to act in accordance with his or her 
wider duties is affected. Each Director is 
required to notify the Company Secretary 
of any potential or actual conflict situations 
that will need authorising by the Board. 
Authorisations given by the Board are 
reviewed annually.
Directors’ and Officers’ 
liability insurance
The Company recognises the potential 
personal liabilities that the Directors are 
subject to by agreeing to act as a Board 
member and believes that it is both fair and 
reasonable to protect them from innocent 
error or omission. The Company therefore 
maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of legal action that 
might be brought against its Directors which 
operates in certain circumstances. This does 
not extend to cover the Directors where it is 
proved they acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of 
Association the Company has indemnified its 
Directors and Officers in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 233 of the Companies 
Act 2006. A copy of the Articles of 
Association is available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office. 
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as stated in note 35 to the 
consolidated accounts on page 165, no 
contract existed during the year in relation 
to the Company’s business in which any 
Director was materially interested.
Directors’ interests in shares
The Board of Directors’ interests in shares 
in the Company are detailed on pages 90 
and 91.
Directors’ share options
Details of Directors’ share options are 
provided in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on page 95.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into deeds of 
indemnity with each of its Directors, which 
are qualifying indemnity provisions for the 
purpose of the Companies Act 2006 and 
remain in force at the date of this report.
Accountability and audit
Statements of the respective responsibilities 
of the Directors and auditors are set out on 
pages 100 to 105.
Corporate governance
A full report on corporate governance can 
be found in the Governance section of this 
document and the Company’s governance 
statement is on page 56. Both are 
incorporated by reference into this report.
Post balance sheet events
There were no post balance sheet events.
Employment policies
The Group strives to meet its business 
objectives by motivating and encouraging 
its employees to be responsive to the 
needs of its customers and continually 
improve operational performance. The 
Group is committed to providing equality 
of opportunity to employees and potential 
employees. This applies to recruitment, 
training, career development and promotion 
for all employees, regardless of physical 
ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, 
age or ethnic origin. All businesses in the 
Group report diversity data.
Full and fair consideration is given to 
applications for employment received from 
disabled persons, according to their skills 
and capabilities. The services of any 
existing employee disabled during their 
period of employment are retained 
wherever possible.
Employee involvement
The Group encourages employee 
involvement in its affairs. Subsidiary 
companies produce a range of internal 
newsletters and circulars which keep 
employees abreast of developments. 
Senior management within the Group meet 
regularly to review strategic developments 
and management conferences are held at 
Group and business levels to bring our 
senior managers together to share ideas 
and develop policy. Members of the Senior 
Management Group are also visible within 
the businesses and undertake a range of 
visits where they meet face to face with 
employees to gather feedback on safety 
and other issues. Dialogue takes place 
regularly with trade unions and other 
employee representatives on a wide 
range of issues. 
Employee views are also sought 
through regular employee satisfaction 
questionnaires, both within business units 
and across the Group. Following such 
surveys, results are shared with employees 
and action plans are put in place to deal 
with issues arising. The Group encourages 
innovation from all levels of employees and 
has a structured programme to encourage 
suggestions and to recognise employees 
through awards. The Group also has a well 
developed succession planning process in 
place and succession plans are reviewed 
by the Board annually. As a key part of this 
process, the Company focuses on 
emerging talent to ensure the Group 
has the right people being developed to 
meet our future business needs. Talent 
management remains an important 
priority for the Group.
Information regarding the Company’s 
safeguarding of human rights forms  
part of the People section on page 21  
and on the Company’s website,  
www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
Environmental policy
Information on the Group’s environmental 
initiatives, including the mandatory 
reporting disclosure on greenhouse 
gas emissions, can be found in the 
Strategic Report on pages 22 to 25 
and on the Company’s website, 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
Political contributions
It is the Group’s policy not to make political 
donations and accordingly none were 
made in the year. However, the Company 
did attend party political conferences 
during the year for which total expenditure 
was £13,000 (2014: £10,500).
Financial instruments
Details of the use by the Company and its 
subsidiaries of financial instruments and 
any related risk management objectives 
and policies (including hedging policy) and 
exposure (including price, credit, liquidity or 
cash flow risk) of the Company in connection 
with such financial instruments can be found 
in the notes to the Consolidated Accounts on 
pages 111 to 171 and are incorporated by 
reference into this report.
97 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Major shareholdings
As at 23 February 2016, the Company had been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR 5) of the following 
interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company. These shareholder levels are unchanged 
from 31 December 2015.
Ordinary shares
Percentage of
share capital
1
Nature of
holding
European Express Enterprises Ltd 78,795,062 15.4 Direct 
Prudential PLC 50,987,079 9.9 Direct 
Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 26,288,829 5.1 Indirect 
Schroders plc 26,547,716 5.2 Direct
Newton Investment Management Ltd 26,433,003 5.2 Direct
1
 The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Cosmen’s holdings which are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 90.
Analysis of ordinary shareholdings at 19 February 2016
Number of
accounts
Percentage of 
total number
of accounts
Number of
shares
Percentage of 
ordinary capital
By size of holding
1-500 5,744 47.63 794,735 0.16
501-1,000  1,473 12.21 1,154,452  0.23
1,001-5,000  3,270 27.12 7,695,557 1.50
5,001-50,000  1,334 11.06 15,769,038 3.08
50,001-1,000,000  185 1.53 51,843,511 10.13
Over 1,000,000  54 0.45 434,481,355 84.90
 12,060 100.00 511,738,648 100.00
By investor type
Individuals  11,214 92.98 22,360,154 4.37
Institutional investors  428 3.55 400,103,272 78.18
Other corporate investors  418 3.47 89,275,222 17.45
 12,060 100.00 511,738,648 100.00
Share capital and 
rights attaching to the 
Company’s shares
Under the Company’s Articles of 
Association, any share in the Company 
may be issued with such rights or 
restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, 
voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the 
Company may from time to time by ordinary 
resolution determine (or, in the absence of 
any such determination, as the Directors 
may determine). 
The Company has one class of ordinary 
shares with a nominal value of 5p. At the 
date of this Annual Report, the issued share 
capital consisted of 511,738,648 Ordinary 
shares of 5p each.
At a general meeting of the Company every 
member has one vote on a show of hands 
and on a poll one vote for each share held. 
The Notice of AGM will specify deadlines  
for exercising voting rights either by proxy 
or by being present in person in relation 
to resolutions to be passed at a general 
meeting. Details of the authorised and 
issued share capital of the Company and 
details of shares issued during the year 
can be found in note 31 to the consolidated 
accounts on page 155. 
No shareholder is, unless the Board 
decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote 
either personally or by proxy at a general 
meeting or to exercise any other right 
conferred by being a shareholder if he or 
she or any person with an interest in his or 
her shares has been sent a notice under 
Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 
(which confers upon public companies the 
power to require information with respect 
to interests in their voting shares) and he 
or she or any interested person failed to 
supply the Company with the information 
requested within 14 days after delivery of 
that notice. The Board may also decide that 
no dividend is payable in respect of those 
default shares and that no transfer of any 
default shares shall be registered. These 
restrictions end seven days after receipt by 
the Company of a notice of an approved 
transfer of the shares or all the information 
required by the relevant Section 793 notice, 
whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any 
transfer of any share which is not a fully 
paid share, although such discretion may 
not be exercised in a way which the 
Financial Conduct Authority regards as 
preventing dealings in shares of that class 
from taking place on an open or proper 
basis. The Directors may likewise refuse 
any transfer of a share in favour of more 
than four persons jointly.
Corporate Governance
Other statutory information continued
98 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Company is not aware of any other 
restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 
shares in the Company other than:
• certain restrictions that may from time to 
time be imposed by laws and regulations 
(for example, insider trading laws); and
• pursuant to the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority whereby 
certain employees of the Company 
require approval of the Company to 
deal in the Company’s shares.
The Company is not aware of any 
agreements between shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or voting rights.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2016 
AGM to authorise the Directors to exercise 
all powers to allot shares, or grant rights for, 
or to convert any security into, shares, and 
approve a limited disapplication of statutory 
pre-emption rights. Details will be set out in 
the Notice of AGM which will be posted on 
8 April 2016. 
The Company was granted authority at the 
AGM in 2015 to purchase its own shares up 
to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued 
nominal capital. The authority was not used 
during the year. The authority is renewed 
annually and approval will be sought at 
the AGM in 2016 for its renewal. Further 
details will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
Share schemes
First Names (Jersey) Limited is Trustee of 
the National Express Group Employee Benefit 
Trust. As at 19 February 2016 is held 
2,495,467 shares (0.49% of the issued share 
capital) of the Company for employee share 
schemes. Further details of the Company’s 
employee share schemes can be found in 
note 7 to the consolidated accounts on  
pages 125 and 126 and are incorporated  
by reference into this report. The Trustee  
may vote the shares held by the Trust at  
its discretion.
The current Investment Association (‘IA’) 
guidance on dilution limits provides that the 
overall dilution under all share plans 
operated by a company should not exceed 
10% over a ten-year period in relation to the 
Company’s share capital, with a further 
limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on 
executive plans. National Express share 
plans operate within IA recommended 
guidelines on dilution limits.
Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Company’s 
Articles of Association may be made 
in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 
11 May 2016 in Hall 9 at the International 
Convention Centre, Broad Street, 
Birmingham B1 2EA. At the Meeting, 
special resolutions will be proposed to 
authorise the Directors to issue shares 
without applying statutory pre-emption 
rights, to authorise the Company to 
make market purchases of its own shares 
and to authorise the calling of general 
meetings (other than Annual General 
Meetings) on 14 clear days’ notice. 
Full details will be provided in the 
Notice of AGM. If you would like to 
register any question you may have in 
advance of the AGM you can do so at 
agm@nationalexpress.com or you can 
write to the Company Secretary at National 
Express Group PLC, National Express 
House, Birmingham Coach Station, Mill 
Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham B5 6DD.
Material contracts and change 
of control agreements
There are a number of agreements that 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a 
change of control of the Company following 
a takeover bid. Save as disclosed below, 
none of these are considered significant. 
Under the terms of the Company’s revolving 
credit facility, upon a change of control, the 
Company would have five days to enter into 
negotiations with the lenders  
to alter the terms. Following ten days of 
negotiations, if no agreement has been 
reached, outstanding balances may 
become repayable. 
Under the terms of the £1,000,000,000 Euro 
Medium-Term Note Programme under which 
the Company issued Medium Term Notes 
(‘MTNs’) to various institutions on 13 January 
2010 (as updated on 2 October 2015), there 
is a change of control put option such that, 
upon a change of control event, any holder 
of any MTN may require the Company to 
redeem or purchase that MTN. 
The Company entered into a private 
placement Note Purchase Agreement on 
30 July 2012 relating to the issue by the 
Company of €78,500,000 4.55% Senior 
Notes due 16 August 2021. Under the terms 
of the Agreement the Company is required 
to offer to Note holders to repay to them the 
entire unpaid principal amount and interest 
thereon upon a change of control.
The National Express Group PLC Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 2015 (the ‘Plan’) contains 
provisions as a result of which options and 
awards may vest and become exercisable 
on a change of control of the Company in 
accordance with the rules of the Plan.
The Company’s UK rail subsidiary, NXET 
Trains Limited, which operates the Essex 
Thameside franchise, is party to a franchise 
agreement with the Department for Transport 
(‘DfT’). The franchise agreement contains an 
event of default on a change in control of the 
franchisee (which would be triggered on a 
change in control of the Company) if such 
change in control is not approved by DfT, as 
well as the right for DfT to charge a facilitation 
fee on such change in control. Similarly, the 
licences issued by the Office of Rail and Road 
(‘ORR’) to NXET Trains Limited in connection 
with the franchise all contain change of control 
provisions which could result in the licences 
being revoked if the change in control is not 
approved by ORR. 
The Group’s UK Bus business operates the 
Midland Metro tram service and the UK Bus 
operating subsidiary is party to a contract 
with Centro governing certain aspects of 
such operation. The contract with Centro 
contains an event of default on a change 
in control of the UK operating subsidiary 
(which would be triggered on a change in 
control of the Company) if such change in 
control is not approved by Centro. 
The Group’s UK Coach business performs 
a number of coach and bus services from  
or at certain UK airports and the UK Coach 
operating subsidiary is also contracted to 
provide passenger transport services for certain 
other third parties. A number of these contracts 
contain rights for the counterparties to terminate 
them on a change of control of the relevant 
subsidiary company party to such contracts 
(certain of which would be triggered by a 
change in control of the Company). 
While no one of these contracts is considered 
significant in the context of the Group’s 
business as a whole, the impact on the Group 
if all such contracts were terminated could 
be significant. 
Directors’ and employees’ 
service contracts
There are no agreements between the 
Company and its Directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of 
office or employment (whether through 
resignation, purported redundancy or 
otherwise) that occurs because of a 
takeover bid.
Risks
A summary of the Company’s risk 
management framework and an overview 
of its principal risks are detailed on pages 
28 to 31 and are incorporated by reference 
into this report.
Auditors
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as 
auditor of the Company and to authorise the 
Directors to determine its remuneration will 
be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are 
aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s auditor is unaware 
and that each Director has taken all the steps 
that they ought to have taken as a Director in 
order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information. This confirmation is given and 
should be interpreted in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board 
Sandra Forbes
Company Secretary 
25 February 2016
99 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare such Financial Statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors 
are required to prepare the Group Financial 
Statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as 
adopted by the European Union and Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 
chosen to prepare the parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with 
Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework. Under company law 
the Directors must not approve the 
Financial Statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company and  
of the profit or loss of the Company for  
that period. 
In preparing the parent Company Financial 
Statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
• state whether Financial Reporting 
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework has been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Financial 
Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group Financial 
Statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting 
policies;
• present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides 
relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to 
enable users to understand the impact of 
particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the entity’s financial 
position and financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the Financial 
Statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of Financial Statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our 
knowledge:
• the Financial Statements, prepared in 
accordance with the relevant financial 
reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
• the Strategic Report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position, performance, business model 
and strategy.
This responsibility statement was 
approved by the Board of Directors  
on 25 February 2016.
By order of the Board
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive
25 February 2016
Matthew Ashley
Group Finance Director
25 February 2016
Directors’ responsibilities statement
Corporate Governance
100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of National Express Group plc
Opinion on Financial Statements 
of National Express Group PLC
In our opinion:
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit and the parent 
Company’s loss for the year then ended;
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework; and
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the 
International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’) Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement 
of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group 
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes  
1 to 38 for the Group Financial Statements and 1 to 21 for the parent Company Financial 
Statements. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of 
the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the Directors’ 
assessment of the principal risks 
that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement regarding the 
appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the 
Financial Statements and the Directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Group 
contained within the Strategic Report on page 37.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
• the Directors’ confirmation on page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures on pages 30 and 31 that describe those risks and explain how they are 
being managed or mitigated;
• the Directors’ statement in note 2 to the Financial Statements about whether they 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them 
and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so 
over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial 
Statements;
• the Director’s explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be 
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and 
we did not identify any material uncertainties. However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have 
not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks  
of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the 
greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing 
the efforts of the engagement team.
Last year our report included a risk around exceptional items. As there have been no 
exceptional items reported in the current year we have not included this risk in our report.
101 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Goodwill and fixed asset impairment
This is included in note 2 as one of the 
significant accounting judgements and 
key sources of estimation uncertainty 
given there are a number of key 
assumptions used in the assessment of 
the carrying value of goodwill and fixed 
assets. These are described in note 13 
and include future projected cash flows, 
the perpetual growth rate and the 
appropriate discount rate. Note 13 also 
includes details of the extent to which the 
goodwill and fixed asset impairment test 
is sensitive to changes in the key inputs.
Total goodwill and fixed assets at 
31 December 2015 were £2,031.8 million.
The most significant goodwill balances 
relate to the Spanish division (£634.6 
million) and the North American division 
(£371.3 million).
Our procedures for challenging management’s methodology and assumptions focused on the 
Group’s interests in Spain and North America and included:
• assessing the appropriateness of any changes to assumptions since the prior period;
• validating the integrity of the impairment models through testing of the mechanical accuracy 
and verifying the application of the input assumptions;
• understanding the underlying process used to determine the risk adjusted cash flow 
projections and challenging them with reference to historical forecasts, actual performance 
and expected future changes to the business; 
• working with our valuation specialists to benchmark the discount rates and perpetuity 
growth rates applied to external macro-economic and market data. This involved 
consideration of the impact of territory-specific risk adjustments to the discount rate versus 
the risk adjustments made to the underlying cash flows; and
• assessing the appropriateness of the disclosures included in the Financial Statements 
including the sensitivity analysis provided.
North American insurance and 
other claims provisions
Estimation of insurance provisions is 
highly judgemental and is based on 
assessment of the expected settlement 
on known claims together with an 
estimate of settlements that will be made 
in respect of incidents incurred but not 
reported at the balance sheet date. 
This has been highlighted as a key 
accounting estimate and judgement 
in note 2.
Of the total Group claims provision of 
£60.9 million at 31 December 2015, 
£54.5 million relates to the North 
American division and includes amounts 
arising through acquisition in the year 
that have required separate fair value 
consideration. Details of the Group 
claims provision are given in note 25.
The measurement of the self-insured 
claims provision in North America uses 
a combination of actuarial assumptions 
around loss development and 
management judgement to ensure that 
the Group is appropriately provided.
We used our actuarial specialists to challenge the assumptions inherent in the valuation 
produced by the Group’s actuary in North America for the high volume lower value claims, 
such as the loss development factors and ultimate expected losses, and to re-perform the 
actuarial calculation to develop a valuation range. This also included a separate assessment 
of the discount rate applied in the actuarial valuation.
For the individually large claims not subject to actuarial review, we discussed the nature of 
each claim with the US general counsel and those responsible for claims handling and tested 
a sample of items to supporting evidence to assess the expected range of possible outcomes. 
This included testing the fair value of provisions recognised on acquisitions during the year.
We compared the overall level of provision recorded to the range determined by management 
and the Group’s actuary, to conclude whether the level of provision was appropriate. This 
involved consideration of the audit evidence supporting the range as well as the independent 
assessment of the range for higher volume lower value claims produced by our actuarial 
specialists.
Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of National Express Group plc continued
Financial Statements
102 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Tax provisions
Judgement is required in relation to the 
value of the tax provisions recorded in 
respect of a number of uncertain tax 
positions across the Group which have 
not yet been agreed by the tax authorities 
including potential future tax audits in 
the UK, Spain and North America, as 
well as certain elements of the financing 
structures within the Group. Accordingly 
tax provisioning is included in note 2 
as one of the significant accounting 
judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty.
As outlined in note 10 there was a 
release of £8.6 million of tax provisions 
during the year reflecting the finalisation 
of the tax audits in Spain for years 2009 
through 2011 and the fact there are now 
no outstanding tax audits in the UK, 
Spain, the US or Canada. At 31 
December 2015 the Group tax 
provisions totalled £12.7 million.
We used our tax specialists to assist us in appraising the likely outcome of technical tax 
treatments based on their experience working with the revenue authorities, and reviewed 
correspondence with the authorities to challenge the reasonableness of the provisions made, 
including considering consistency and approach to judgements. Our tax specialists also 
considered management’s assessment of the risk inherent in current tax positions taken 
around the world which could be subject to challenge in the future.
Pensions accounting
The measurement of the Group’s net 
pension liability of £12.6 million requires 
management to make judgements on 
assumptions including price inflation, 
discount rates, pension increases, 
mortality rates, earnings growth and 
the recognition of pension scheme 
surpluses. The net liability position 
reflects a liability on the UK Bus scheme 
which is largely offset by net surpluses 
on the Rail and Group schemes.
As explained in note 2, the significant 
accounting judgements and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty, changes in 
these assumptions could significantly 
impact the amount of the Group’s 
retirement benefit obligations. As outlined 
in note 33, this sensitivity is a function of 
the size of the gross pension assets being 
£663.8 million and the gross pension 
liability being £676.4 million.
We reviewed the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the net pension liability and our 
actuarial specialists performed a critical assessment of the key assumptions as described 
in note 33 with reference to comparable market data.
We also tested a sample of the pension asset valuations and the data used in the actuarial 
valuation.
Fuel hedge accounting
It is the Group’s policy to hedge fuel 
price fluctuations in order to provide 
short-term cost certainty. Due to the 
continued decline in global oil prices 
during the year, partially offset by the 
utilisation of 2015 hedge contracts, 
the fair value of the liability in respect 
of the forward fuel hedge contracts 
has increased from £71.3 million at 
31 December 2014 to £83.8 million 
at 31 December 2015. 
The accounting policy is included in note 2 
to the Financial Statements and 
accounting for fuel commodity contracts is 
an inherently complex area. The continued 
decline in oil prices and the resultant 
increase to the derivative liability 
recognised has meant the complexity and 
sensitivity of the hedge effectiveness 
testing has increased.
We have worked with our treasury accounting specialists to:
• challenge the valuations of a sample of forward fuel hedge contracts by calculating 
independent fair values;
• review the hedge documentation with reference to the requirements of IAS 39 and 
best practice; 
• completed independent effectiveness testing for a sample of hedges; and
• challenged the Group’s assessment of the highly probable assumptions in respect 
of the forecast transactions.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee 
discussed on page 66.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
103 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes 
it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and 
in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be £8 million, which is 5.3% of normalised pre-tax 
profit (profit before any exceptional items and intangible amortisation), and below 1% of equity. 
In 2014 this was also £8 million which was 5.5% of profit before normalised pre-tax profit. 
Normalised profit is one of the key metrics used both externally and internally as excluding 
exceptional items, although there are none in 2015, which are volatile, as well as amortisation 
costs, facilitates a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit 
differences in excess of £160,000 (2014: £160,000), as well as differences below that 
threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to 
the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope 
of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, 
including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group 
level. Based on that assessment, as in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope 
primarily on the audit work at the five operating divisions and the Group head office function. 
Each operating division was subject to an audit that was scoped relevant to its component 
materiality level, which did not exceed £5.2 million in either the current or prior year. The Group 
head office work was performed to a component materiality level of £6.4 million.
The five operating divisions and the Group head office function contributed 100% (2014: 100%) 
of Group revenue and Group operating profit and 99% (2014: 100%) of Group net assets.
Group-level analytical review procedures were performed over the amounts held in the 
Bahrain joint venture.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been 
designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the audit team visits 
each of the five primary divisions where the Group audit scope was focused at least once 
a year in addition to the work performed at the Group head office.
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received 
and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain 
disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of National Express Group plc continued
Financial Statements
104 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information 
in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies 
between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they 
consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual 
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have 
not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities  
of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). 
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are 
effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the  
Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial 
Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the Financial Statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial 
Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, 
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Nigel Mercer (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Birmingham, United Kingdom
25 February 2016
105 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
106 
 
Group Income Statement  
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
* restated for the reclassification of business development costs from exceptionals as disclosed in note 2. 
 
 
  
 
Note 
Total before 
intangible 
amortisation  
2015  
£m 
Intangible 
amortisation 
2015  
£m 
Total  
2015  
£m 
Total before 
intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional items 
(restated)* 
2014 
£m 
Intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional items 
(restated)* 
2014 
£m 
Total  
2014  
£m 
Continuing operations        
Revenue 3,5  1,919.8 – 1,919.8 1,867.4 – 1,867.4 
Operating costs before intangible 
amortisation and exceptional items  (1,726.3) – (1,726.3) (1,699.8) – (1,699.8) 
Intangible amortisation  5,13  – (25.7) (25.7) – (28.6) (28.6) 
Exceptional items  5  – – – – (24.8) (24.8) 
Total operating costs  6  (1,726.3) (25.7) (1,752.0) (1,699.8) (53.4) (1,753.2) 
Group operating profit 5 193.5 (25.7) 167.8 167.6 (53.4) 114.2 
Share of results of associates  17  1.8 – 1.8 0.3 – 0.3 
Finance income  3,9  5.9 – 5.9 6.5 – 6.5 
Finance costs  9  (51.1) – (51.1) (54.5) – (54.5) 
Profit before tax   150.1 (25.7) 124.4 119.9 (53.4) 66.5 
Tax charge 10  (28.5) 13.2 (15.3) (21.8) 15.9 (5.9) 
 
Profit for the year  121.6 (12.5) 109.1 98.1 (37.5) 60.6 
Profit attributable to  
equity shareholders   119.5 (12.5) 107.0 96.6 (37.5) 59.1 
Profit attributable to  
non-controlling interests   2.1 – 2.1 1.5 – 1.5 
  121.6 (12.5) 109.1 98.1 (37.5) 60.6 
Earnings per share:        
– basic earnings per share  12    20.9p   11.6p 
– diluted earnings per share  12   20.9p   11.5p 
Normalised earnings per share:        
– basic earnings per share  12 23.4p   18.9p   
– diluted earnings per share  12 23.3p   18.9p   
106 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Group Income Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  107 
 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income  
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
Note 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Profit for the year  109.1 60.6 
    
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:    
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension plans  33  (9.4) 10.1 
Deferred tax on actuarial (losses)/gains  1.4 (2.3) 
  (8.0) 7.8 
 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:    
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (net of hedging)  (31.0) (25.0) 
Exchange differences on retranslation of non-controlling interests   (0.6) (0.8) 
Loss on cash flow hedges   (52.5) (80.3) 
Less: reclassification adjustments for gains or losses included in profit  36.1 12.3 
Tax on exchange differences   (1.1) 0.1 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges   1.2 13.6 
  (47.9) (80.1) 
    
Total comprehensive income/(expenditure) for the year   53.2 (11.7) 
    
Total comprehensive income/(expenditure) attributable to:    
Equity shareholders   51.7 (12.4) 
Non-controlling interests   1.5 0.7 
  53.2 (11.7) 
 
  
107 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial Statements 
 
108 
 
 
  
 
Note 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets  13 1,230.7 1,177.4 
Property, plant and equipment  14  801.1 729.9 
Available-for-sale investments  16  6.5 6.8 
Derivative financial instruments  16  22.2 26.5 
Deferred tax assets 26 31.1 29.9 
Investments accounted for using the equity method  17  10.6 5.4 
Trade and other receivables  19  4.0 1.8 
Defined benefit pension asset 33 49.7 40.6 
  2,155.9 2,018.3 
Current assets    
Inventories  20  22.5 21.8 
Trade and other receivables  21  241.9 199.6 
Derivative financial instruments  16  2.4 1.5 
Current tax assets   1.4 1.3 
Cash and cash equivalents  22  60.4 83.7 
  328.6 307.9 
Total assets   2,484.5 2,326.2 
Non-current liabilities    
Borrowings  27  (752.3) (741.8) 
Derivative financial instruments  27  (39.6) (36.1) 
Deferred tax liability  26  (53.8) (66.0) 
Other non-current liabilities  24  (16.0) (4.1) 
Defined benefit pension liability  33  (62.3) (52.5) 
Provisions  25  (32.1) (23.5) 
  (956.1) (924.0) 
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables  23  (499.5) (415.7) 
Borrowings  27  (99.1) (55.9) 
Derivative financial instruments  27  (46.0) (35.8) 
Current tax liabilities   (16.1) (23.3) 
Provisions  25  (36.6) (35.3) 
  (697.3) (566.0) 
Total liabilities   (1,653.4) (1,490.0) 
Net assets   831.1 836.2 
Shareholders’ equity    
Called-up share capital  31  25.6 25.6 
Share premium account   532.7 532.7 
Capital redemption reserve   0.2 0.2 
Own shares   (7.8) (1.5) 
Other reserves  32  (80.1) (32.8) 
Retained earnings   345.6 299.3 
Total shareholders’ equity   816.2 823.5 
Non-controlling interests in equity   14.9 12.7 
Total equity   831.1 836.2 
D Finch 
Group Chief Executive 
25 February 2016 
M Ashley 
Group Finance Director 
Group Balance Sheet 
At 31 December 2015 
 
108 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Group Balance Sheet 
At 31 December 2015  
 
  109 
 
Group Statement of Changes in Equity  
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
Share  
capital  
£m 
Share 
premium 
account  
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
 £m 
Own  
shares  
(note 31) 
£m 
Other 
reserves 
(note 32)  
£m 
Retained 
earnings  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
 £m 
Total  
equity  
£m 
At 1 January 2015  25.6 532.7 0.2 (1.5) (32.8) 299.3 823.5 12.7 836.2 
Shares purchased  – – – (8.5) – – (8.5) – (8.5) 
Own shares released to satisfy 
employee share schemes  – – – 2.2 – (2.2) – – – 
Total comprehensive income  
and expenditure  – – – – (47.3) 99.0 51.7 1.5 53.2 
Share-based payments  – – – – – 3.2 3.2 – 3.2 
Tax on share-based payments  – – – – – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7 
Dividends – – – – – (54.4) (54.4) – (54.4) 
Dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests – – – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) 
Contribution from non-controlling 
interest – – – – – – – 0.8 0.8 
At 31 December 2015  25.6 532.7 0.2 (7.8) (80.1) 345.6 816.2 14.9 831.1 
 
 
Share  
capital  
£m 
Share 
premium 
account  
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
 £m 
Own  
shares  
(note 31) 
£m 
Other 
reserves 
(note 32)  
£m 
Retained 
earnings  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
 £m 
Total  
equity  
£m 
At 1 January 2014  25.6 532.7 0.2 (0.8) 46.5 282.4 886.6 10.7 897.3 
Shares purchased  – – – (3.2) – – (3.2) – (3.2) 
Own shares released to satisfy 
employee share schemes  – – – 2.5 – (2.5) – – – 
Total comprehensive income  
and expenditure  – – – – (79.3) 66.9 (12.4) 0.7 (11.7) 
Share-based payments  – – – – – 3.1 3.1 – 3.1 
Tax on share-based payments  – – – – – 1.0 1.0 – 1.0 
Dividends – – – – – (51.6) (51.6) – (51.6) 
Dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests – – – – – – – (0.2) (0.2) 
Contribution from non-controlling 
interest – – – – – – – 1.5 1.5 
At 31 December 2014  25.6 532.7 0.2 (1.5) (32.8) 299.3 823.5 12.7 836.2 
 
 
 
  
109 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial Statements 
 
110 
 
Group Statement of Cash Flows  
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
 
Note 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Cash generated from operations  36  264.1 245.2 
Tax paid  (11.2) (13.0) 
Net cash from operating activities   252.9 232.2 
Cash flows from investing activities    
Payments to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired  18(a) (62.3) (5.2) 
Deferred consideration for businesses acquired and disposed 18(a) (0.2) (0.5) 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (107.5) (55.7) 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment   10.2 13.9 
Payments to acquire intangible assets   (16.4) (7.5) 
Payments to acquire associates  (3.5) (0.2) 
Interest received   5.6 5.9 
Net cash used in investing activities   (174.1) (49.3) 
Cash flows from financing activities    
Purchase of own shares   (8.5) (3.2) 
Interest paid   (46.7) (49.7) 
Finance lease principal payments   (25.8) (28.8) 
Net loan receipts/(payments)  44.3 (9.7) 
(Payments)/receipts for the maturity of foreign currency contracts  (11.1) 2.4 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests   (0.1) (0.2) 
Contribution from non-controlling interest  0.8 1.5 
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company   (54.4) (51.6) 
Net cash used in financing activities   (101.5) (139.3) 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (22.7) 43.6 
Opening cash and cash equivalents   83.7 40.9 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (22.7) 43.6 
Foreign exchange   (0.6) (0.8) 
Closing cash and cash equivalents  22  60.4 83.7 
 
110 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Group Statement of Cash Flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  111 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
1 Corporate information 
The Consolidated Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) for the year ended 
31 December 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 25 February 2016. National 
Express Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the 
London Stock Exchange.  
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report that accompanies these Financial Statements.  
2 Accounting policies  
Statement of compliance  
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and 
interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’), 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  
Basis of preparation  
These Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis (see Group Finance Director’s Review on page 37) under 
the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale investments.  
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 
(£0.1m) except where otherwise indicated.  
A summary of the Group’s accounting policies applied in preparing these Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 
is set out below. 
Significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts 
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual 
results may ultimately differ from those estimates.  
The key accounting estimates and judgements are: 
Goodwill impairment 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-
generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Details of the assumptions used and key sensitivities 
are set out in note 13 to these Financial Statements. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
Determining the amount of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations and the net costs of providing such benefits requires assumptions  
to be made concerning long-term interest rates, inflation, salary and pension increases, investment returns and longevity of current 
and future pensioners. Changes in these assumptions could significantly impact the amount of the obligations or the cost of providing 
such benefits.  
The Group makes assumptions concerning these matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries. 
Details of the assumptions made are set out in note 33. 
Insurance  
The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an 
estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the Balance Sheet date but for which claims have not 
been reported to the Group. The Group makes assumptions concerning these judgemental matters with the assistance of advice from 
independent qualified actuaries. 
Tax provisions 
Assessing the outcome of tax uncertainties requires judgements to be made regarding the result of negotiations with and enquiries from 
tax authorities in a number of jurisdictions. Management assessments are supported by external advisors where appropriate, based on 
our business transaction facts and circumstances and the status of ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities. 
111 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial Statements 
 
112 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Basis of consolidation  
These Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries 
drawn up to 31 December each year. Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with 
the Group’s accounting policies.  
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group Income Statement includes the results 
of subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed. The purchase consideration is allocated 
to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition. On the sale of a business, the Group Income Statement 
includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.  
Intra-Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.  
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of comprehensive income and equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent 
Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Certain comparatives have been reclassified to be consistent with the current year’s changes in presentation. 
Changes in accounting policies and the adoption of new and revised standards 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year and there have been no changes in accounting 
standards during the year that have had a material effect on the Group. 
Restatements 
Following recent successful bidding in both Rail franchise contracts and public vehicle contracts in the Middle East, the Directors have 
decided to classify business development costs as part of the recurring operations of the business and hence part of the normalised 
performance in 2015. For comparability, the similar costs in 2014 (which were treated as exceptional items) have been reclassified to 
be consistent with the current year presentation, along with the imputed tax credits. The reclassification has no effect on the IFRS 
reported results. 
A reconciliation of prior period operating profit is as follows: 
 
A reconciliation of prior period taxation is as follows: 
Interests in joint ventures  
The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties to share control of other entities which represent joint ventures. 
The Group recognises its interest in the entities’ assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting. The Group Balance Sheet 
includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures’ net assets or liabilities and the Income Statement includes the appropriate share 
of their results after tax.  
Financial Statements of joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. Adjustments are made in the Group’s 
Financial Statements to eliminate the Group’s share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint 
ventures. The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.  
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and exceptional items £m 
As previously reported 193.1 
Business development costs in Rail (19.8) 
Business development costs in Spain and Morocco (0.8) 
Business development costs in Central functions (4.9) 
As restated 167.6 
Tax charge on operating profit before intangible amortisation and exceptional items £m 
As previously reported 27.7 
Tax credits relating to restated business development costs (5.9) 
As restated 21.8 
112 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  113 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Interests in associates  
Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the 
voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates. The Consolidated Financial Statements include 
the appropriate share of these associates’ results and net assets based on their latest financial statements under the equity method 
of accounting. 
Income Statement presentation  
The Group Income Statement has been presented in a columnar format to enable users of the Financial Statements to view the 
normalised results of the Group. Normalised results are defined as the statutory results excluding loss on the sale of a business, 
intangible asset amortisation, exceptional items and tax relief thereon.  
Exceptional items  
Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency 
require separate identification on the face of the Income Statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the 
year, in comparison to prior years. 
Revenue recognition  
Rendering of services  
Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services and related activities in the UK, North America 
and Europe. Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.  
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customer’s travel or services provided under contractual 
arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.  
Rail revenue in the UK includes amounts attributed to the train operating companies (‘TOCs’), based principally on agreed models of 
route usage by Railway Settlement Plan Limited (which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry), in respect 
of passenger receipts. In addition, net franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport Rail Division (DfT Rail) and local 
Passenger Transport Executives (PTEs) are treated as revenue. Net franchise agreement payments to DfT Rail are recognised in 
operating costs. UK Coach revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales. UK Bus and Spain and Morocco 
revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local 
transport authorities, which is recognised as the services are provided. For all the divisions noted above, the relevant share of season 
ticket or travelcard income is deferred within liabilities and released to the Income Statement over the life of the relevant season ticket 
or travelcard. North America revenue from school boards and similar contracts is recognised as the services are provided.  
Rental income  
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  
Finance income  
Revenue is recognised using the effective interest method.  
Government grants  
Government grants are recognised in the Income Statement on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises 
as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate. Specifically, government grants relating to property, 
plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the Income Statement over the expected useful 
economic life of the assets concerned. 
Segmental reporting  
Each of the Group’s reportable segments provides services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the 
other segments. Due to the nature of the Group’s operations the distinct business segments align directly with geographical segments 
which are operating in separate economic environments, with the exception of the Rail segment that comprises operations in both the 
UK and Germany. The German rail operation forms less than 10% of the Group’s total revenues, assets and capital expenditure and 
therefore has not been disclosed as a separately reportable segment.  
The Group’s segments comprise: UK Bus; UK Coach; Rail; North America (operates school bus and transit services); Spain and 
Morocco (operates bus and coach services); and Central functions. These segments are described in more detail in the Business review 
accompanying these Financial Statements.  
Leases  
Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the 
Group are capitalised in the Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment. Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair 
value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. The capital element of future obligations under 
hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the Balance Sheet. The interest element of rental obligations 
is charged to the Income Statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital 
repayments outstanding. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the 
useful life of the asset or the lease term.  
113 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
114 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Leases continued  
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor 
are classified as operating leases. Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the lease. Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised 
to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  
All material arrangements and transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed to check whether they contain elements that meet 
the accounting definition of a lease, although they may not follow the legal form of a lease.  
Borrowing costs  
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred except where they are directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. 
Current tax and deferred tax  
Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned. Income taxes 
are recognised in the Income Statement unless they relate to an item accounted for in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity, in which 
case the tax is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current 
tax are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.  
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions:  
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill;  
• where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; and  
• in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary 
differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.  
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date 
on the same basis. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the 
Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.  
Intangible assets  
Intangible assets acquired separately that meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets are capitalised at cost and when 
acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, finite life assets 
are amortised on a straight-line basis and indefinite life assets are not amortised. The amortisation expense is taken to the Income 
Statement through operating costs.  
Finite life intangible assets have a residual value of £nil and are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows:  
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment. The useful lives of finite life intangible assets are examined on 
an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment 
where indicators of impairment exist. 
The Group’s only indefinite life intangible asset is goodwill.  
Software  
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset 
and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs include software licences, consulting 
costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable 
to the development, design and implementation of the computer software. Costs in respect of training are expensed as incurred. 
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the Income Statement 
over its estimated useful life (3 to 7 years).  
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
not be recoverable.  
Customer contracts  – over the life of the contract (between 1 and 33 years)  
Contract mobilisation costs  – over th e life of the franchise (15 years)  
Brands – over the life of the brand (5 years) 
114 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  115 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Goodwill  
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest 
in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historical 
cost less any accumulated impairment. If an acquisition gives rise to an excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the 
acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost (previously referred to as negative goodwill), this is credited 
immediately to the Income Statement.  
In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised. All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an impairment charge 
recognised as required.  
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions. Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are 
amended within one year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments 
to reflect further evidence gained post acquisition.  
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included 
in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the disposal of the operation.  
Property, plant and equipment  
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Under 
the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1, the Group elected to deem the fair value of certain revalued assets to be equivalent to cost.  
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices. Freehold land is not depreciated. Other property, 
plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:  
Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. Repairs 
and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.  
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the Income Statement 
in the period of derecognition.  
Impairment of non-financial assets  
All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are reviewed annually. An impairment loss is 
recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an asset’s 
fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for 
which there are separately identifiable cash inflows.  
In assessing value in use, the estimated risk adjusted future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money. Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement 
in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.  
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they 
no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated and any previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the asset’s 
net book value had no previous impairment loss been recognised. Such reversal is recognised in the Income Statement. Future 
depreciation or amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life. 
Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed. 
Freehold buildings  – 30 to 50 years  
Long leasehold property 
improvements  
– 15 to 40 years  
Public service vehicles  – 8 to 15 years  
Plant and equipment, fixtures 
and fittings  
– 3 to 15 years  
115 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
116 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Financial instruments  
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition. The Group classifies its financial assets in the 
following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale. The classification depends on 
the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.  
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category 
if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are 
designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets.  
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the Income 
Statement. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’ category are 
presented in the Income Statement within finance costs in the period in which they arise.  
Loans and receivables  
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.  
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date which are classified as 
non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the 
Balance Sheet.  
Available-for-sale financial assets  
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other 
categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the 
Balance Sheet date.  
The Group’s investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are classified as available-for-sale financial 
assets. After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component 
of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported 
cumulative gain or loss is included in the Income Statement. Where there is no active market for the Group’s investments, fair value is 
determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses. In the absence 
of any other reliable external information, assets are carried at cost or amortised cost as appropriate.  
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets 
is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the 
security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale 
financial assets, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any 
impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss – is removed from equity and recognised in the Income 
Statement. Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the Income 
Statement. 
Financial liabilities 
When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value. Financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals, 
other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments. In the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, 
an adjustment is made for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability. Subsequent measurement 
depends on its classification as follows: 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are 
classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. These liabilities are carried on the Balance Sheet at fair value with 
gains or losses being recognised in the Income Statement. 
Other 
All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective  
interest method. 
 
116 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  117 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Derivative financial instruments  
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, fuel derivatives and interest 
rate derivatives to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, fuel price and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial 
instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported Balance Sheet. The fair value 
of foreign currency forward exchange contracts, interest rate and fuel derivatives is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, 
interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.  
The Group’s fuel derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. The gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be 
an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any material ineffective portion recognised in the Income Statement. The gains or losses 
deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction 
or firm commitment is recognised in the Income Statement.  
The Group’s interest rate derivatives are designated as fair value hedges. The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement. The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted through the Income Statement for the gain 
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, in this case movements in the risk free interest rate. 
Foreign currency derivatives are used to hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the 
extent they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the 
related assets and liabilities. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign operation 
is partially disposed of or sold. Foreign currency forward contracts are also used to hedge transactional exposures. These contracts 
are not hedge accounted and all gains and losses are taken directly to the Income Statement. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the Income Statement in the period.  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting.  
Inventories  
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in-first out basis, after making due allowance for obsolete 
or slow moving items. 
Contract mobilisation costs  
Costs associated with securing new rail franchises and other significant non-rail contracts are expensed as incurred up to the point 
when a bid is awarded. From this point in time, appropriate costs are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the Income 
Statement over the life of the contract. Costs associated with the commencement of all new contracts other than these contracts 
are expensed as incurred.  
Trade and other receivables  
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. 
Doubtful debts are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, whilst bad debts are written off when identified.  
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, 
other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts. 
In the Consolidated Balance Sheet, cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts that have no 
legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.  
Trade and other payables  
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
Interest-bearing borrowings  
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received plus transaction costs that 
are directly attributable to the issue of the financial asset or liability. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
117 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
118 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Insurance  
The Group’s policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses. To provide protection above these types of losses, 
the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers. The insurance provision is based on 
estimated exposures at the year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year end date, subject to 
the overall deductible within the Group’s insurance arrangements. The majority of provisions will be utilised within five years, and the 
provisions have been discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.  
Pensions and other post-employment benefits  
The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature. Full details are provided in 
note 33.  
The Balance Sheet position in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the net of the present value of the relevant defined benefit 
obligation at the Balance Sheet date and the fair value of plan assets. Recognition of a net asset is limited so that it does not exceed the 
economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the scheme or reductions in future contributions to the scheme. The trustees 
complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each plan, but the obligation is updated annually for financial reporting 
purposes by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the obligation is determined by the 
estimated future cash outflows discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent 
to the terms of the related liability.  
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs within operating 
costs in the Income Statement. Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset and is recognised within finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to Other Comprehensive Income in the period in which they arise.  
Our UK TOCs participate in the Railways Pension Scheme (‘RPS’), a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail 
industry. This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it operates the relevant 
franchise. In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs 
are formally shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the employee. A liability is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes 
in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability represents the deficit that the Group expects to 
fund during the franchise term.  
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due. The Group has no legal or constructive 
obligation to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits 
relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.  
Share-based payment  
The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, under which the Group receives services from 
employees as consideration for equity instruments (options) of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange 
for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value 
of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability, 
sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included 
in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest. The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting 
period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At each Balance Sheet date, the entity 
revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the 
impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.  
Provisions  
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Provisions are 
measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are 
discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate. The amortisation of the discount is recognised 
as a finance cost.  
Contingent liabilities are obligations that arise from past events that are dependent on future events. They are disclosed in the notes 
to the Financial Statements where the expected future outflow is not probable.  
118 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  119 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Share capital, share premium and dividends  
Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Company’s equity share capital, the consideration paid, including 
any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders’ equity as own shares until they are cancelled or re-issued. Any consideration 
subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders’ equity.  
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements on the date 
when dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.  
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations  
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.  
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and it either represents 
a separate major line of business or geographical area; is part of a plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical 
area; or was an acquired subsidiary intended for resale. The resulting profit or loss from discontinued operations is reported separately 
in the Income Statement.  
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.  
Foreign currencies  
The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling, the 
presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable 
approximation to actual exchange rates at the dates of transactions.  
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling at the rates 
of exchange ruling at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity. On disposal of 
a foreign currency denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve (since 1 January 2004 
under the transitional rules of IFRS 1) relating to that entity is recognised in the Income Statement. All other translation differences are 
taken to the Income Statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency 
contracts which are used to provide a hedge against the Group net investments in foreign enterprises. These are taken directly to 
equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the Income Statement.  
New standards and interpretations not applied  
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied 
in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective, and have not yet been adopted by the EU: 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The standard deals with the classification, 
recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers – effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. The standard establishes 
the principles for reporting the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. 
IFRS 16 Leases – effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The standard sets out the principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. 
The Directors have assessed the following: IFRS 9 may impact both the measurement and disclosures of the Group’s financial 
instruments. IFRS 15 is not likely to have a significant impact on future financial statements. IFRS 16 is expected to result in a material 
increase to both the assets and liabilities of the Group and may also impact the timing of recognition of operating and finance costs. 
A full assessment of the impact of these new standards will be undertaken prior to their application. 
 
119 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
120 
 
3 Revenue 
4 Exchange rates 
The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Group are as follows: 
If the results for the year to 31 December 2014 had been retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2015, 
North America would have achieved normalised operating profit of £63.0m on revenue of £656.8m, compared to normalised operating 
profit of £59.5m on revenue of £620.2m as reported, and Spain and Morocco would have achieved a normalised operating profit of 
£67.6m on revenue of £484.7m, compared to normalised operating profit of £75.0m on revenue of £538.1m as reported. 
5 Segmental analysis 
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the public transport services they provide. 
The geographical markets they operate in match the nature of public transport services provided, with the exception of the Rail segment 
that comprises operations in both the UK and Germany. The German rail operation forms less than 10% of the Group’s total revenues, 
assets and capital expenditure. Commentary on the segments is included in the Strategic Report. 
Revenue is analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
Inter-segment sales in UK Bus represent the provision of coach services on a small number of routes to UK Coach and internal 
commission on ticket sales. Inter-segment sales in UK Coach represent rail replacement services provided to Rail. Inter-segment trading 
is undertaken on standard arm’s length commercial terms. Due to the nature of the Group’s businesses, the origin and destination of 
revenue is the same. No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the total revenue. 
 
2015 
 £m 
2014 
 £m 
Rendering of services  1,916.5 1,865.0 
Rental income  3.3 2.4 
Revenue  1,919.8 1,867.4 
Finance income  5.9 6.5 
Total revenue from continuing operations  1,925.7 1,873.9 
 
2015  
Closing rate 
2015 
Average rate 
2014  
Closing rate 
2014 
Average rate 
US dollar  1.47 1.53 1.56 1.65 
Canadian dollar  2.04 1.95 1.81 1.82 
Euro  1.36 1.38 1.29 1.24 
 
External 
revenue  
2015  
£m 
Inter- 
segment  
sales  
2015  
£m 
Segment 
revenue  
2015  
£m 
External  
revenue  
2014  
£m 
Inter- 
segment  
sales  
2014 
 £m 
Segment  
revenue  
2014  
£m 
UK Bus  285.1 1.3 286.4 280.8 0.2 281.0 
UK Coach  280.9 0.3 281.2 274.6 0.6 275.2 
Rail  168.4 – 168.4 151.6 – 151.6 
North America  683.2 – 683.2 620.2 – 620.2 
Spain and Morocco 502.2 – 502.2 538.1 – 538.1 
German Coach – – – 2.1 – 2.1 
Inter-segment sales elimination  – (1.6) (1.6) – (0.8) (0.8) 
Total revenue  1,919.8 – 1,919.8 1,867.4 – 1,867.4 
120 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  121 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
5 Segmental analysis continued 
Operating profit is analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
* restated for the reclassification of business development costs from exceptionals as reconciled below. 
 
Intangible asset amortisation is analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
 
 
Normalised 
operating  
profit  
2015 
£m 
Intangible 
amortisation 
2015 
£m 
Segment  
result  
2015 
£m 
Normalised 
operating  
profit 
(restated)* 
2014 
£m 
Intangible 
amortisation  
and  
exceptional  
items 
(restated)* 
2014 
£m 
Segment  
result 
2014 
£m 
UK Bus  37.5 – 37.5 34.0 (7.0) 27.0 
UK Coach  32.3 (0.5) 31.8 28.0 (3.5) 24.5 
Rail  0.6 – 0.6 (10.1) (0.6) (10.7) 
North America 66.8 (15.2) 51.6 59.5 (27.5) 32.0 
Spain and Morocco 71.5 (9.9) 61.6 75.0 (6.4) 68.6 
German Coach – – – (1.7) (2.1) (3.8) 
Central functions (15.2) (0.1) (15.3) (17.1) (6.3) (23.4) 
Operating profit from continuing 
operations  193.5 (25.7) 167.8 167.6 (53.4) 114.2 
Share of results of associates   1.8   0.3 
Net finance costs    (45.2)   (48.0) 
Profit before tax    124.4   66.5 
Tax charge    (15.3)   (5.9) 
Profit for the year    109.1   60.6 
 
Rail 
£m 
Spain and 
Morocco  
£m 
Central 
functions  
£m 
Group 
operating 
profit 
£m 
As previously reported 9.7 75.8 (12.2) 193.1 
Business development costs (19.8) (0.8) (4.9) (25.5) 
As restated (10.1) 75.0 (17.1) 167.6 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m  
UK Coach  0.5 0.5 
North America  15.2 11.3 
Spain and Morocco 9.9 16.3 
German Coach – 0.4 
Central functions  0.1 0.1 
Total  25.7 28.6 
121 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
122 
 
5 Segmental analysis continued 
Exceptional costs/(income) are analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
* restated for the reclassification of business development costs from exceptionals as disclosed in note 2. 
Exceptional costs/(income) are further analysed by type as follows: 
* restated for the reclassification of business development costs from exceptionals as disclosed in note 2. 
In 2014 the Group incurred net exceptional costs of £24.8m relating to restructuring, the rationalisation of onerous contracts and 
exceptional fuel credits. 
Further details are disclosed in the Group’s 2014 Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
(restated)* 
£m  
UK Bus  – 7.0 
UK Coach  – 3.0 
Rail – 0.6 
North America  – 16.2 
Spain and Morocco – (9.9) 
German Coach – 1.7 
Central functions – 6.2 
Total  – 24.8 
 
2015 
 £m 
2014 
(restated)* 
£m 
Restructuring – 25.8 
Strategic rationalisation – 18.3 
Exceptional fuel credits – (19.3) 
 – 24.8 
122 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  123 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
5 Segmental analysis continued 
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
* Non-current assets only include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. 
** The net capital expenditure, after allowing for finance lease additions, disposal of fixed assets and payments to acquire intangibles, was £148.1m (2014: £50.5m). 
Capital expenditure comprises property, plant and equipment additions as disclosed above and in note 14. In 2015, software intangible 
assets of £6.2m (2014: £6.0m) were acquired as disclosed in note 13. 
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise the following items: 
 
 
Assets  
2015  
£m 
Of which 
non-current  
assets*  
2015 
£m 
Liabilities  
2015  
£m 
Capital**
expenditure  
2015  
£m 
Assets  
2014  
£m 
Of which  
non-current 
assets*  
2014 
£m 
Liabilities  
2014 
£m 
Capital**
expenditure  
2014 
£m 
UK Bus  177.3 158.9 (157.5) 30.0 156.2 135.8 (144.3) 4.9 
UK Coach  58.3 35.1 (47.8) 3.9 50.7 35.9 (39.3) 2.3 
Rail  53.7 19.7 (50.3) 8.5 24.1 4.6 (41.9) 2.9 
North America  972.6 859.3 (265.9) 36.1 824.5 738.4 (193.7) 22.7 
Spain and Morocco  1,052.0 951.2 (210.9) 27.4 1,084.4 986.3 (178.0) 21.8 
Central functions  59.9 7.6 (55.3) 1.6 45.1 6.3 (53.1) 1.1 
Unallocated  124.8 – (879.8) – 150.5 – (849.0) – 
Intercompany elimination  (14.1) – 14.1 – (9.3) – 9.3 – 
Total  2,484.5 2,031.8 (1,653.4) 107.5 2,326.2 1,907.3 (1,490.0) 55.7 
 
Unallocated 
assets  
2015  
£m  
Unallocated 
liabilities  
2015 
£m 
Unallocated 
assets  
2014  
£m 
Unallocated 
liabilities  
2014  
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents  60.4 – 83.7 – 
Other debt receivables 0.8 – 0.8 – 
Current tax  1.4 (16.1) 1.3 (23.3) 
Available-for-sale investments  6.5 – 6.8 – 
Derivative financial assets/(liabilities)  24.6 (85.6) 28.0 (71.9) 
Borrowings, excluding finance leases  – (723.8) – (687.2) 
Dividends payable  – (0.5) – (0.6) 
Deferred tax  31.1 (53.8) 29.9 (66.0) 
Total  124.8 (879.8) 150.5 (849.0) 
123 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
124 
 
6 Operating costs 
The UK TOC has fixed track access contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure (tracks, 
stations and depots). The TOC also has contracts under which rolling stock is leased. The capital element of the rolling stock lease 
charge is based on the purchase price, capital funded refurbishments and modifications. The non-capital element of the lease charge 
includes heavy maintenance charges and charges based on mileage. 
An analysis of fees paid to the Group’s auditor is provided below: 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Cost of inventories recognised in expense 60.1 70.9 
Staff costs (including exceptional costs in 2014 of £8.5m) 879.1 850.3 
Depreciation – Owned assets (including exceptional costs in 2014 of £3.4m) 86.4 86.4 
 – Leased assets  17.9 18.5 
Amortisation of fixed asset grants  (0.6) (0.8) 
Operating lease charges  Rolling stock: capital element 23.4 29.0 
 Rolling stock: non-capital element 0.5 – 
 Public service vehicles  10.5 9.1 
 Other  9.5 9.8 
 – Plant and equipment  43.9 47.9 
 Fixed track access  4.0 7.2 
 Other  20.7 22.5 
 – Land and buildings  24.7 29.7 
Foreign exchange differences (0.1) (0.5) 
Other charges (including exceptional expense in 2014 of £12.9m) 614.9 622.2 
Operating costs before intangible asset amortisation  1,726.3 1,724.6 
Intangible asset amortisation  25.7 28.6 
Total operating costs  1,752.0 1,753.2 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the consolidated and parent Company accounts  0.3 0.3 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:   
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries  0.7 0.7 
Other services  0.2 0.2 
 1.2 1.2 
124 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  125 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
7 Employee benefit costs 
(a) Staff costs 
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: 
Included in the above costs are the following costs related to the Group’s key management personnel who comprise the Directors of 
the parent Company: 
(b) Share schemes 
Details of options or awards outstanding as at 31 December 2015 under the Group’s share schemes are as follows: 
(i) Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)  
The LTIP was introduced in 2005 on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to replace the annual award under the 
Executive Share Option Plan to Executive Directors and to certain senior employees. Under the LTIP, a Performance Award to acquire 
a specified number of free shares may be made to the employee or Director. In addition, a Matching Award may be made, as described 
in (ii). Performance conditions are attached to the vesting of Performance and Matching Awards based on the achievement of target 
growth in earnings per share (‘EPS’), return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) and the relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’) of the 
Company against a comparator group of companies. If the performance conditions are met, Performance and Matching Awards vest 
on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date. There are 
no cash settlement alternatives at present.  
  
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Wages and salaries  760.9 733.6 
Social security costs  103.7 103.7 
Pension costs (note 33)  11.3 9.9 
Share-based payment (note 8)  3.2 3.1 
 879.1 850.3 
 2015  2014 
Managerial and administrative  4,078 3,869 
Operational  38,544 38,058 
 42,622 41,927 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Basic salaries 0.8  1.0 
Benefits  0.4 0.4 
Performance-related bonuses  0.9 1.4 
Share-based payment  1.2 1.1 
 3.3 3.9 
 
Number of 
share options 
2015 
Number of 
share options 
2014 
Exercise  
price  
Future 
exercise 
periods 
Long-Term Incentive Plan  8,539,637 10,062,870 nil 2016-2020 
Share Matching Plan  – 360,233 nil – 
Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan  117,510 478,820 nil 2016 
WMT Long Service Option Scheme  266,592 258,525 129p-599p 2016-2025 
Executive Deferred Bonus Plan 76,643 134,598 nil 2016 
 9,000,382 11,295,046   
125 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
126 
 
7 Employee benefit costs continued 
(b) Share schemes continued  
(i) Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) continued 
Since 2011, HMRC approved share option plans were added as an appendix to the LTIP (‘Approved Plan’). A participant can only hold 
an option under the Approved Plan over shares with a market value of up to £30,000 at the grant date. Options under the Approved 
Plan are granted in tandem with the usual options under the LTIP. The options are structured such that on exercise, the proportion of 
the gain in respect of the first £30,000 worth of shares (as measured at the date of grant) will be delivered under the Approved Option 
and the LTIP option shall be scaled back to deliver the remaining gross gain that would have been delivered had the option been 
granted alone. The excess shares under the LTIP will be forfeited such that both awards will never become fully vested. 
From 2012 to 2014, a supplementary five-year long-term incentive award was granted to the Chief Executive subject to targets linked 
to the Group’s five-year plan. This comprised a Performance Award (with no matching element). If performance conditions are met, 
the Performance award will vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to 12 months 
following the vesting date. There are no cash settlement alternatives at present. 
(ii) Share Matching Plan (the ‘Plan’)  
The Share Matching Plan was introduced in 2005 as part of the new LTIP arrangements described in (i). Under the Plan, a Matching 
Award to acquire a specified number of shares for free may be made if the employee pledges a number of shares as investment shares 
which are then matched by the Company on up to a 4:1 basis with the number of shares that could have been purchased with the 
gross-tax equivalent of the amount invested. The Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain 
exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date. There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.  
(iii) Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan  
The Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan is a discretionary scheme which forms part of the bonus arrangements for certain senior 
employees. Under the scheme, part of any bonus may be received in cash whilst the remainder is used to make an award of nil cost 
options which vest three years after the award date. There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.  
(iv) West Midlands Travel Ltd (‘WMT’) Long Service Option Scheme  
The WMT Long Service Option Scheme utilises a fixed amount of shares set aside for this purpose following the acquisition of WMT in 
1995 and is open to all WMT employees who have been in service for more than 25 years. The options are exercisable between three 
and ten years following the grant date. There are no cash settlement alternatives.  
(v) TWM Share Incentive Plan (the ‘SIP’)  
The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees. At the end of the year, 1,079 (2014: 1,079) National Express Group PLC shares 
were held for the benefit of the Trustee. Dividends on shares held in the SIP forfeited shares account are waived. There are no cash 
settlement alternatives.  
(vi) Executive Deferred Bonus Plan 
As detailed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Committee considered it appropriate for bonuses awarded in respect of the 
calendar year to be deferred for a period of one year and that these would vest, subject to the terms of the award and the relevant 
Director’s continuing employment. The deferred forfeitable ordinary shares are awarded under the terms of The National Express Group 
Executive Deferred Bonus Plan which was adopted by the Board of the Company on 10 March 2009.  
The principal terms of awards under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan are summarised below: 
• awards under the Plan may be cash awards, conditional awards or forfeitable shares awards; 
• awards normally vest one year from the date of grant, subject to the relevant Director’s continued employment with the Company; 
• the Committee may decide that participants shall be entitled to receive a benefit determined by reference to the value of the dividends 
that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the grant 
date and the date of vesting; and 
• the awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment save in certain compassionate ‘good leaver’ circumstances 
(eg death or disability). 
In the event of a variation of the share capital of the Company, the Committee may make such adjustments to the awards 
as it considers appropriate. 
126 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  127 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
8 Share-based payments 
The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Group’s Income Statement for the year is as follows: 
There were exceptional costs included within the charge during the year of £nil (2014: £0.7m). 
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group had six share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7(b).  
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted 
average exercise prices. The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 
The options outstanding at 31 December 2015 had exercise prices that were between 129p and 599p (2014: between 129p and 599p) 
excluding options with a nil exercise price. The range of exercise prices for options was as follows: 
The options have a weighted average contractual life of one year (2014: one year). Options were exercised regularly throughout the year 
and the weighted average share price at exercise was 314p (2014: 280p). 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Expense arising from share and share option plans – continuing operations  3.2 3.1 
  2015   2014 
 
Number  
of share  
options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price  
p 
Number  
of share  
options 
Weighted 
average  
exercise 
price 
p 
Options without a nil exercise price:     
At 1 January  258,525 379 278,457 380 
Granted during the year  71,773 295 31,876 280 
Forfeited during the year  (11,867) 333 (9,120) 354 
Exercised during the year (14,363) 173 (10,721) 192 
Expired during the year (37,476) 458 (31,967) 359 
Outstanding at 31 December 266,592 359 258,525 379 
Exercisable at 31 December  152,408 413 188,470 422 
Options with a nil exercise price:     
At 1 January  11,036,521 nil 12,211,871 nil 
Granted during the year  2,338,019 nil 3,985,698 nil 
Forfeited during the year  (1,646,181) nil (1,657,616) nil 
Exercised during the year  (809,666) nil (962,147) nil 
Expired during the year (2,184,903) nil (2,541,285) nil 
Outstanding at 31 December  8,733,790 nil 11,036,521 nil 
Exercisable at 31 December  117,510 nil 58,755 nil 
Total outstanding at 31 December  9,000,382  11,295,046  
Total exercisable at 31 December  269,918  247,225  
Exercise price (p)  2015  2014 
0-350  170,210 118,916 
351-600 96,382 139,609 
 266,592 258,525 
127 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
128 
 
8 Share-based payments continued 
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following 
assumptions and inputs: 
Experience to date has shown that approximately 24% (2014: 24%) of options are exercised early, principally due to leavers. This has 
been incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price. 
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historical volatility over the last eight years, adjusted for one-off events that 
were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward. The expected dividend yield represents the 
dividends declared in the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the 
date of the grant. 
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the 
options above. 
9 Net finance costs 
 
 Share options without nil exercise price  Share options with nil exercise price 
 2015  2014  2015 2014  
Risk free interest rate 1.09%-1.36% 1.73% 0.73% 1.13%-1.81% 
Expected volatility  25.0%-26.0% 30.0% 24.0% 30.0% 
Peer group volatility  – – 22.0%-25.0% 28.0%-30.0% 
Expected option life in years  5 years 5 years 3 years 3-5 years 
Expected dividend yield  3.53%-3.63% 3.64% 0.0% 3.58% 
Weighted average share price at grant date 295p 275p 314p 280p 
Weighted average exercise price at grant date 295p 280p nil nil 
Weighted average fair value of options at grant date 44p 51p 280p 194p 
 
2015 
 £m 
2014 
£m 
Bond and bank interest payable  (45.5) (47.5) 
Finance lease interest payable  (3.2) (4.2) 
Other interest payable  (0.9) (0.5) 
Unwind of provision discounting  (1.4) (1.2) 
Net interest cost on defined benefit pension obligations (0.1) (1.1) 
Finance costs  (51.1) (54.5) 
Other financial income 5.9 6.5 
Net finance costs  (45.2) (48.0) 
Of which, from financial instruments:   
Cash and cash equivalents  (2.4) (2.3) 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  (44.4) (46.7) 
Derivatives used for hedging  5.8 5.8 
Loan fee amortisation  (2.3) (2.1) 
128 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  129 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
10 Taxation 
(a) Analysis of taxation charge in the year 
* restated for the reclassification of business development costs from exceptionals as disclosed in note 2. 
The 2014 tax credit on exceptional items of £5.0m relates to tax deductions on allowable exceptional costs. The £24.8m exceptio nal costs 
consist mainly of redundancy and reorganisation costs as well as unsuccessful rail bid costs which are allowable for tax purpos es. An element 
of the exceptional costs in the US and Spain are not allowed for tax purposes and therefore there is no tax credit in relation to these items. 
The current year tax credit on intangible items includes adjustments with respect to prior years in relation to Spanish and German 
intangible tax relief. 
(b) Tax on items recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity 
 
2015 
 £m 
2014 
 £m 
Current taxation:   
Charge on exchange movements offset in reserves  (0.3) – 
 (0.3) – 
Deferred taxation:   
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on actuarial (losses)/gains  1.4 (2.3) 
Deferred tax credit on cash flow hedges  1.2 13.6 
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on foreign exchange differences (0.8) 0.1 
Deferred tax credit on share-based payments 0.7 1.0 
 2.5 12.4 
 
 
2015 
 £m 
2014 
(restated)* 
£m 
Current taxation:   
UK corporation tax  1.7 (2.6) 
Overseas taxation  13.3 16.3 
Current income tax charge  15.0 13.7 
Adjustments with respect to prior years – UK and overseas (8.5) 0.9 
Total current income tax charge 6.5 14.6 
Deferred taxation (note 26):   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences – continuing operations  9.2 (11.3) 
Adjustments with respect to prior years – UK and overseas (0.4) 2.6 
Deferred tax charge/(credit) 8.8 (8.7) 
Total tax charge 15.3 5.9 
   
The tax charge is disclosed as follows:   
Tax charge on profit before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items  28.5 21.8 
Tax credit on intangible asset am ortisation and exceptional items  (13.2) (15.9) 
 15.3 5.9 
   
Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation an d exceptional items is analysed as follows:   
Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation (13.2) (10.9) 
Tax credit on exceptional items – (5.0) 
 (13.2) (15.9) 
129 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
130 
 
10 Taxation continued 
(c) Reconciliation of the total tax charge 
Included within the tax reconciliation are a number of non-recurring items, the main ones being changes in tax rates (UK and Spain) 
which resulted in deferred tax effects due to the restatement of balances, and the release of tax provisions. The UK corporation rates 
will reduce to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020 and the Spanish rate has decreased to 25% from 1 January 2016. 
Items expected to recur in the tax reconciliation for 2016 include the difference in rates between the UK and our overseas markets, 
tax incentives on re-investment credits and the merger of our Spanish businesses and the effect of the debt financing of our 
overseas subsidiaries. 
(d) Tax provisions 
At 31 December 2014, the Group held tax provisions of £21.3m to cover tax uncertainties across our various markets. During 2015, 
a tax audit into our Spanish business concluded with a payment of €2.7m to settle tax liabilities for the periods 2009 to 2011. All UK 
corporation tax returns up to 2013 have been submitted and agreed by HMRC, with 2014 recently submitted for review by HMRC. 
As a result of this and with no outstanding tax audits in the UK, Spain, the US or Canada, it was decided that £8.6m of the tax 
provisions are no longer required to cover tax uncertainties and £8.6m was credited to the tax line. The balance of £12.7m of tax 
provisions represents a number of tax uncertainties such as the deductibility of interest expense in some of our markets, withholding tax 
on payments and other matters. Based on the experience of the Group Tax department and after discussions of the various tax 
uncertainties with our tax advisors, the tax provision of £12.7m represents management’s best estimate of the tax uncertainties 
of which we are aware. The provision for the Group’s tax uncertainties of £12.7m is included in current tax liabilities.    
(e) Temporary differences associated with Group investments 
No deferred tax (2014: £nil) is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as the Group has 
determined that these undistributed profits will not be distributed in the near future. As a result of changes to tax legislation in 2009, 
overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 are generally exempt from UK corporation tax, but may be subject to withholding 
tax. There are no temporary differences (2014: £nil) associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which 
a deferred tax liability has not been recognised but for which a tax liability may arise. 
(f) Unrecognised tax losses 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against 
future taxable profits is probable. Based on current forecasts, it is estimated that the losses recognised for deferred tax purposes will be 
utilised within three to four years. UK and overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the Financial Statements 
amount to £6.9m (2014: £7.8m), which arise in tax jurisdictions where the Group does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future 
taxable profits. The majority of the unrecognised losses relates to UK entities where it is uncertain when, or if, the losses will be utilised. 
In addition, there are capital losses of £0.9m (2014: £1.8m), relating to the US business, which have not been recognised, recoverability 
of which is dependent on capital gains arising.  
The £0.9m (2014: £1.8m) of unrecognised capital losses will expire in 2016. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Profit before income tax  124.4 66.5 
Notional charge at UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.50%)  25.2 14.3 
Recurring items:   
Non-deductible/(deductible) goodwill impairment and intangible amortisation  0.6 (1.0) 
Effect of overseas tax rates  8.8 5.8 
Tax incentives  (5.6) (7.6) 
Overseas financing deductions (5.8) (5.3) 
Non-recurring items:   
Adjustments to prior years within current and defe rred tax (excluding movements in tax provisions) 2.2 3.5 
(Release)/increase in tax provisions (8.6) 1.1 
Effect of reduction in tax rates (note 10(h)) 0.1 (4.9) 
Non-taxable income  (1.3) (0.5) 
(Utilisation)/recognition of a deferred tax as set for previously unrecognised tax losses (0.3) 0.5 
Total tax charge reported in the Income Statement (note 10(a))  15.3 5.9 
130 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  131 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
10 Taxation continued 
(g) Deferred tax included in the Income Statement 
Details on the Balance Sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 26. 
(h) Factors that may affect future tax charges 
During the period, the Finance (No. 2) Act 2015 was passed with UK corporation tax rates of 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 
1 April 2020. 
At the Balance Sheet date, rates of 19% and 18% (2014: 20%) were substantively enacted. The change in rate from 20% to 18% has 
resulted in a tax charge of £1.1m to the Income Statement. 
In June 2014 the Spanish Government announced a tax rate reduction from 30% to 28% during 2015 and then from 28% to 25% in 2016 . At the 
Balance Sheet date, a rate of 25% was recognised. The change in ra te from 28% to 25% has resulted in a £1.0m credit to the Inco me Statement. 
11 Dividends paid and proposed 
12 Earnings per share 
* restated for the reclassification of business development costs from exceptionals as disclosed in note 2. 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity shareholders of £107.0m (2014: £59.1m) by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust 
(note 31) which are treated as cancelled. 
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 
The reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is as follows: 
 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Accelerated capital allowances  (15.2) (11.1) 
Other short-term temporary differences 28.4 (0.4) 
Utilisation of losses  (4.4) 2.8 
Deferred tax charge/(credit) 8.8 (8.7) 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Declared and paid during the year   
Ordinary final dividend for 2014 paid of 6.95p per share (2013: 6.75p)  35.5 34.5 
Ordinary interim dividend for 2015 of 3.685p per share (2014: 3.35p) 18.9 17.1 
 54.4 51.6 
Proposed for approval (not recognised as a liability at 31 December) 
 
 
Ordinary final dividend for 2015 of 7.645p per share (2014: 6.95p per share)  38.9 35.5 
 2015  2014  
Basic earnings per share 20.9p 11.6p 
Normalised basic earnings per share* 23.4p 18.9p 
Diluted earnings per share  20.9p 11.5p 
Normalised diluted earnings per share* 23.3p 18.9p 
 2015  2014 
Basic weighted average shares  510,954,717 511,125,312 
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares  2,399,159 970,374 
Diluted weighted average shares  513,353,876 512,095,686 
131 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
132 
 
12 Earnings per share continued 
The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings 
per share required by IAS 33 since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the business’ operations 
more appropriately. 
The reconciliation of the earnings and earnings per share to their normalised equivalent is as follows: 
* restated for the reclassification of business development costs from exceptionals as disclosed in note 2. 
13 Intangible assets  
 
   2015    2014*  
 £m 
Basic EPS  
p 
Diluted EPS  
p  £m 
Basic EPS  
p 
Diluted EPS  
p  
Profit attributable to equity shareholders  107.0 20.9 20.9 59.1 11.6 11.5 
Intangible amortisation  25.7 5.0 5.0 28.6 5.6 5.6 
Exceptional items  – – – 24.8 4.8 4.8 
Tax relief on the above items  (13.2) (2.5) (2.6) (15.9) (3.1) (3.0) 
Normalised profit from continuing operations  
and attributable to equity shareholders 119.5 23.4 23.3 96.6 18.9 18.9 
 
Customer 
contracts  
£m 
Software  
£m 
Contract 
mobilisation 
costs 
£m 
Total finite life 
assets  
£m 
Goodwill  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Cost:       
At 1 January 2015 513.1 47.0 1.6 561.7 1,095.2 1,656.9 
Acquisitions 57.1 – – 57.1 31.6 88.7 
Additions 1.6 6.2 8.3 16.1 – 16.1 
Disposals (1.4) – – (1.4) – (1.4) 
Reclassifications – 0.4 – 0.4 – 0.4 
Foreign exchange  (15.2) 1.1 – (14.1) (27.7) (41.8) 
At 31 December 2015  555.2 54.7 9.9 619.8 1,099.1 1,718.9 
Amortisation and impairment:       
At 1 January 2015  365.2 32.4 – 397.6 81.9 479.5 
Charge for year  21.2 4.5 – 25.7 – 25.7 
Disposals (1.4) 
– – (1.4) – (1.4) 
Reclassifications 3.0 (3.0) – – – – 
Foreign exchange  (14.5) 
0.8 – (13.7) (1.9) (15.6) 
At 31 December 2015 373.5 34.7 – 408.2 80.0 488.2 
Net book value:       
At 31 December 2015  181.7 20.0 9.9 211.6 1,019.1 1,230.7 
At 1 January 2015  147.9 14.6 1.6 164.1 1,013.3 1,177.4 
132 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  133 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
13 Intangible assets continued 
Goodwill has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for annual impairment testing on the basis of the Group’s business 
operations. The carrying value by cash-generating unit is as follows: 
The recoverable amount of indefinite life intangible assets has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a five-year period. The assumptions, 
including growth rates and operating margins, are based on historical experience and detailed budget plans as well as management’s 
assessment of current market and economic conditions. Growth has then been extrapolated forward from the end of the forecasts. 
 
 
Customer 
contracts  
£m 
 
Brand 
£m 
Software  
£m 
Contract 
mobilisation 
costs 
£m 
Total finite life 
assets  
£m 
Goodwill  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Cost:        
At 1 January 2014 525.2 2.3 33.0 – 560.5 1,127.1 1,687.6 
Acquisitions 4.2 – – – 4.2 1.6 5.8 
Additions 0.7 – 6.0 1.6 8.3 1.0 9.3 
Disposals – – (0.5) – (0.5) – (0.5) 
Reclassifications 4.0 (2.3) 7.3 – 9.0 – 9.0 
Foreign exchange  (21.0) – 1.2 – (19.8) (34.5) (54.3) 
At 31 December 2014  513.1 – 47.0 1.6 561.7 1,095.2 1,656.9 
Amortisation and impairment:        
At 1 January 2014  360.1 0.8 19.0 – 379.9 84.2 464.1 
Charge for year  22.7 – 5.9 – 28.6 – 28.6 
Disposals – – (0.5) – (0.5) – (0.5) 
Reclassifications 1.6 (0.8) 7.2 – 8.0 – 8.0 
Foreign exchange  (19.2) – 0.8 – (18.4) (2.3) (20.7) 
At 31 December 2014 365.2 – 32.4 – 397.6 81.9 479.5 
Net book value:        
At 31 December 2014  147.9 – 14.6 1.6 164.1 1,013.3 1,177.4 
At 1 January 2014  165.1 1.5 14.0 – 180.6 1,042.9 1,223.5 
     
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
UK Coach     13.2 13.2 
North America      371.3 335.0 
Spain and Morocco     634.6 665.1 
     1,019.1 1,013.3 
133 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
134 
 
13 Intangible assets continued 
The calculation of value in use for each group of cash-generating units is most sensitive to the assumptions over discount rates and the 
growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan.  
The key assumptions used for the cash-generating units are as follows: 
The value in use of the North America division exceeds its carrying amount by £455.1m (2014: £169.4m). Sensitivity analysis has been 
completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying 
amount following an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 290 basis points (2014: 140 basis points) or a reduction in the growth rates 
used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan of 340 basis points (2014: 160 basis points).  
The value in use of the Spain and Morocco division exceeds its carrying amount by £121.9m (2014: £107.1m). Sensitivity analysis 
has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its 
carrying amount following an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 80 basis points (2014: 70 basis points) or a reduction in growth 
rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan of 80 basis points (2014: 70 basis points).  
For both Spain and Morocco and North America the headroom has increased as the increase in the asset base is more than offset 
by future profit projections. 
It is believed that any reasonably possible movement on key as sumptions will not lead to an impairment of goodwill allocated to UK Coach. 
Sensitivities to other assumptions 
In North America, a reduction in operating profit margin of 320 basis points (2014: 160 basis points) will result in the value in use 
of the division being equal to its carrying amount. In Spain and Morocco, a reduction in operating profit margin of 140 basis points 
(2014: 110 basis points) will also result in the value in use of the division being equal to its carrying amount. 
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each cash-generating unit and 
to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts. 
 
Pre-tax discount 
 rate applied to  
cash flow projections 
Growth rate used to  
extrapolate cash flows  
beyond five-year period of 
management plan 
 2015  2014  2015  2014  
UK Coach 8.2% 8.5% 2.2% 2.0% 
North America  8.1% 8.6% 2.8% 2.5% 
Spain and Morocco 8.2% 8.5% 2.2% 2.0% 
134 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  135 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
14 Property, plant and equipment 
 
 
Freehold land  
and buildings  
£m 
Long 
leasehold 
property 
improvements  
£m 
Public service 
vehicles  
£m 
Plant and 
equipment, 
fixtures  
and fittings  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Cost:      
At 1 January 2015  96.7 5.1 1,247.9 168.9 1,518.6 
Acquisitions  0.4 – 18.5 0.1 19.0 
Additions  2.9 0.9 138.6 21.2 163.6 
Disposals  (1.2) – (20.2) (1.5) (22.9) 
Reclassifications (0.1) – – (0.3) (0.4) 
Foreign exchange  (3.1) 0.4 3.5 (1.9) (1.1) 
At 31 December 2015  95.6 6.4 1,388.3 186.5 1,676.8 
Depreciation:      
At 1 January 2015 18.1 3.4 631.8 135.4 788.7 
Charge for the year  2.4 0.7 90.9 10.3 104.3 
Disposals (0.7) – (15.2) (1.1) (17.0) 
Reclassifications – (0.1) – 0.1 – 
Foreign exchange  (0.3) 0.3 1.3 (1.6) (0.3) 
At 31 December 2015 19.5 4.3 708.8 143.1 875.7 
Net book value:      
At 31 December 2015 76.1 2.1 679.5 43.4 801.1 
At 1 January 2015 78.6 1.7 616.1 33.5 729.9 
135 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
136 
 
14 Property, plant and equipment continued 
Property, plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 
Assets held under finance lease agreements are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities. 
 
Freehold land  
and buildings  
£m 
Long  
leasehold 
property 
improvements  
£m 
Public service 
vehicles  
£m 
Plant and 
equipment, 
fixtures  
and fittings  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Cost:      
At 1 January 2014  100.8 4.8 1,178.5 174.1 1,458.2 
Acquisitions  – – 1.5 – 1.5 
Additions  2.2 0.4 83.8 12.8 99.2 
Disposals  (1.9) (0.4) (21.2) (6.2) (29.7) 
Reclassifications – (0.1) 0.2 (9.4) (9.3) 
Foreign exchange  (4.4) 0.4 5.1 (2.4) (1.3) 
At 31 December 2014  96.7 5.1 1,247.9 168.9 1,518.6 
Depreciation:      
At 1 January 2014 17.2 2.7 547.9 139.0 706.8 
Charge for the year  2.4 0.7 91.6 10.2 104.9 
Disposals (1.0) (0.4) (10.5) (4.8) (16.7) 
Reclassifications (0.1) 0.1 (0.4) (7.0) (7.4) 
Foreign exchange  (0.4) 0.3 3.2 (2.0) 1.1 
At 31 December 2014  18.1 3.4 631.8 135.4 788.7 
Net book value:      
At 31 December 2014  78.6 1.7 616.1 33.5 729.9 
At 1 January 2014 83.6 2.1 630.6 35.1 751.4 
  
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Public service vehicles  – cost  225.0 206.9 
 – depreciation (84.4) (70.3) 
Total net book value   140.6 136.6 
136 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  137 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
15 Subsidiaries 
The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the results and net assets of the Group. A full list of subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates is disclosed in note 38. The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the 
country in which they are incorporated. 
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies. 
The Group’s train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by DfT Rail, as delegated by the UK Government. 
Incorporated in England and Wales  
National Express Limited  Administration and marketing of express coach services in Great Britain 
Eurolines (UK) Limited  Administration and marketing of express coach services to Europe 
Airlinks Airport Services Limited  Operation of coach services 
The Kings Ferry Limited Operation of coach services 
West Midlands Travel Limited  Operation of bus services 
NXET Trains Limited Operation of train passenger services 
 
Incorporated in Scotland  
Tayside Public Transport Co Limited (trading as Travel Dundee) Operation of bus services 
 
Incorporated in the US  
Durham School Services LP  Operation of school bus services 
Petermann Ltd Operation of school bus services 
National Express Transit Corporation Operation of transit bus services 
National Express Transit Services Corporation  Operation of transit bus services  
 
Incorporated in Canada  
Stock Transportation Limited  Operation of school bus services 
 
Incorporated in Spain  
NEX Continental Holdings SL* Holding company for operating companies 
Tury Express SA*  Holding company for operating companies 
General Tecnica Industrial SLU*  Holding company for operating companies 
 
Incorporated in Morocco  
Groupe Alsa Transport SA Operation of bus services 
Transport de Voyageurs en Autocar Maroc SA 
Alsa Tanger SA 
Operation of bus services 
Operation of bus services 
 Alsa City Agadir SA  Operation of bus services 
 
* The main holding companies of the ALSA Group. 
The Group has no material non-controlling interests that require separate disclosure. 
Incorporated in Germany  
National Express Rail GmbH  Operation of train passenger services 
137 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
138 
 
16 Derivative financial assets and available-for-sale investments 
Further information on the Group’s use of fuel, interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives is included in note 30. 
Available-for-sale investments 
The principal available-for-sale investments are as follows: 
 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Available-for-sale investments – Unlisted ordinary shares  6.5 6.8 
Derivative financial instruments – Interest rate derivatives 22.2 26.5 
Derivative financial instruments included in non-current assets  22.2 26.5 
Derivative financial instruments – Foreign exchange derivatives 2.4 1.5 
Derivative financial instruments included in current assets  2.4 1.5 
 
2015 
 £m 
2014 
 £m 
Cost or valuation and net book value:   
At 1 January  6.8 7.4 
Provided in the year – (0.1) 
Foreign exchange (0.3) (0.5) 
At 31 December  6.5 6.8 
   2015 
Proportion 
held  
% 
2014 
Proportion  
held  
% Name  Country of registration  Class of share 
Metros Ligeros de Madrid, S.A. (MLM)  Spain  Ordinary shares  15 15 
Various investments within ALSA and Continental Auto  Spain  Ordinary shares  1-16 1-16 
138 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  139 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
17 Investments accounted for using the equity method 
Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows: 
The Group’s share of post-tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows: 
(a) Investments in joint ventures 
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are as follows: 
The financial information of Ibero-Eurosur S.L. and Bahrain Public Transport Company W.L.L. is summarised below: 
A reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount in the consolidated Financial Statements is as follows: 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Joint ventures  8.3 2.7 
Associates  2.3 2.7 
Total investments accounted for under the equity method  10.6 5.4 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Share of joint ventures’ profit 2.0 0.2 
Share of associates’ (loss)/profit (0.2) 0.1 
Total share of results from associates and joint ventures 1.8 0.3 
Name  Country of registration  Activity Proportion held % 
Ibero-Eurosur S.L.  Spain  Holding company of Deutsche Touring  20 
Bahrain Public Transport Company W.L.L. Kingdom of Bahrain Operation of bus services 50 
 Ibero-Eurosur S.L. 
 Bahrain Public Transport 
Company W.L.L. 
Share of the joint ventures’ balance sheets and results 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
 £m 
Non-current assets  
3.3 3.3 18.5 – 
Current assets  
0.1 – 5.6 0.2 
Share of gross assets 3.4 3.3 24.1 0.2 
Non-current liabilities  
(0.3) (0.5) (16.0) – 
Current liabilities  (0.3) (0.3) (2.6) – 
Share of gross liabilities  
(0.6) (0.8) (18.6) – 
Net assets  2.8 2.5 5.5 0.2 
 
    
Revenue 
0.2 0.2 24.2 – 
Operating profit 0.2 0.2 1.3 – 
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 1.8 – 
Dividends received from the joint ventures during the year – – 
 
– – 
 Ibero-Eurosur S.L 
 Bahrain Public Transport 
Company W.L.L. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
 2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Net assets of the joint venture 13.2 12.3 11.0 0.2 
Proportion of interest belonging to joint venture partners  (10.4) (9.8) (5.5) – 
Group share of net assets 2.8 2.5 5.5 0.2 
139 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
140 
 
17 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued 
(b) Investments in associates 
The Group’s interests in associates are as follows: 
Spain and Morocco’s associates are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services, management of bus stations  
and similar operations. 
The aggregate amounts related to associates (of which none are individually material) are summarised below: 
The carrying amount of the investment in associates matches the Group’s share of the net assets. 
18 Business combinations 
(a) Acquisitions 
During the year the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of five businesses in the US, none of which are material individually: 
• Folmsbee’s Transportation Inc and SR Leasing Company Inc (April 2015) – school bus transportation services and charter services 
in upstate New York 
• Trans Express Inc, along with On Top Tours NYC Inc and Rainbow Management Service Inc (June 2015) – scheduled transportation 
services and charter bus services in New York 
• The Provider Enterprises Inc (October 2015) – special needs transportation services in New Hampshire and Maine 
• Septran Inc (October 2015) – school bus and special needs transportation services in Illinois and Minnesota 
• Smith Bus Service Inc (December 2015) – school bus transportation services in Maryland 
In aggregate, the provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired in North America are as follows: 
Trade and other receivables had a fair value and a gross contractual value of £8.7m. The best estimate at acquisition date of the 
contractual cash flows not to be collected was £nil. 
 
 
Name   Country of registration  Proportion held % 
Spain and Morocco associates  Spain  20-50 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Share of operating (loss)/profit (0.2) 0.1 
Share of (loss)/profit for the year and total comprehensive income and expenditure (0.2) 0.1 
Group share of net assets 2.3 2.7 
 £m 
Intangible assets 44.4 
Property, plant and equipment 15.6 
Trade and other receivables 8.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 3.2 
Trade and other payables (35.0) 
Deferred tax asset 17.4 
Net assets acquired  54.3 
Goodwill 27.4 
Total consideration 81.7 
 
Represented by:  
Cash consideration 62.5 
Payments for cash acquired in the businesses 3.2 
Deferred consideration 16.0 
 81.7 
140 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  141 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
18 Business combinations continued 
(a) Acquisitions continued 
Goodwill of £27.4m arising from the acquisitions consists of certain intangible benefits that cannot be separately identified and 
measured due to their nature. This includes control over the acquired businesses and increased scale in our North American operations, 
along with synergy benefits expected to be achieved. 
Included in the consideration shown above is contingent consideration of £10.1m. Under the arrangement the Group is required to pay 
the seller a multiplier of revenue over a three-year period if the revenue exceeds an agreed base revenue level and EBITDA exceeds an 
agreed EBITDA floor. The maximum payment under this arrangement is dependent on the amount of excess over the base revenue 
level, and the minimum payment is £nil. Based on projections, management expect the discounted value of payments to be £10.1m. 
Acquisition-related costs included within the Group’s operating profit for the year amounted to £0.9m. 
The acquired businesses contributed £23.0m of revenue and £3.4m to the Group’s net profit for the periods between the dates of 
acquisition and the Balance Sheet date. Had the acquisitions been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenue for 
the period would have been £1,951.7m and the Group’s net profit would have been £110.5m. 
Deferred consideration of £0.2m (2014: £0.5m) was paid in the year relating to acquisitions in North America in earlier years. 
Total cash outflow in the year from acquisitions in North America was £62.7m, comprising consideration of £65.7m and deferred 
consideration of £0.2m, less cash acquired in the businesses of £3.2m. 
On 10 December 2015, in Spain, the Group acquired certain trade and assets of the Madrid–El Escorial franchise and related transport 
businesses. The fair value of net assets acquired was £12.7m. Consideration was £16.2m, resulting in provisional goodwill of £3.5m. 
There was £0.2m of cash acquired in the business and all of the consideration is payable in 2016, therefore the net cash inflow in the 
year was £0.2m. 
(b) Disposals 
There were no material business disposals during 2015 or 2014. 
19 Non-current assets – trade and other receivables 
20 Inventories 
The movement on the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial. 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Prepayments 1.8 0.1 
Other receivables 2.2 1.7 
 4.0 1.8 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Raw materials and consumables  22.5 21.8 
141 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
142 
 
21 Current assets – trade and other receivables 
An analysis of the provision for impairment of receivables is provided below: 
Amounts included within trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date are shown in note 29. The Directors believe that 
based on the ongoing contractual relationships with predominantly government bodies these amounts will be collected. 
22 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include restricted balances of £4.7m (2014: £2.8m) held by the Rail subsidiaries (TOCs). Under the terms 
of the train franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed by the TOCs either up to the value of retained profits or the amount 
determined by prescribed liquidity ratios. The restricted cash represents the balance that is either not available for distribution or the 
amount required to satisfy the liquidity ratio at the Balance Sheet date. 
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying 
periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the 
agreed short-term floating deposit rate. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value. 
  
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Trade receivables  143.1 116.8 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables  (10.8) (11.2) 
Trade receivables – net  132.3 105.6 
Amounts due from associates and joint ventures (note 35) 1.1 1.2 
Amounts due from other related parties (note 35) 0.6 0.7 
Other receivables  56.0 56.2 
Prepayments 35.0 23.7 
Accrued income 16.9 12.2 
 241.9 199.6 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
At 1 January  (11.2) (11.3) 
Utilised in the year  0.4 0.1 
At 31 December (10.8) (11.2) 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand  59.2 36.3 
Overnight deposits  0.7 6.9 
Other short-term deposits  0.5 40.5 
Cash and cash equivalents  60.4 83.7 
142 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  143 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
23 Current liabilities – trade and other payables 
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have 
an average term of two months. Included within other payables are deferred fixed asset grants from government or other public bodies 
of £0.4m (2014: £1.1m). 
Other payables includes £23.0m of deferred consideration for businesses acquired in the year (note 18). 
24 Other non-current liabilities 
Other liabilities includes £9.2m of deferred consideration for businesses acquired in the year (note 18). 
25 Provisions 
1
 The claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end for auto and general liability, workers’ compensation and environmental claims, the majority of which will 
be utilised in the next five years. It comprises provisions for claims arising in the UK and North America. 
2
 Other includes amounts provided for restructuring activities across the Group, loss making contracts and dilapidation provisions in Rail. The majority of these provisions are 
expected to be utilised in the next four years. 
When the effect is material, the provisions are discounted to their net present value. 
  
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Trade payables  182.3 144.2 
Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures (note 35) 0.8 0.9 
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 35) 0.5 0.7 
Other tax and social security payable  28.8 27.4 
Accruals and deferred income  119.3 115.6 
Other payables  167.8 126.9 
 499.5 415.7 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Deferred fixed asset grants 3.5 3.4 
Other liabilities 12.5 0.7 
 16.0 4.1 
  
Claims 
provision
1
 
£m 
Other
2
 
£m 
Total  
£m 
At 1 January 2015   39.3 19.5 58.8 
Charged to the Income Statement   20.0 0.4 20.4 
Utilised in the year   (30.4) (11.8) (42.2) 
Unwinding of discount   1.4 – 1.4 
Acquired in business combinations  29.0 – 29.0 
Exchange difference   1.6 (0.3) 1.3 
At 31 December 2015   60.9 7.8 68.7 
Current 31 December 2015  31.8 4.8 36.6 
Non-current 31 December 2015   29.1 3.0 32.1 
  60.9 7.8 68.7 
Current 31 December 2014   23.2 12.1 35.3 
Non-current 31 December 2014  16.1 7.4 23.5 
  39.3 19.5 58.8 
143 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
144 
 
26 Deferred tax 
Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation  
in future years at a similar level to the current year. 
 
Deferred tax assets 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Accelerated tax depreciation 1.7 3.9 
Losses carried forward  8.6 6.4 
Other short-term temporary differences  20.8 19.6 
Total  31.1 29.9 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same jurisdiction have been offset. 
The UK and German businesses are included in deferred tax assets of £31.1m and the Spanish, US and Canadian businesses are 
included in deferred tax liabilities of £53.8m. 
The deferred tax assets relating to losses carried forward are £50.6m (2014: £48.5m). This comprises £8.6m within deferred tax assets 
and £42.0m within deferred tax liabilities. 
 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Net deferred tax liability at 1 January (36.1) (58.4) 
(Charge)/Credit to Income Statement  (8.8) 8.7 
Credit to Other Comprehensive Income or Equity 2.5 12.4 
Exchange differences  – 0.3 
Acquired in business combinations 19.7 0.9 
Net deferred tax liability at 31 December (22.7) (36.1) 
Deferred tax liabilities 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Accelerated tax depreciation  (144.0) (150.0) 
Losses carried forward  42.0 42.1 
Other short-term temporary differences 48.2 41.9 
Total (53.8) (66.0) 
144 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  145 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
27 Borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 
An analysis of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 28. Further information on derivative financial instruments 
is provided in note 30. 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Non-current   
Bank loans  6.9 2.6 
Bonds 583.5 585.3 
Finance lease obligations 99.7 87.6 
Other debt payable  62.2 66.3 
Non-current borrowings  752.3 741.8 
Fuel derivatives  39.6 36.1 
Non-current derivative financial instruments  39.6 36.1 
Non-current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities  791.9 777.9 
Current   
Bank loans  38.4 2.6 
Bonds – accrued interest 29.3 29.2 
Finance lease obligations  27.9 22.9 
Other debt payable  3.5 1.2 
Current borrowings  99.1 55.9 
Fuel derivatives 44.2 35.2 
Foreign exchange derivatives  1.8 0.6 
Current derivative financial instruments  46.0 35.8 
Current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities  145.1 91.7 
145 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
146 
 
28 Interest-bearing borrowings 
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the Balance Sheet date were as follows: 
1
 This date is the ultimate maturity date of the syndicated credit facility. 
In November 2015, the Group extended its committed unsecured revolving bank facility by one year to November 2020. The facility size 
remains unchanged at £416m with one further one-year extension option subject to approval by the lenders. At 31 December 2015 
there was €50m (2014: €nil) drawn down on the facility, with £2.9m of capitalised deal fees remaining. 
In January 2016, the Group entered into additional committed unsecured revolving credit facilities totalling £450m. The new facilities include 
a £350m bridge facility to provide the Group with an appropriate level of liquidity prior to refinancing the Group’s £350m 2017 bond, and 
a £100m facility to be used for general corporate purposes. Both facilities are for 18 months with three six-month extension options. 
Under the terms of the £1bn EMTN programme, there is a change in control put option such that, upon a change of control event, 
any holder of any MTN may require the Company to redeem or purchase that MTN. 
Details of the Group’s interest rate risk management strategy and associated interest rate derivatives are included in notes 29 and 30. 
The Group is subject to a number of financial covenants in relation to its syndicated credit facilities which, if contravened, could result in 
its borrowings under the facility becoming immediately repayable. These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA and minimum 
EBITDA to net interest payable. 
 
2015  
£m  Maturity  
Effective 
 interest rate 
2014 
£m  Maturity  
Effective  
interest rate 
Seven-year Sterling bond 352.3 January 2017 6.54% 353.0 January 2017 6.54% 
Ten-year Sterling bond 231.2 June 2020 6.85% 232.3 January 2020 6.85% 
Bonds 583.5   585.3   
Accrued interest – bonds 29.3   29.2   
European bank loans 34.0 
November 
2020
1
 LIBOR + 0.60% – 
November 
2019
1
 LIBOR + 0.60%  
European bank loans 8.6 2016-2020 4.45% 3.6 2015-2016 4.25%  
European bank loans  2.1 2016-2018 EURIBOR + 1.26% 3.0 2015-2017 EURIBOR + 1.91% 
US bank loans 0.6  1.40% 2.0  1.15% 
Bank loans  45.3   8.6   
US dollar finance leases  
at fixed rate  108.4 2016-2021 2.13% 93.1 2015-2020 2.04% 
European finance leases  
at fixed rate 6.1 2016-2023 3.02% 2.0 2015-2017 5.41% 
European finance leases  
at floating rate  6.6 2016-2022 EURIBOR + 1.90% 5.2 2015-2022 EURIBOR + 1.06% 
Sterling finance leases  
at fixed rate  6.5 2016-2018 4.76% 10.2 2015-2018 5.61% 
Finance leases  127.6   110.5   
Euro Private Placement 61.8 August 2021 4.55% 65.6 August 2021 4.55% 
Accrued interest – Private Placement 1.1   1.1   
Euro loans  2.8 2016-2026  0.8 2026  
Other debt payable  65.7   67.5   
Total  851.4   801.1   
146 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  147 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
28 Interest-bearing borrowings continued 
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings and deposits: 
As at 31 December 2015 
< 1 year  
£m 
1-2 years  
£m 
2-3 years  
£m 
3-4 years  
£m 
4-5 years  
£m 
> 5 years  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Fixed rate        
Bank loans (1.9) (1.9) (3.5) (1.3) (0.2) – (8.8) 
Bonds – (352.3) – – (231.2) – (583.5) 
Finance leases  (25.9) (40.4) (24.9) (17.2) (5.2) (7.5) (121.1) 
Other debt payable (3.5) (0.1) (0.3) – – (61.8) (65.7) 
Floating rate        
Cash assets  60.4 – – – – – 60.4 
Bank loans (36.5) – – – – – (36.5) 
Finance leases (2.0) (1.6) (1.0) (0.8) (0.4) (0.7) (6.5) 
 
29 Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Financial risk factors and management 
The Group’s multinational operations and debt levels expose it to a variety of financial risks, of which the most material are market risks 
relating to fuel prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and the availability of funding at reasonable margins. The Group 
has in place a risk management programme that seeks to manage the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group 
by using financial instruments including borrowings, committed facilities and forward foreign exchange, fuel and interest rate derivatives. 
The Board of Directors has delegated the responsibility for implementing the financial risk management policies laid down by the Board 
to the Group Finance Director and the Group Treasurer. The policies are implemented by the Group Treasury department with regular 
reporting to the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee on its activities. 
As at 31 December 2014 
< 1 year  
£m 
1-2 years  
£m 
2-3 years  
£m 
3-4 years  
£m 
4-5 years  
£m 
> 5 years  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Fixed rate        
Bank loans (3.0) (0.5) – – – – (3.5) 
Bonds – – (353.0) – – (232.3) (585.3) 
Finance leases  (21.1) (19.8) (33.5) (18.5) (10.8) (1.5) (105.2) 
Other debt payable (1.2) (0.1) (0.5) – – (65.7) (67.5) 
Floating rate        
Cash assets  83.7 – – – – – 83.7 
Bank loans  0.4 – (2.1) – – – (1.7) 
Finance leases (1.8) (1.2) (0.9) (0.4) (0.4) (0.6) (5.3) 
147 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
148 
 
29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Foreign currency 
The Group has major foreign operations in the US, Canada and Spain and as a result is exposed to the movements in foreign currency 
exchange rates on the translation of these foreign currency denominated net assets and earnings. These movements can have a 
significant impact on the Group’s reported results. The Group seeks to manage this foreign currency exchange movements risk by 
aligning its foreign currency denominated liabilities with the EBIT generated in each currency, such that some protection is afforded 
to the net debt: EBITDA covenant within the Group’s core borrowing facility. This is achieved by a combination of foreign currency 
borrowings and finance leases, and entering into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign exchange 
swaps. At the year end, the Group had outstanding foreign exchange derivatives of €125.1m, US$14.5m, CAD$36.0m and CZK13.7m, 
swaps of US$190.0m and €166.8m, and finance leases of US$159.8m and €17.2m. 
Derivative financial instruments are designated as net investment hedges of foreign currency assets. The effective portion of the gain or 
loss on the hedge is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and recycled to the Income Statement at the same 
time as the underlying hedged net assets affect the Income Statement. Any material ineffectiveness is taken to the Income Statement. 
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange 
rates, with all other variables held constant. This would affect the Group’s profit before tax and translation reserve. The effect on the 
translation reserve represents the movement in the translated value of the foreign currency denominated loans and change in fair value 
of cross-currency swap contracts. These movements would be offset by an opposite movement in the translated value of the Group’s 
overseas net investments. It is estimated that a 10% change in the corresponding exchange rates would result in an exchange gain or 
loss in the translation reserve of £10.8m. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on both interest-bearing assets and liabilities. It is the Group’s policy to maintain 
an appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide a level of certainty to interest 
expense in the short term and to reduce the year-on-year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term. To achieve the 
desired fixed/floating ratio, the Group has entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting fixed rate debt 
to floating rate debt. The net effect of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2015 the proportion of Group net debt at floating 
rates was 34% (2014: 28%).  
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, 
with all other variables held constant, on the Group’s profit before tax and on the Group’s hedging reserve.  
The sensitivity analysis covers all floating rate financial instruments, including the interest rate swaps. If the interest rates applicable 
to floating rate instruments denominated in Sterling were increased by 100bps, it is estimated that the Group’s profit before taxation 
would decrease by approximately £1.8m. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in US$ were increased 
by 50bps, it is estimated that the Group’s profit before taxation would increase by £0.1m. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate 
instruments denominated in Euro were increased by 75bps, it is estimated that the Group’s profit before taxation would reduce by 
£0.3m. The analysis assumes that the amount and mix of floating rate debt, including finance leases, remains unchanged from that 
in place at 31 December 2015. 
   2015   2014 
As at 31 December 2015 
Strengthening/ 
(weakening) 
 in currency 
Effect  
on profit 
 before tax  
£m 
Effect on 
translation  
reserve  
£m 
Effect  
on profit  
before tax  
£m 
Effect on  
translation  
reserve  
£m 
US dollar  10% 0.1 3.0 – (0.2) 
Euro  10%  – 7.6 – 7.7 
Canadian dollar  10% – 0.2 0.3 0.1 
US dollar (10)% (0.1) (3.0) – 0.2 
Euro  (10)% – (7.6) – (7.7) 
Canadian dollar  (10)% – (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) 
148 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  149 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Interest rate risk continued 
Commodity prices 
The Group is exposed to movements in commodity prices as a result of its fuel usage. It is the Group’s policy to hedge this exposure in 
order to provide a level of certainty as to its cost in the short term and to reduce the year-on-year impact of price fluctuations over the 
medium term. This is achieved by entering into fuel derivatives. At 31 December 2015, the Group had hedged approximately 100% of 
its 2016 expected usage, 94% of its expected usage in 2017 and 42% of its expected usage in 2018 (see the Group Finance Director’s 
review for further details).  
The table below demonstrates the effect of a reasonably possible variation in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant, on the 
fair value of the Group’s financial instruments and accordingly on the Group’s profit before tax and on the Group’s hedging reserve. 
The sensitivity analysis includes all fuel derivatives. The effect on the hedging reserve arises through movements on the fair value of the 
Group’s fuel derivatives. For these derivative contracts the sensitivity of the net fair value to an immediate 20% increase or decrease 
in all prices would have been £22.1m at 31 December 2015. The figure does not include any corresponding economic advantage or 
disadvantage that would arise from the natural business exposure which would be expected to offset the gain or loss on the derivatives. 
Credit risk 
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets. This risk is mitigated by a 
number of factors. Many of the Group’s principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions with which it conducts business are 
public (or quasi-public) bodies, both national (DfT Rail and Network Rail in the UK) and local (school boards in North America, municipal 
authorities in Spain and Morocco, Transport for London and Centro in the UK, and regional authorities in Germany). The Group does 
not consider these counterparties to pose a significant credit risk. Outside of this, the Group does not consider it has significant 
concentrations of credit risk. The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers 
before sales commence. 
The only elements of the Group’s financial assets which are not impaired but are past due are certain trade receivable items. An ageing 
of the assets which are past due is included in the following table. In terms of trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, 
there are no indications as at the year end reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations (see Risk and risk 
management section for details of how management manages this process). 
   2015  2014 
As at 31 December 
Increase/ 
(decrease)  
in basis 
points 
Effect  
on profit  
before tax 
 £m 
Effect on 
hedging  
reserve 
 £m 
Effect  
on profit  
before tax 
 £m 
Effect on  
hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Sterling  100 (1.8) – (1.4) – 
US dollar 50 0.1 – – – 
Euro  75 (0.3) – (0.4) – 
Sterling  (100) 1.8 – 1.4 – 
US dollar  (50) (0.1) – – – 
Euro  (75)  0.3 – 0.4 – 
   2015  2014 
As at 31 December 
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
 in price  
Effect  
on profit  
before tax  
£m 
Effect on  
hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Effect 
on profit  
before tax  
£m 
Effect on  
hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Sterling denominated ULSD  20% – 7.9 – 14.1 
US dollar denominated heating oil/diesel  20%  – 5.4 – 9.6 
Euro denominated ULSD  20%  – 8.8 – 15.2 
Sterling denominated ULSD  (20)% – (7.9) – (14.1) 
US dollar denominated heating oil/diesel  (20)%  – (5.4) – (9.6) 
Euro denominated ULSD  (20)% – (8.8) – (15.2) 
149 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
150 
 
29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Credit risk continued 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s liquidity risk is managed centrally by the Group Treasury department with operating units forecasting their cash 
requirements. The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and medium-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure 
the Group has sufficient available funds to meet current and forecast funding requirements. In managing the liquidity risk, the Group has 
access to a range of funding sources through the banking and capital markets. In November 2015, the Group extended its committed 
unsecured revolving bank facility by one year to November 2020. The facility size remains unchanged at £416m with one further one-
year extension option subject to approval by the lenders. At 31 December 2015, there was €50m (2014: €nil) drawn on the facility. 
In January 2016, the Group entered into additional committed unsecured revolving credit facilities totalling £450m. The new facilities 
include a £350m bridge facility to provide the Group with an appropriate level of liquidity prior to refinancing the Group’s £350m 2017 
bond, and a £100m facility to be used for general corporate purposes. Both facilities are for 18 months with three six-month extension 
options. At 31 December 2015, the Group had committed bank borrowing and finance lease facilities of £506.8m (2014: £526.5m). 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 based on the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows including interest cash flows. As such, the amounts in this table will not agree to the carrying amounts 
disclosed in the Balance Sheet or other notes. The table includes cash flows associated with derivative hedging instruments. Their 
amounts reflect the maturity profile of the fair value liability where the instrument will be settled net, and the gross settlement amount 
where the pay leg of a derivative will be settled separately to the receive leg. 
Year ended 31 December 2015 
On demand  
£m 
Less than  
1 year  
£m 
1-5 years  
£m 
More than 
5 years  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Bank loans  – 38.4 6.9 – 45.3 
Bonds – 36.8 656.5 – 693.3 
Finance lease obligations  – 32.1 116.7 10.8 159.6 
Other debt payable – 5.0 11.0 64.4 80.4 
Trade and other payables  – 499.1 12.5 – 511.6 
 – 611.4 803.6 75.2 1,490.2 
Foreign exchange derivatives – (0.6) – – (0.6) 
Interest rate derivatives – (5.7) (16.6) (0.4) (22.7) 
Fuel derivatives – 41.7 40.7 – 82.4 
 – 35.4 24.1 (0.4) 59.1 
Year ended 31 December 2014 
On demand  
£m 
Less than  
1 year  
£m 
1-5 years  
£m 
More than 
5 years  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Bank loans  – 5.9 2.8 – 8.7 
Bonds – 36.8 453.4 239.9 730.1 
Finance lease obligations  – 26.4 93.8 2.0 122.2 
Other debt payable – 2.9 11.1 71.7 85.7 
Trade and other payables  – 414.6 0.7 – 415.3 
 – 486.6 561.8 313.6 1,362.0 
Foreign exchange derivatives – (0.9) – – (0.9) 
Interest rate derivatives – (5.8) (16.3) (5.0) (27.1) 
Fuel derivatives – 33.4 37.6 – 71.0 
 – 26.7 21.3 (5.0) 43.0 
 
Carrying  
amount  
£m 
Of which:  
neither 
impaired  
nor past due  
£m 
Of which: not impaired and past due in the following periods 
Less than  
30 days  
£m 
Between  
30 and 60 days  
£m 
Between  
61 and 90 days 
 £m 
Over 90 days 
 £m 
Trade receivables at 31 December 2015 132.3 91.9 15.4 7.7 4.1 13.2 
Trade receivables at 31 December 2014  105.6 79.3 11.2 4.7 2.5 7.9 
150 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  151 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Capital risk management 
The Group seeks to adopt efficient financing structures that enable it to use its Balance Sheet strength to achieve the Group’s 
objectives without putting shareholder value at risk. The Group’s capital structure comprises its equity (refer to the Group Statement 
of Changes in Equity) and its net debt (refer to note 36).  
The increase in the Group’s net debt from £664.3m to £745.5m (excluding accrued interest) is explained in the Group Finance 
Director’s review. Information about the financial covenants in relation to the Group’s borrowing facilities is included in note 28.  
30 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) 
Fair values 
The table below illustrates the fair values of all financial assets and liabilities held by the Group at 31 December 2015. 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They 
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and the carrying value in all cases approximates to the fair value.  
Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative assets that are either designated as available for sale, or are not classified as loans and 
receivables or held to maturity investments. The Group’s available-for-sale investments have no active market, and in the absence of 
any other reliable external information are carried at cost or amortised cost which approximates to the fair value. 
The fair value of derivatives is either determined by the third party financial institution with which the Group holds the instrument, in line 
with the market value of similar financial instruments or by use of valuation techniques using market data. Derivatives, other than those 
designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as fair value through profit or loss and are carried on the Balance Sheet at 
their fair value with gains or losses recognised in the Income Statement. Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective 
hedge are carried on the Balance Sheet at their fair value. For cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, 
the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income, while the 
ineffective portion is recognised in the Income Statement. Amounts taken to Other Comprehensive Income are transferred to the 
Income Statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss or when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed. 
For fair value hedges, all gains or losses are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Derivatives are the only instrument which the Group holds at fair value. The fair value measurement of these instruments is categorised 
within Level 2 (ie the fair values are derived based on observable market inputs). The Group has no financial instruments with fair values 
that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, ie those that would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value 
hierarchy, nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy. There are no non-recurring 
fair value movements. 
The Group’s bonds are held at a hybrid amortised cost with a fair value adjustment. After initial recognition at fair value, the bonds are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. A portion of the bonds are designated as the hedged item in an 
effective fair value hedging relationship. As such, the carrying value of this portion is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the 
risk being hedged. This net carrying value will differ to the fair value depending on movements in the Group’s credit risk, movements in 
interest rates on the un-hedged portion and unamortised fees. 
All other liabilities, including finance leases, bank loans, trade and other payables and other debt payable, are held at amortised cost. 
After initial fair value recognition, these instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
The carrying value of these liabilities approximates to the fair value. 
151 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
152 
 
30 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) continued 
Fair values continued 
 
Other receivables and other payables are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in. 
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for. No embedded derivatives have been identified. 
Classification of financial instruments  
As at 31 December 2015 
Loans and 
receivables  
£m 
Available- 
for-sale  
assets  
£m 
Derivatives  
used for  
hedging  
£m 
Liabilities 
measured at 
amortised 
cost  
£m 
At fair value 
through  
profit or loss  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Assets       
Investments  – 6.5 – – – 6.5 
Foreign exchange derivatives – – 2.4 – – 2.4 
Interest rate derivatives – – 22.2 – – 22.2 
Cash and cash equivalents  60.4 – – – – 60.4 
Trade and other receivables  192.2 – – – – 192.2 
 252.6 6.5 24.6 – – 283.7 
Liabilities       
Bank loans  – – – (45.3) – (45.3) 
Bonds including accrued interest – – – (612.8) – (612.8) 
Finance lease obligations  – – – (127.6) – (127.6) 
Other debt payable  – – – (65.7) – (65.7) 
Fuel derivatives – – (83.8) – – (83.8) 
Foreign exchange derivatives – – (1.8) – – (1.8) 
Trade and other payables  – – – (511.6) – (511.6) 
 – – (85.6) (1,363.0) – (1,448.6) 
Classification of financial instruments  
As at 31 December 2014 
Loans and 
receivables  
£m 
Available- 
for-sale  
assets  
£m 
Derivatives  
used for  
hedging  
£m 
Liabilities 
measured at 
amortised cost  
£m 
At fair value 
through  
profit or loss  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Assets       
Investments  – 6.8 – – – 6.8 
Foreign exchange derivatives – – 1.5 – – 1.5 
Interest rate derivatives – – 26.5 – – 26.5 
Cash and cash equivalents  83.7 – – – – 83.7 
Trade and other receivables  165.2 – – – – 165.2 
 248.9 6.8 28.0 – – 283.7 
Liabilities       
Bank loans  – – – (5.2) – (5.2) 
Bonds including accrued interest – – – (614.5) – (614.5) 
Finance lease obligations  – – – (110.5) – (110.5) 
Other debt payable  – – – (67.5) – (67.5) 
Fuel derivatives – – (71.3) – – (71.3) 
Foreign exchange derivatives – – (0.6) – – (0.6) 
Trade and other payables  – – – (415.3) – (415.3) 
 – – (71.9) (1,213.0) – (1,284.9) 
152 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  153 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
30 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) continued 
Fair values continued 
The Group assesses at each year end reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. In the financial 
year 2015 there was no objective evidence that would have necessitated the impairment of loans and receivables or available-for-sale 
assets except the provision for impairment of receivables (see note 21). 
Hedging activities 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures to market risk, such as movements in foreign exchange rates, 
fuel prices and interest rates. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured 
at fair value. In line with IAS 39 the Group classifies hedges as (a) fair value hedges used to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value 
of a recognised asset or liability, (b) cash flow hedges used to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised 
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, and (c) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.  
In 2015 the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting for hedging floating fuel price risks in highly probable forecast purchase 
transactions and for hedging net investments in US dollar and Euro foreign operations. The Group applied fair value hedge accounting 
for the fair value interest rate risk on £200m of the Group’s fixed rate bonds and €78.5m Private Placement. 
The movement on derivative financial instruments is detailed below: 
 
The movement on the hedging reserve is detailed below: 
 
Interest rate 
swaps 
 £m 
Foreign  
exchange 
forward  
contracts  
£m 
Fuel swaps  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Net asset/(liability) at 1 January 2015 26.5 0.9 (71.3) (43.9) 
Transfers to the Income Statement on cash flow hedges – – 38.6 38.6 
Cash settlements – 8.6 – 8.6 
Revaluation through Income Statement  (4.3) – – (4.3) 
Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income – – (51.1) (51.1) 
Exchange differences – (8.9) – (8.9) 
Net asset/(liability) at 31 December 2015  22.2 0.6 (83.8) (61.0) 
 
Interest rate 
swaps 
 £m 
Foreign  
exchange 
forward  
contracts  
£m 
Fuel swaps  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Net asset/(liability) at 1 January 2014 17.1 1.8 (0.8) 18.1 
Transfers to the Income Statement on cash flow hedges – – 9.8 9.8 
Cash accrual (0.1) (2.5) – (2.6) 
Revaluation through Income Statement  9.5 – – 9.5 
Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income – – (80.3) (80.3) 
Exchange differences – 1.6 – 1.6 
Net asset/(liability) at 31 December 2014  26.5 0.9 (71.3) (43.9) 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
At 1 January  (52.3) 2.1 
Transferred to Income Statement 36.1 12.3 
Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income (51.1) (80.3) 
Exchange differences (1.4) – 
Tax on revaluation 1.2 13.6 
At 31 December  (67.5) (52.3) 
153 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
154 
 
30 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) continued 
Hedge of net investments in foreign entities 
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments to hedge the net investment in material foreign 
currency net assets of the Group which are used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange rate movements. At 31 December 2015, 
the Group had designated €166.8m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange derivatives and €78.5m Private Placement as net 
investment hedges of the net assets of its Spanish subsidiaries. Similarly, $190m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange 
derivatives were designated as a hedge of the net assets of the Group’s US subsidiaries. No ineffectiveness was recognised in relation 
to these hedges. 
Fuel derivatives 
The Group has a number of fuel derivatives in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division. Ultra low sulphur diesel 
is used in the UK Bus, UK Coach and Spain and Morocco divisions and is hedged by swaps in the same type of fuel. Diesel used in 
the North America division is hedged using the diesel market. The timing of the swap cash flows match underlying fuel purchases 
from 2015 through to 2017.  
During the year £51.1m of fair value losses (2014: £80.3m losses) have been transferred to the hedging reserve due to movements 
in market fuel prices. A fair value loss of £38.6m (2014: £9.8m loss) has been transferred from the hedging reserve to the Income 
Statement following settlement of fuel trades, of which £31.2m was recognised in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2015 and the 
remainder was generated during the year due to the movement in market fuel prices. In addition, a gain of £2.5m was recognised 
in the Income Statement in relation to hedge ineffectiveness (2014: £2.5m loss). 
Fuel derivatives can be analysed as follows: 
 
 
31 December 
2015  
Fair value  
£m 
31 December 
2014 
 Fair value  
£m 
31 December 
2015 
Volume  
million litres 
31 December 
2014 
Volume  
million litres 
Hedge fuel derivatives     
Sterling denominated – UK Bus and UK Coach (18.0) (14.4) 80.0 86.0 
US dollar denominated – North America  (13.1) (8.7) 50.7 54.9 
Euro denominated – Spain and Morocco  (13.1) (12.1) 88.0 89.5 
Fuel derivatives included in current assets/(liabilities) (44.2) (35.2) 218.7 230.4 
Sterling denominated – UK Bus and UK Coach (13.0) (13.9) 89.0 136.0 
US dollar denominated – North America (10.5) (10.1) 60.9 93.5 
Euro denominated – Spain and Morocco  (16.1) (12.1) 111.2 170.5 
Fuel derivatives included in non-current assets/(liabilities) (39.6) (36.1) 261.1 400.0 
Total hedge fuel derivatives  (83.8) (71.3) 479.8 630.4 
154 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  155 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
30 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) continued 
Interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss 
In July 2010 the Group entered into four £50m denominated interest rate swaps on a total of £200m of the Group’s Sterling bonds. 
These interest rate swaps all pay floating interest (LIBOR + a margin) semi-annually, receive fixed interest annually with maturities 
matching the Group’s Sterling bonds (two swaps with total notional value of £100m mature in January 2017, two swaps with notional 
value of £100m mature in June 2020) and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on £200m of these bonds. These 
swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement 
to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk free interest rate on the swapped portion of the bonds. As at 
31 December 2015 a total fair value loss of £3.6m was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these swaps. This is offset 
by a fair value gain of £3.2m on the underlying hedged item, in this case changes in fair value on the £200m of the Group’s bonds 
due to changes in the risk free interest rate. 
In September 2012, the Group entered into two €39.25m denominated interest rate swaps equal in value to the Euro Private 
Placement. These interest rate swaps all pay floating interest (EURIBOR + a margin) semi-annually, receive fixed interest annually 
with maturities matching the Euro Private Placement and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on the Private 
Placement. These swaps are measured at fair value through profit and loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the 
Income Statement to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk free rate on the Euro Private Placement. As at 
31 December 2015 a total fair value loss of £0.7m was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these swaps. This is offset 
by a fair value gain of £0.7m on the underlying hedged item, in this case changes in fair value of the Euro Private Placement due to 
changes in the risk free interest rate. 
31 Called-up share capital 
The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 824,029 (2014: 972,868) of which 797,801 
(2014: 882,000) exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust. The remaining 
exercises were settled via a direct purchase of shares from the open market. 
Own shares 
Own shares comprises 2,495,467 (2014: 553,268) ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the trustees of 
the National Express Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Trust’). During the year, the Trust purchased 2,740,000 (2014: 1,033,000) shares 
and 797,801 (2014: 882,000) shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Company’s share schemes. 
Nil (2014: 24,362) shares were sold during the year to the open market. 
The market value of the shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2015 was £8.3m (2014: £1.4m). The dividends payable on 2,418,824 
of these shares have been waived (2014: 418,670). 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
At 31 December:   
Authorised:   
800,000,000 (2014: 800,000,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 40.0 
Issued called-up and fully paid:   
511,738,648 (2014: 511,738,648) ordinary shares of 5p each  25.6 25.6 
155 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
156 
 
32 Other reserves 
 
Merger 
 reserve  
£m 
Hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Translation  
reserve 
£m 
Total  
£m 
At 1 January 2015  15.4 (52.3) 4.1 (32.8) 
Hedge movements, net of tax – (15.2) – (15.2) 
Exchange differences, net of tax  – – (32.1) (32.1) 
At 31 December 2015 15.4 (67.5) (28.0) (80.1) 
 
The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows: 
• the merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000;  
• the hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised in equity 
on underlying hedged items; and 
• the translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated 
subsidiaries offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries. 
33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 
(a) Summary of pension benefits and assumptions 
The UK Bus division and National Express Group PLC (the ‘Company’) operate defined benefit schemes. The Company defined benefit 
scheme also includes certain employees of the UK Coach division. In addition, a defined contribution scheme operates for staff in the 
UK Bus and UK Coach divisions and the Company. 
The majority of employees of the Rail companies are members of the appropriate shared cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme 
(‘RPS’), a funded defined benefit scheme. 
The assets of the defined benefit schemes are held separately from those of the Group and contributions to the schemes are 
determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries. 
Subsidiaries in North America contribute to a number of defined contribution plans. The Group also provides certain additional unfunded 
post-employment benefits to employees in North America and Spain, which are disclosed in section (c) in the ‘Other’ category. 
The defined benefit pension schemes typically expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity 
risk and salary risk. 
The Company plan is now closed to all future accrual. A funding plan aimed at bringing the plan to self-sufficiency over a six-year 
period was agreed in 2010; The Company contributes £4.2m annually to this scheme. In 2011 UK Bus agreed a £5.5m annual 
deficit repayment plan with the trustees of the West Midlands Integrated Transport Authority Pension Fund to fund a £71m scheme 
funding deficit over 12 years. The plan remains open to accrual for existing members only. 
The total pension cost charged to operating profit in the year was £11.3m (2014: £9.9m), of which £3.9m (2014: £3.7m) relates to the 
defined contribution schemes. 
 
 
Merger 
 reserve  
£m 
Hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Translation  
reserve 
£m 
Total  
£m 
At 1 January 2014  15.4 2.1 29.0 46.5 
Hedge movements, net of tax – (54.4) – (54.4) 
Exchange differences, net of tax  – – (24.9) (24.9) 
At 31 December 2014  15.4 (52.3) 4.1 (32.8) 
156 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  157 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(a) Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued  
The defined benefit pension (liability)/asset included in the Balance Sheet is as follows: 
The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations. A summary of the latest 
triennial actuarial valuations, and assumptions made, is as follows:  
* Amounts included in the Income Statement, Other Comprehensive Income and the Balance Sheet are calculated using the projected unit method. 
The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes, 
in accordance with IAS 19. The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are: 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
UK Bus  (60.4) (50.6) 
Rail  14.8 10.0 
Company  34.9 30.6 
Other (1.9) (1.9) 
Total  (12.6) (11.9) 
  UK Bus  Rail  Company 
Date of actuarial valuation 
Tayside  
31 March  
2014 
Travel West 
Midlands  
31 March  
2013 
31 December  
2013 
5 April  
2013 
Actuarial method used  Attained age*  Attained age*  Projected unit  Projected unit 
Rate of investment returns per annum  3.4%-5.9%  3.5%-5.5%  5.0%-7.3%  4.1% 
Increase in earnings per annum  4.6%  2.6%  4.2%  –% 
Scheme assets taken at market value  £54.2m  £448.9m  £82.4m  £77.3m 
Funding level  100%  84%  84%-100%  82% 
   2015   2014 
 UK Bus  Rail  Company  UK Bus  Rail  Company 
Rate of increase in salaries  2.5% 2.6% 2.5% 2.5% 2.4% 2.5% 
Rate of increase of pensions  2.1% 2.1% 3.1% 1.9% 1.9% 2.9% 
Discount rate  3.9% 3.9% 3.9% 3.6% 3.6% 3.6% 
Inflation assumption (RPI) 3.1% 3.1% 3.1% 2.9% 2.9% 2.9% 
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.1% 2.1% 2.1% 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 
Post-retirement mortality in years:       
Current pensioners at 65 – male  21.3  24.4 21.2  24.2 
Current pensioners at 65 – male, pension under  
£10,300 pa or pensionable pay under £35,000 pa  21.0   20.9  
Current pensioners at 65 – male – others   23.4   23.2  
Current pensioners at 65 – female  24.1  26.9 24.0  26.7 
Current pensioners at 65 – female, pension under  
£3,700 pa or pensionable pay under £35,000 pa   22.8   22.7  
Current pensioners at 65 – female – others   24.6   24.5  
Future pensioners at 65 – male  22.7  26.2 22.6  26.0 
Future pensioners at 65 – male, pension under 
£10,300 pa or pensionable pay under £35,000 pa   23.3   23.2  
Future pensioners at 65 – male – others   25.7   25.5  
Future pensioners at 65 – female  25.6  28.9 25.5  28.7 
Future pensioners at 65 – female, pension under  
£3,700 pa or pensionable pay under £35,000 pa   25.2   25.1  
Future pensioners at 65 – female – others   27.0   26.8  
157 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
158 
 
33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(a) Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued 
The demographic assumptions reflect those adopted in the most recent triennial actuarial valuation. For the Rail scheme, mortality 
assumptions have been set by reference to the recent experience of the scheme. Mortality is assumed to improve in the future in line 
with the ‘core projection’ model published by the actuarial profession’s Continuous Mortality Investigation, incorporating a long-term 
improvement rate of 1.5% pa. 
The Directors regard the assumption around the discount rate to be the key assumption in the IAS 19 valuation, and the following table 
provides an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of a 0.1% change in the discount rate assumption: 
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective Balance Sheet dates. The expected rate of return on scheme assets  
is determined based on market returns on each category of scheme assets. 
(b) Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme  
The majority of employees of the Rail companies in the UK are members of the appropriate section of the RPS, a funded defined benefit 
scheme. The RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee. To date, 
the Group has experienced 11 changes of Rail franchise ownership where the current owner has funded the scheme during the 
franchise term and the pension deficit at franchise exit has transferred to the new owner, without cash settlement. By entering into the 
franchise contract, the TOC becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the rules of the RPS must fund its 
share of the pension liability in accordance with the schedule of contributions agreed with the scheme trustees and actuaries.  
In determining the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the Group’s accounts present fairly its financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows, management has consulted with TOC industry peers and has concluded that the Group’s 
constructive obligations should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 19. This accounting policy, which in all other respects is 
consistent with that set out in this note for the Group’s other defined benefit schemes, means that the Group’s accounts reflect that 
element of the deficits anticipated to be settled by the Group during the franchise term and will prevent gains arising on transfer of the 
existing RPS deficits to a new owner at franchise exit.  
In calculating the Group’s constructive obligations in respect of the RPS, the Group has calculated the total pension deficits in each of 
the RPS sections in accordance with IAS 19 and the assumptions set out above. These deficits are reduced by a ‘franchise adjustment’ 
which is that portion of the deficit projected to exist at the end of the franchise and which the Group will not be required to fund. The 
franchise adjustment, which has been calculated by the Group’s actuaries, is offset against the present value of the RPS liabilities so as 
to fairly present the financial performance, position and cash flows of the Group’s obligations.  
The franchise adjustment increased from £30.8m at 31 December 2014 to £35.6m at 31 December 2015. The principal reasons for the 
movement were increased interest and administrative expenses, partly offset by a reduction in actuarial movements. In the prior year, 
the franchise adjustment increased from £15.5m at 31 December 2013 to £30.8m at 31 December 2014. The principal reason for the 
movement was the renewal of the Essex Thameside franchise (previously c2c) that increased the franchise adjustment by £10.7m. 
 
UK Bus  
£m 
Rail 
£m 
Company 
 £m 
Defined benefit pension (liability)/asset at 31 December 2015 (60.4) 14.8 34.9 
Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate  7.4 0.5 1.6 
Current service cost for the year ended 31 December 2015 (3.6) (2.9) – 
Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate  0.1 – – 
158 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  159 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(c) Financial results for pension benefits 
The amounts charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended 
31 December 2015 and 2014 are set out in the following tables: 
Group Income Statement 
UK Bus  
2015  
£m 
Rail  
2015 
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Other  
2015 
£m 
Total  
2015 
£m 
Amounts (charged)/credited:      
Current service cost  (3.6) (2.9) – (0.3) 
(6.8) 
Net interest (expense)/income (1.7) (0.7) 1.2 – (1.2) 
Interest on franchise adjustment – 1.1 – – 1.1 
Total (charge)/credit to Income Statement  (5.3) (2.5) 1.2 (0.3) (6.9) 
During the year £0.6m (2014: £0.6m) of administrative expenses were incurred. 
The net interest expense together with the interest on franchise adjustment has been included within Finance Costs (see note 9). 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
UK Bus  
2015 
 £m 
Rail  
2015 
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Total  
2015 
£m 
Actuarial gain during the period from obligations 9.7 3.8 1.3 14.8 
Expected return on plan assets greater/less than discount rate (7.9) 1.1 (2.2) (9.0) 
Change in asset ceiling (15.2) – – (15.2) 
Net actuarial (losses)/gains (13.4) 4.9 (0.9) (9.4) 
 
Group Income Statement 
UK Bus  
2014  
£m 
Rail  
2014 
£m 
Company  
2014 
£m 
Other  
2014 
£m 
Total  
2014 
£m 
Amounts (charged)/credited:      
Current service cost  (3.3) (2.4) – (0.5) (6.2) 
Curtailment 0.6 – – – 0.6 
Net interest (expense)/income (1.7) (0.7) 0.7 (0.1) (1.8) 
Interest on franchise adjustment – 0.7 – – 0.7 
Total (charge)/credit to Income Statement  (4.4) (2.4) 0.7 (0.6) (6.7) 
 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
UK Bus  
2014 
 £m 
Rail  
2014 
£m 
Company  
2014 
£m 
Total  
2014 
£m 
Actuarial (loss)/gain during the period from obligations (47.4) 7.6 (8.5) (48.3) 
Expected return on plan assets greater/less than discount rate 32.7 3.1 22.6 58.4 
Net actuarial (losses)/gains  (14.7) 10.7 14.1 10.1 
 
159 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
160 
 
33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(c) Financial results for pension benefits continued  
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 December are: 
As at 31 December 2015 
UK Bus  
2015 
 £m 
Rail  
2015 
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Other  
2015 
£m 
Total  
2015 
£m 
Equities  107.6 88.3 – – 195.9 
Bonds  70.4 0.7 124.9 – 196.0 
Property  4.8 – – – 4.8 
Insurance policy 228.0 – – – 228.0 
Diversified growth fund 75.0 – – – 75.0 
Other  (1.6) 0.7 (19.8) – (20.7) 
Fair value of scheme assets  484.2 89.7 105.1 – 679.0 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (529.4) (124.1) (70.2) (1.9) (725.6) 
Franchise adjustment  – 35.6 – – 35.6 
Defined benefit obligation  (529.4) (88.5) (70.2) (1.9) (690.0) 
Asset ceiling (15.2) – – – (15.2) 
Members’ share of deficit  – 13.6 – – 13.6 
Defined benefit pension (deficit)/surplus (60.4) 14.8 34.9 (1.9) (12.6) 
 
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below. For Rail, the RPS is a shared cost 
scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.  
The Group’s defined benefit obligation comprises £688.1m (2014: £702.9m) (including the members’ share of the deficit) arising from 
plans that are wholly or partly funded and £1.9m (2014: £1.9m) from unfunded plans. 
As at 31 December 2014 
UK Bus  
2014 
 £m 
Rail  
2014 
£m 
Company  
2014 
£m 
Other  
2014 
£m 
Total  
2014 
£m 
Equities  103.7 79.6 – – 183.3 
Bonds  65.7 4.4 123.9 – 194.0 
Property  4.3 – – – 4.3 
Insurance policy 241.7 – – – 241.7 
Diversified growth fund 72.9 – – – 72.9 
Other  5.1 0.4 (22.1) – (16.6) 
Fair value of scheme assets  493.4 84.4 101.8 – 679.6 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (544.0) (118.5) (71.2) (1.9) (735.6) 
Franchise adjustment  – 30.8 – – 30.8 
Defined benefit obligation  (544.0) (87.7) (71.2) (1.9) (704.8) 
Members’ share of deficit  – 13.3 – – 13.3 
Defined benefit pension (deficit)/surplus (50.6) 10.0 30.6 (1.9) (11.9) 
 
UK Bus  
 £m 
Rail  
£m 
Company  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2015 (544.0) (87.7) (71.2) (1.9) (704.8) 
Current service cost  (3.6) (2.9) – (0.3) (6.8) 
Benefits paid  28.7 3.1 2.2 0.3 34.3 
Contributions by employees (1.1) (1.6) – – (2.7) 
Finance charge (19.1) (2.5) (2.5) – (24.1) 
Interest on franchise adjustment  – 1.1 – – 1.1 
Members’ share of movement on liabilities – (1.8) – – (1.8) 
Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 6.3 (0.4) 1.3 – 7.2 
Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographics 0.2 – – – 0.2 
Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments 3.2 4.2 – – 7.4 
Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2015 (529.4) (88.5) (70.2) (1.9) (690.0) 
160 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  161 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(c) Financial results for pension benefits continued 
The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: 
 
UK Bus  
£m 
Rail  
£m 
Company  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2015 493.4 84.4 101.8 679.6 
Expected return on plan assets  17.4 1.8 3.7 22.9 
Expected return on plan assets greater/less than discount rate (7.9) 1.1 (2.2) (9.0) 
Cash contributions – employer  9.1 2.6 4.2 15.9 
Administrative expenses (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.6) 
Cash contributions – employee  1.1 1.6 – 2.7 
Benefits paid  (28.7) (3.1) (2.2) (34.0) 
Members’ share of return on assets  – 1.5 – 1.5 
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2015 484.2 89.7 105.1 679.0 
 
 
UK Bus  
£m 
Rail  
£m 
Company  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2014 456.4 75.0 74.6 606.0 
Expected return on plan assets  20.6 2.1 3.5 26.2 
Expected return on plan assets greater/less than discount rate 32.7 3.1 22.6 58.4 
Cash contributions – employer  9.6 2.3 3.2 15.1 
Administrative expenses (0.3) (0.3) – (0.6) 
Cash contributions – employee  1.1 1.5 – 2.6 
Benefits paid  (26.7) (2.5) (2.1) (31.3) 
Members’ share of return on assets  – 3.2 – 3.2 
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2014 493.4 84.4 101.8 679.6 
 
 
UK Bus  
 £m 
Rail  
£m 
Company  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2014 (497.2) (85.8) (62.0) (1.5) (646.5) 
Current service cost  (3.3) (2.4) – (0.5) (6.2) 
Curtailment 0.6 – – – 0.6 
Benefits paid  26.7 2.5 2.1 0.2 31.5 
Contributions by employees (1.1) (1.5) – – (2.6) 
Finance charge (22.3) (2.8) (2.8) (0.1) (28.0) 
Interest on franchise adjustment  – 0.7 – – 0.7 
Members’ share of movement on liabilities – (6.0) – – (6.0) 
Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions (43.6) 4.3 (8.5) – (47.8) 
Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographics 0.7 (0.2) – – 0.5 
Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments (4.5) 3.5 – – (1.0) 
Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2014 (544.0) (87.7) (71.2) (1.9) (704.8) 
161 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
162 
 
33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(c) Financial results for pension benefits continued 
The Group expects to contribute £13.6m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2016. 
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 January 2004 
is a £68.6m loss (2014: £59.2m loss). The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on 
transition to IFRSs and taken directly to equity of £51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension 
schemes. Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been 
recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income before 1 January 2004. 
History of experience gains and losses: 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2013 
 £m 
2012 
 £m 
2011  
£m 
UK Bus      
Fair value of scheme assets  484.2 493.4 456.4 448.0 431.9 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (529.4) (544.0) (497.2) (480.9) (448.7) 
Asset ceiling (15.2) – – – – 
Deficit in the scheme (60.4) (50.6) (40.8) (32.9) (16.8) 
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities  3.2 (4.5) (2.9) 5.0 (23.3) 
Experience adjustments arising on assets  (7.9) 32.7 1.4 8.6 (7.3) 
Rail      
Fair value of scheme assets  89.7 84.4 75.0 67.1 321.0 
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (88.5) (87.7) (85.8) (81.2) (363.7) 
Members’ share of deficit 13.6 13.3 10.4 12.3 40.5 
Surplus/(deficit) in the scheme  14.8 10.0 (0.4) (1.8) (2.2) 
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities  4.2 3.5 (0.1) 2.7 (8.5) 
Experience adjustments arising on assets 1.1 3.1 2.0 8.0 13.4 
Company      
Fair value of scheme assets  105.1 101.8 74.6 73.1 67.9 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (70.2) (71.2) (62.0) (56.5) (49.3) 
Surplus in the scheme 34.9 30.6 12.6 16.6 18.6 
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities  – – (3.8) – 0.1 
Experience adjustments arising on assets  (2.2) 22.6 (2.8) 0.5 9.7 
Other      
Fair value of scheme assets  – – – – – 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (1.9) (1.9) (1.5) (1.2) (1.4) 
Deficit in the scheme (1.9) (1.9) (1.5) (1.2) (1.4) 
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities – – – – – 
162 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  163 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
34 Commitments and contingencies 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group’s total operating lease commitments are as follows: 
Rail lease commitments  
Rail division companies have contracts with various bodies for access to the railway infrastructure (tracks, stations and depots). They 
also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased. The table below reflects the commitments up to the current franchise end dates 
(or the end of the current contract) unless an extension or new franchise agreement has been signed. The commitments are based on 
charges advised by the rail regulators or on separate leasing agreements with other counterparties. Commitments for future minimum 
rental payments under these contracts are shown below: 
Fixed track access agreements have an average remaining life of 14.0 years (2014: 15.0 years) and other land and buildings have an 
average duration of 14.0 years (2014: 15.0 years). Rolling stock agreements have an average life of 11.7 years (2014: 15.0 years) and 
other plant and equipment 14.0 years (2014: 12.7 years).  
  
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:   
Within one year:  Land and buildings  20.8 20.6 
 Plant and equipment  50.5 42.3 
  71.3 62.9 
After one year but not more than five years:  Land and buildings  54.3 55.5 
 Plant and equipment  191.0 139.0 
  245.3 194.5 
More than five years:  Land and buildings  84.6 102.8 
 Plant and equipment  475.2 243.2 
  559.8 346.0 
  876.4 603.4 
  Land and buildings  Plant and equipment 
Rail division commitments   
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:     
Within one year:  Fixed track access 4.0 4.0 – – 
 Rolling stock  – – 34.5 24.2 
 Other  1.6 1.7 – 0.1 
  5.6 5.7 34.5 24.3 
After one year but not more than five years:  Fixed track access 15.8 15.9 – – 
 Rolling stock – – 153.3 96.9 
 Other 6.5 6.6 0.1 0.2 
  22.3 22.5 153.4 97.1 
Over five years:  Fixed track access 35.6 39.7 – – 
 Rolling stock – – 474.0 242.2 
 Other 14.6 16.5 0.2 0.5 
  50.2 56.2 474.2 242.7 
  78.1 84.4 662.1 364.1 
163 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
164 
 
34 Commitments and contingencies continued 
Other lease commitments  
Outside of the Rail division the Group has entered into operating leases on certain properties, public service vehicles and various items  
of plant and equipment. Commitments for future minimum rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases are shown below: 
The average remaining life of operating lease commitments in the other divisions is 5.3 years (2014: 6.7 years) for land and buildings, 
3.4 years (2014: 3.4 years) for public service vehicles and 3.2 years (2014: 2.6 years) for other plant and equipment. 
Operating lease agreements where the Group is the lessor 
The Group receives rent on properties as follows: 
The leases have an average unexpired duration of 6.4 years (2014: 6.4 years).  
Finance lease commitments 
The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment. These leases have terms of renewal 
but no purchase options and escalation clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. 
Capital commitments 
The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land and buildings improvements. The commitments include orders for 
capital items placed with suppliers for the National Express Essex Thameside franchise within the Rail division. 
  
 Land and buildings Public service vehicles Other 
Other divisions’ commitments 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Within one year  15.2 14.9 14.3 17.9 1.7 0.1 
After one year but not more than five years  32.0 33.0 33.9 41.7 3.7 0.2 
More than five years 34.4 46.6 1.0 0.5 – – 
 81.6 94.5 49.2 60.1 5.4 0.3 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases:   
Within one year  0.1 0.1 
After one year but not more than five years 2.8 1.5 
Over five years 2.8 2.4 
 5.7 4.0 
  2015   2014 
 
Minimum 
payments  
£m 
Present value  
of payments  
£m 
Minimum 
payments  
£m 
Present value  
of payments  
£m 
Within one year  30.9 27.9 25.5 22.9 
After one year but not more than five years  95.5 91.5 89.5 85.6 
More than five years  8.4 8.2 2.0 2.0 
Total minimum lease payments  134.8 127.6 117.0 110.5 
Less future financing charges (7.2) – (6.5) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments  127.6 127.6 110.5 110.5 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Contracted  53.0 77.0 
164 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  165 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
34 Commitments and contingencies continued 
Contingent liabilities 
Guarantees 
The Group has guaranteed credit facilities totalling £36.4m (2014: £2.9m) of certain joint ventures. 
Bonds and letters of credit 
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to i ssue counter-indemnities in support of its operations. As at 31 D ecember 2015 
there were Rail performance bonds of £63.3m (2014: £61.3m) and Rail season ticket bonds of £21.9m (2014: £21.6m). The Group has other 
performance bonds which include performance bonds in respect of businesses in the US of £95.8m (2014: £114.5m) and in Spain of £66.1m 
(2014: £32.1m). There are also bonds of £8.1m relating to operations in the Middle East (2014: £nil). Letters of credit have be en issued to 
support insurance retentions of £66.1m (2014: £65.7m). 
Tax 
Tax authorities in the markets in which we operate (UK, Spain, the US, Canada and Morocco) carry out tax audits from time to time. 
As was detailed in note 10(d) Tax provisions, a Spanish tax audit concluded during 2015 with a corporate income tax payment of 
€2.7m made. Differences of opinion between taxpayers and tax authorities generally arise due to the complexity of tax legislation 
and also how that legislation is interpreted. Also, seemingly simple questions of whether capital expenditure qualifies for tax 
depreciation can result in significant disputes with tax authorities. 
During tax audits, the Group will defend its tax positions when challenged by tax authorities. However, on certain occasions a 
settlement to conclude a tax audit will be made. For each accounting period, the Group makes an assessment to ensure that adequate 
tax provisions are held to cover the resolution of any tax uncertainties. The Directors are satisfied that, based on current knowledge, 
adequate tax provisions are held to cover any tax uncertainties. There are not any material contingent liabilities relating to tax. 
35 Related party transactions 
A number of Spanish companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family. Jorge Cosmen is a Non-
Executive Director of the Group and was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October 2008. These leases were in place before the 
Group’s acquisition of ALSA and are for appropriate market rates.  
The details of the post-employment benefit plans operated for the benefit of employees of the Group are disclosed in note 33. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 
 
 
 Amount of transactions 
Amounts due from  
related parties Amounts due to related parties 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2015 
 £m 
2014 
 £m 
2015 
 £m 
2014 
 £m 
Joint Ventures       
Spain joint venture – – 0.2 – – – 
Associates       
Spain associates  1.6 2.1 0.9 1.2 (0.8) (0.9) 
Trade investments       
Spain trade investments  3.8 3.9 0.3 0.4 (0.4) (0.4) 
Property transactions       
North America 0.8 0.4 – – – – 
Spain  3.1 3.3 0.3 0.3 (0.1) (0.3) 
Total other related parties  7.7 7.6 0.6 0.7 (0.5) (0.7) 
Total  9.3 9.7 1.7 1.9 (1.3) (1.6) 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Total compensation paid to key management personnel (note 7) 3.3 3.9 
165 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
166 
 
36 Cash flow statement 
The net cash inflows from operating activities include outflows of £10.0m (2014: £44.7m) from continuing operations which are related 
to exceptional costs incurred in 2014. 
(a) Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from operations 
(b) Analysis of changes in net debt 
* Excludes accrued interest on long-term borrowings. 
Short-term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months. 
Borrowings include non-current interest-bearing borrowings of £752.3m (2014: £741.8m) as disclosed in note 27. 
Other non-cash movements in net debt include finance lease additions of £34.3m (2014: £1.2m) and a £2.0m reduction in loan and 
bond arrangement fees (2014: £2.3m). A £4.3m decrease to the fair value of the hedging derivatives is offset by opposite movements 
in the fair value of the related hedged borrowings. This comprises a £3.2m fair value movement in bonds and a £0.7m fair value 
movement in other debt payable. 
Total operations 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Net cash inflow from operating activities   
Profit before tax 124.4 66.5 
Net finance costs  45.2 48.0 
Share of post-tax results under the equity method (1.8) (0.3) 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  104.3 104.9 
Intangible asset amortisation  25.7 28.6 
Amortisation of fixed asset grants  (0.6) (0.8) 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2.3) (1.7) 
Share-based payments 3.2 3.1 
Increase in inventories  (0.7) (0.6) 
Increase in receivables  (32.7) (26.9) 
Increase in payables  34.8 26.8 
Decrease in provisions (35.4) (2.4) 
Cash generated from operations  264.1 245.2 
 
At  
1 January  
2015 
£m 
Cash flow  
£m 
Acquisitions  
£m 
Exchange 
differences  
£m 
Other 
movements  
£m 
At  
31 December  
2015 
£m 
Cash  36.3 20.1 3.4 (0.6) – 59.2 
Overnight deposits  6.9 (6.2) – – – 0.7 
Other short-term deposits  40.5 (40.0) – – – 0.5 
Cash and cash equivalents  83.7 (26.1) 3.4 (0.6) – 60.4 
Other debt receivables  0.8 – – – – 0.8 
Borrowings:       
 Bank and other loans (5.2) (42.3) – 2.8 (0.6) (45.3) 
 Bonds (585.3) – – – 1.8 (583.5) 
 Fair value of hedging derivatives 18.6 – – – (4.3) 14.3 
 Finance lease obligations  (110.5) 25.8 (3.4) (5.2) (34.3) (127.6) 
 Other debt payable  (66.4) (2.0) – 3.1 0.7 (64.6) 
Total borrowings (748.8) (18.5) (3.4) 0.7 (36.7) (806.7) 
Net debt* (664.3) (44.6) – 0.1 (36.7) (745.5) 
166 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  167 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
36 Cash flow statement continued 
(b) Analysis of changes in net debt continued 
* Excludes accrued interest on long-term borrowings. 
(c) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 
37 Post Balance Sheet events 
In January 2016, the Group entered into committed unsecured revolving credit facilities totalling £450m. The new facilities include a 
£350m bridge facility to provide the Group with an appropriate level of liquidity prior to refinancing the Group’s £350m 2017 bond, and 
a £100m facility to be used for general corporate purposes. Both facilities are for 18 months with three six-month extension options. 
Further notes on the Group’s facilities are disclosed in note 28. 
 
At  
1 January  
2014 
£m 
Cash flow  
£m 
Exchange 
differences  
£m 
Other 
movements  
£m 
At  
31 December  
2014 
£m 
Cash  37.7 (0.6) (0.8) – 36.3 
Overnight deposits  – 6.9 – – 6.9 
Other short-term deposits  3.2 37.3 – – 40.5 
Cash and cash equivalents  40.9 43.6 (0.8) – 83.7 
Other debt receivables  1.0 (0.2) – – 0.8 
Borrowings:      
 Bank and other loans (19.3) 9.6 5.2 (0.7) (5.2) 
 Bonds (579.5) – – (5.8) (585.3) 
 Fair value of hedging derivatives 9.2 – – 9.4 18.6 
 Finance lease obligations  (132.9) 28.8 (5.2) (1.2) (110.5) 
 Other debt payable  (65.5) 0.1 4.2 (5.2) (66.4) 
Total borrowings (788.0) 38.5 4.2 (3.5) (748.8) 
Net debt* (746.1) 81.9 3.4 (3.5) (664.3) 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year  (26.1) 43.6 
Cash outflow from movement in other debt receivables                – (0.2) 
Cash (outflow)/inflow from movement in debt and finance leases  (18.5) 38.5 
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows  (44.6) 81.9 
Change in net debt resulting from non-cash movements (36.6) (0.1) 
Movement in net debt in the year  (81.2) 81.8 
Opening net debt (664.3) (746.1) 
Net debt  (745.5) (664.3) 
167 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
168 
 
38 Subsidiary undertakings 
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and companies in which National Express Group has a controlling interest as at 31 December 
2015 is show below, along with the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned. 
 
Name and country of incorporation 
% Equity 
interest 
United Kingdom  
Airlinks Airport Services Limited 100 
Airlinks The Airport Coach Company Limited 100 
Altram LRT Limited 100 
c2c Rail Limited 100 
Central Trains Limited 100 
Eurolines (UK) Limited 100 
Inter-Capital And Regional Rail Limited 40 
London Eastern Railway Limited 100 
Maintrain Limited 100 
Midland Main Line Limited 100 
National Express East Anglia Trains Limited 100 
National Express European Holdings Limited (05652775)* 100 
National Express Finance Company Limited 100 
National Express Group Holdings Limited (04339932)* 100 
National Express Holdings Limited (02156473)* 100 
National Express Intermediate Holdings Limited 100 
National Express Limited 100 
National Express Manchester Metrolink Limited 100 
National Express Netherlands UK Limited 100 
National Express North Ameri ca Holdings Limited (07855182)* 100 
National Express Operations (Stansted) Limited 100 
National Express Operations Limited 100 
National Express Overseas Limited 100 
National Express Petermann UK Limited (07855188)* 100 
National Express Rail Replacement Limited 100 
National Express Services Limited 100 
National Express Spanish Holdings Limited 100 
National Express Trains Limited 100 
National Express Trains Regional Limited 100 
National Express Transport Holdings Limited (04338163)* 100 
National Express UK Limited 100 
NE Canada Limited (08596333)* 100 
NE Durham UK Limited (08270480)* 100 
NE Europe Finance Limited (07876047)* 100 
NE No.1 Ltd 100 
NE No.2 Ltd 100 
NE Trains South Limited 100 
NX Bahrain Bus Company Plc 100 
NX Crossrail Limited 100 
Name and country of incorporation 
% Equity 
interest 
United Kingdom continued  
NX Services Limited 100 
NXEA Trains Limited 100 
NXEC Trains Limited 100 
NXET Trains Limited 100 
NXSR Trains Limited  100 
PTI Website Limited 20 
Scotrail Railways Limited 100 
Silverlink Train Services Limited 100 
Speedlink Airport Services Limited 100 
Taybus Holdings Limited 100 
Tayside Public Transport Co Limited 100 
The Kings Ferry Limited 100 
The National Express UK Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 100 
Travel Birmingham Limited 100 
Travel Coventry Limited 100 
Travel Dundee Limited 100 
Travel Merryhill Limited 100 
Travel West Midlands Limited 100 
Travel WM Limited 100 
Travel Yourbus Limited 100 
West Anglia Great Northern Railway Limited 100 
West Midlands Passenger Transport Limited 100 
West Midlands Transport Information Services Limited 48 
West Midlands Travel Limited 100 
WM Card Systems Limited 100 
WM Property Holdings Limited 100 
WM Travel Limited 100 
WM Ventures Limited 100 
WMT Leasing Limited 100 
Guernsey  
National Express Guernsey Limited 100 
Bahrain  
Bahrain Public Transport Company W.L.L. 50 
Germany  
Deutsche Touring GmbH 17 
National Express Germany GmbH 100 
National Express Holding GmbH 100 
National Express Rail GmbH 100 
National Express Südwest GmbH 100 
168 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  169 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
38 Subsidiary undertakings continued 
Name and country of incorporation 
% Equity 
interest 
Czech Republic  
National Express Cz Sro 100 
Netherlands  
Texan Partner BV 100 
National Express Holdings LLC BV 100 
Andorra  
Estació d'Autobusos d'Andorra 100 
Transports Dels Pirineus 100 
France  
Iberolines 46 
Morocco  
Alsa City Agadir S.A. 100 
Alsa City Sightseeing Maroc 100 
Alsa City Tour Sarl 95 
Alsa Education a la Sécurité Routière Sarl 98 
Alsa Khouribga Sa 100 
Alsa Tanger, S.A. 100 
Centre de Formation Techn. Profes. Transport Sarl 99 
Groupe Alsa Transport S.A. 100 
Immeubles,Vehicules Accesoires Maroc S.A.R.L. 80 
Interprovincial Maroc S.A.R.L. 100 
Transport de Voyageurs en Autocar Maroc S.A. 100 
Portugal  
Alsa Metropolitano do Porto, Lda 100 
Tiac Viagens e Turismo Lda 100 
Slovakia  
Efc Spol S.R.O. 80 
Spain  
Alianza Bus, S.L.U. 100 
Almeria–Murcia Bus, S.L. 100 
Alsa Atlántica, S.L.U. 100 
Alsa Ferrocarril, S.A.U. 100 
Alsa Granada Airport S.L. 100 
Alsa Grupo Intercontinental, S.L.U. 100 
Alsa Grupo, S.L.U. 98 
Alsa Internacional S.L.U. y Otros U.T.E. 100 
Alsa Internacional, S.L.U. 100 
Alsa Metropolitana, S.A.U. 100 
Alsa Rail, S.L.U. 100 
Andreo, S.A.U. 100 
Aplic. y Sist. Integrales Para el Transporte, S.A. 100 
Aragonesa de Estacion de Autobuses, S.A. 23 
 
 
Name and country of incorporation 
% Equity 
interest 
Spain continued  
Astibus, S.L.U. 100 
Autedia, S.A. 100 
Autobuses Urbanos de Bilbao, S.A. 75 
Autobuses Urbanos de León, S.A.U. 100 
Autocares Castilla–León, S.A.U. 100 
Autocares Discrecionales del Norte, S.L.U. 100 
Automóviles Luarca, S.A.U. 100 
Autos Pelayo, S.A.U. 100 
Buses de Palencia, S.L. 100 
Busturialdea Lea Artibai Bus, S.A. 62 
Cetralsa Formación, S.L.U. 100 
Cía. del Tranvía Eléctrico de Aviles, S.A. 87 
Compañia Navarra de Autobuses, S.A. 50 
Compostelana S.A.U. 100 
Concesionario Estación Autobuses Logroño, S.A. 21 
Continental-Comercial 21, S.L.U. 100 
Dainco, S.A. 50 
Ebrobus, S.L.U. 100 
Estación Autobuses de Cartagena, S.A. 54 
Estación Autobuses de Ponferrada, S.A. 49 
Estación Central de Autobuses de Zaragoza, S.A. 19 
Estación de Autobuses de Siero, S.L. 50 
Estación de Autobuses Aguilar de Campoo, S.L. 67 
Estación de Autobuses Chamartin, S.A. 49 
Estación de Autobuses de Aranda de Duero, S.L. 43 
Estación de Autobuses de Astorga, S.L. 79 
Estación de Autobuses de Aviles S.L. 100 
Estación de Autobuses de Benavente, S.L. 23 
Estación de Autobuses de León, S.A. 89 
Estación de Autobuses de Plasencia, S.A. 52 
Estación de Autobuses de Ribadeo, S.L. 50 
Estación de Autobuses de Vitoria, S.L. 32 
Estación de Lineas Regulares, S.L. 46 
Estaciónes Terminales de Autobuses ,S.A. 79 
Euska Alsa, S.L.U. 100 
Ezkerraldea-Meatzaldea Bus, S.A. 65 
G.S. Carretera 25 
General Técnica Industrial, S.L.U. 100 
Gorbea Representaciones, S.L. 100 
Grupo Enatcar, S.A. 100 
Ibero-Euro Sur, S.L. 20 
 
169 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
170 
 
38 Subsidiary undertakings continued 
Name and country of incorporation 
% Equity 
interest 
Spain continued  
Iber Rutas, S.A.U. 100 
Inforcyl, S.A.U. 100 
Informática, Comunicaciones y Logística, S.L.U. 100 
Intercambiadores Europeos, S.L. 95 
Internacional de Autocares, S.A. 93 
International Business Limousines, S.A.U. 100 
Interurbana de Autocares, S.A.U. 100 
Irubus, S.A.U. 100 
Jimenez Lopera, S.A.U. 100 
Julia Travel S.A., Automoviles Luarca S.A.U., Transportes 
Bacoma S.A.U. U.T.E. 50 
Julia Travel y Automoviles Luarca Sa Ute 50 
La Tafallesa, S.A.U. 50 
La Unión Alavesa, S.L. 50 
La Unión de Benisa, S.A. 98 
Lineas Europeas de Autobuses, S.A. 43 
Los Abades de la Gineta, S.L.U. 100 
Movelia Tecnologias, S.L. 78 
Mundaka Consultoria, S.L.U. 100 
Natur-Bus, S.L. 100 
NEX Continental Holdings, S.L. 100 
NX Middle East, S.L.U. 100 
Proyectos Unificados, S.A.U. 100 
Rapid Aeroport, S.A.U. 100 
Representaciones Mecánica, S.A.U. 100 
Rutas a Cataluña, S.A. 28 
Rutas del Cantábrico, S.L. 95 
Semarvi 34 
Serviareas 2000, S.L.U. 100 
Servicios Auxiliares del Transporte C.B. 100 
Servicios del Principado, S.A.U. 100 
Servicios Empresariales Especiales, S.L.U. 100 
Servicios Generales de Automoción, S.A.U. 100 
Setra Ventas y Servicios, S.A.U. 100 
Sociedad Anónima Unipersonal Alsina Graells de A.T. 100 
Técnicas en Vehículos Automóviles, S.L.U. 100 
Terminal de Autobuses de Garellano, S.L. 41 
Tibus, S.A. 100 
Toledo City Tour, S.L. 50 
Transporte Colectivos, S.A.U. 100 
Transportes Accesibles de Asturias, S.L. 100 
Transportes Adaptados Andaluces, S.A.U. 100 
 
 
Name and country of incorporation 
% Equity 
interest 
Spain continued  
Transportes Adaptados Regionales, S.L.U. 100 
Transportes Adaptados Cántabros, S.A. 98 
Transportes Bacoma, S.A.U. 100 
Transportes de Viajeros de Aragón, S.A. 59 
Transportes Solera, S.A.U. 100 
Transportes Terrestres Cantabros, S.A. 93 
Transportes Unidos de Asturias, S.L. 100 
Transportes Unidos, S.L.U. 100 
Transportes Urbanos de Cantabria, S.L.U. 100 
Transportes Urbanos de Cartagena, S.A. 97 
Tranvía de Velez, S.A.U. 100 
Tury Express, S.A. 100 
Ute Catamaranes Bahia Cadiz 23 
Ute Ea Cordoba 50 
Ute Extremadura 100 
Ute Guadalajara 100 
Ute Mundiplan 17 
Ute Murcia City Tour 50 
Ute Ea Alicante 50 
Viajes Por Carretera, S.A.U. 100 
Zamorana de Transportes, S.A.U. 100 
Switzerland  
Eggmann Frey 100 
Linien Abfertigung GmbH 80 
USA  
"The Provider" Enterprises, Inc.  100 
Beck Bus Transportation Corp. 100 
Beck Bus Transportation III, LLC 100 
Beck Bus Transportation IV, LLC 100 
Beck Bus Transportation, LLC 100 
Bus Co., Inc. 100 
Carrier Management Corporation  100 
Community Transportation, Inc.  100 
Durham D&M LLC 100 
Durham Holding I, LLC 100 
Durham Holding II, LLC 100 
Durham School Services, L.P. 100 
Greensburg Yellow Cab Co.  100 
MF Petermann Investment Corporation 100 
MV Student Transportation, Inc. 100 
National Express Acquisition Corporation 100 
National Express Durham Holding Corporation  100 
170 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  171 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
38 Subsidiary undertakings continued 
* It is the Group's intention that these subsidiaries be made exempt from the 
requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual 
accounts by virtue of s479A of the Act. Outstanding liabilities of the exempt 
companies at the balance sheet date will be guaranteed pursuant to sections 
479A-C of the Act. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Name and country of incorporation 
% Equity 
interest 
USA continued  
National Express Holdings Limited Liability Company B.V. 100 
National Express LLC 100 
National Express Transit Corporation 100 
National Express Transit Services Corporation  100 
On Top Tours NYC, Inc. 100 
Petermann Acquisition Co., LLC 100 
Petermann Acquisition Corporation 100 
Petermann Holding Co., LLC 100 
Petermann Ltd. 100 
Petermann Northeast, LLC  100 
Petermann Northwest, LLC 100 
Petermann Partners, Inc. 100 
Petermann Southwest, LLC 100 
Petermann STS, LLC 100 
Petermann STSA, LLC 100 
PM2 Co. LLC 100 
Rainbow Management Service, Inc. 100 
Septran, Inc.  100 
Smith Bus Service, Inc. 100 
SR Leasing Company, Inc. 100 
Trans Express, Inc. 100 
TWB Transport, LLC 100 
Whitetail Bid Co., LLC 100 
Canada  
National Express Canada (Holdings) Ltd. 100 
National Express Canada Transit Ltd. 100 
Stock Transportation Ltd. 100 
171 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
172 
 
Company Balance Sheet  
At 31 December 2015 
 
* Restated for the adoption of FRS 101 as disclosed in note 1. 
25 February 2016 
Company Number 2590560 
 
 
Note 
2015  
£m 
2014 
(restated)* 
£m 
Fixed assets    
Intangible assets 4 0.1 0.2 
Tangible assets  5  0.2 0.2 
Investments in subsidiaries 6  1,740.4 1,736.7 
Derivative financial instruments 7 22.2 26.5 
Defined benefit pension asset 17 34.9 30.6 
  1,797.8 1,794.2 
Current assets    
Debtors  8  64.7 71.8 
Derivative financial instruments  7  2.4 1.5 
Cash at bank and in hand  9  0.1 130.2 
  67.2 203.5 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  10  (309.3) (323.1) 
Derivative financial instruments  7 (1.8) (0.6) 
Provisions for liabilities and charges 12 (8.9) (8.8) 
Net current liabilities  (252.8) (129.0) 
Total assets less current liabilities   1,545.0 1,665.2 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year  11  (645.3) (650.9) 
Net assets   899.7 1,014.3 
Shareholders’ equity    
Called-up share capital  15  25.6 25.6 
Share premium account  16  532.7 532.7 
Capital redemption reserve  16 0.2 0.2 
Own shares  16 (7.8) (1.5) 
Profit and loss account  16  349.0 457.3 
Shareholders’ equity   899.7 1,014.3 
D Finch 
Group Chief Executive 
M Ashley 
Group Finance Director 
172 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Company Balance Sheet 
At 31 December 2015  
 
  173 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts  
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
1 Accounting policies  
Basis of preparation  
The separate accounts of the parent Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The accounts have been prepared 
on the going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and 
available-for-sale investments detailed below, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.  
In applying these policies, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenue 
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.  
The loss of the Company for the year is £53.1m (2014: £88.0m profit, as restated for defined benefit pension described below). 
Adoption of FRS 101 
The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 (Financial Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council. Accordingly, in the year ended 31 December 2015 the Company has changed its accounting framework from 
UK GAAP to FRS 101 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council and has, in doing so, applied the requirements of IFRS 1.6-33 
and related appendices. 
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with FRS 101 (Financial Reporting Standard 101) ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The prio r year financial statements have been restated to recognise the surplus 
on a defined benefit pension scheme of which certain employees of the Company are members, along with the related deferred tax. 
Previously this was not recognised in the accounts of the Company in accordance with the multi-employer exemption allowance under 
FRS 17. There are no other prior year restatements arising from the adoption of FRS 101. A reconciliation of the movement in equity is 
provided in note 21. 
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to 
share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, 
presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions. Where required, 
equivalent disclosures are included within the consolidated accounts. 
Leases  
Leases of tangible fixed assets where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Company are 
classified as finance leases and the assets are capitalised in the Balance Sheet as plant and equipment. Finance leases are capitalised 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and 
finance leases is included as a liability in the Balance Sheet. The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the profit and loss 
account over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. Assets 
acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.  
Leases of assets where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the profit and loss 
account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, or to the first review if shorter.  
Tangible fixed assets  
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. Tangible fixed assets are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:  
The carrying value of fixed assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the current carrying 
value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Repairs and maintenance are charged 
to the profit and loss account during the financial period in which they are incurred.  
Software  
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and is carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs include software licences, consulting costs attr ibutable to 
the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the development , design and 
implementation of the computer software. Costs in respect of trai ning are expensed as incurred. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-
line method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the Income Statement over its estimated useful life (3 to 7 ye ars).  
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable.  
Investments in subsidiaries  
Investments are held at historical cost less any provision for impairment.  
Plant and equipment  – 3 to 5 years  
173 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
Notes to the Company Accounts 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial Statements 
 
174 
 
1 Accounting policies continued 
Available-for-sale investments  
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such, or that are not classified as a loan 
or receivable, held to maturity or at fair value through profit or loss. After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value 
with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is 
determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the Income Statement.  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
Hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against fixed 
interest rate borrowings. Under fair value hedge accounting, fixed interest rate borrowings are revalued at each Balance Sheet date by 
the change in fair value attributable to the interest rate being hedged. 
Provisions  
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where the 
Company expects a provision to be reimbursed the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when reimbursement 
is virtually certain.  
Pensions  
The Company participates in both the National Express Group Staff Pension Fund (a defined benefit scheme) and a defined 
contribution scheme. 
For the defined benefit scheme, the Balance Sheet position comprises the net of the present value of the relevant defined benefit 
obligation at the Balance Sheet date and the fair value of plan assets. The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially but 
the obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. 
The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows discounted using interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related liability.  
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised as operating costs. Past service costs 
are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period. Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is recognised within finance 
costs. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited 
to the profit and loss reserve in the period in which they arise.  
For the defined contribution scheme, the amount charged to the profit and loss is the contributions payable in the year. Differ ences between 
contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sh eet. 
Share-based payment  
The Company awards equity-settled share-based payment to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured 
at fair value at the date of grant by an external valuer using a stochastic model. Non-market-based performance-related vesting 
conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value; instead those non-market conditions are taken into account in 
calculating the current best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest and at each Balance Sheet date before vesting. 
The cumulative expense is calculated based on that estimate. Market-based performance conditions are taken into account when 
determining the fair value and at each Balance Sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated irrespective of whether 
or not the market conditions are satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met.  
Foreign currencies  
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end. Foreign currency 
transactions arising during the year are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction. 
Any exchange differences so arising are dealt with through the profit and loss account.  
174 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  175 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
1 Accounting policies continued 
Deferred tax  
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from where the Company is able to control the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary 
differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.  
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date 
on the same basis. 
Derivative financial instruments  
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks 
associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value 
and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported Balance Sheet. The fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest 
rate swaps is calculated by reference to market exchange rates and interest rates at the period end.  
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the profit and loss 
account. The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the profit and loss account in the same period in which 
the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the profit and loss account.  
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, including the foreign currency contracts, gains or losses are taken directly 
to the profit and loss account in the period.  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. 
175 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
176 
 
2 Exchange rates 
The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Company are as follows: 
3 Directors’ emoluments 
Detailed information concerning Directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
4 Intangible assets 
5 Tangible assets 
 
 2015 2014 
 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate 
US dollar  1.47 1.53 1.56 1.65 
Canadian dollar  2.04 1.95 1.81 1.82 
Euro  1.36 1.38 1.29 1.24 
 
Software  
£m 
Cost:  
At 1 January and 31 December 2015 0.4 
Amortisation:  
At 1 January 2015 0.2 
Charge in the year 0.1 
At 31 December 2015 0.3 
Net book value:  
At 31 December 2015 0.1 
At 31 December 2014  0.2 
 
Plant and 
equipment  
£m 
Cost:  
At 1 January and 31 December 2015 0.3 
Depreciation:  
At 1 January and 31 December 2015 0.1 
Net book value:  
At 1 January and 31 December 2015 0.2 
176 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  177 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
6 Investments in subsidiaries 
The information provided below is given for the Company’s principal subsidiaries. A full list of subsidiaries and investments can be found 
in note 38 to the consolidated accounts. The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which 
they are incorporated. 
The Group’s train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by DfT Rail, as delegated by the 
UK Government. 
The following holdings are 100% held directly by the Company: 
Incorporated in England and Wales  
National Express Intermediate Holdings Limited Holding company for all Group operating companies except Rail 
National Express Trains Limited  Holding company for Rail operating companies 
National Express Finance Company Limited Finance company for Group fuel derivative arrangements 
 
 
   
 
 £m 
Cost or valuation:    
At 1 January 2015   2,688.8 
Additions   3.7 
At 31 December 2015   2,692.5 
Provisions:    
At 1 January and 31 December 2015   (952.1) 
Net carrying amount:    
At 31 December 2015   1,740.4 
At 1 January 2015   1,736.7 
177 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
178 
 
7 Derivative financial instruments 
Full details of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies can be found in note 29 to the consolidated accounts. 
As the holding company for the Group, the Company faces similar risks over foreign currency and interest rate movements. 
8 Debtors 
9 Cash at bank and in hand 
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying 
periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Company, and earn interest at 
the respective short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash equals the carrying value. 
  
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Interest rate derivatives 22.2 26.5 
Derivative financial assets due over one year 22.2 26.5 
Foreign exchange forward contracts 2.4 1.5 
Derivative financial assets due under one year  2.4 1.5 
Foreign exchange forward contracts  (1.8) (0.6) 
Derivative financial liabilities due under one year  (1.8) (0.6) 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  48.8 57.0 
Corporation tax recoverable 5.7 2.2 
Other debtors  2.2 2.1 
Prepayments 4.6 3.6 
 61.3 64.9 
Deferred tax asset: amounts falling due after more than one year (note 13) 3.4 6.9 
 64.7 71.8 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Short-term deposits  – 40.0 
Cash at bank  0.1 90.2 
 0.1 130.2 
178 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  179 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
10 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other creditors are non-interest bearing and have 
an average term of six months. 
11 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
12 Provisions for liabilities and charges 
* The deferred tax liability relates to the Company defined benefit pension scheme and has been included following the adoption of FRS 101 as disclosed in note 1. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Bank overdraft 34.3 43.0 
Bank loans  34.0 – 
Trade creditors  4.6 5.0 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  187.9 231.7 
Accruals and deferred income  18.1 13.1 
Bonds – accrued interest 29.3 29.2 
Other debt payable 1.1 1.1 
 309.3 323.1 
 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
Bonds 583.5 585.3 
Other debt payable 61.8 65.6 
 645.3 650.9 
  
Deferred 
tax* 
£m 
Claims 
provision 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2015   6.1 2.7 8.8 
Utilised in the year  – (0.1) (0.1) 
Charge to income statement   1.0 – 1.0 
Credit to other comprehensive income  (0.8) – (0.8) 
At 31 December 2015  6.3 2.6 8.9 
179 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
180 
 
13 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax included in the Balance Sheet is as follows: 
The major components of the provision for deferred taxation are as follows: 
The reconciliation of the deferred tax asset is as follows: 
Timing differences associated with Group investments 
No deferred tax (2014: £nil) is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates, as no dividends have been 
accrued as receivable, and no binding agreement to distribute the past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiaries. 
Unrecognised tax losses 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit 
against future taxable profits is probable. Deferred tax assets that the Company has not recognised in the accounts amount 
to £3.9m (2014: £4.3m), which arise where the Company does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future profits. 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Deferred tax asset, included in debtors (note 8) 3.4 6.9 
Deferred tax liability, included in provisions (note 12) (6.3) (6.1) 
Net deferred tax (liability)/asset  (2.9) 0.8 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Accelerated capital allowances  0.2 0.2 
Other timing differences  – 0.1 
Losses carried forward 3.2 6.6 
Defined benefit pension (6.3) (6.1) 
Net deferred tax (liability)/asset  (2.9) 0.8 
 £m 
Deferred tax asset at 1 January 2015 6.9 
Charge to income statement (3.5) 
Deferred tax asset at 31 December 2015 3.4 
180 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  181 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
14 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
The effective interest rates at the Balance Sheet date were as follows: 
1
 This date is the ultimate maturity date of the syndicated credit facility. 
Details of the Company’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in note 29 and note 30 to the 
consolidated accounts. 
15 Called-up share capital 
The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 824,029 (2014: 972,868) of which 797,801 
(2014: 882,000) exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust. The remaining 
exercises were settled via a direct purchase of shares from the open market. 
 
 
2015  
£m  Maturity  
Effective 
interest rate 
2014  
£m  Maturity  
Effective 
interest rate 
Current       
Bank overdraft  34.3   43.0   
European bank loans 34.0 
November 
2019
1
 LIBOR + 0.60% – 
November 
2019
1
 LIBOR + 0.60%  
Accrued interest 30.4   30.3   
Total current  98.7   73.3   
Non-current       
Seven-year Sterling bond 352.3 January 2017 6.54% 353.0 January 2017 6.54% 
Ten-year Sterling bond 231.2 January 2020 6.85% 232.3 January 2020 6.85% 
Bonds 583.5   585.3   
Euro Private Placement 61.8 August 2021 4.55% 65.6 August 2021 4.55% 
Other debt payable 61.8   65.6   
Total non-current  645.3   650.9   
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
 £m 
At 31 December:   
Authorised:   
800,000,000 (2014: 800,000,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 40.0 
Issued called-up and fully paid:   
511,738,648 (2014: 511,738,648) ordinary shares of 5p each 25.6 25.6 
181 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
182 
 
16 Shareholders’ funds and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 
* restated for the adoption of FRS 101 as disclosed in note 1. 
The majority of the Company’s profit and loss account is available for distribution. Own shares have been purchased out of distributable 
profits and therefore reduce the reserves available for distribution. The share premium and capital redemption reserves are not 
distributable. 
Details of dividends paid, declared and proposed during the year are given in note 11 to the consolidated accounts. 
Own shares 
Own shares comprises 2,495,467 (2014: 553,268) ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the trustees 
of the National Express Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Trust’). During the year, the Trust purchased 2,740,000 (2014: 1,033,000) 
shares and 797,801 (2014: 882,000) shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Company’s share schemes. 
Nil (2014: 24,362) shares were sold during the year to the open market. 
The market value of the shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2015 was £8.3m (2014: £1.4m). The dividends payable on 2,418,824 
of these shares have been waived (2014: 418,670). 
* restated for the adoption of FRS 101 as disclosed in note 1. 
 
 
Share 
 capital  
£m 
Share  
premium  
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and 
 loss account 
(restated)* 
£m 
Total 
(restated)* 
£m 
At 1 January 2015 25.6 532.7 0.2 (1.5) 457.3 1,014.3 
Shares purchased  – – – (8.5) – (8.5) 
Own shares released to satisfy employee  
share schemes – – – 2.2 (2.2) – 
Share-based payments – – – – 1.6 1.6 
Actuarial loss, net of tax – – – – (0.2) (0.2) 
Loss for the year – – – – (53.1) (53.1) 
Dividends – – – – (54.4) (54.4) 
At 31 December 2015  25.6 532.7 0.2 (7.8) 349.0 899.7 
 
Share 
 capital  
£m 
Share  
premium  
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and 
 loss account 
(restated)* 
£m 
Total 
(restated)* 
£m 
At 1 January 2014 25.6 532.7 0.2 (0.8) 410.4 968.1 
Shares purchased  – – – (3.2) – (3.2) 
Own shares released to satisfy employee  
share schemes – – – 2.5 (2.5) – 
Share-based payments – – – – 1.6 1.6 
Actuarial gain, net of tax – – – – 11.4 11.4 
Profit for the year – – – – 88.0 88.0 
Dividends – – – – (51.6) (51.6) 
At 31 December 2014  25.6 532.7 0.2 (1.5) 457.3 1,014.3 
182 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  183 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
17 Retirement benefits 
The Company participates in both the National Express Group Staff Pension Fund (a defined benefit scheme) and a defined 
contribution scheme. 
Defined benefit scheme 
The defined benefit scheme is now closed to all future accrual. A funding plan aimed at bringing the plan to self-sufficiency over 
a six-year period was agreed in 2010; The Company contributes £4.2m annually to this scheme. 
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company. 
The valuation as at 31 December 2015 is based on the results of the 5 April 2013 actuarial valuation, which has been updated by 
independent professionally qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19. The assumptions used by the actuary are 
the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be 
borne out in practice. Details of the latest actuarial valuation are included in note 33 to the consolidated accounts. 
The relevant assumptions used are as follows: 
The amounts charged to the income statement and comprehensive income for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 are set 
out in the following tables: 
During the year £0.2m (2014: £nil) of administrative expenses were incurred. 
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 December are: 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Rate of increase in salaries  2.5% 2.5% 
Rate of increase of pensions  3.1% 2.9% 
Discount rate  3.9% 3.6% 
Inflation assumption (RPI) 3.1% 2.9% 
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.1% 1.9% 
Post-retirement mortality in years:   
Current pensioners at 65 – male 24.4 24.2 
Current pensioners at 65 – female 26.9 26.7 
Future pensioners at 65 – male 26.2 26.0 
Future pensioners at 65 – female 28.9 28.7 
Income statement 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Net interest income  1.2 0.7 
Total credit to the income statement 1.2 0.7 
Comprehensive income 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Actuarial gain/(loss) during the period from obligations 1.3 (8.5) 
Expected return on plan assets greater/less than discount rate (2.2) 22.6 
Net actuarial (loss)/gain  (0.9) 14.1 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Bonds  124.9 123.9 
Other (19.8) (22.1) 
Fair value of scheme assets  105.1 101.8 
Present value of scheme liabilities (70.2) (71.2) 
Defined benefit obligation (70.2) (71.2) 
Defined benefit pension surplus  34.9 30.6 
183 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Financial Statements 
 
184 
 
17 Retirement benefits continued 
Defined benefit scheme continued 
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below: 
The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: 
 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January (71.2) (62.0) 
Benefits paid                2.2 2.1 
Finance charge (2.5) (2.8) 
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from changes in financial assumptions  1.3 (8.5) 
Defined benefit obligation at 31 December  (70.2) (71.2) 
 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January  101.8 74.6 
Expected return on plan assets  3.7 3.5 
Expected return on plan assets greater/less than discount rate (2.2) 22.6 
Cash contributions – employer 4.2 3.2 
Administrative expenses (0.2) – 
Benefits paid (2.2) (2.1) 
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December  105.1 101.8 
History of experience gains and losses: 
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2013 
 £m 
2012 
 £m 
2011  
£m 
Fair value of scheme assets  105.1 101.8 74.6 73.1 67.9 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (70.2) (71.2) (62.0) (56.5) (49.3) 
Surplus in the scheme 34.9 30.6 12.6 16.6 18.6 
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities  – – (3.8) – 0.1 
Experience adjustments arising on assets  (2.2) 22.6 (2.8) 0.5 9.7 
184 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 
  185 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
18 Share-based payment  
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company had a number of share-based payment arrangements, which are described 
in note 7(b) to the consolidated accounts.  
The options have a weighted average contractual life of one year (2014: one year). Options were exercised throughout the year and 
the weighted average share price at exercise was 313p (2014: 280p). 
19 Commitments and contingencies  
Operating lease commitments  
The Company had total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below: 
Contingent liabilities  
(a) Guarantees  
The Company has guaranteed credit facilities totalling £195m (2014: £163m) of certain subsidiaries.  
(b) Bonds and letters of credit  
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations. Letters of credit 
have been issued to support insurance retentions of £66.1m (2014: £65.7m). 
20 Post Balance Sheet events 
In January 2016, the Company entered into committed unsecured revolving credit facilities totalling £450m. The new facilities include a 
£350m bridge facility to provide the Group with an appropriate level of liquidity prior to refinancing the Group’s £350m 2017 bond, and 
a £100m facility to be used for general corporate purposes. Both facilities are for 18 months with three six-month extension options. 
21 Explanation of transition to FRS 101 
This is the first year that the Company has presented its financial information under FRS 101 issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
The following disclosures are required in the year of transition. The last financial statements under a previous GAAP (UK GAAP) were for 
the year ended 31 December 2014 and the date of transition to FRS 101 was therefore 1 January 2014. 
 
 
 
 
 Land and buildings 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Operating leases which expire:   
Within two to five years  0.1 0.1 
Reconciliation of equity 
1 January 
2014 
£m 
31 December 
2014  
£m 
Equity reported under previous UK GAAP 958.1 989.8 
Defined benefit pension asset 12.6 30.6 
Deferred tax on the defined bene fit pension asset (2.6) (6.1) 
Equity reported under FRS 101  968.1 1,014.3 
185 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Shareholder Information
Registrars’ details
All matters relating to the administration of 
shareholdings in National Express Group 
PLC, such as the loss of a share certificate, 
dividend payments or a change of address, 
should be directed to our Registrars, 
Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer 
Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA; 
shareholder helpline number 0371 384 2152 
or +44 121 415 7047 from overseas or Textel 
(for the hard of hearing) on 0371 384 2255. 
If you are registered for online shareholder 
communications you can contact the 
Registrars via www.shareview.co.uk.
Shareholder electronic 
communications
National Express encourages shareholders 
to use our online communications service. 
By registering for electronic communications, 
this provides a faster way to receive 
information and helps us to reduce print, 
paper and postage costs. 
Log on to www.shareview.co.uk if you 
would like to:
• register your email so that you are able 
to access future shareholder information, 
including the Annual Report and 
Accounts electronically;
• check the balance of your shareholding;
• set up a dividend mandate online;
• change your registered postal address 
or your dividend mandate details; or 
• submit your vote online prior to a 
general meeting.
To sign up for the first time you 
should click on ‘Register’ and follow 
the simple instructions – you will need 
your shareholder reference number 
from your share certificate or dividend 
voucher or any other correspondence 
sent to you by Equiniti Limited.
If you have any queries, contact 
our Registrars, Equiniti Limited, 
on the shareholder helpline number 
0371 384 2152 or +44 121 415 7047 
from overseas or Textel (for the hard 
of hearing) on 0371 384 2255.
Dividends paid direct to your 
bank account
Having dividends paid direct to your bank 
account has the following advantages:
• avoids the risk of cheques being lost 
and incurring a replacement fee;
• saves you time in presenting the 
cheque for payment; and
• the dividend is credited to your 
account on the payment date.
Consolidated Tax Vouchers
The Company now issues a Consolidated 
Tax Voucher (‘CTV’) once a year to all 
shareholders save for corporate and 
institutional shareholders. A CTV is included 
with the 2015 AGM mailing and will 
contain the tax and payment information for 
dividends paid during the tax year 2014/15.
To set up a new dividend mandate please 
log on to shareview.co.uk or contact 
our Registrars, Equiniti Limited, on 
the shareholder helpline number 
0371 384 2152 or +44 121 415 7047 
from overseas or Textel (for the hard 
of hearing) on 0371 384 2255.
Share dealing service
A telephone and internet share dealing 
service, which provides a simple way to 
buy  and sell shares, is available through 
our Registrars, Equiniti. For further 
information log on to shareview.co.uk/
dealing or telephone 0345 603 7037 or 
+44 121 415 7560 from overseas.
Company website
The Company website at 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com 
has information about the Group, 
including press releases, share price 
data and copies of the half year results 
and Annual Report and Accounts as 
well as corporate responsibility reporting. 
The Company no longer publishes the 
half year results in hard copy. These will 
now only be available via the website.
ShareGift
ShareGift is an independent charity 
share donation scheme administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation 
(registered charity number 1052686). 
Those shareholders who hold only a 
small number of shares, the value of 
which makes it uneconomic to sell them, 
can donate the shares to ShareGift who 
will sell them and donate the proceeds to 
a wide range of charities. Further information 
about ShareGift can be obtained from its 
website at sharegift.org and a ShareGift 
transfer form can be downloaded from 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
Unclaimed Assets Register
The Company participates in the Unclaimed 
Assets Register (‘UAR’) which provides a 
search facility for shareholdings and other 
financial assets that may have been forgotten. 
For further information contact UAR by email 
at uarenquiries@uk.experian.com, 
Tel: 0844 481 8180 or visit www.uar.co.uk.
Unsolicited mail
We are legally obliged to make our register 
of members available, subject to a proper 
purpose test, to the public. As a 
consequence of this some shareholders 
might receive unsolicited mail. Shareholders 
wishing to limit the amount of such mail 
should write to the Mailing Preference 
Service, FREEPOST 29 LON20771, 
London W1E 0ZT. Shareholders can 
also register online at www.mpsonline.org.uk 
or request an application form by 
calling from within the UK: 0845 703 4599 
or emailing to mps@dma.org.uk.
Warning about share fraud
Share fraud includes scams where 
investors are called out of the blue and 
offered shares that often turn out to be 
worthless or non-existent, or an inflated 
price for shares they own. These calls come 
from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler rooms’ 
that are mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those who 
buy or sell shares in this way usually lose 
their money.
The Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) 
and Prudential Regulatory Authority 
(‘PRA’), which replaced the Financial 
Services Authority on 1 April 2013, 
have found most share fraud victims 
are experienced investors who lose 
an average of £20,000, with around 
£200 million lost in the UK each year.
How to avoid share fraud
If you are offered unsolicited investment 
advice, discounted shares, a premium price 
for shares you own, or free company or 
research reports, you should take these 
steps before handing over any money:
1. Get the name of the person and 
organisation contacting you.
2. Check the FCA Register at 
www.fca.org.uk/register to ensure 
they are authorised.
3. Use the details on the FCA Register 
to contact the firm.
4. Call the FCA Consumer Helpline 
on 0800 111 6768 (freephone) or 
+44 20 7066 1000 from overseas 
if there are no contact details on 
the Register or you are told they are 
out of date.
5. Search the FCA’s list of unauthorised 
firms and individuals to avoid doing 
business with.
6. REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be 
true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy 
or sell shares or other investments, you 
will not have access to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service or Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) if things go wrong.
Report a scam
If you are approached by fraudsters, please 
tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting 
form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you 
can find out more about investment scams, 
or call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 
0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share 
fraudsters you should contact ActionFraud 
on 0300 123 2040.
186 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Dividends and financial calendar
Final dividend ex-dividend date 28 April 2016
Final dividend record date 29 April 2016
Annual General Meeting 11 May 2016
Final dividend payment date 20 May 2016
Half Year Results announced 28 July 2016
Interim dividend ex-dividend date 1 September 2016
Interim dividend record date 2 September 2016
Interim dividend payment date 23 September 2016
187 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Glossary
AGM Annual General Meeting
Bps Basis points
BSOG Bus Service Operators Grant
CDP Carbon Disclosure Project
Code The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council 
in September 2014
The Company National Express Group PLC
CPI Consumer Price Index
CRM Customer Relationship Management
CTV Consolidated Tax Voucher
DfT Department for Transport
DTRs Disclosure and Transparency Rules
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Tax
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest and Tax plus Depreciation and Amortisation. It is calculated 
by taking normalised operating profit and adding back depreciation, fixed asset grant 
amortisation, normalised profit on disposal of non-current assets and share-based 
payments
EFQM European Foundation for Quality Management
EPS Earnings per share – the profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding those held by the Employee 
Benefit Trust which are treated as cancelled
EU European Union
EURIBOR Euro Interbank Offered Rate
FWI Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index
GDP Gross Domestic Product – used to determine the economic performance of a whole 
country or region
Gearing ratio is calculated as net debt, divided by EBITDA
GHG Greenhouse Gas
The Group The Company and its subsidiaries
HMRC Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
IAS International Accounting Standards
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan
MAA Moving Annual Average
Net capital expenditure The increase in net debt arising on the purchase of property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets less proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment. 
It excludes capital expenditure arising from UK rail franchise entry and exits and 
discontinued operations, which are included in these headings. Growth capital 
expenditure is calculated as investment in fleet for new contracts and concessions, 
after deducting fleet released from contracts and concessions lost and fleet re-used 
in new contracts and concessions
Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents (cash overnight deposits, other short-term 
deposits) and other debt receivables, offset by borrowings (loan notes, bank loans 
and finance lease obligations) and other debt payable (excluding accrued interest)
Net interest expense is finance costs less finance income 
188 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Normalised earnings per share Earnings per share, excluding intangible asset amortisation, exceptional items and 
tax relief thereon
Normalised operating profit Statutory operating profit excluding intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items.  
The Board believes that the normalised profit gives a better indication of the underlying 
performance of the Group
Normalised result The statutory result excluding intangible asset amortisation, exceptional items and 
tax relief thereon
Operating cash flow is intended to be the cash flow equivalent of normalised operating profit
Operating margin is normalised profit divided by revenue, expressed as a percentage
ORR Office of Rail and Road
PPM Public Performance Measure – used by the rail industry to measure punctuality
RCF Revolving credit facility
Return on assets (ROA) Normalised operating profit divided by tangible assets
Return on capital employed (ROCE) Normalised operating profit divided by tangible and intangible assets
RME Rhine-Münster Express
RMS Revenue Management System
RPI Retail Prices Index
RPS Railways Pension Scheme
RRX Rhine-Ruhr Express
SPAD Signal Passed at Danger
TOC Train Operating Company
TSR Total Shareholder Return – the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period 
assuming that dividends are re-invested to purchase additional shares
TUPE Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment)
ULSD Ultra low sulphur diesel
Underlying revenue compares the current year with the prior year on a consistent basis, after adjusting 
for the impact of currency
189 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION Five Year Summary
2015
£m
2014
(restated)*
£m
2013 
(restated)*
£m
2012
(restated)*
£m
2011
£m
Group normalised
Revenue 1,919.8 1,867.4 1,891.3 1,831.2 2,238.0
Normalised operating profit 193.5 167.6 177.2 191.3 225.2
Return on capital (pre tax) 11.7% 10.7% 10.8% 11.1% 14.1%
Basic earnings per share 23.4p 18.9p 19.2p 22.3p 26.9p
IFRS
Revenue 1,919.8 1,867.4 1,891.3 1,831.2 2,238.0
Operating profit 167.8 114.2 117.9 117.6 174.4
Profit before tax 124.4 66.5 64.4 69.8 129.4
Basic earnings per share 20.9p 11.6p 11.1p 11.8p 19.9p
Dividends per share – declared 11.33p 10.30p 10.00p 9.75p 9.50p
Net (debt)/funds
Cash at bank and in hand 60.4 83.7 40.9 72.8 92.5
Other debt receivable 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.0 0.7
Bonds (583.5) (585.3) (579.5) (590.0) (583.4)
Bank and other loans (45.3) (5.2) (19.3) (114.6) (7.9)
Fair value of bond hedging derivatives 14.3 18.6 9.2 23.4 16.4
Finance lease obligations (127.6) (110.5) (132.9) (154.7) (151.3)
Other debt payable (64.6) (66.4) (65.5) (66.1) (0.7)
Net debt (745.5) (664.3) (746.1) (828.2) (633.7)
Gearing ratio 2.45x 2.25x 2.5x 2.5x 1.9x
*  restated for the reclassification of business development costs from exceptionals as disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated accounts.
190 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Secretary and registered office 
Sandra Forbes
National Express Group PLC 
National Express House 
Birmingham Coach Station 
Mill Lane 
Birmingham  
B5 6DD 
Tel: +44 (0)8450 130130 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Registered number
2590560
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Four Brindleyplace 
Birmingham 
B1 2HZ
Registrar
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
Shareholder helpline: 0371 384 2152*  
or +44 121 415 7047 from overseas.
*  Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Principal banker
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5HQ
Corporate solicitors
Ashurst LLP
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London 
EC2A 2HA
Financial advisors
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street 
London 
EC1A 1HQ
Stockbrokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street 
London 
EC1A 1HQ
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5HA
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report and Accounts is 
intended to focus on matters which are 
relevant to the interests of shareholders 
of the Company. The purpose of this 
Annual Report and Accounts is to assist 
shareholders in assessing the strategies 
adopted and performance delivered by 
the Company and the potential for those 
strategies to succeed. It should not be 
relied on by any other party or for any 
other purpose. 
Forward looking statements are made 
in good faith, based on a number of 
assumptions concerning future events 
and information available to Directors at 
the time of their approval of this report. 
These forward looking statements should 
be treated with caution due to the inherent 
uncertainties underlying any such forward 
looking information. The user of this 
Annual Report and Accounts should 
not rely unduly on these forward looking 
statements, which are not a guarantee of 
performance and which are subject to a 
number of uncertainties and other facts, 
many of which are outside the Company’s 
control and could cause actual events to 
differ materially from those in these 
statements. No guarantee can be given 
of future results, levels of activity, 
performance or achievements.
Corporate information
191 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION This Annual Report and Accounts is printed 
on Amadeus 100% Silk and Amadeus 
100% Offset, which are made using 100% 
recycled fibre certified by the FSC
®
.
Printed by Park Communications who are 
certified to ISO 14001, the standard for 
environmental management.
If you have finished reading this report and 
no longer wish to retain it, please dispose 
of  it in your recycled paper waste.
Thank you.
Consultancy, design and production 
www.luminous.co.uk
Photography by Janie Airey
Print managed by urbanprintsupport.co.uk
192 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015  National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
National Express Group PLC
National Express House
Mill Lane
Digbeth
Birmingham B5 6DD
Tel: +44 (0) 8450 130130
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
