 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Delivering a  
continuum of care
NMC Health plc
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 NMC Health is the largest private healthcare 
services provider and one of the largest 
wholesale and distribution businesses in  
the UAE. Within its two operational divisions, 
NMC currently has five strategic verticals.
Our journey to 
a continuum 
of care
Our verticals  
and brands
The company has completed 
strategic and value accretive 
acquisitions to date that have  
all met NMC’s stringent 
investment criteria. These 
acquisitions, coupled with NMC’s 
organic initiatives, have allowed 
the Group to establish new 
strategic verticals
1
 within the 
broader healthcare delivery 
platform with specialization-
specific capabilities and brands:.
Multi-speciality
Healthcare
Owns and operates hospitals,  
day surgery centres, medical  
centres and pharmacies
Maternity & Fertility
The addition of NMC Royal Hospital 
further expands our portfolio, 
bringing the total number of 
hospitals to seven across the UAE. 
This platform is complemented by 
a network of medical centres and 
day surgeries to increase operational 
reach and the addressable market 
through cross-referrals. We almost 
trebled our network of day surgeries 
and medical centres to eleven during 
2015, up from four at the start of 
2015, largely driven by our acquisition 
of Dr Sunny Healthcare Group, 
which operates six medical centres 
in Sharjah. We also added four 
pharmacies to our portfolio during 
the year for a total of 15.
The opening of Brightpoint Royal 
Women’s Hospital combined with  
the subsequent acquisitions of 
Clinica Eugin and Fakih IVF confirms 
the Maternity & Fertility vertical’s 
global market position, as one  
of the leading and premium 
international providers of fertility 
treatment services. 
Licensed beds  
(NMC Healthcare & Dr. Sunny)
665
Licensed beds (Brightpoint Royal 
Women’s Hospital & Clinica Eugin)
100
1.  The first four strategic verticals form the 
Healthcare Division, with the Products & 
Consumables currently being the only 
vertical in the Distribution Division. Healthcare
Owns and operates hospitals,  
day surgery centres, medical  
centres and pharmacies
Long-term & Home Care Operation & Management Products & Consumables
Distribution
Wholesale of pharmaceutical,  
scientific equipment, FMCG, food, 
veterinary and education products
As a leading provider of in-home 
healthcare services in the UAE, 
Americare, acquired by NMC in 
April 2015, complements existing 
in-hospital healthcare services. In 
August 2015, NMC acquired ProVita, 
the UAE’s leading provider of long-
term medical care. Meeting the 
under-serviced demand for long-
term care facilities, ProVita fills a gap 
between the short-term care offered 
by NMC’s existing facilities and the in-
home services offered by Americare. 
Our experience in the Operation  
& Management is leading us to 
increasingly explore the prospects  
of expanding this business regionally. 
While this evaluation of the wider 
market remains at initial stages, our 
long experience of operating and 
managing healthcare assets in the 
region means we can contribute to 
the evolution of healthcare delivery 
outside our own assets. 
NMC Health’s Product & Consumables 
or product distribution and wholesale 
business is one of the largest in the 
UAE in terms of product portfolio and 
sales. This portfolio of international 
and regional brands, sold mainly 
on exclusive basis by NMC to local 
retailers, has been built over the 
past 40 years across diverse product 
areas, including key segments such 
as FMCG, Pharmaceuticals and 
Scientific Equipment.
Licensed beds  
(ProVita & Americare)
120
Beds (Sheikh Khalifa  
Hospital in UAQ)
205
SKUs (exclusive wholesaler of mainly 
globally established and branded 
healthcare products and equipment) 
c. 90,000 NMC Health is the largest private 
healthcare operator in the UAE 
and one of the largest product 
distribution and wholesale 
companies in the country. 
I. Overview
1 Our locations
2 Chairman’s 2015 report to shareholders
II. Strategic Report
6 Executive Vice Chairman  
& CEO review 
10 Our business model
12 Our strategy
18 Financial summary and highlights
20 Business overview
24 Financial review
28 Corporate social responsibility
37 Risk management
III. Governance
41 Corporate governance report
65 Directors’ remuneration report
84 Directors’ report
IV.  Financ i al st at e men ts
87 Directors’ statements
90 Independent auditor’s report
95 Consolidated income statement
99 Consolidated statement of other 
comprehensive income
100 Consolidated statement  
of financial position
101 Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
102 Consolidated statement of cash flows
103 Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
148 Statement of financial position
149 Statement of changes in equity
150 Statement of cash flows
151 Notes to the financial statements
V. Other information
IBC Shareholder information
Read the annual report  
and much more on our website:
www.nmchealth.com 1 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
04
02
13
10
11
06
23
24
21
20
18
16
17
15
25
26
22
27
05
03
07
08
01
19
09
15
Our locations
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
Umm Al Quwain
Sharjah
Dubai
Abu Dhabi
Al Ain
OMAN
14
NMC has a nationwide network  
in the UAE with ongoing segment  
and geographic diversification.
MULTI-SPECIALITY NETWORK
01. NMC Specialty Hospital
 Abu Dhabi
02.  NMC Day Surgery
 Mohammed Bin Zayed City
03.  Dr. Sunny Referral Network
 Sharjah (Acquired 2015)
04.  NMC Royal Hospital
 Khalifa City (Opened September 2015)
05.  NMC General Hospital
 Dubai Investments Park  
(Opened July 2014)
06.  B.R. Medical Suites
 DHCC
07.  NMC General Hospital
 Deira, Dubai
08.  NMC Specialty Hospital
 Dubai
09.  NMC Medical Centre
 Sharjah
10. NMC Specialty Hospital
 Al Ain
11. NMC Medical Centre
 Al Ain (Opened December 2014)
12. American Surgecenter
 Abu Dhabi 
MATERNITY & FERTILITY
13.   Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital
 Abu Dhabi (Opened July 2014)
14.  Clinica Eugin
 Spain (Acquired 2015)
15. Fakih IVF
 UAE (Acquired 2015)
LONG-TERM & HOME CARE
16.  Pr o vit a
 Abu Dhabi (Acquired 2015)
17. Provita
 Al Ain (Acquired 2015)
18. Americare
 Abu Dhabi (Acquired 2015)
OPERATION & MANAGEMENT
19. Sheikh Khalifa
 General Hospital (Operator)  
Umm al Quwain
DISTRIBUTION
20.  NMC Sales and Marketing Office
 Abu Dhabi
21.  NMC Sales and Marketing Office
 Al Ain
22.  NMC Sales and Marketing Office
 Dubai and Northern Emirates
23. NMC Warehouse
 Mina, Abu Dhabi
24. NMC Warehouse
 Al Ain
25. NMC Warehouse
 DIP, Dubai
26. NMC Warehouse
 Al Quoz, Dubai
27. NMC Warehouse
 DIC, Dubai
12 2 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview
Chairman’s 2015  
report to shareholders 
Dear Shareholder, 
I am delighted to report to shareholders 
on the excellent progress made in the 
past year. 
2015 has been a period of transformation 
and growth for NMC Health Plc as the 
Company launched the initial phase of its 
execution of its updated growth strategy 
which was announced in February 2015. 
Group Revenue increased from US$643.9m 
in 2014 to US$880.9m in 2015. Consolidated 
EBITDA also improved by 46.7% from 
US$102.5m to US$150.3m in the latest 
financial year.
STRATEGY AND ACQUISITIONS
The most significant events for your 
Company during 2015 were the 
announcement of our updated Growth 
Strategy in February 2015, and the 
execution of the initial phase of that 
strategy during the year. The new  
Growth Strategy, to summarise, is to  
put in place, and to grow, an integrated 
multi-vertical and multi-brand healthcare 
network across several geographies.  
The acquisitions which we have made  
in 2015, together with the organic 
expansion referred to below, have 
enabled your Company to make a good 
start in the implementation of this 
strategic growth plan. 
The acquisition of Clinica Eugin in 
Barcelona, Spain and the more recent 
completion of the acquisition of Fakih IVF 
in the UAE announced in February 2016, 
together with our existing Brightpoint 
Royal Women’s Hospital in Abu Dhabi, has 
created a substantial vertical in IVF and 
women’s health care. This vertical is being 
expanded by further selected acquisitions 
and organic development.
The acquisitions of ProVita and Americare, 
which focus on different aspects of  
long term care outside the hospital 
environment, both acute and non-acute, 
have provided your Company with a strong 
base for a second major vertical in an area 
of care which continues to experience a 
significant under-supply in the region. This 
vertical is also being expanded in line with 
your Company`s revised Growth Strategy, 
through selected acquisitions and strong 
organic growth both within the UAE and  
in neighbouring GCC countries including 
notably Saudi Arabia and Qatar. 
The management team and your  
Board have insisted, this year as last, on 
extreme rigour in assessing the numerous 
acquisition proposals which are identified 
each year as having possible merit for 
your Company and only progresses  
those which can be shown to be able  
to make a significant contribution to the 
achievement of your Company`s strategic 
growth plan. I believe that shareholders 
can take comfort from the fact that  
your management team only brings 
opportunities to the Board for review and 
decision where they have very strong  
and robust reasons for believing that an 
investment will create long term value  
for shareholders.
Being positioned alongside our existing 
multi-specialty and general healthcare 
facilities, the new businesses acquired 
have already created the basis to grow 
two significant verticals as a first step 
towards the creation of the integrated 
multi-vertical healthcare Group, which  
is our aim.
The anticipated growth in private healthcare, 
in the UAE and the wider GCC continues to 
be generally favourable.
Making good  
strategic progress BUILDING CAPABILITY
Multi- 
speciality
Licensed beds 
665
With the partial opening of our 250 licensed beds 
super specialty and quartenery care NMC Royal 
Hospital in 2015 and the subsequent opening of
inpatient services with 75 beds operational in March 
2016, we have completed the major component  
of the NMC hub-and-spoke network.
This enhanced multi-specialty healthcare delivery 
network of assets across the UAE has elevated 
NMC’s capacity, geographical presence, service quality 
and offering complexity to further increase NMC’s
future growth prospects.
3 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
ORGANIC EXPANSION
The Group’s initial expansion strategy, 
focused on organic expansion through 
the development and opening of new 
hospitals and clinics in the UAE outlined  
at the time of the Company’s IPO in  
2012, This initial expansion plan is now 
complete and contributing usefully  
to your Company`s results.
During the year, in addition to the  
excellent initial performance achieved 
during the ramp-up phase for both 
Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital  
in Abu Dhabi and DIP General Hospital  
in Dubai which had opened in 2014, we 
partially opened our new 250 licensed  
bed flagship super specialty Hospital,  
NMC Royal Hospital, in the Khalifa City 
suburb of Abu Dhabi within budget. NMC 
Royal Hospital has been a vision of our 
founder and Executive Vice Chairman  
and CEO, Dr B.R. Shetty, for many years 
and its opening is a significant milestone 
for the Group. 
As part of our Group Strategy, and 
alongside our acquisition program, 
management, supported by the Board, 
continue to seek new locations for 
organic growth through the development 
of traditional healthcare facilities in both  
the UAE, and regionally in the GCC. 
“ The Group’s initial expansion strategy, focused on 
organic expansion through the development and 
opening of new hospitals and clinics in the UAE.” 4 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview
GROUP FINANCING AND VIABILITY
Any period of substantial growth and 
capital development needs to be 
progressed against a background of  
a strong financial base. As I reported  
last year, in February 2015 the Company 
announced a new US$825m financing 
facility which was made up of two 
elements, namely a US$350m facility  
to repay existing debt and for general 
corporate purposes, and a US$475m 
facility to facilitate strategic acquisitions. 
This strong financial base enabled the 
Company to restructure existing loans, 
reduce its cost of funds and create 
additional headroom to ensure that  
the Group is conservatively financed. 
RISK
Our Group businesses deal with risk  
every day in operating and in planning 
within their particular business or facility. 
The Board has always considered strategic 
risks in operating our businesses, executing 
our growth strategy and reviewing 
potential acquisitions. In Q4, 2014 the 
management team, supported by PwC, 
implemented a full risk identification 
process with the risks facing the business 
developed through a bottom-up/top-down 
review process which has been, and will be, 
reviewed during each financial year. There 
have been a few changes to the Group’s 
risk profile in the last 12 months including 
specific focus on those risks which are 
inherent as part of an acquisitive strategy 
for growth. A list of the risks facing the 
Group, how these are mitigated and what 
effect the principal risks could have on the 
Group are set out on pages 37 to 39.
The Board has taken a proactive stance  
in considering risk, and the board sees 
this as an essential element in the 
successful development of the Group  
and in creating long term value for  
our shareholders. 
GOVERNANCE/VIABILITY
Your Board has been evolving in size,  
skill sets and cultural diversity since the 
Company’s IPO in 2012. You will have 
noted in previous Annual Reports that the 
Board considered that an appraisal of its 
own performance was not appropriate in 
previous years given its changing nature 
and the continuing development of  
Board processes which were considered 
appropriate as the Group grew in size  
and complexity. 
However, in December 2015 the Board  
did undertake an appraisal process  
by way of a questionnaire completed  
by Board members. This appraisal 
concluded that, in the Board’s view, its 
structure, composition, processes and 
discussions are appropriate for NMC  
at the current time. Of course we will  
now appraise ourselves each year and 
continue to develop as a Board team. 
The other governance related focus for 
the Board and the Company this year  
has been the inclusion of a Viability 
Statement as recommended under  
the 2014 UK Corporate Governance  
Code. The new requirement to make  
a statement in relation to our longer  
term viability is different in nature to the 
traditional consideration of whether we 
can continue to prepare our accounts  
on a Going Concern basis on a forward  
12 month time frame. The Board has 
reviewed the Company’s viability over  
a three year timeframe and our Viability 
Statement is included on page 89. 
DIVIDEND
As a result of the continued good 
performance and financial stability of  
the Company, your Board plans to submit 
a resolution to shareholders at the 2016 
Annual General Meeting authorising 
payment of a cash dividend of 6.2 pence 
per share, an increase of 14.8% compared 
to the 2014 dividend payment as 
shareholders continue to benefit from  
the improved performance of the  
Group. For the fourth year running this  
is approximately 20% of profit after tax, 
within the range which the Board 
indicated at the time of the Company’s 
IPO would be their dividend target. 
BOARD 
2014 saw significant changes in the size 
and structure of the Board. During the  
2015 financial year, however, there were 
no board changes, with the board 
structured with:
• A wider cultural and ethnic mix 
benefitting Board discussions given 
the Company’s listing in the UK and 
operations in the UAE;
• Significant female representation (33%) 
on the Board;
• More than half of its number resident 
in the UAE, the Company’s home 
market; and
• A wide range of skills and experience, 
including more than half of the  
Board having significant operational  
or regulatory experience of healthcare 
services from different parts of the world.
Heather Lawrence has since year end 
decided to step down from the Board 
with her resignation effective on 
12 January 2016. Heather joined the Board 
in March 2012 prior to the Company’s  
IPO and as well as serving on the Audit 
Committee, was instrumental in the 
Board setting up the Clinical Governance 
Committee to provide Board oversight  
of quality and safety in the Group’s 
healthcare division. The Board are very 
grateful for her contribution over the last 
three years and wish her well for the future.
MANAGEMENT AND STAFF
The management team was restructured 
with effect from 1 January 2015 when 
Prasanth Manghat was appointed Deputy 
Chief Executive Officer and Suresh 
Krishnamoorthy was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer. Prasanth Manghat has 
been assisting Dr Shetty in both managing 
the Group businesses and in executing the 
next phase of our strategic growth plan. 
Mr Krishnamoorthy has ensured that the 
Group is in a good financial position to be 
able to progress this strategy. The Board  
is delighted with the excellent progress 
that the Executive Directors and Senior 
Management Team have made in growing 
the Group in 2015.
Across the Group, we continue to consider 
the Company’s human capital as vital to 
the success of your Company, particularly 
during this period of significant change 
and growth. We have welcomed new 
businesses and employees to the NMC 
family and both the Board and I would  
like to thank them all, whether new or 
long time employees, for their continued 
commitment, contribution, energy and 
goodwill during this period of change. 
OUTLOOK
Despite some challenging economic 
conditions within some of the markets 
where we operate due largely to the fall  
in the price of oil, the anticipated growth  
in private healthcare, in the UAE and the 
wider GCC continues to be generally 
favourable and your Board continues  
to view the outlook for your Group  
with confidence.
H.J. MARK TOMPKINS
Non-Executive Chairman
Chairman’s 2015  
report to shareholders 
continued
Overview 5 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Group 
Strategic 
Report
In this section:
6 Executive Vice Chairman & CEO review
10 Our business model
12 Our strategy
18 Financial summary and highlights
20 Business overview
24 Financial review
28 Corporate social responsibility
37 Risk management 6 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Executive  
Vice Chairman  
& CEO’s review 
TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR
2015 was a transformative year for  
NMC Health, signalling the approaching 
completion of our capital development 
programme initiated by our listing on the 
London Stock Exchange in 2012, and 
marking the beginning of the next phase 
of our growth. During our forty year 
history of operating in the United Arab 
Emirates, we have achieved countless 
milestones in the development of NMC’s 
healthcare delivery platform. However,  
our rapid expansion both organically  
and through acquisitions, during 2015 
accelerated our growth and widened  
our offering of high quality healthcare 
services in an unprecedented manner to 
the benefit of UAE residents and citizens. 
We have put the key components in 
place to create a strong, inter-connected, 
integrated multi-vertical and multi-brand 
private healthcare network with the 
scalability and flexibility to grow our 
operations in the future. 
COMPLETED INITIAL ORGANIC  
EXPANSION PROGRAMME
Our initial organic expansion programme 
culminated in the partial opening of NMC 
Royal Hospital’s out-patient services in 
2015. This initial opening was followed-up 
with the commencement of in-patient 
services on 7 March 2016 with 75 beds 
operational out of a total licensed capacity 
of 250 beds at this super speciality hospital 
in Khalifa City, Abu Dhabi. The balance of 
the licensed bed capacity at this facility  
is expected to become operational in a 
phased manner over future periods based 
on demand growth. This is our seventh 
and largest integrated speciality hospital 
facility and will act as the central facility  
in our network and be  
a regional referral point for best-in-class 
medical treatment for the UAE’s growing 
population. This hospital completes our 
hub-and-spoke healthcare network in  
the UAE, however, we will continue to 
assess opportunities to complement our 
platform and extend our referral network. 
In total, since its LSE listing, NMC has 
opened three hospitals with a total 
additional capacity of 410 licensed beds 
and two other healthcare centres –  
NMC Royal Hospital, Brightpoint Royal 
Women’s Hospital, DIP General Hospital,  
Al Ain Medical Centre and MBZC Day 
Surgery – marking the largest ever private 
sector capacity expansion program in the 
UAE healthcare market. 
NEW STAGE OF STRATEGIC GROWTH
Supported by an $825 million financing 
facility secured in February 2015, NMC  
has embarked on a new stage of  
strategic growth as it executed five major 
acquisitions during the year to accelerate 
its shift from the capacity focused first 
stage of its strategy (2012-2014) towards 
the new capabilities focused second 
stage (2015-2018).
The acquisitions of Clinica Eugin (86.4%)  
and Fakih IVF (51%) will allow us to establish 
NMC as the premier regional and global 
destination for top-quality fertility services. 
With the acquisitions of ProVita (100%)  
and Americare (90%), we extended our 
operational presence into the long-term 
and home-care segments and established 
NMC as a completely integrated provider  
for long-term patient needs. The expansion 
of our network in Sharjah with six additional 
medical centres and three pharmacies, 
through the acquisition of Dr Sunny 
Healthcare Group (100%), improved our 
We have put the key components in place to create  
a strong, inter-connected, integrated multi-vertical and 
multi-brand private healthcare network with the scalability 
and flexibility to grow our operations in the future. 
Strong performance  
in 2015 7 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
ability to participate in the future growth  
of healthcare in the Emirate which could 
see the adoption of mandatory healthcare 
insurance in the future, following Abu Dhabi 
(2007) and Dubai (2014).
These acquisitions, coupled with NMC’s 
organic initiatives, have allowed the Group 
to establish new strategic verticals within 
the broader healthcare delivery platform 
with specialization-specific capabilities 
and brands:
• Multi-specialty – 665 licensed beds 
(NMC Healthcare & Dr. Sunny)
• Maternity & fertility – 100 licensed beds 
(Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital, 
Clinica Eugin and Fakih IVF)
• Long-term & home care – 120 licensed 
beds (ProVita & Americare)
• Operation & management – 205  
beds (Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in UAQ)
1
• Products & consumables – Around 
90,000 Stock Keeping Units (exclusive 
wholesaler of mainly globally 
established and branded healthcare 
products and equipment) 
The updated strategy and its subsequent 
execution to date has meant that NMC’s 
healthcare operations evolved from a 
single multi-specialty platform to include 
additional higher complexity and single 
specialty strategic verticals. In particular, 
this new positioning allows the Company to: 
• Offer higher quality services  
to patients and payors
• Participate in under-supplied market 
segments with higher growth outlook 
and per service value 
• Increase scalability potential in the  
UAE and wider region due to lower 
capex intensity
BUILDING CAPABILITY 
Maternity  
& Fertility
Capacity of over 20,000  
fertility cycles globally
20,000
We are very proud to have helped thousands of 
women to fulfill their dream of becoming a mother. 
And many of them, more than once. Our team of 
specialists have vast experience in the field and are 
passionate about what they do. Yet the journey 
towards motherhood requires more than medical 
expertise. The decision to become a mother  
is a very important one and the emotions  
involved are intense, so our patients need  
the support of an experienced team  
whom they can trust. 8 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
2-STAGE STRATEGY
Building capacity
Building capability
Delivering a continuum of care
Vision
Today NMC is the leading private sector 
healthcare group in the UAE and one  
of the most advanced and diversified in 
terms of its service offering in the entire 
MENA region (Middle East and North 
Africa). Our Maternity & Fertility vertical 
with its market segment leading assets, 
is now considered to be one of the top 
three fertility services providers globally, 
based on cycles performed annually.  
In the long-term and home care vertical 
we occupy a top regional position and  
are the only provider present along the  
full continuum of care. In Operations & 
Management, NMC was the first local 
operator in the UAE to be awarded a 
contract to manage a government 
hospital. Our distribution division, the 
Products & Consumables vertical, as  
of year-end 2015 possessed more than 
around 90,000 Stock Keeping Units (SKUs) 
and is estimated to be amongst the top 
three wholesalers in the UAE. 
NMC now operates a total of 26 healthcare 
services assets and 15 pharmacies, 
including the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa 
General Hospital in Umm Al Quwain. 
REGIONAL EXPANSION
As outlined in our strategy updates  
during 2015, NMC continues to evaluate 
further expansion in the UAE and the  
Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. 
These markets offer attractive 
opportunities with growing populations, 
favourable demographic trends and  
an undersupply of healthcare services. 
We expect to open five new fertility 
centres during 2016, including one centre 
in each of Qatar and Oman.
Meanwhile, we will continue to advance 
our initiatives to establish a regional 
presence in the long-term care segment.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS
In addition to the recent hospital openings 
and acquisitions, we have continued  
to focus on our more mature facilities, 
making upgrades to the existing hospital 
network to achieve an even more 
optimised service delivery and capacity 
utilisation. This has yielded several 
enhancements including a 15% increase  
in bed capacity at each of our pre-IPO 
specialty hospitals in Abu Dhabi, Dubai 
and Al Ain.
As a result, at the end of 2015, the Group’s 
healthcare assets had a total licensed  
bed capacity of 885 beds (excluding the 
205 bed government hospital), an 88% 
increase on the previous year and more 
than 185% compared with the start of 2014.
Our new hospitals were equipped with 
our Hospital Information System (HIS) 
which will increase the operational 
efficiency of our growing network of 
hospitals. We continue to introduce this 
system in a phased approach to ensure 
the introduction is smooth and our 
people receive the training required to 
successfully implement the new system. 
Some of our legacy assets will receive  
the HIS over the next 1-2 years to ensure a 
seamless transition. The implementation 
of the company’s new financial Enterprise 
Resource Planning (ERP) system is behind 
the original schedule on account of 
challenges faced by the group during 
initial testing phase and also due to 
integration of newly acquired assets, 
however implementation of the system  
is now well underway across the Group 
and we expect it to be completed by end 
of Q2 FY2017. 
 
Last year we strengthened the NMC 
management team with the promotion  
of Mr Prasanth Manghat from CFO to 
Deputy CEO and Mr Suresh Krishnamoorthy 
from Deputy CFO to the position of CFO. 
Mr Manghat and Mr Krishnamoorthy  
have a collective tenure of 27 years of 
experience with NMC and related entities 
and we are confident that together with 
the other members of the management 
team at NMC, we have a leadership team 
capable of executing the growth strategy 
and take our Group into its next phase  
of expansion. 
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE
In total we received 3.2 million patients 
into our facilities, representing 34.3% year 
on year growth. Hospital occupancy 
increased by 216bps to 73.5% demonstrating 
the continually high demand for quality 
services and we enlarged our medical 
specialist teams with the addition of  
214 doctors throughout the year. 
Our healthcare assets continue to 
perform very well and we see positive 
operational and financial results. Of 
particular interest amongst our more 
mature assets is Dubai Speciality Hospital, 
which recorded a 23.5% increase in the 
number of patients and 21% growth  
in revenues year on year – the highest 
growth for the hospital over the last  
five years – as the roll-out of mandatory 
healthcare insurance in Dubai continues 
to gain traction and progress towards 
completion of the phased adoption plan 
by year end 2016. 
Executive  
Vice Chairman  
& CEO’s review 
continued 9 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Healthcare
DELIVERING A CONTINUUM OF CARE
Multi-speciality network 
Maternity & Fertility 
Long-term & Home Care 
CORE FUNCTIONS
Financial performance in 2015 for the 
Group was robust with reported revenues 
increasing by 36.8% and EBITDA increasing 
by 46.7% compared with 2014. This was 
supported by strong performance across 
our major assets, positive contribution 
from our newly acquired healthcare 
facilities and a better than expected 
impact from the continued roll-out of 
mandatory medical insurance in the UAE. 
We have a strong capital structure and 
estimate that we could have around 
US$270m available during the year for 
potential growth opportunities derived 
from existing unutilised financing, existing 
cash and cash generated during the year. 
We also continued to methodically 
expand our Distribution division this  
year with new product introductions  
and brands and an increased focus on  
our sales effort. We strengthened the 
division, recruiting an additional 51 sales 
people, bringing the total number of 
employees in this successful team to 
1,948. We also invested in our Distribution 
business transport adding 14 new vehicles  
bringing the total number to 221. Sales of 
pharmaceuticals and laboratory equipment 
increased due to an expanded product 
range and growing demand supported  
by Dubai’s rollout of mandatory health 
insurance. Notably, we signed an agreement 
with Nestle to be the exclusive distributor 
of its infant product range to pharmacies 
in the UAE, increasing our competitive 
edge in the market. The number of SKUs 
increased to around 90,000, an increase  
of 6.8% compared to 2014 and we forecast 
another year of growth in this division as 
demand for products continues to grow. 
OUTLOOK
Rapid expansion, as we have experienced 
this year, always presents its challenges 
and I would like to thank my fellow 
members of the Board of Directors,  
the senior management team and our 
shareholders for their continued support 
and dedication throughout the year.  
Most importantly, I would like to thank  
the employees of NMC and its newly 
acquired local and international healthcare 
assets for their tireless efforts to provide 
the United Arab Emirates’ and the region’s 
growing population with increased access 
domestically to quality healthcare services 
and products, as we have done so for the 
last four decades. 
Our transformation from a small 
pharmacy and clinic over 40 years ago 
into an internationally recognised provider 
of healthcare services could not have 
been possible without the unparalleled 
support of the UAE government and  
its residents and I extend my sincerest 
thanks to you for your encouragement. 
We expect a good year for the UAE 
economy in 2016 supported by a 
reasonable GDP growth of around 3% 
despite the lower oil prices, based on 
forecasts by leading rating agencies. 
However, for the local healthcare sector 
the key accelerating driver of growth will 
be the on-going adoption of mandatory 
healthcare insurance in Dubai and the 
expected increase in covered patient 
rising from 1m to 3m according to  
Dubai Healthcare Authority (DHA). Most 
specifically for NMC, we expect strong 
growth coming from our enlarged 
network, its growing specialisms and  
the introduction of higher value added 
services especially through our single 
specialty verticals. 
DR B.R. SHETTY 
Executive Vice Chairman and CEO 10 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
In 2015, the Group did various acquisitions 
and now owns and operates Clinica Eugin 
in Spain, one of the leading fertility treatment 
centres globally; Americare Group, the 
leading home care provider in the UAE; 
ProVita, the leading provider of long-term 
medical care, also in the UAE; Fakih IVF, 
the market leader for in-vitro fertilisation 
services in the Middle East and Dr Sunny, 
a reputable network of medical centres in 
Sharjah. All acquisitions were completed 
during 2015, except Fakih IVF which was 
completed on 31 January 2016.
The group also operates a UAE wide product 
distribution and wholesale business.
HEALTHCARE DIVISION
Through our healthcare services division 
we provide people in the UAE with  
a range of high quality outpatient and 
inpatient services across our facilities. 
These facilities range from the larger 
specialty hospitals to medical centres, 
providing care along the care pathway 
from emergency and short-term health 
to in-home and long-term care. 
In addition to our facilities in the UAE, we 
own and operate Clinica Eugin which is 
based in Spain. Through this acquisition 
we aim to complement our existing UAE 
capabilities with those of Clinica Eugin’s 
world-class expertise in IVF technology 
and service delivery of the highest 
international standards. NMC continues to 
look for opportunities to transfer medical 
know-how from internationally leading 
organisations to benefit its patients in the 
gulf region. 
Our network of retail pharmacies  
is mainly selling pharmaceuticals 
prescribed by our doctors to our patients 
either within, or in the immediate vicinity 
of, our healthcare services facilities. Our 
comprehensive care approach maximises 
patient convenience and increases 
revenue contribution to our business.
While we serve both insured and 
self-paying patients, the overwhelming 
majority of our healthcare division’s 
revenue is generated through insured 
patients. Usually insured patients have  
to make a co-payment, which is the 
proportion of the full price of services 
rendered that the patient pays directly  
to NMC when they receive services at  
our facilities. NMC then submits claims  
to insurance companies to collect the 
remainder of our fees. 
Pricing of our healthcare services is 
typically negotiated on an annual basis 
with the insurance companies we work 
with and may differ between the various 
insurance plans offered in the market.  
In contrast, prices of the majority of 
pharmaceutical products sold in our 
pharmacies are regulated and set by  
the UAE Ministry of Health.
NMC medical facilities are currently covered 
by the majority of the approximately 49 
insurance companies operating in the UAE, 
including the largest market participants. 
These companies have either a direct 
relationship with us or through Third Party 
Administrators (TPAs) who currently provide 
private medical insurance. 
Our Healthcare division also provides 
operational and management services  
to third party owned healthcare services 
assets. In return for our services, we 
receive a contracted management fee  
by the asset owner. Typically the fee 
Our business model
Integrated private 
healthcare 
NMC Health plc is a leading integrated 
private healthcare provider operating 
across the United Arab Emirates, with  
a nationwide network of hospitals and 
operations founded in 1975.  11 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Healthcare 
Services
Product 
Distribution
received is partially tied to a set of 
pre-agreed performance metrics 
incorporating either qualitative and/or 
quantitative operational targets.  
We currently have one management 
contract with the UAE Ministry of 
Presidential Affairs pertaining to  
a general hospital in Umm al Quwain  
in the Northern Emirates.
DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
NMC’s Distribution Division is now one  
of the largest in the UAE and it offers 
products across several segments 
including FMCG, Pharmaceuticals, 
Scientific Equipment and Food.
NMC counts among its clients UAE 
Government entities, the largest UAE 
retailers, pharmacies and hospital 
operators. We supply our customers  
with a portfolio of globally and locally 
established brands and products with 
end-user demand in the UAE. We ensure 
our customers receive quality products  
in a timely manner with the required 
support services.
Our distribution capabilities are supported 
by a network of strategically located 
warehouses and a fleet of vehicles 
ensuring timely delivery to our customers 
across the country. Products are 
overwhelmingly sold on credit, with 
payments collected based on agreed 
terms. Our pricing of these products 
includes a mark-up over the product  
cost to generate a profit and to cover  
import costs and duties, registration 
administration and fees, distribution 
expenses, credit costs and, in certain 
cases, marketing costs. Pharmaceutical 
is the only segment where pricing is 
widely regulated by the UAE Ministry  
of Health.
Only registered domestic distributors,  
a locally established company like NMC, 
are entitled by customs authorities  
to import products into the country. 
Principals (suppliers) contract NMC as 
their distributor to gain access to the  
UAE market through a reputable partner 
with a long track-record, established 
distribution channels and infrastructure 
and strong financial standing. Every 
individual brand and product has to go 
through an approval and registration 
process with local authorities before 
being allowed to be sold in the country. 
NMC facilitates this process and ensures 
local requirements are met. The majority 
of agreements with our Principals are  
on exclusive basis. All agreements are 
registered with the government.
NMC procurement is on a principal basis. 
In the majority of cases, NMC takes the 
inventory and collection risk of the product 
that it buys and sells. Acting as a principal 
rather than an agent enhances NMC’s 
margins at the expense of increasing the 
Group’s risk profile. Our agreements are 
almost exclusively operated on a credit 
basis, with the number of credit days 
agreed with our Principals. 12 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Over the past 40 years NMC has delivered 
significant growth by providing accessible 
top quality healthcare services in the  
fast growing major cities of the UAE, 
supported by: 
• Visionary UAE leadership, continuously 
developing, diversifying and increasing 
the competitiveness of the economy 
• Positive macro-economic environment
• Attractive healthcare supply/ 
demand dynamics 
• Structural growth underpinned  
by the phased adoption of  
mandatory insurance
NMC’s IPO in 2012 reinforced the 
Company’s strategic commitment  
to expanding its capacity in the under-
supplied and fragmented private UAE 
healthcare market. This was a major 
milestone in establishing the first 
integrated nationwide hub-and-spoke 
healthcare network in the UAE private 
sector with a primary, secondary and 
tertiary care offering. 
NMC successfully executed the organic 
expansion plan outlined during its IPO, 
with four strategic and well-positioned 
healthcare asset openings in the UAE 
market during 2013 and 2014, culminating 
in 2015 with the partial opening of its 
largest hospital and the centrepiece in 
the NMC’s multi-specialty platform – the 
250 licensed bed super specialty NMC 
Royal Hospital in Abu Dhabi. 
With the organic, capacity focused, 
expansion program approaching 
completion, NMC initiated a capabilities 
focused update to its strategy to 
accelerate the expansion of the 
Company’s clinical offering into higher 
complexity and value specialties. This 
new phase of growth was supported  
by a new financing facility of up to 
US$825m, including US$475m earmarked 
for inorganic expansion to complement 
NMC’s existing capabilities. 
The updated strategy and its subsequent 
execution has meant that NMC’s healthcare 
operations have evolved from a single 
multi-specialty platform operating under 
one brand, NMC, to include additional 
higher complexity and single specialty 
verticals operating under a multi-brand and 
multi-segment strategy. In particular, this 
new positioning allows the Company to: 
• Offer higher quality services  
to patients and payors
• Participate in under-supplied market 
segments with higher growth outlook 
and per service value 
• Increase expansion and scalability 
potential in the UAE and wider region 
due to lower capex intensity of single 
specialty route
NMC has reviewed and assessed  
multiple proposed in-organic, organic and 
partnership opportunities over the past 
year and continues to be highly selective 
and disciplined in its investment process.
The company has completed strategic 
and value accretive acquisitions to date that 
have all met NMC’s stringent investment 
criteria. These acquisitions include:
• Clinica Eugin – A leading global fertility 
treatment company
• Fakih IVF – Middle Eastern fertility 
services leader
• ProVita – Pioneering UAE based 
long-term ventilated care provider
• Americare – Top UAE provider of home 
care services
• Dr Sunny Network – Highly reputable 
UAE based primary care provider  
in Sharjah
Our strategy 13 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
2 The first four strategic verticals form  
the Healthcare Division, with the  
Products & Consumables currently  
being the only vertical in the  
Distribution Division.
These acquisitions, coupled with NMC’s 
organic initiatives, have allowed the Group 
to establish new strategic verticals
2
 within 
the broader healthcare delivery platform 
with specialization-specific capabilities 
and brands:
1. Multi-specialty – 665 licensed beds 
(NMC Healthcare & Dr. Sunny)
2. Maternity & fertility – 100 licensed beds 
(Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital  
& Clinica Eugin)
3. Long-term & home care – 120 licensed 
beds (ProVita & Americare)
4. Operation & management – 205 beds 
(Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in UAQ)
5. Products & consumables – Around 
90,000 SKUs (exclusive wholesaler  
of mainly globally established  
and branded healthcare products  
and equipment) 
The Group now has a capacity of 885 
licensed beds and a network of medical 
centres and day-surgeries. In addition, 
NMC operates the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa 
Hospital on behalf of the UAE government 
in the Emirate of Umm al-Quwain.
MULTI-SPECIALTY 
With the partial opening of our 250 
licensed beds super specialty and 
quartenery care NMC Royal Hospital  
in 2015 and the subsequent opening  
of inpatient services with 75 beds 
operational in March 2016, we have 
completed the major component  
of the NMC hub-and-spoke network. 
The addition of NMC Royal Hospital further 
expands our portfolio, bringing the total 
number of hospitals to seven across the 
UAE. This platform is complemented  
by a network of medical centres and day 
surgeries to increase operational reach 
and the addressable market through 
cross-referrals. We almost trebled our 
network of day surgeries and medical 
centres to eleven during 2015, up from 
four at the start of 2015, largely driven by 
our acquisition of Dr Sunny Healthcare 
Group, which operates six medical 
centres in Sharjah. We also added four 
pharmacies to our portfolio during the 
year for a total of 15. 
This enhanced multi-specialty healthcare 
delivery network of assets across the UAE 
has elevated NMC’s capacity, geographical 
presence, service quality and offering 
complexity to further increase NMC’s 
future growth prospects. 
Under the NMC brand we will continue  
to operate with a multi-segment 
approach, thus targeting all UAE 
insurance categories from Basic (low-
income expatriate workers), via Enhanced 
(middle-to-high income expatriates) all 
the way up to Thiqa or its equivalent  
(UAE nationals). Our core focus is to 
provide the highest quality and affordable 
healthcare services to the maximum 
INORGANIC CAPABILITIES FOCUS
ORGANIC CAPACITY GROWTH
Stage 1: 2012-2014 Stage 2: 2015-2018
ACQUISITION CATEGORY
Eugin Fertility
Provita Long Term Care
Americare Homecare
Dr. Sunny Medical Centre
Fakih IVF Fertility
DEVELOPMENT CATEGORY
MBZC Day Surgery
B r i g h t p o i n t  M at e r n i t y H o s p i t a l
D I P  G e n e r al Ho s p i t al
Al Ain  Medical Centre
NMC Royal  Special Hospital
Licenced beds
+120
16% growth
Licenced beds
+410
132% growth 14 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Our strategy  
continued
number of insurance plans and optimum 
number of patients relative to our 
capacity and capabilities. The increased 
scale and patient volumes will enhance 
our ability to widen the service offering 
and complexity to the long-term benefit 
of all patients and the wider UAE 
healthcare market. 
MATERNITY & FERTILITY
The opening of Brightpoint Royal 
Women’s Hospital combined with the 
subsequent acquisitions of Clinica Eugin 
and Fakih IVF confirms the Maternity  
& Fertility vertical’s global market  
position, as one of the leading and 
premium international providers of  
fertility treatment services based on:
• Scale of its global business and  
cycle capacity
• Focused strategic initiative towards 
raising capabilities and access  
to care in high growth and under-
supplied markets
• Segment leading treatment 
capabilities and success rates
• Diversity and complexity of service 
offering across the fertility treatment 
spectrum
• Established presence and referral centres 
across regulatory geographies to 
facilitate one-stop approach for patients
NMC’s capacity focused initial 
strategy completed the only  
nationwide multi-specialty hub-
and-spoke healthcare network  
with tertiary care capabilities. 
Our healthcare network
Fakih 
IVF
Abu Dhabi  
Speciality  
Hospital
Brightpoint  
Women’s 
Hospital  
Abu Dhabi
Dubai IP  
General  
Hospital
Deira 
General 
Hospital
Clinica 
Eugin
Provita
Al Ain  
Speciality 
Hospital Dubai  
Speciality  
Hospital
NMC Royal 
Super 
Speciality 
Hospital
COMMUNITY
LOCAL / CITY
REGIONAL (UAE)
MBZC Day Surgery
Dr Sunny 6 Sharjah Medical Centres
Al Ain Medical Centre
BR Medical Suites 
Sharjah Medical Centre 
American Surgecenter 15 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
The most recent acquisition of Fakih  
IVF which completed in January 2016  
is expected to be highly synergistic with 
significant potential for cross-referral of 
patients and transfer of best practices 
and technologies within NMC’s Maternity 
& Fertility vertical. Patients will have 
access to an integrated continuum of 
care with complementing capabilities 
and coordinated seamless service 
offerings including local IVF treatments  
of the highest international standards  
at Fakih IVF, international referral to  
Clinica Eugin and its wider fertility service 
offering as permitted by its operational 
and regulatory environment and 
hospitals, led by Brightpoint, for antenatal, 
delivery and postnatal services.
The premium market positioning 
internationally and in the UAE of our 
brands in this vertical, is increasing the 
company’s overall penetration into the 
Thiqa insurance segment, which is 
exclusively comprised of UAE nationals  
in Abu Dhabi, where fertility treatment  
is covered.
In addition, fertility treatments are the 
leading drivers of medical tourism in the 
UAE and the acquisition of Fakih IVF  
and Clinica Eugin will position NMC as  
the destination of choice and a ‘one-stop 
shop’ with a complete service offering. 
A roll-out plan for additional fertility 
centres in the Gulf region is currently 
being executed with a total of five new 
assets expected to open during 2016. 
Three assets will be located in the UAE 
and one in each of Qatar and Oman.
LONG-TERM & HOME CARE
NMC also accelerated its establishment  
of Centres of Excellence through 
acquisitions that extend its services along 
the care pathway. As a leading provider of 
in-home healthcare services in the UAE, 
Americare, acquired by NMC in April 2015, 
complements existing in-hospital 
healthcare services. Americare operates 
a community-based physician practice 
providing medical care in the comfort  
of the patient’s home for a variety of 
conditions and across all ages. 
In August 2015, NMC acquired ProVita,  
the UAE’s leading provider of long-term 
medical care. Meeting the under-serviced 
demand for long-term care facilities, 
ProVita fills a gap between the short-term 
care offered by NMC’s existing facilities 
and the in-home services offered by 
Americare, furthering our strategy of being 
an integrated healthcare provider with 
Centres of Excellence across specialities. 
By providing specialised long-term care, 
NMC can contribute towards accelerating 
the freeing up of the more expensive and 
comparatively lower quality of life ICU 
beds currently occupied by long-term 
acute and sub-acute care patients within 
NMC and other local/international private 
sector and government hospitals. This 
integrated solution across the continuum 
of care will allow for a seamless patient 
experience with higher quality of life for 
the patients and their families combined 
with synergies and enhanced efficiencies 
for NMC and payors. Given the limited 
availability of long term care facilities in 
the UAE, we expect our integrated care 
solution to provide an effective alternative 
to sending patients abroad for treatment 
and we therefore anticipate a continued 
repatriation of UAE patients back to their 
home country. 
In addition, the acquisitions of Americare 
and ProVita extend NMC’s access to  
Thiqa patients to further diversify NMC’s 
patient population.
ProVita has long-term care assets in both 
Abu Dhabi and Al Ain with a combined 
total of 120 beds. 
NMC has identified Qatar and Saudi Arabia 
as priority markets for the long-term  
care expansion due to the increasing 
healthcare expenditure in both countries, 
high prevalence of chronic and lifestyle 
diseases, aging population, lack of 
dedicated long-term care facilities and  
a substantial number of patients seeking 
treatment abroad.
OPERATIONS & MANAGEMENT
NMC continued to successfully operate 
and manage the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa 
General Hospital in Umm Al Quwain on 
behalf of the UAE government.
Our experience in the Operation & 
Management is leading us to increasingly 
explore the prospects of expanding this 
business regionally. While this evaluation 
of the wider market remains at initial 
stages, our long experience of operating 
and managing healthcare assets in the 
region means we can contribute to the 
evolution of healthcare delivery outside 
our own assets. 
PRODUCTS & CONSUMABLES
NMC Health’s Product & Consumables  
or product distribution and wholesale 
business is one of the largest in the  
UAE in terms of product portfolio and 
sales. This portfolio of international and 
regional brands, sold mainly on exclusive 
basis by NMC to local retailers, has been 
built over the past 40 years across diverse 
product areas, including key segments 
such as FMCG, Pharmaceuticals and 
Scientific Equipment. 
Today NMC has Around 90,000 SKUs sold 
across the UAE through its over 1,948 
divisional staff, five warehouses with  
a total of over 500,000 sq feet of storage 
and 221 delivery vehicles. Around 98%  
of our SKUs are imported and sold 
exclusively in the UAE by NMC to retailers.
This division has continued to perform 
well during the year on brand and  
product line expansions, positive macro 
environment and growth in the retail 
space across the UAE.
Our strategy in the distribution division 
remains focused on investing in our 
people, logistics and strategic regional 
and global relationships with key 
principals. We aim to leverage off these 
key assets against a market back drop  
of good socio economic drivers and the 
on-going positive sector trends following 
the introduction of mandatory insurance 
most recently in Dubai with a wider roll 
out across the UAE expected in the 
future. With the pharmaceutical segment 
accounting for around 33.1% of sales in 
distribution, mandatory insurance roll-out 
is expected to support future growth.
 
We continue to explore attractive organic 
and inorganic growth opportunities in  
the UAE and across the wider gulf region 
to underpin and accelerate the growth  
of the Distribution division. 
KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
Following these strategic initiatives  
and the creation of its strategic verticals,  
NMC reiterates its commitment to the 
long-term strategic growth plan and  
the following key objectives: 
• Accelerate development of Centres of 
Excellence in key specialties within the 
multi-specialty vertical (e.g. partnership 
with Oxford University affiliate to 
deliver in-hospital oncology therapy)  
as well as in newly-established single 
specialty verticals such as fertility  
and long-term care through organic, 
inorganic or partnership initiatives;
• Contribute towards increased 
healthcare spend retention within  
the UAE, through a broader and higher 
complexity offering;
• Expand medical specialty offering  
to the growing patient population 
within the UAE whilst maximising 
cross-referrals and operational 
synergies between existing network 
assets and verticals;
• Selectively pursue in-vertical 
consolidation opportunities to grow 
market presence and cross-referral 
capabilities and accelerate the patient 
volume reliant drive towards higher 
complexity/value added healthcare 
services; 16 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
• Offer fully integrated healthcare 
solutions within NMC’s system to the 
benefit of patients and payors. This 
includes a leading presence across  
the continuum of care with the ability 
to ‘step-up’ and ‘step-down’ patients 
based on their healthcare needs (e.g. 
from super specialty hospital to/from 
long-term care to/from home-care);
• Further complement its market 
position through selective adoption  
of a multi-brand approach under the 
broader NMC Health umbrella brand;
• Increase participation in the rapidly 
growing medical tourism market 
within the UAE by establishing its 
facilities as a destination of choice for 
medical tourists from the wider region;
• Selectively establish a strategic 
presence outside the UAE, with an 
initial focus on Saudi Arabia and Qatar, 
through the more scalable and less 
capital expenditure intensive single 
specialty verticals, thereby allowing 
NMC to leverage its expertise and  
the reputation behind its key brands 
(such as Fakih IVF, Eugin and ProVita)  
in attractive markets.
ACCELERATE THE ESTABLISHMENT  
OF CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE
Outpatient services are the largest 
contributor to the UAE healthcare market 
by volume and value, particularly in the 
private sector, whose focus is evolving 
from primary care to secondary and 
tertiary care. By definition, inpatient 
services are more complex and require 
high investments in human capital, 
technology and facilities, raising the entry 
barriers for providers. 
Historically, both specialist outpatient and 
inpatient services in the UAE originated  
in government owned healthcare facilities 
and the public sector remains the largest 
provider of services, particularly for inpatients. 
The UAE’s medical insurance reform  
aims to advance the quality and capacity 
of care by encouraging more participation 
and investment by the private sector, 
resulting in the joint contribution of the 
public and private sectors for the ultimate 
benefit of the patient. 
In line with this vision, NMC’s large 
investment program and its growing 
network of state-of-the-art healthcare 
facilities, we are also increasingly raising 
the level, quality and focus of our 
healthcare services. By doing so, we aim 
to advance our competitive advantage 
through offering better and more 
specialised services for patients.
NMC’s vision is to ensure all service 
delivery is performed around our 
specialities so we can accumulate higher 
levels of clinical expertise and experience. 
In addition, more secondary and tertiary 
care surgeries will contribute to higher 
inpatient revenues. 
We believe successfully operated centres 
of excellence in-hospital or as single 
specialty verticals will attract and retain 
highly qualified physicians and surgeons, 
by offering: patient concentration, higher 
number of surgeries and a highly qualified 
and experienced peer group as colleagues.
The recent opening of NMC Royal Hospital, 
our super specialty tertiary hospital and 
the centre piece of our hub-and-spoke 
healthcare network, will raise the medical 
capabilities of NMC to a new level and 
accelerate the development of our key 
in-hospital centres of excellence. 
Currently we have six in-hospital centres 
of excellence:
• Cardiology
• Urology & Andrology
• Orthopaedics
• Ophthalmology
• Oncology
• Surgery 
By developing our core competitive 
advantages in quality healthcare around 
branded, highly identifiable and focused 
specialty centres we are incubating 
within our hospitals, centres of excellence, 
with a potential to evolve into even more 
specialised stand-alone single specialty 
assets and networks operating outside 
our hospitals in the future. Any expansion 
of prospective single specialty centres 
would be less capex intensive than trying 
to reach all potential target markets 
exclusively through the multi-specialty 
hospital route. We also believe that 
focused human capital, institutionalised 
experience and a strong brand identity 
will allow prospective single specialty 
centres to become expandable in the 
UAE and across the wider region in a 
more impactful and competitive manner 
than the multi-specialty hospital route. 
Our emerging Maternity & Fertility 
vertical’s background serves as a good 
example of this evolution, although  
it was enhanced with inorganic initiatives 
alongside the organic history. The 
acquisitions of Clinica Eugin and Fakih  
IVF and gradual evolution towards an 
increasingly independent vertical not only 
in the current strategic sense but also 
potentially in the full operational sense 
– were underpinned and preceded by  
our in-hospital maternity centres of 
excellence which evolved and led to the 
opening of Brightpoint Royal Women’s 
Hospital in 2014, the most advanced 
women’s and maternity care hospital  
in the Middle East. Today the Maternity  
& Fertility vertical is a global leader. 
OPTIMISING RETURNS
Throughout 2015 management worked 
on enhancing NMC’s overall service mix, 
market presence and insurance segment 
diversification by extending group presence 
into new and mostly higher value per 
visit/patient healthcare specialisation. 
This shift in focus towards raising NMC’s 
capabilities was underpinned by the 
completion of the organic expansion 
program and the successful raising of 
US$825m debt facility in February 2015  
to support this new stage of our  
strategic growth.
The acquisitions discussed above served 
this objective as they expanded the 
group’s offering and relative competitive 
advantage, stepped-up group revenue 
per patient through complexity and 
higher value-added services rather than 
only price increases. This accelerated  
the healthcare division’s top-line growth 
while diluting the distribution business  
in relative terms to allow NMC to 
increasingly evolve into a ‘pure-play’ 
healthcare company which increased 
group EBITDA margins and optimised 
NMC’s capital structure and return profile 
as the balance sheet went from being 
under-leveraged up to more reasonable 
gearing levels.
While any increase in debt carries certain 
risks, management continues to see the 
2015 net debt/EBITDA levels of 3.7 as 
highly reasonable and the current capital 
structure as more optimised, especially 
when considered within the context  
of the historic growth profile of the 
company, the expected growth in 2016 
and declining capital expenditure 
requirements of the group as the organic 
expansion program announced at the 
time of the IPO approaches full completion 
– in aggregate these factors are expected 
to increase the free cash flow generating 
ability of NMC in future periods. 
Our strategy  
continued 17 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
INTEGRATING SUCCESS
Integration is a key aspect of all our 
acquisitions and will remain so in the 
period ahead as NMC is determined to 
integrate the success of these highly 
capable leaders in their respective 
specialist services and leverage their 
know-how. 
While integration can be challenging,  
we have mitigated this by focusing in all 
acquisitions to retain key management 
personnel, support entrepreneurial  
drive, retain brands and institutional 
identity and employee facing policies  
and procedures. 
The focus in NMC’s management efforts 
is on facilitating the continued growth  
of these institutions by empowering 
them with the strategic drive of NMC 
combined with the support and 
synergistic opportunities presented by 
being part of a diversified healthcare 
network with the largest private sector 
patient base in the UAE. In addition we 
are extending their operational capacity 
and abilities by: 
• financial expertise and  
funding capabilities 
• project and expansion management 
capabilities and track-record 
• payor relations, revenue cycle  
and claim management
• human capital sourcing
• centralised procurement and 
consumables cost optimisation
BUILDING CAPABILITIES
Long term & 
home care 
Licensed beds 
120
By providing specialised long-term care, NMC can contribute 
towards accelerating the freeing up of the more expensive 
and comparatively lower quality of life ICU beds currently 
occupied by long-term acute and sub-acute care patients 
within NMC and other local/international private sector and 
government hospitals. This integrated solution across  
the continuum of care will allow for a seamless patient 
experience with higher quality of life for the patients and their 
families combined with synergies and enhanced efficiencies 
for NMC and payors. 18 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Financial summary 
and highlights
Financial Highlights
 — Group reported revenues increased 
by 36.8% to US$880.9m. Proforma 
revenues increased by 45.8%  
to US$938.7m
 — Healthcare division revenue increased 
by 55.7%
1
 to US$517.1m. Proforma 
healthcare revenues increased by 73.1% 
to US$575.0m
 — Distribution division revenue grew  
by 16.1% to US$393.4m
1
 
 — Reported EBITDA increased by 46.7% 
to US$150.3m. Proforma EBITDA 
increased by 61.2% to US$165.2m
 — Reported EBITDA margin expanded 
by 116bps to 17.1%. Proforma EBITDA 
margins improved by 169bps to 17.6%
 — Net profit increased by 10.6% to 
US$85.8m. Proforma net profit 
increased by 27.4% to US$98.8m
 — Net profit margin declined by 230bps 
to 9.7% as a result of the accelerated 
ramp up of new openings leading 
to higher depreciation as well as the 
acquisition related amortisations. 
Proforma net profit margin decreased 
by 152bps to 10.5%
 — Adjusted net profit increased by 21.2% 
to US$93.9m. Proforma adjusted net 
profit increased by 42.5% to US$110.5m
 — Earnings per share (EPS) amounted to 
US$0.443 (FY 2014: US$0.412)
 — Adjusted earnings per share amounted 
to US$0.506 (FY 2014: US$0.412)
 — Proposed dividend pay-out ratio is 
maintained at 20% of profit after tax, 
amounting to GBP2 6.2 pence per share
Business Highlights – A year  
on year (YOY) comparison
 — Healthcare division’s patients increased 
by 34.3% to 3.2m. Proforma patient 
numbers increased by 47.3% to 3.5m
 — Adjusted healthcare EBITDA
3
 was 
US$140.1m. Adjusted Proforma 
healthcare EBITDA increased  
by 73.7% to US$154.9m
 — Adjusted healthcare EBITDA margins 
27.1%, adjusted pro-forma healthcare 
EBITDA margins 26.9%. (FY2014 
healthcare margins 26.8%)
 — Revenue per patient from healthcare 
services increased by 20.0% to reach 
US$137.4. Proforma per patient 
revenues increased by 22.3% to 
US$140.1
 — Hospital bed occupancy rates  
reached 73.5%, an improvement  
of 216bps; Proforma bed occupancy 
rate was 74.6%
 — Operational beds increased from  
287 beds to 537 beds, 87.1% increase
 — Doctors’ employed reached 817,  
an increase of 35.5%
 — Distribution division increased its 
product portfolio by 6.8% to 89,294  
stock keeping units (SKUs)
 — Sales and marketing personnel at the 
Distribution division grew 7.9% to 693
1 Before intra-group elimination
2 British Pound
3 Adjusted healthcare EBITDA is unaudited and 
refers to the healthcare EBITDA adjusted for one 
off expenses to the tune of US$3.1m incurred 
during the year 
2013 2014 2015
900
600
200
100
300
500
700
800
400
0
880.9
643.9
550.9
12.4%
16.9%
36.8%
Revenue (US$m) and annual growth
US$880.9m
+36.8%
 Revenue  Growth
• FY 2015 revenue reached US$880.9m, up 36.8%  
on FY 2014; Pro forma Group revenues US$938.7m, 
45.8% increase.
2013 2014 2015
160
120
40
80
0
150.3
102.5
92.9
16.9%
15.9%
17.1%
EBITDA (US$m) and margin
US$150.3m
+46.7%
 EBITDA   EBITDA margin
• EBITDA increased by 46.7% to US$150.3m;Pro forma 
Group EBITDA US$165.2m, up 61.2% on FY 2014.
• EBITDA margin reached 17.1%, increase of 116bps YoY; 
Pro forma EBITDA margin 17.6%.
FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015
600
400
100
500
200
300
0
332.2
289.3
15.0% 14.8%
55.7%
517.1
Healthcare revenue (US$m) and YoY growth
US$517.1m
+55.7%
 Revenue  Growth
• Healthcare Division revenues increased by 55.7%  
on FY 2014 to reach a total of US$517.1m in FY 2015. 
Pro forma revenues increased 73.1% to US$575m. 19 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
US$m (unless stated)
FY 2015
Audited
FY 2014
Audited Growth 
Proforma 
2015 
Unaudited
Growth  
over  
FY 2014 
Group     
Revenue 880.9 643.9 36.8% 938.7 45.8%
EBITDA 150.3 102.5 46.7% 165.2 61.2%
EBITDA margin 17.1% 15.9% 116bps 17.6% 169bps
Net Profit 85.8 77.5 10.6% 98.8 27.4%
Net Profit margin 9.7% 12.0% -230bps 10.5% -152bps
Earnings per share (US$)-Basic 0.443 0.412 7.5% 0.513 24.5%
Adj Net Profit 93.9 77.5 21.2% 110.5 42.5%
Adj Earnings per share (US$) 0.506 0.412 22.8% 0.595 44.5%
Divisional performances
Healthcare revenue 517.1 332.2 55.7% 575.0 73.1%
Healthcare EBITDA 137.0 89.1 53.7% 151.8 70.3%
Healthcare EBITDA margin 26.5% 26.8% -34bps 26.4% -43bps
Healthcare net profit 108.0 77.9 38.6% 121.0 55.3%
Healthcare occupancy 73.5% 71.3% 216bps 74.6% 333bps
Distribution revenue 393.4 338.9 16.1% 393.4 16.1%
Distribution EBITDA 43.5 34.4 26.4% 43.5 26.4%
Distribution EBITDA margin 11.1% 10.2% 90bps 11.1% 90bps
Distribution net profit 40.7 32.1 26.9% 40.7 26.9%
 
Notes: 
• Net Profit equals profit after tax as shown in the Consolidated Income statement.
• Proforma numbers include consolidation of the acquired assets from the ‘Locked-box’ arrangement date and one off management fees treated as part  
of purchase consideration as per IFRS. 
• ‘Locked-box’ arrangement date is the date from which the acquirer obtains the economic ownership of the targeted business, before it legally controls  
that business. Locked-box date details are given in page 20.
• EBITDA equals Profit from operations before depreciation, amortization and one off items as shown in the Consolidated Income statement.
• Healthcare and distribution numbers are before considering intra – group eliminations.
FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015
160
120
40
60
20
140
80
100
0
137.0
89.1
81.7
28.2%
26.8%
26.5%
Healthcare EBITDA (US$m) and margin
US$137.0m
+53.7%
 EBITDA   EBITDA margin
• Division reported EBITDA US$137.0m, up 53.7% on FY 
2014. Pro forma EBITDA increased 70.3% to US$151.8m.
2013 2014 2015
400
200
300
100
0
393.4
338.9
300.2
10.7%
12.9%
16.1%
Distribution revenue (US$m) and YoY growth
US$393.4m
+16.1%
 Revenue  Growth
• Distribution revenue increased by 16.1% YoY, to reach 
US$393.4m. 
2013 2014 2015
50
20
30
10
40
0
43.5
34.4
29.9
10.0%
10.2%
11.1%
Distribution EBITDA (US$m) and margin
US$43.5m
+26.4%
 EBITDA   EBITDA margin
• Distribution EBITDA reported at US$ 43.5m  
(+26.4% YoY). 20 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
NMC Health’s business extends across 
the UAE through its healthcare and 
distribution divisions. NMC also owns and 
operates Spain based Clinica Eugin. The 
Group reported consolidated revenues  
of US$880.9m in FY2015 (+36.8% YoY)  
with approximately 56.8% (FY2014: 49.5%) 
coming from its healthcare division and 
43.2% (FY2014: 50.5%) from the distribution 
division, marking the first year in the 
Group’s recent history that healthcare 
revenues have accounted for a greater 
proportion of revenues than the 
distribution division.
The healthcare division accounted for 
75.9% (FY2014: 72%) of Group EBITDA with 
the balance of 24.1% (FY2014: 28%) coming 
from the distribution division.
Consolidated group EBITDA reached 
US$150.3m with a year on year growth of 
46.7%. On a unaudited proforma basis, 
adjusting for one offs, group EBITDA was 
US$165.2m, up 61.2% year on year, with a 
proforma EBITDA margin of 17.6% (FY2014: 
15.9%). The unaudited proforma numbers 
include the economic benefit to NMC had 
the consolidation of the acquired assets 
during 2015 started from the date of the 
‘locked box’ arrangement rather than the 
date of effective control. The locked box 
date is the date from which the acquirer 
obtains the economic ownership of the 
targeted business, before it legally 
controls that business.
HEALTHCARE DIVISION
Our healthcare division operates in the 
major emirates and cities of the UAE 
including Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, Dubai, Sharjah 
and Umm Al Quwain. Together these 
Emirates and cities account for nearly 85% 
of UAE residents. With a total licensed 
capacity of 885 beds, we operate seven 
hospitals, eleven day surgeries and 
medical centres and fifteen in-hospital 
pharmacies. In addition, the Group 
operates an eighth hospital on behalf  
of the UAE Ministry of Presidential Affairs, 
the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa General 
Hospital in Umm Al Quwain, under an 
operations and management contract 
initiated in Q4 2012 with five year duration. 
Furthermore, NMC owns Clinica Eugin –  
a leading fertility services provider based 
in Spain. 
The healthcare division reported revenues 
of US$517.1m in FY2015 (+55.7% YoY), including 
US$441.3m from healthcare services, 
US$69.8m from hospital pharmacies  
and US$6m from the operation and 
management of third-party healthcare 
assets. A total of 3.2m patients visited 
NMC’s healthcare network in FY 2015, an 
increase of 34.3% compared to FY 2014. 
Average revenue per patient from 
healthcare services in FY 2015 was 
US$137.4, 20% growth over FY 2014; this 
has seen major increase due to higher 
revenue per patient in our newly acquired 
entity ProVita.
Although we continue to operate 
healthcare services as a division of our 
business, we are increasingly grouping 
our asset portfolio into specialist verticals 
based on strategic ambition and outlook 
as oppose to current operational reality. 
However, NMC might consider converting 
these strategic verticals in the future, 
specific operational structures and thus 
revenue segments. 
Business overview
IMPORTANT ACQUISITION DATES
Acquisition
Date of Acquisition 
agreement ‘locked-box’ date Control date
Luarmia (Clinica Eugin) 23 February 2015 N/A 23 February 2015
ProVita 15 June 2015 1 April 2015 20 August 2015
Americare 29 April 2015 1 January 2015 29 April 2015
Dr Sunny Healthcare 
Network 29 April 2015 1 January 2015 25 August 2015
Fakih IVF 24 November 2015 N/A 31 January 2016 21 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
MULTI-SPECIALTY
NMC and Dr Sunny branded healthcare 
hospitals, day-surgeries, medical centres 
and pharmacies together form our major 
strategic vertical – multi-specialty. 
The total combined revenue of the 
healthcare division assets bundled in this 
strategic vertical was US$428.5m, with 
year on year growth of 31.6% and 31.7% 
growth in total patients compared to 2014 
and with the total number of patients  
at 3.1m. 
Revenue per patient was US$136.5. The 
occupancy rate was 73% during the year 
compared to 71.3% in 2014. 
The FY 2014 comparative figure excludes 
Dr Sunny numbers for each parameter 
mentioned above.
BUILDING CAPABILITIES
Operation &  
management
Licensed beds
205
NMC continued to successfully operate and manage 
the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa General Hospital in Umm 
Al Quwain on behalf of the UAE government. NMC 
has a five year contract to operate this hospital in 
return for an annual management fee based on 
qualitative metrics. This is the first such contract  
to manage a large Government healthcare facility 
awarded by a Government Department to a local 
UAE business, demonstrating confidence in NMC’s 
significant healthcare experience and capabilities. 22 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
While revenue growth was strong across 
the portfolio, Dubai Specialty Hospital and 
NMC General Hospital in Dubai Investment 
Park (DIP) exceeded expectations on the 
back of an accelerated adoption of 
mandatory medical insurance in Dubai. 
On 1 September 2015, NMC partially 
opened the outpatient services at the 
new super speciality hospital, NMC Royal 
Hospital, in the Khalifa area of Abu Dhabi 
City. On 7 March 2016 NMC commenced 
inpatient services at the hospital with 75 
beds operational out of a total licensed 
capacity of 250 beds. The balance of 
inoperative beds is available for phased 
market introduction in future periods. NMC 
Royal Hospital is NMC’s largest integrated 
speciality hospital facility in the UAE, 
alongside its speciality hospitals in Abu 
Dhabi, Dubai and Al Ain. It will act as the 
central hospital within NMC’s hub-and-
spoke healthcare platform and will be  
a regional referral point for best-in-class 
medical treatment to the growing population 
of the UAE. It will also serve patients in 
the growing residential and commercial 
areas in its immediate proximity.
While the revenue contribution of this 
facility was not material in 2015 given its 
opening in September 2015 of initial basic 
outpatient services, expenses associated 
with the opening were in-line with 
guidance. Inpatient operations started  
on 7 March 2016 with 75 beds out of the 
total licensed capacity of 250 beds. This 
hospital is expected to deliver considerable 
growth in future periods as patients grow 
and operations ramp up. 
MATERNITY & FERTILITY
NMC’s maternity and fertility focused 
healthcare assets within the healthcare 
division, reported revenues at US$51.4m 
in 2015, with the total number of patients 
at 0.065m and Revenue per patient at 
US$784.5. 
The comparative number under this 
vertical are not shown, as in Brightpoint 
Royal Women’s Hospital only outpatient 
services started in FY 2014 and Luarmia 
was acquired in FY 2015.
Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital 
which started its initial outpatient 
operations in July 2014, commenced 
inpatient services in May 2015 with 60 
beds out of the total licensed bed 
capacity of 100. The bed occupancy 
achieved during this start-up period was 
58%. The hospital ramp-up accelerated 
post the initiation of inpatient services 
and has by the year-end led us to open  
all 100 beds. 
Clinica Eugin, which NMC acquired on 
24 February 2015 with no ‘locked-box’ date 
arrangement, was consolidated from 
1 March 2015. However, the revenue 
contribution to NMC from the acquisition 
relates only to approximately 10 months 
or 83.5% of the year.
As for Fakih IVF, which is also part of  
this strategic vertical, here too NMC had 
no ‘locked-box’ arrangement and its 
consolidation will be effective from 
31 January 2016.
The locked box date is the date from 
which the acquirer obtains the economic 
ownership of the targeted business, 
before it legally controls that business.
LONG-TERM & HOME CARE
NMC’s long-term and home care focused 
healthcare assets within the healthcare 
division, reported combined revenues of 
US$31.1m in 2015, with total number of 
patients at 7,045 and Revenue per patient 
at US$4420.
The bed occupancy rate was 91.4% during 
the year. ProVita progressed with its 30 
bed expansion during 2015 and the facility 
subsequently commenced operations on 
1 March 2016.
A year-on-year comparison is not 
presented above for this vertical, as the 
entities were acquired in FY 2015.
ProVita, which was acquired with a 
‘locked-box date’ set to be 1 April 2015, was 
consolidated from 1 September 2015. For 
Americare the ‘locked-box’ date set to be 
1 January 2015 and it was consolidated 
from 1 May 2015. 
OPERATION & MANAGEMENT
NMC Health continued to operate and 
manage the 205-bed Sheikh Khalifa 
General Hospital in Umm al-Quwain on 
behalf of the UAE Ministry of Presidential 
Affairs since Q4 2012. 
NMC has a five year contract to operate 
this hospital in return for an annual 
management fee based on qualitative 
metrics. This is the first such contract to 
manage a large Government healthcare 
facility awarded by a Government 
Department to a local UAE business, 
demonstrating confidence in NMC’s 
significant healthcare experience and 
capabilities.
The total revenue contribution from  
this contract reached US$6m in 2015,  
with year on year growth of 5%.
DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
Over the past 40 years, NMC has 
developed one of the largest product 
portfolios in the UAE with around 90,000 
SKUs, and is the exclusive wholesaler of 
mainly globally established and branded 
healthcare products and equipment.  
Our distribution division operates across 
the entire UAE through a network of  
five warehouses and three sales and 
marketing offices strategically located in 
the major cities and a fleet of 221 vehicles 
ensuring timely distribution.
Division revenues were US$393.4m in 
2015, up 16.1% year on year. Meanwhile, 
EBITDA increased by 26.4% to US$43.5m, 
resulting in an EBITDA margin of 11.1%  
(2014: 10.2%).
Business overview 
continued 23 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
The FMCG segment (+13.6% year on year) 
remained the largest contributor to the 
distribution division, however, the fastest 
growth came from the Education 
material (+29.2% year on year) and 
Scientific (+18.0% year on year) segments. 
Pharmaceutical revenue increased by 
24.1%, in contrast, Veterinary segment 
declined by 5.9%.
Recent distribution agreements added  
to our portfolio are agreements with HBG 
General Trading LLC, Lotus Herbals Middle 
East (FZE), Nestle UAE LLC (only infant 
products), Otometrics A/S, SCA Hygiene 
Products AB, SCHILLER AG.
IT
As previously announced, NMC Health  
is implementing a capital investment 
programme in two new primary IT 
systems which will enhance the Group’s 
ability to plan, manage, monitor and 
report on its operations and financials:
A. HOSPITAL INFORMATION SYSTEM (HIS).
Continuing developments in the 
regulatory framework in the UAE 
healthcare system, as well as additional 
monitoring and reporting requirements 
which the Group requires as the business 
grows, led to NMC’s decision to implement 
a new HIS.
NMC is implementing a third party 
system which is already operating 
successfully within the UAE regulatory 
structure. Following a successful pilot 
phase, the new system is being rolled  
out in the major UAE based facilities and 
roll out across the Group is expected to  
be completed by end of Q2 FY 2017.
B. ENTERPRISE RESOURCES PLANNING 
(ERP) FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Management have taken time to ensure 
that all previous business processes are 
captured within the new IT systems.  
The roll out of the new ERP system into 
the Healthcare division, whilst delayed 
during the initial execution of the Group’s 
strategic growth plan due to the 
challenges faced by the group during 
initial testing phase, however now the 
same is well underway across the Group 
and the final testing phase is in progress. 
In addition to the growing nature and 
structure of the Group, there have also 
been challenges in relation to the roll out 
of the ERP system into the Distribution 
division as a result of the volume and 
types of transactions to be captured. The 
Group has now finalised a time schedule 
for final roll out of the ERP system for both 
healthcare and Distribution division. This 
schedule indicates the commencement 
of final roll out across the Group beginning 
in Q3 2016, and given the number of 
business units involved, is due for 
completion in Q2 2017.
The investment in new information 
technology will help to reduce an element 
of manual intervention and improve 
reporting, and therefore will further 
enhance the company’s internal control 
environment.
The company has spent a total amount 
of US$4.5m as of 31 December 2015 on 
the Hospital Information System (HIS) and 
the Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP) 
financial system. 24 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
FY 2015 was a transformational year for 
NMC Health Plc. with the new facilities 
opened during FY 2014 continuing to ramp 
up well and the Group embarking on 
acquisitions in the key verticals within the 
healthcare space, both within UAE as well 
as overseas. 
The Group delivered a robust 
performance in 2015 both at the overall 
and at the divisional level primarily due  
to strong inpatient and outpatient 
performance at our existing hospitals and 
medical centres including the new ones 
commissioned during the previous years. 
The acquired assets over the fertility and 
mother care space, homecare and long 
term care segments as well as the 
chains of clinics and pharmacies in the 
emirate of Sharjah delivered performance 
in line with expectation. 
Consolidated Group Revenues increased 
from US$643.9m in FY2014 to US$880.9m 
in FY2015, a growth of 36.8% of which  
24% was achieved organically with the 
remaining 12.8% growth resulting from  
the transformation strategy of the group 
through acquisitions. 
After elimination of US$29.7m of intra-
group revenues, Consolidated Group 
EBITDA improved from US$102.5m in 
FY2014 to US$150.3m in FY2015, a growth 
of 46.7%.
Group Net profit reached US$85.8m in 
FY2015, yielding Earnings per share (EPS) 
of US$0.443 compared to US$0.412 for the 
same period in 2014. Adjusted earnings 
per share were US$0.506 compared to 
US$0.412 for the same period in FY 2014. 
HEALTHCARE DIVISION
Revenue in the Healthcare division 
continued to witness improved 
performance from US$332.2m in FY2014 
to US$517.1m in FY2015, a growth of 55.7% 
of which 30.9% was achieved organically 
with the remaining 24.8% of growth 
coming from acquired assets. 
EBITDA improved from US$89.1m in 
FY2014 to US$137.0m in FY2015 recording  
a growth of 53.7%. EBITDA margins were 
at 26.5% (26.8% in FY 2014). The proforma 
EBITDA of the acquired assets would 
have been US$14.8m higher had we 
consolidated these assets from the date 
of the ‘locked box’ arrangement rather 
than the date of effective control. The 
locked box date is the date from which 
the acquirer obtains the economic 
ownership of the targeted business, 
before it legally controls that business. 
Newly commissioned facilities, 
Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital, NMC 
General Hospital LLC, Dubai Investment 
Park and NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC, 
Mohammed Bin Zayed City performed 
above expectation in terms of revenues, 
EBITDA and cash flows.
During the year, the Group acquired 
Luarmia, Americare, Dr Sunny Healthcare 
Group and ProVita as part of its new 
Growth Strategy to grow an integrated 
multi-vertical and multi-brand healthcare 
network across several geographies. 
All the above acquisitions have a positive 
impact on the group revenue, EBITDA and 
cash flow. 
DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
Within the Distribution division, revenues 
increased from US$338.9m in FY2014 to 
US$393.4m in FY2015, a growth of 16.1%. 
EBITDA increased from US$34.4m in 
FY2014 to US$43.5m in FY2015, a growth 
of 26.4%. EBITDA margins grew by 90bps, 
11.1% in FY2015 (10.2% in FY2014).
The positive macro-economic environment 
in the country coupled with new agencies, 
customer tie-ups and cost efficient 
operations contributed to better 
performance in terms of revenue  
and margins. 
Financial review BUILDING CAPABILITIES
Products & 
consumables 
SKUs
90,000
Today NMC has Around 90,000 SKUs sold across  
the UAE through its over 1,948 divisional staff, five 
warehouses with a total of over 500,000 sq feet  
of storage and 221 delivery vehicles. Around 98%  
of our SKUs are imported and sold exclusively  
in the UAE by NMC to retailers. 
Our strategy in the distribution division remains 
focused on investing in our people, logistics and 
strategic regional and global relationships with  
key principals.
25 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Capital expenditure incurred for the year 
was US$81.7m (FY2014: US$112.3m). This 
encompassed US$63.7m on the Group’s 
capital projects. The Group also incurred 
US$18m on equipment required across 
the existing operations.
The Company was able to capitalise 
certain expenses, in accordance with 
IFRS and the Company’s accounting 
policies. We expect this to continue in 
relation to costs (for example lease costs) 
arising during the construction of future 
projects. Although pre-operating 
expenses were nil in the year to 
31 December 2015, we expect a small level 
of pre-operating costs which will be 
expensed in the 2016 financial year as a 
result of the opening of our new facility, 
NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City.  26 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
As a result of the delays in the opening  
of certain facilities, additional costs in 
respect of loan interest and leases have 
been capitalised. Had these facilities 
opened in line with original plan these 
costs would have been expensed. Other 
than these items the delays have not 
resulted in an increase in budgeted 
capital costs.
A table outlining original estimated capital 
expenditure and other budgeted costs for 
each of our capital expenditure projects is 
set out below.
ACQUISITIONS
During the year we completed and 
announced a number of transactions, 
some of which had a material impact  
on our results during the period. These 
transactions reflect our focused expansion 
strategy and total consideration paid for 
all the acquisitions was US$429m.
For detailed discussion on the acquired 
assets, please refer to the Business 
Combinations note (note 5) of the 
financial statements.
CASH
Net cash inflow from operating activities 
for the 2015 financial year was US$84.1m, 
compared with US$85.7m for the 
comparative period in 2014. This was 
mainly due to the increase of working 
capital requirements on account of newly 
started facilities despite an increase  
in the revenues. 
Including funds held on deposit, cash  
as at 31 December 2015 amounted to 
US$177.4m compared to US$263.2m  
at the end of FY2014. The company had 
allocated the funds raised through the 
IPO as well as through the syndicated 
loan against the capital cost of the five 
expansion projects announced during  
the IPO. The Company has completed 
four of these capital expenditure 
programmes as at 31 December 2015. The 
last of the capital expenditure program, 
NMC Royal Hospital in Khalifa City, Abu 
Dhabi commenced partial out-patient 
operations in September 2015 and 
initiated full services in March 2016. 
As expected, the Group had a net debt 
position of US$553m at 31 December 2015 
compared with US$113.0m at 31 December 
2014. As the Group completed its capital 
project development program and 
embarked on acquisitions, the group 
utilized the new syndicated loan facility 
during the year and hence the level of net 
debt has increased during FY2015.
The company has assessed all significant 
capital expenditure projects including 
NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City for indicators 
of impairment and have concluded that 
the projects have sufficient headroom 
and that none of the assets are impaired.
MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT
The movement in cash and the level of 
capital expenditure have had a significant 
effect on the movement in net debt 
during the 2015 financial year. A summary 
of the principal drivers is shown in the 
table below.
WORKING CAPITAL 
Working capital for our two operating 
business divisions is funded differently 
due to the nature of their business 
models. The Group is able to fund its 
working capital requirements for its 
Healthcare division from operational cash 
flow, and we do not expect this position 
to change in the 2016 financial year. 
Financial review 
continued
(All US$m) Budget Actuals
Project
Budgeted Capital 
Costs Capital Costs
Capitalised 
Expenses  
(note 1)
Accounting 
adjustment for 
lease rentals
Total Capital 
Costs
Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital 70 79.6 6.5 28.3 114.4
NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City 200 142.8 8.8 – 151.6
NMC General Hospital, Dubai Investment Park 30 28.4 2.6 5.8 36.8
Bateen Royal Clinic 2.1 1.3 – 0.8 2.1
Total 302.1 252.1 17.9 34.9 304.9
Notes 
1: Prior to commencement of development of the existing four capital projects, management had an expectation that there would be an element of expense 
incurred before the new facilities were opened which would be written off through the Income Statement. Following a review certain of these costs have 
been capitalised in line with the Company’s accounting policies (for example lease rent paid and finance costs). 
2: The lease in respect of Brightpoint contains a rent free period as well as specified rent increases. In line with IFRS and the Company’s accounting policies, the 
rental cost of the lease has been adjusted to appropriately account for these items over the length of the lease. Accounting policies stipulate that the total 
lease value for the full lease period is divided evenly over the years. 27 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
In relation to our Distribution division, the 
working capital requirement is dependent 
on a number of factors including the 
timing of receipt of debtors and the 
timing of payment of creditors as well as 
inventory flow during the year and the 
timing of reimbursement of promotional 
expenses agreed with our Principals in 
relation to the sale and marketing of their 
products. The Distribution division requires 
external working capital facilities 
throughout the year, the level of which  
is dependent on business seasonality. 
These working capital facilities are 
arranged through a number of banking 
providers and in general terms the level  
of working capital required is between 
20%-30% of the Group’s total debt facilities.
LONG TERM DEBT FACILITIES
In 2015, the Group concluded an 
agreement for a new 5 year syndicated 
loan facility. The US$825m facility was 
structured in two tranches: 1) US$350m  
of term debt, this was utilised to refinance 
the existing higher cost debt; and 2) 
US$475m delayed drawdown acquisition 
facility to support NMC’s capabilities 
focused strategy in making accretive 
acquisitions. NMC expects to achieve an 
aggregated saving of US$10m in respect 
of finance costs during this loan tenure. A 
total of US$513.7m has been drawn down 
from this facility as at 31 December 2015. 
The total debt of the Group, excluding 
accounts payable and accruals, was 
US$730m as at 31 December 2015 
compared to US$376m as at 
31 December 2014.
FINANCE COSTS AND INCOME
Total finance costs for 2015 were 
US$23.8m compared to US$14.5m in 2014. 
This was mainly on account of the higher 
facility amount availed to refinance the 
existing debts as well as to finance the 
acquisitions. Though the new facilities 
carried a relatively lower finance charge 
as the same was secured on better 
terms compared to the earlier facility, the 
increase in the quantum of the funds 
drawn resulted in higher finance costs.
 
As part of the Group’s capital expenditure 
programme, borrowing costs of US$1.7m 
(2014: US$4.1m) have been capitalised 
during the year. The rate used to 
determine the amount of borrowing 
costs eligible for capitalisation was 2.1% 
(2014: 3.15%) which is the effective rate  
of the borrowings used to finance the 
capital expenditure. 
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing to continue with 
its policy of annual dividend payments of 
between 20% and 30% of profit after tax, 
outlined in the Company’s IPO prospectus 
in 2012. The Board is therefore recommending 
that a final dividend of 6.2 pence per share 
be paid in cash in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2015 (FY2014: 5.4 pence  
per share).
Subject to approval of the shareholders  
at the company’s annual general 
meeting on 03 June 2016, the dividend 
timetable is as follows:
Ex-dividend date – 19 May 2016
Record date – 20 May 2016
Payment date – 20 June 2016
MOVEMENT OF NET DEBT (AMOUNTS IN US$M)
Total Debt as at 1 January 2015 376.1 Total Cash as at 1 January 2015 263.1 Net Debt as at 1 January 2015 113.0
Add: Add:   
New syndicated Loan drawdown 513.7
Other Bank facilities & refinancing 
(Net Movement) 7.0 Operational cash inflow 84.1 
 New syndicated Loan drawdown 513.7 
 
Other Bank facilities & refinancing 
(Net Movement) 7.0 
Finance Income 0
  605.7 
Less: Less:  
Old syndicated Loan Repayments 166.6 Payment for Acquisitions 379.9 
 Old syndicated Loan Repayments 166.6 
 Additions & Disposals to Property 79.3 
 Finance Costs 23.8 
 Dividends Paid 15.9 
Others 25.9
  691.4 
Total Debt as at 31 December 2015 730.3 Total Cash as at 31 December 2015 177.4
Net Debt as at 31 December 
2015 552.9 28 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
We believe that a crucial and important 
criterion of how an organisation operates 
and how its success and development  
is measured is the way in which it fulfils 
its responsibilities both within and outside 
its businesses, its Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR). The level of an 
organisation’s CSR can be gauged by 
studying a company’s impact in five 
areas, namely environment, community, 
profession, marketplace and workplace.
THE CSR PRINCIPLES 
Since our Group was founded, NMC has 
been committed to practising a strong 
professional and social responsibility to its 
community. The NMC Healthcare vision 
statement reflects our fundamental 
desire “to be the trusted healthcare 
provider in UAE and abroad”. Our original 
strong sense of community has 
developed a strong social responsibility 
and has helped us to become the largest 
and leading private healthcare provider in 
the UAE. 
This tenet is also reflected in the UAE by 
His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed, 
President of the United Arab Emirates,  
in the desire to “mobilise and direct  
efforts to promote the social responsibility 
concept, so it can become an officially 
sanctioned approach, culture and 
practice”.
NMC’S GENERAL APPROACH TO CSR
NMC takes very seriously its social 
responsibility and supports the report of 
the International Bioethics Committee 
of UNESCO on Social Responsibility and 
Health. This report interprets social 
responsibility and healthcare delivery  
as both “passive” and “active” in how to 
manage internal operations and the 
impact of activities on the community 
and environment.
At NMC we engage in “passive” social 
responsibilities by complying with all 
regulatory requirements and general 
ethical standards, such as:
• respecting human rights;
• non-discriminatory work practices; 
• protecting privacy rights that improve 
society; 
• strict adherence to Anti-Bribery, 
Anti-Corruption, Gifts and 
Entertainment Policy by having a zero 
tolerance to such behaviour regardless 
of the identity or position of the 
originator or recipient of a bribe; 
• welcoming patients from all segments 
of society, nationalities and income 
levels; and
• having environmental policies and 
practices that protect our society  
and environment.
We are also committed to “active” social 
responsibilities that go beyond legal 
obligations and general ethical standards. 
We actively pursue the interests and 
values of individuals and the local and 
global community and environment. 
These ‘moral obligations’ include:
• actively promoting preventive health 
programmes designed to improve the 
health and quality of life of residents; 
• funding and making publicly available 
the annual Health Index for the UAE; 
and 
• introducing best practice 
environmental management. 
These all contribute to the common  
good of people, the community and the 
environment. 
OUR DIVISIONAL FOCUS ON CSR
At NMC we deliver quality healthcare 
based on evidence-based international 
best practices and we provide a targeted 
preventive healthcare programme 
designed to prevent medical conditions 
and chronic diseases. The health of our 
patients and residents of the UAE is our 
core business, and underpins our CSR 
programme.
NMC Trading, our distribution arm, also 
resonates this focus on CSR as it 
continues on its journey “to establish 
businesses that enhance stakeholders’ 
prosperity” while continuing “to fulfil social 
obligations of the nation”. NMC Trading’s 
efforts towards being a responsible 
corporate citizen were recognised by the 
Dubai Chamber at their CSR Ceremony  
in 2015. 
Corporate social 
responsibility 29 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE GLOBAL  
AND LOCAL ENVIRONMENT
“THINK GLOBAL, ACT LOCAL”
We have made good progress in the 
consideration of our local and the  
global environment, and our particular 
emissions challenges, in 2015.
OUR ENVIRONMENT AND ITS 
CHALLENGES
The extremely hot and humid weather 
leads to the UAE being one of the highest 
per capita greenhouse gas emitters 
globally. The use of gases and refrigerants 
is extensive, not only in the UAE as  
a whole, but also to ensure the most 
appropriate environment within which to 
treat and care for our patients, maintain 
our food and pharmaceutical stocks 
safely and to care for the welfare of  
our employees.
Our strategic expansion program is also 
providing challenges for us in relation  
to our reported emissions. Due to our  
new healthcare businesses becoming 
operational for the first time, the low 
occupancy rates in these new facilities 
during their ramp-up phases, results  
in abnormally high average power/fuels 
consumption per patient. This produces 
some emissions spikes as highlighted in 
our reported numbers and discussed below.
We address these challenges positively 
with a number of new and continuing 
initiatives to reduce our emissions and 
care for our environment.
INITIATIVES IN 2015
We have started and continued  
a number of emission and waste 
reducing initiatives in 2015:
• Pilot Environmental Management 
Committee;
• Installation of GPS trackers in our 
distribution fleet; and
• More regular reporting and review  
of our emissions.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Our greenhouse gas reporting covers the 
12 month period of 1 October 2014 to 
30 September 2015. This reporting period 
enables us to collate and review the data 
in timely manner ahead of the annual 
report and accounts.
We have applied an operational  
control approach in presenting our GHG 
emissions, and have reported on all 
material emission sources within scope 1 
(combustion of fuel from operation of 
facilities and usage of vehicles) and scope 
2 (purchased electricity and cooling). Gas 
and electricity usage information has 
been obtained from purchase invoices. 
Vehicle fuel usage is based upon 
purchase invoices. Where NMC is not 
directly billed for the consumption of 
power and therefore does not have full 
visibility of the data, an estimation using 
average consumption from other similar 
sites has been applied.
NEW FACILITIES
Given the abnormally high power/fuels 
consumption per patient in our new 
facilities as described below, and the 
number of newly acquired entities that 
have joined the Group in 2015, we have 
made the following decisions in our policy 
for emissions reporting to ensure that we 
monitor like for like emissions performance:
• Since Q3, 2014, three developed 
facilities became operational: 
• NMC General Hospital, DIP; 
• Al Wadi Medical Centre; and 
• Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital.
 We have included in our reported data 
above our emissions both including 
and excluding these entities. The 
primary reason for this is due to the 
average patient occupancy rates being 
much lower during the ramp-up phase 
of these entities which results in 
significantly higher average emissions 
per patient intensity ratio than would 
be expected when sites are more  
fully operational.  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (TONNES CO
2
E) 
For the 12 months to 30 September
Healthcare Comparable 
Data (note 1)
Healthcare Reported Data 
(note 2) Distribution Total
2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015
Scope 1 emissions (note 3) 3,678 3,879 3,685 4,168 4,433 4,274 8,118 8,442
Scope 2 emissions (note 4) 20,423 20,323 21,313 27,972 5,786 5,452 27,099 33,424
Total GHG emissions 24,101 24,202 24,998 32,140 10,219 9,725 35,217 41,866
GHG emissions intensity 
a – tonnes CO2e/1,000 patient 
b – tonnes CO2e/1,000 orders 9.80
a
9.14
a
10.2
a
11.5
a
27.8
b
25.6
b
GHG emissions intensity by revenue – 
tonnes CO2e/1,000 dollar 0.076 0.063 0.078 0.079 0.031 0.026 0.054 0.054
Notes:
1. Comparable data for 2015 excludes the newly opened facilities detailed in note 10 below as well as any entities acquired during 2015.
2. Reported data includes the new opened facilities as detailed in note 10 below but excludes any entities acquired during 2015. 
3. Scope 1 = direct emissions from fuel combustion and industrial processes. At our facilities this takes the form of gas for heating, diesel and petrol for the fleet 
and diesel for generators.
4. Scope 2 = indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and cooling.
5. The GHG emissions reporting is in line with the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, and additional guidance 
issued by the UK Government Department for Energy, Food and Rural Affairs (“DEFRA”). The emissions have been calculated using carbon conversion factors 
published by DECC/DEFRA in May 2015.
6. The total Scope 2 emissions have been reported in accordance with the ‘location based’ method which uses grid average emissions factors of the UAE 
where all entities under the reporting scope are located. There are no energy certificates or supplier-specific information available, therefore, the ‘market based’ 
method is not applicable here. 
7. Conversion factors applicable to the UAE for Scope 2 have been obtained from the publication IEA CO
2
 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2012 edition).
8. A conversion factor for Sevoflurane was not available from DEFRA so an epa.gov greenhouse gas reporting figure was used.
9. We have restated the 2014 emissions data to take account of the change in reporting period from 31 December to 30 September and also changing from 
estimated consumption to actual data. In summary Healthcare scope 1 emissions for 2014 increased by 228 tonnes CO
2
e, Distribution scope 1 emissions 
decreased by 166 tonnes CO
2
e and Distribution scope 2 emissions increased by 897 tonnes CO
2
e.
10. During Q3-2014 and the 2015 period, a number of entities became operational. These entities include: NMC General Hospital, DIP, Al Wadi Medical Centre and 
Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital. The exclusion of these entities from our total emissions provides a comparable position to the prior year data as the 
average patient occupancy rates during the start-up phase is low. 30 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
We believe that this is an appropriate 
and transparent way to report our data 
so as to show a more accurate like for 
like comparison to the prior year. 
• Any new facilities and businesses 
acquired during the year under review  
are not included in reporting for that 
year. Therefore we have not included 
any of the acquisitions which the 
Group has made in 2015. All of these 
facilities have commenced data 
collection and monitoring with effect 
from 1 October 2015.
EMISSIONS REPORTING WORKSHOPS
We have held the following workshops  
for our businesses during the year:
• For those businesses operational at 
the start of the reporting year, we held 
workshops to discuss:
• the data reporting process and  
to share good practice between  
the businesses;
• requested changes to the detailed 
data reporting procedure manual 
put in place in early 2015; and
• Initiatives that the different 
businesses have in place to reduce 
emissions.
• For new businesses opened or 
acquired during the year, the focus  
of the workshop was:
• Orientation to the greenhouse gas 
emissions reporting program;
• A review and launch of the new 
procedure manual in the respective 
businesses; and
• To share the experiences of our 
other businesses at the 
commencement of our emissions 
reporting program. 
CONTINUINGLY IMPROVING OUR 
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
As most of our operations are in the UAE, 
we are actively progressing initiatives  
to reduce our emissions to align with  
the UAE Vision 2021 – a green economy 
for sustainable development. The primary 
sources of our GHG emissions relate  
to the use of fuels in vehicles in our 
distribution business and electricity 
consumption in our hospitals and some 
of our initiatives focus on these areas  
and are set out below:
• Environmental Management 
Committee: In 2015 we established  
a pilot Environment Management 
Committee within our more 
established Abu Dhabi Specialty 
Hospital with specific responsibilities 
for developing emission reduction 
initiatives and having oversight of  
their implementation. We will be 
considering the development of 
similar committees in other facilities 
during 2016. 
• Tracking and monitoring: Fuel use  
in our vehicles, especially in NMC 
Distribution, is a major source of 
carbon emissions (“scope 1”). We have 
installed GPS trackers in our extensive 
vehicle fleet during 2014 and 2015 so 
that we can route them efficiently as 
possible without having an adverse 
impact on customer delivery schedules. 
• Awareness and training: All our drivers 
are being provided with training sessions 
on managing fuel consumption and 
identifying inefficiencies. Furthermore 
we are replacing our older vehicles 
with newer models that are more 
environmentally efficient.
• Greenhouse gas emissions reporting: 
We continue to collate and evaluate 
our energy consumptions and 
greenhouse gas emissions across  
all our businesses. The information  
is collated and reviewed on a regular 
basis as are the various emission 
reduction initiatives that are being 
developed and implemented.
• New Facilities: As noted above, when 
our new healthcare businesses 
become operational for the first time, 
the average power/fuels consumption 
per patient can be high due to the low 
occupancy rates in these new sites. 
We are now looking at ways to make 
improvements to these operations so 
that consumption at low occupancy 
facilities can be reduced.
As a result our overall greenhouse gas 
emissions intensity has decreased well 
during the year in both our Distribution 
business and, on a like for like basis,  
in our Healthcare businesses. We take 
our role as a corporate citizen seriously 
and therefore we continually review our 
operations and the impacts they have  
in the communities we operate.
WASTE MANAGEMENT, REUSE  
AND RECYCLING
Environmental Management and 
Environmental Procurement Policies  
and Action Plans have been prepared  
to manage hospital wastes and 
consumption of resources according  
to Best Practices. Patients are also  
being educated in safe ways of disposing 
of medications. The Environmental 
Procurement Policy gives preference  
to products that:
• reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions; 
• are more energy efficient;
• reduce the use of chemicals that  
are hazardous to the environment; 
• reduce air and water pollution; 
• reduce waste; 
• are re-usable; 
• have multiple functions; and 
• are recyclable or biodegradable. 
NMC is also keen to stimulate new local 
green waste management and recycling 
industries that are emerging in the UAE.
NMC has also provided an online  
platform on our intranet portal known  
as “classifieds” for staff to sell personal 
belongings. This initiative facilitates the 
re-use of personal possessions, such as 
household goods, furniture and equipment.
NMC Trading has also been contributing 
towards waste management by ensuring 
that the waste disposal activities are 
carried out in coordination with Registered 
Waste Transporters. Besides this, 
employees are constantly educated  
as to their impending responsibility to  
the environment by recycling of waste, 
on-going awareness campaigns, 
participation in Clean-up drives and 
quarterly environmental newsletters.
Corporate social 
responsibility  
continued 31 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL 
MANAGEMENT (PROVITA)
ProVita has a dedicated Environmental 
and Social Management (E&S) resource 
(provided by E&S Consults, a third party 
consultant) who supervises the 
integration of E&S aspects and ensures 
that E&S issues are identified, monitored 
and addressed. ProVita’s approach to E&S 
is based on promoting sound 
environmental and social practices while 
contributing to positive development 
impacts through adopting and complying 
with globally recognized standards and 
guidelines such as those of International 
Finance Corporation (IFC).
CLEAN-UP UAE CAMPAIGN (NMC TRADING 
AND AL AIN SPECIALTY HOSPITAL)
NMC Trading and Al Ain Specialty Hospital, 
in association with the Emirates 
Environmental Group, conducted the 
Clean-Up UAE Campaign. In Al Ain over 
500 people from schools and corporations 
participated in the event, which was 
conducted in the Al Ain desert 
 
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE GLOBAL  
AND LOCAL COMMUNITY
NMC Health has always been at the 
forefront of building a healthier society 
and a safer future for generations to 
come. This section focusses on some key 
examples of how the Group is continuing 
this focus.
NMC HUMANITARIAN AID TO NEPAL
In April 2015, Nepal suffered one of the 
most severe earthquakes in recent times 
that had a devastating effect on the 
capital Kathmandu. NMC Healthcare 
donated US$ 500,000 worth of medical 
supplies that were airlifted into 
Kathmandu in May 2015. The aid included 
antibiotics, painkillers, general antiseptics, 
first aid kits, surgical equipment and 
rehabilitation material such as crutches 
and braces. NMC employees additionally 
donated foodstuff and clothing to a relief 
program organised by the Emirates Red 
Crescent for Nepal. Clinica Eugin also 
participated in a fund raising campaign 
for the victims of the earthquake in Nepal.
NMC HUMANITARIAN PARTNERSHIP  
WITH THE UAE GOVERNMENT
NMC has a close partnership with the 
UAE government. In 2015, NMC worked 
closely with humanitarian organisations 
within the UAE Government to provide 
medical aid to countries like Libya, Yemen 
and Malawi. NMC also provided surgeries 
for under privileged individuals in the UAE.
PROMOTING SOCIAL INCLUSION (PROVITA)
ProVita cooperated with local charity 
organizations like Zayed Humanitarian 
Organization and Red Crescent to 
encourage the integration and 
acceptance of people with special needs 
at the community and national level.
SOCIAL ACTION CAMPAIGNS  
(CLINICA EUGIN)
Clinica Eugin partners with the Fundación 
Esclerosis Múltiple (FEM), a Spanish 
foundation that aims to improve the quality 
of life of patients with multiple Sclerosis. 
Eugin has participated in fund raising 
activities for the foundation by organising 
and participating in campaigns like “Apple 
for Life” and “Swim & Run for Sclerosis”.
FOR THE JUNIORS (CLINICA EUGIN) 
Eugin received three high school students 
for the program “Partners for one day”. 
The goal was to show these students our 
“working day” in order to help them in 
their professional orientation.
Eugin’s employees participated in a toy 
collection campaign for Sant Joan de 
Deu’s Hospital Foundation. Maria is one  
of the children that received the toys 
donation.
NMC ANNUAL HEALTH INDEX  
FOR THE UAE
The NMC annual Health Index for the UAE 
is one of the most important and unique 
initiatives of our CSR programme that 
strengthens our efforts to create a 
healthier society. The Health Index profiles 
the health of UAE residents and provides 
trending data for the development of 
hospital and public policy. The Health 
Index assesses the physical, social and 
emotional wellbeing of UAE residents  
and provides an overall index of the 
health of a nation. The findings of the 
Health Index allow NMC to provide the 
most appropriate public health education 
and screening programmes that best 
benefit the health and lifestyles of  
UAE residents. The Health Index also 
provides information that facilitates the 
formulation of a strategy that addresses 
the perceived and actual health issues  
in the UAE.
 
Health Index Key Findings
• The physical health index has 
remained broadly consistent, and 
many of the aspects we use to 
measure physical health such as Body 
Mass Index, levels of physical activity, 
diet (consumption of fruit, vegetables 
and soft drinks) and levels of sick  
leave have also remained consistent 
with 2014. 
• Three in ten (31%) residents in the UAE 
have been diagnosed with one or 
more non-communicable diseases 
which is broadly consistent with  
2014 (26%). 
• As in 2014, the most common diseases 
are high blood pressure (10%), obesity 
(8%), raised cholesterol (7%) and Type 1 
Diabetes (6%). 
• As in 2014, one third (33%) of UAE 
residents have visited their doctor in 
the last three months. Three quarters 
(74%) have seen their doctor at some 
point in the past year (up from 69%  
in 2014).
• Half of women in the UAE (51%) have 
undergone a blood pressure test in the 
last six months; smaller proportions of 
women have had general physical 
exams, pelvic exams and breast 
exams in the same period. Four in ten 
women (41%) have never had a breast 
examination and over one third (36%) 
have never had a pelvic examination. 32 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Diagnosis with non-communicable 
diseases
 
Lifestyle Choices identified through  
the Index
• 24% smoke tobacco. 
• 35% of residents get the recommended 
7-8 hours’ sleep each night.
• 33% of residents exercise less than 
once a week.
• 3% eat the recommended five or more 
portions of fruit and vegetables per day.
• 82% of residents consume carbonated 
or sugary drinks on a weekly basis.  
Two in five (43%) say they drink 1-2  
such drinks a week, while 8% consume 
seven or more drinks per week.
HALABABY AND MAMACARE PRENATAL 
EDUCATION PROGRAMMES 
“HalaBaby” is Brightpoint Royal Women’s 
Hospital’s (BRWH) award winning prenatal 
education programme. “Hala” in Arabic 
means “welcome”. The Halababy 
programme is offered free of charge to 
mothers-to-be from their first prenatal 
visit through to the delivery of their baby.
BRWH became an innovative reality for 
the women of Abu Dhabi as the first 
private women’s hospital when it opened 
in July, 2014 and had its first delivery in 
May 2015. Since its inception BRWH has 
put women and children at the centre  
of the planning process in a consultation 
programme designed to identify the 
expectations of women. 
These expectations have been 
incorporated into the design and 
development of BRWH and into the way 
the hospital delivers its healthcare 
services to women. “HalaBaby” is the 
result of a comprehensive consultation 
and research programme and is designed 
to exceed the expectations of mothers-
to-be and healthcare Best Practices and 
to improve the chances of a healthier 
pregnancy, birth and baby. 
Other NMC Hospitals throughout the  
UAE also offer the MamaCare Prenatal 
programme free of charge to mothers- 
to-be. This programme started at NMC 
Specialty Hospital, Abu Dhabi and  
proved so popular that it has now been 
expanded to Al Ain and Dubai Specialty 
Hospitals. The programme actively seeks 
participant input and has been improved 
to reflect patient suggestions, such as 
being more interactive and hands-on.
The Brightpoint ‘HalaBaby’ – Maternal 
Education Programme was awarded the 
Best Customer Education programme  
in the UAE.
GOING ABOVE AND BEYOND MEDICAL 
CARE (PROVITA AND AMERICARE)
NMC does not restrict itself to providing 
medical care to its patients but always 
tries to ensure that the patients can lead 
fulfilling lives ahead. Over the years we 
have enabled our patients to lead 
extraordinary lives after recovering from 
life threatening situations.
ProVita fits very well with our legacy  
of enabling cardiac patients to run 
marathons, and stroke survivors to climb 
mountains. Long-term residents need 
more than medicine – they need physical, 
psychological and social care. This is why 
ProVita provides a ‘holistic’ approach –  
a multifaceted care programme that 
incorporates social services, physicians, 
nurses, therapists, family and social 
interaction. Every resident is approached 
as a unique individual to understand  
the deeply personal and social needs  
of each resident because the social and 
psychological aspects of care are an 
important part of everyday well-being. 
Some patients greatly benefit from being 
outdoors or in the community, whilst 
others often prefer the comfort of a close 
family environment or the stimulation  
of music or peaceful prayer. ProVita’s 
approach has helped patients who were 
bound to ICUs to pursue their education 
and interests and develop into artists and 
contributing citizens.
Americare follows a similar approach to 
healthcare by providing holistic services 
that encompass health promotion  
and teaching, curative intervention, 
rehabilitation support and maintenance, 
social adaptation and integration and 
support for the patient and family and 
appointed caregivers.
PREVENTIVE HEALTHCARE AND 
AWARENESS PROGRAMMES AND THE 
USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA
Community outreach and preventive 
health programmes are one of the ways 
NMC contributes towards enhancing the 
health of our society and nation. Quality 
healthcare is always a priority, and we 
undertook over 200 community initiatives 
during 2015 including, blood donation 
camps, health awareness programmes, 
free health screenings and hygiene 
workshops among others. 
In the UAE, 37% of deaths are caused by 
cardiovascular diseases which are due  
to poor diet, exercise and smoking. These 
medical conditions are preventable by 
modifying lifestyle choices. The 2015 NMC 
Health Index shows that 68% of residents 
believe they have only ‘some’, ‘little’ or ‘no’ 
control over their lifestyle.
Corporate social 
responsibility  
continued
10%
13%
8%
4%
7% 7%
6%
7%
3%
4%
3%
2% 2%
3%
1% 1% 1% 1%
69%
74%
High 
blood
pressure
Obesity Raised
cholesterol
Diabetes
(Type 1)
Diabetes
(Type 2)
Heart
Disease
High 
blood
glucose
Cancer Glaucoma None
of the
above
 2014  2015
% of respondents who say they have been diagnosed with 33 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
NMC uses social media platforms to 
promote accurate healthcare information 
and patient empowerment. 
• Our Facebook page provides interactive 
information relating to health and 
wellbeing such as the Diabetes Risk 
Assessment, Stress Assessment and 
NMC Health Index Survey. 
• Our YouTube videos promote awareness 
about health and wellbeing and the 
information is presented in a format 
that is easily consumed and beneficial 
to the users. 
• Our Twitter account provides an 
interactive real time social media 
channel to connect users directly with 
healthcare professionals and the 
customer experience team. 
• Our LinkedIn account provides a social 
networking platform to distribute 
information about NMC as an 
employer. Users can connect with the 
NMC brand and browse the available 
job opportunities. 
COMMUNITY SCREENING AND  
OUTREACH PROGRAMMES
Each year NMC actively undertakes 
screening programmes. In 2015 we 
reached over 25,000 UAE residents. The 
basic cardiovascular (CV) screening 
programme includes screening of Blood 
Glucose Levels, Blood Pressure and Body 
Mass Index for overweight/obesity and 
cholesterol levels. These simple tests can 
diagnose or predict the risk of developing 
the three major chronic diseases of 
hypertension, diabetes and obesity which 
are the precursors to cardiovascular 
disorders. Preventing or slowing down  
the progress of these diseases saves 
lives and improves Quality of Life.
NMC’s preventive healthcare programme 
in the UAE extends to providing free 
health checks and screenings with 
regulatory bodies, insurance companies 
and corporates, such as polio, diabetes, 
cancer, immunizations and blood 
donations.
In line with the parent company, our 
acquisitions have also taken an active 
part in conducting community outreach 
programs. Dr Sunny Healthcare 
conducted seven free medical camps 
during the year, reaching out to more 
than 15,000 residents.
GLOBAL HEALTH AWARENESS EVENTS
‘Prevention is always better than cure’. 
NMC actively supports global public health 
awareness campaigns such as: cervical, 
breast and prostate cancers, vaccinations, 
breast feeding, dental care, obesity, kidney 
stones etc. NMC conducts these health 
awareness campaigns throughout the 
UAE. With a pan-UAE presence, NMC 
covers a wide demographic profile in 
raising awareness in health campaigns. 
Throughout the year, NMC and Dr Sunny 
Healthcare have conducted radio talks 
and TV shows by our Doctors on various 
local channels on medical subjects to 
create and spread awareness. 
Cervical Cancer (January 2015)
Cervical cancer awareness month was 
observed in the month of January. During 
this time NMC undertook various activities 
to raise awareness regarding the second 
most common cancer in females. 
Furthermore, NMC conducted educational 
lectures and seminars in various 
corporate organisations.
World Brain Injury Awareness Month 
(March 2015)
ProVita provided educational sessions  
to help improve knowledge of residents, 
families and staff to raise awareness 
about the causes, symptoms, prevention 
strategies, and available treatment 
options related to brain injury.
World Immunization Week (April 2015)
ProVita educated residents, their families 
and the wider community on the benefits 
of vaccination through a campaign during 
the World Immunization Week.
World Hepatitis Day (July 2015)
Dr. Sunny Healthcare conducted several 
outreach programs during the month  
and provided special packages for 
investigations to raise awareness  
about hepatitis.
World Breastfeeding Week  
(1 – 7 August 2015)
Every year breast feeding week is 
celebrated to raise awareness on benefits 
of breastfeeding and promote healthy 
habits. This year Brightpoint Royal 
Women’s Hospital took up various 
activities to raise awareness and promote 
breastfeeding, such as, awareness 
postings on Facebook, patient education 
brochure “About Breastfeeding” and radio 
interviews with health professionals 
answering breastfeeding questions on air.
World Heart Day (September 2015)
NMC observed various community 
outreach screening programmes for 
preventive cardiac diseases throughout 
the month of September. A cardiology 
Continuing Medical Education program  
for doctors was also organised. A special 
programme on Thalassemia in association 
with the Dubai Health Authority was 
conducted in Latifa Hospital to create 
awareness on cardiovascular ailments  
on Thalassemia patients. Dr Sunny 
Healthcare played their part during the 
World Heart Day campaign by providing 
special packages to the residents.
Breast Cancer Month (October 2015)
During October NMC conducted more 
than 40 camps to create awareness on 
breast cancer. These camps were 
planned at various corporates, female 
groups, associations and colleges. 
Doctors delivered talks in corporates  
to raise awareness and provided them 
with the techniques to do self-breast 
examination.
 
World Diabetes Month (November 2015)
UAE has one of the highest number of 
diabetics per capita in the world. As part of 
the World Diabetes Campaign 2015, NMC 
Hospitals conducted a diabetes screening 
programme and identified 1076 patients 
for diabetic retinopathy screening where 
313 were found positive. The retinal 
images were examined by the NMC 
optometrists and vitreo-retinal surgeons 
following which appointments were 
provided for further evaluation and 
treatment. The campaign was promoted 
to the public through radio, SMS, internal 
TV signage, social media and rolls ups in 
the hospitals. 
To further celebrate World Diabetes 
Month, NMC gave away 600 Abbott 
Glucometer Starter Kits on Facebook. 
UAE National Breast Feeding Week 
Celebration (NMC Trading collaboration 
with Government Hospital)
On the occasion of National 
Breastfeeding Week NMC Trading 
collaborated with Corniche Hospital,  
Abu Dhabi (Government hospital) and 
hosted a Breastfeeding Support Walk  
on the Corniche on 11 November. The 
theme of this year’s celebration was 
“Breastfeeding, winning goal for life” 
focused on raising awareness about  
the benefits of breastfeeding. 34 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation  
(CPR) Sessions
During 2015, Brightpoint Royal Women’s 
Hospital conducted seven CPR sessions 
for the general public providing 
information and hands-on-experience  
on “how to save baby’s life during critical 
conditions such as choking”. The response 
to the sessions was overwhelming with 
more than 150 families attending the 
informative sessions.
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE  
HEALTHCARE PROFESSION
NMC Healthcare has a responsibility to 
contributing to the future of the medical 
profession. We are committed to 
investing in the professional development 
of both NMC and non NMC healthcare 
professionals throughout the UAE. We 
promote a learning culture, we procure 
state-of-the-art medical equipment and 
we help foster research, innovation as 
well as providing for NMC’s planned 
expansion and succession.
CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION (CME) 
PROGRAMME FOR NON NMC DOCTORS
Our CME programme ensures we meet 
our Vision and Mission statement. In 2015, 
NMC conducted over 60 CMEs free of 
charge across the UAE to facilitate 
attendance for health professionals from 
different parts of the country. 
Our 2015 CMEs were attended by over 
5,300 NMC and non NMC health 
professionals. Approximately 90% of the 
doctors attending were non-NMC doctors 
providing a different perspective on the 
CME programme which therefore also 
assists us to innovate and improve our 
customer service experience. CME 
programmes provide us with a distinct 
advantage over other healthcare facilities 
since our employees and patients 
understand the tangible benefits of 
professional collaboration.
Another major achievement from our 
CME programme is how they help create 
NMC as a desirable workplace for 
healthcare professionals. NMC enjoys an 
excellent reputation among the primary 
care physicians in the UAE as their 
preferred healthcare provider. This is 
evidenced by the high number of doctor 
referrals to NMC. 
Dr Sunny Healthcare has also played an 
active role in contributing towards the 
medical profession and conducted 
seminars on Glaucoma awareness and 
Rheumatoid Arthritis. The CME’s 
conducted by the group saw the 
participation of nearly 2,500 professionals. 
They have also conducted several internal 
training sessions to keep their doctors 
updated with the latest happenings in 
the fields of Orthopaedics, Neurology and 
Cardiology to name a few.
NMC ANNUALLY HOSTS INTERNATIONAL 
CONFERENCES FOR UAE HEALTHCARE 
PROFESSIONALS
Each year NMC organises and hosts an 
International Conference for NMC staff 
and UAE Healthcare professionals to 
attend. In April 2015 the subject was on 
Emergency Care.
INTERNATIONAL NURSES DAY  
(12 MAY 2015)
International Nurses Day is celebrated 
around the world on 12 May of each year, 
the anniversary of Florence Nightingale’s 
birth, to mark the contributions nurses 
make to society. NMC is proud to celebrate 
the role nurses play in delivering the 
highest level of quality care to their 
patients. The theme during Nurses Week 
2015 was the importance of ethics in 
nursing care and acknowledging the 
strong commitment, compassion and 
care nurses display in their practice and 
care. It is also an opportunity to recognise 
and reward individual nurses for 
outstanding performance in the delivery 
of care and for articles that have been 
published in professional literature.
HEALTHCARE RESEARCH, ACADEMIC 
ARTICLES AND GUEST SPEAKERS AT 
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES
The quality of healthcare that NMC 
deploys today is built upon decades of 
efforts by healthcare professionals. NMC 
encourages staff to continually review 
and research their respective fields. The 
UAE Health Index is an example of a 
major research project which is published 
and made publicly available free of 
charge by NMC on a yearly basis. Health 
research has a lot of value to society. It 
provides crucial information about 
disease trends and risk factors, outcomes 
of treatment or health interventions, 
functional abilities and patterns of care. 
NMC believes research and development 
is an integral part of pushing the entire 
healthcare industry forward. As such, NMC 
has a legally constituted and registered 
Research Ethics, authorised to undertake 
human subject’s research in accordance 
with International Conference on 
Humanitarian Good Practice (ICHGP) 
guidelines. The NMC Ethics Committee 
comprises of a multi-disciplinary team 
including a mandatory physician and is 
HAAD licenced. Members of the Ethics 
Committee have undergone research 
ethics training and received certification 
from the University of Miami.
In 2015, NMC medical staff undertook a 
broad range of research and are prolific 
writers of scholarly articles in international 
journals such as the International Journal 
of Otolaryngology and Head and Neck 
Surgery, Indian journal of Otology. NMC 
health professionals also present papers 
at International Conferences, such as the 
Scandinavian Society for Head and Neck 
Oncology in Iceland, the European Society 
of Cataract and Refractory Surgeons 
Conference in Barcelona, the World 
Congress and Expo on oncology and 
Radiology and the Middle East 
Otolaryngology. 
Our EyeCare Centre of Excellence nurtures 
researchers who in 2015 published 
numerous articles in journals such as, 
British Medical Journal, International 
Journal of Refractive Surgery, Journal of 
Optometry, Acta Ophthalmologica, 
Cataract and Refractory Surgery Today 
Europe (CRST Europe), International 
Ophthalmology, Clinical and Experimental 
Optometry, Current Eye Research, Journal 
of Ophthalmic and Vision Research, Middle 
East African Journal of Ophthalmology 
and Cornea Journal.
Corporate social 
responsibility  
continued 35 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
EUGIN FOUNDATION
The Eugin Foundation was established  
in September 2007. Its aim is to create  
a framework for teaching and research 
carried out by the centre. In order to do so, 
the foundation’s main objective is the 
study of fertility and human reproduction, 
with regard to its personal and social 
aspects as well as the procedures that 
take place in the clinic and the promotion 
of health. All of the aforementioned is 
achieved through analysis, research and 
popularization of knowledge obtained.
The potential beneficiaries of the 
foundation’s activities are all those 
individuals who might be interested  
in the study of fertilization and human 
reproduction.
One of the most important actions the 
foundation has carried out has been to 
organize a basic course on assisted 
reproduction aimed at people working 
within the health care sector who want  
to enhance their medical knowledge  
on human reproduction, as well as  
with regards to the various assisted 
reproduction techniques available. 
Eugin conducts research with the 
universities of Barcelona, Milan, Cardiff, 
Leeds and Ghent in order to gain better 
knowledge of fertility and help more 
women achieve their dream of 
motherhood. However, the work is not 
restricted to pregnancy itself and studies 
that concern our patients’ emotional 
state are also carried out to understand 
the best possible ways to support them 
throughout treatment.
Furthermore, our research also focuses 
on the health of children born through 
assisted reproduction techniques. Not 
only is their birth very important but so  
is growing up.
The collaborations with these universities 
and other professional schools also 
create a channel to hire future laboratory 
technicians or systems administrators.  
In 2015, Eugin welcomed nine trainees 
spread across several departments as  
a result of these collaborations.
RESPONSIBILITY TO NMC EMPLOYEES 
AND THEIR FAMILIES
One of our key strengths has been a very 
loyal employee base, which has been 
associated with NMC for decades. Our 
annual employee turnover percentage  
is minimal. A well-defined performance 
management system, transparent 
compensation model and effective 
career paths helps NMC retain this loyal 
employee base. It is with great pride that 
many of our original staff and vendors are 
still with us today and that our healthcare 
professionals are now treating the 
grandchildren of original patients. 
VIPASSANA MEDITATION  
AT NMC SPECIALTY HOSPITAL
Vipassana meditation event was held  
on 9 December 2015 at NMC Specialty 
Hospital. Organisers of Vipassana 
Meditation from the UAE were invited  
to introduce the unique techniques  
for stress management and to help 
productivity of staff.
SPONSORSHIP TO PURSUE  
SPORTS INTERESTS
Eugin sponsors Daniel Llambritch, who 
has been working at Eugin since 2007, to 
pursue his sports career in Paralympic 
swimming. Daniel has participated in  
four Olympic Games as a Paralympic 
swimmer (Barcelona’92 – bronze medal, 
Atlanta’96 – finalist, Athens’2004 – silver 
medal and Beijing’2008 – finalist). Now, 
Daniel continues his sports career in a 
very hard discipline: Paralympic triathlon.
NMC Trading sponsors Manjula Guruge,  
a member of the UAE National Cricket 
Team who in 2015 played in the World 
Cup. NMC also sponsors a NMC cricket 
team that plays in the UAE League.
DIVERSITY, DISCRIMINATION AND GENDER
Our commitment to diversity and 
anti-discrimination policies are reflected 
in the profile of our employees. 
NMC has an anti-discrimination policy  
in place to ensure that there is no 
discrimination or harassment of any 
person employed or seeking employment 
on the basis of their race, colour, religion, 
gender, age or nationality. These policies 
are also implemented in the businesses 
acquired in 2015.
In accordance with Spanish Law, Eugin 
also works to stimulate the social and 
labour integration of disabled people. 
Eugin currently employs five people  
with more than 33% disability. Eugin  
also supports Centros especiales de 
empleo, special work centres that employ 
disabled people by purchasing their 
products and services. Eugin’s purchases 
from these centres exceeded US$ 57,000 
during the year. 36 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
As at 31 December 2015, our Group has 
grown its employee base across all its 
business operations to over 9,000 
employees. We employed individuals 
from 79 different nationalities. In addition 
47% of our workforce is female and  
53% is male. We believe that this 
widespread cultural and balanced  
gender mix is testament to the effects  
of our discrimination policies and the 
multi-cultural nature of the UAE, our 
primary market.
 
A comparison of the split of employees 
by gender within the different business 
groups and different levels within the 
NMC Group is set out in the table below: 
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE GROWTH  
AND LONG TERM FUTURE OF NMC 
HEALTHCARE
QUALITY MANAGEMENT –  
EFQM EXCELLENCE MODEL
The NMC Healthcare Vision Statement 
reinforces our commitment to achieving 
excellence in the delivery of healthcare  
to society.
“To be the trusted healthcare provider in 
the UAE and abroad driven by excellence 
through innovation, quality, team work, 
advanced technologies, patient safety 
and customised care”.
In line with our vision statement NMC 
Healthcare is strengthening its quality 
management framework beyond ISO and 
JCI accreditation requirements. As part of 
this process NMC Specialty Hospital, Abu 
Dhabi participated in the Sheikh Khalifa 
Excellence Award (SKEA) for the first time 
in 2015 in the Appreciation Certificate 
category. NMC Specialty Hospital 
exceeded all expectations by being 
awarded the Silver Award in its first year 
of participation. The award is based  
on the European Foundation for Quality 
Management (EFQM) model and 
recognises processes and systems that 
promote business excellence and adopt 
innovative world class Best Practices  
in Excellence. 
The award is conferred by His Highness 
Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, 
Chairman of Abu Dhabi Crown Prince’s 
Court and a member of Executive Council 
of Abu Dhabi.
THE WAY FORWARD
Going forward, our adoption of the EFQM 
Excellence model is helping us exceed 
normal performance and achieve 
outstanding results that can be 
sustained. We are always seeking 
opportunities to improve and to be 
innovative. EFQM allows us to identify  
our strengths and opportunities for 
improvement, compare and benchmark 
internally and externally so we continually 
are challenged to improve our performance 
and remain the most trusted private 
healthcare provider on the UAE.
GENDER COMPARISON STUDY 
 
31 December 2015
Gender Percentage
Facilities Categories Total Male Female Male Female
Board of Directors & Senior 
Management Team
NMC Board of Directors 12 8 4 67% 33%
Senior Management Team 6 5 1 83% 17%
 Grand Total 9,197 4,908 4,289 53% 47%
Corporate Office Total – Corporate Office 363 239 124 66% 34%
Corporate Management* 80 67 13 84% 16%
Corporate Staff 283 172 111 61% 39%
Reliance Infotech Total – Reliance Infotech 75 66 9 88% 12%
Reliance Management 8 7 1 88% 12%
Reliance Staff 67 59 8 88% 12%
Healthcare Total – Healthcare 6,805 2,926 3,879 43% 57%
Healthcare Management 121 72 49 60% 40%
Doctors 828 520 308 63% 37%
Staff Nurses 2,289 446 1,843 19% 81%
Technicians & Pharmacists 794 351 443 44% 56%
Healthcare – Others 2,773 1,537 1,236 55% 45%
Distribution Total – Distribution 1,948 1,676 272 86% 14%
Distribution Management 154 139 15 90% 10%
Distribution Staff 1,794 1,537 257 86% 14%
R&D Eugin 6 1 5 17% 83%
* Corporate Management includes six Senior Management Personnel, three of whom were Executive Directors also, but excludes Non-Executive Directors. 
Corporate social 
responsibility  
continued 37 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
IDENTIFICATION OF RISK
The Board consider the identification  
and mitigation of material risks and 
uncertainties faced by the Group as a key 
issue to be monitored at all levels of the 
organisation. The Board has overall 
responsibility for the Group’s risk 
management and internal control 
systems. The Senior Management team 
ensure that operational management 
consider risk as part of their day to day 
activities. This is considered to be 
particularly key for NMC as a Group due  
to both our current strategic expansion 
program and the fact that our businesses 
are operating in regulated environments.
As there are multiple risks associated 
with our businesses, particularly the 
healthcare sector, the process of Risk 
Management is an essential mechanism 
to enable a risk based decision making 
process. NMC follows a conservative 
approach in risk taking and has 
implemented controls and mitigation 
strategies in order to reduce those risks. 
The Strategic Risk Register, which is the 
basis for the list of principal risks and 
uncertainties, was developed using both 
a bottom up and top down assessment 
of business and strategic risks. This new 
strategic risk management process was 
implemented in Q4, 2014 and PwC have 
assisted management during the year in 
relation to the updating of the Group’s 
strategic risks in 2015. 
The bottom up exercise is conducted 
through discussions and interviews in 
each of the Group’s businesses. The top 
down exercise includes meetings with 
senior executives. The output from the 
aggregated results of the top down and 
bottom up exercises produces a list of 
principal risks that are reviewed and 
agreed by the Senior Management Team 
before being presented to, and discussed 
by, the Board.
The Strategic Risk Register is reviewed 
and maintained on an on-going basis by 
management, with the Board retaining 
oversight and responsibility over the 
Register and the risk management 
process. Depending on the nature of the 
risk involved, a variety of risk mitigation 
measures have been implemented 
including, for example, insurance, 
standardised processes, delegation  
of authorities and succession plans, 
diversification in business and  
revenue streams. 
STRATEGIC RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
In the table of strategic risks below, the 
Board have set out the Group’s strategic 
risks and the mitigating actions and 
controls taken against those risks. It should 
be noted that the order that these risks 
are expressed in the table does not reflect 
an order of magnitude as regards their 
potential impact on the Group. The Board 
Oversight of the System of Internal 
Control and Risk section on pages 60 to 63, 
also sets out additional details of the 
governance framework and controls  
in place within the Group’s businesses  
to monitor and control risk.
There have been no material changes 
made to the Group’s strategic risk  
register in 2015 or changes to the  
relative importance or materiality of any 
particular risk. However, the Board has 
made a number of minor changes to the 
list of principal risks, and the mitigation of 
those risks during the 2015 financial year 
principally relating to the challenges faced 
by the Group in the execution of its 
strategic growth plan, in particular the 
acquisitive nature of the Group and its 
entry into new markets.
Risk management
7. A Data Security (e.g. VVIP patient records) 
breach due to either intentional 
malicious cyber-attack or unintentional 
data or system loss resulting in 
reputational damage, operational 
disruption or regulatory breach.
8. Failure to comply with multi regulatory 
and standards bodies’ requirements 
could result in financial fines, inability  
to remove licenses, as well as NMC 
reputation damage.
9. Failure to comply with internationally 
recognised clinical care and quality 
standards, clinical negligence, the 
mis-diagnosis of medical conditions  
or pharmaceuticals and the supply  
of unfit products across both divisions.
1. Delays in completion of new strategic expansion 
projects due to contractor or potential cash flow 
interruption and bad investment decisions may result in 
poor Return on Investment (ROI), decreased margins and 
market share.
2. Increased competition due to high 
private and public investments in the 
healthcare sector and to associated 
investments coming from new entrants 
or existing player.
3. Failing to innovate and to effectively 
deliver new services. Inexperience of 
operation in new markets/offerings leads 
to missed opportunity or poor delivery.
4. Potential inability to improve NMC’s 
margin due to medical inflation and 
pressure and bargaining from key 
insurance providers.
5. Potential instability in revenue impairing 
cash flow and working capital health  
as a result of global and regional 
demographic, macro economic and 
geopolitical factors.
6. Failure to maximise the opportunity  
or acquisitions through successful 
integration strategies or through 
successful integration strategies or 
through ineffective management 
structure or operating model.
10. Failure to retain/acquire key professionals or inability  
to acquire sufficient Medical staff could potentially  
lead to inability to deliver required healthcare services 
and execute growth strategy.
 SERVICES EXCELLENCE
 
CUSTOMER CENTRICITY
 
FINANCIAL HEALTH
 
Technology
Compliance
Product
Financial
Macro-eco
Competition
Investment
Human Capital
NMC 
Strategy
PEOPLE ENABLEMENT
KEY THEMATIC RISKS 
THE BIG PICTURE – 2015 38 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Risk Class Description and Potential Impact Current Mitigations
Investment Delays in completion of new strategic expansion 
projects due to contractor or potential cash flow 
interruption and bad investment decisions may 
result in:
• Lower Return on Investment (ROI);
• Lower revenue than expected;
• Decreased margins and market share;
• Potential for impairment of assets;
• Reputational issue leading to difficulty  
in raising future finance.
• Board oversight in approving and monitoring 
strategic projects
• Project management controls
• Detailed market and business appraisal 
processes
Competition Increased competition due to high private and 
public investments in the UAE healthcare sector 
and associated investments coming from new 
entrants or existing player partnerships would 
lead to market share loss and potential 
reduction in access to future growth in UAE 
healthcare spend.
• Integrated Hub-Spoke model
• Growing healthcare network
• Partnership with Government hospitals
• Diversification of patient base
• Variety in service offerings
Financial Failing to innovate and effectively deliver new 
services. Inexperience of operating in new 
markets/offerings leads to missed opportunity 
or poor service delivery. 
• Frequent monitoring of both fixed and 
variable cost
• Synergy tracking and reporting
• Acquiring the skills associated with the M&A 
transactions
Financial Potential inability to improve NMC’s margin due 
to medical inflation and pricing pressure and 
bargaining from key insurance providers would 
result in less profitability
• Diversification of the revenue streams
• Frequent monitoring of both fixed and 
variable cost
• Good relationships with insurance providers
• Strategy to increase patient volumes and 
focus on clinical specialisms
• M&A Strategy in new markets
Macro-economic Potential instability in revenue impairing cash 
flow and working capital health as a result of 
global and regional demographic, macro-
economic and geopolitical factors.
• UAE is a stable and booming market to 
operate in
• Diverse business and revenue streams
• Long Term debt facilities and unutilized 
working capital limits
• Strong banking and supplier relationships
Financial Failure to maximize the opportunity of 
acquisitions though successful integration 
strategies or through ineffective management 
structure or operating model may results in:
• Increased market and regulatory/ legal 
obligations; 
• Increased culture resistance and complexity 
in shifting the governance model from 
enterprise to corporate structure;
• Increased operational exposure due to the 
complexity of integrating higher number  
of spokes to centralized hub of excellence;
• Increased investment risk due to weak due 
diligence and other mitigates.
• Proper due diligence
• Post-acquisition integration plan
• Rigorous analysis of value of the acquisition
• Focus on the corporate cultures involved
• Executive committee reporting and targets
• Synergy tracking and reporting
• Acquiring the skills associated with the M&A 
transactions
Risk management continued 39 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Technology A Data Security (e.g. VIP patient records) breach 
due to either intentional malicious cyber-attack 
or unintentional data or system loss resulting in 
reputational damage, operational disruption or 
regulatory breach.
• ISO 27001 certified framework for IT policies 
and controls.
• Strict measures towards clients’ data  
and records
• Investment in new Hospital Information 
System and ERP financial system  
approved by the Board and implementation 
in progress
Compliance & Regulation Failure to comply with multi regulatory and 
standards bodies’ requirements could result in 
financial fines, inability to renew licenses, as well 
as NMC reputation damage.
• Quality & Standards Department monitors 
regulatory changes
• Partnership with government
• Good relationships with regulators and 
accrediting organizations
• Continuous focus on delivering high levels  
of service
Product & Service Failure to comply with internationally recognized 
clinical care and quality standards, clinical 
negligence, the misdiagnosis of medical 
conditions or pharmaceuticals and the supply  
of unfit products across both divisions could 
result in regulatory sanction, licence removal, 
significant reputational damage, loss of patient 
and customer confidence and potential criminal 
proceedings.
• Doctors subject to rigorous licensing 
procedures which operate in the UAE
• Healthcare division is a regulated business 
and the Group’s three principal hospitals 
have international quality standards 
accreditation
• Many aspects of the operation of the 
Distribution division, including the sale of 
pharmaceuticals, is regulated in the UAE
• Board oversight and integrated governance 
structure
• Medical malpractice insurance to cover any 
awards of financial damages
• Continuous training and development 
programs
Human Capital Failure to retain/acquire key professionals or 
inability to acquire sufficient Medical staff could 
potentially lead to inability to deliver required 
healthcare services and execute growth 
strategy.
• Partnership with education institutes
• Effective sourcing strategies & recruitment 
campaigns
• Ongoing review of senior management 
resources and succession plans in place for 
key positions
• Competitive salary packages, growth and 
good working conditions act as a good 
retention tool
• Clear career path for staff and continuous 
training and development programs
As recommended by provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a formal long-term 
assessment of the prospects and viability of the Group. As part of this assessment, the Board considered the potential impact  
of three principal risk themes facing the Group. The Board’s viability statement is set out on page 89. 
The Group Strategic Report set out on pages 6 to 39 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by:
DR B.R. SHETTY
Executive Vice Chairman & CEO 40 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Governance
In this section:
41 Corporate governance report
65  Directors’ remuneration report
84  Directors’ report Corporate governance report
Introduction
41 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
CHAIRMAN
Board
Executive Vice Chairman & 
CEO and senior management
Group Company 
Secretary
Board  
Committees
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Audit Committee
Clinical Governance 
Committee 
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
The Board is responsible for, and committed to, ensuring that procedures are in place so that good standards of corporate 
governance are operated at all levels in the Group in accordance with the guidance and principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in September 2014 (the “Code”). The Code can be found  
on the Financial Reporting Council website, frc.org.uk.
The Board, supported by its Committees and the Senior Management team, have in place a governance and control environment 
which they believe is appropriate for the NMC Group and which they believe are consistent with the standards which would be 
expected of a FTSE 250 Company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange. The Board ensures that 
governance processes are documented and implemented and, where appropriate, continue to be improved. 
The Board has reviewed the Company’s compliance against the provisions of the Code and believes that the Company was 
compliant with the provisions of the Code for the 2015 Financial Year. This Governance section describes how the Board has applied 
Corporate Governance principles during the 2015 financial year. 
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 
The Company operates within a traditional governance framework:
 
The roles and responsibilities of each of the individuals and groups above, and their role in the overall governance framework,  
are set out below. 
THE BOARD
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Group’s business and:
• for the long term success of the Company ensuring that it meets its responsibilities towards all stakeholders;
• demonstrating leadership and focussing on matters that affect shareholder value;
• determining the strategic direction of the Group; and 
• for ensuring the effectiveness of, and reporting on, the risks facing the Group and the systems of governance and internal 
control in place in the Group.
The Board seeks at all times to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between short term and long term considerations and 
objectives of the Group. 42 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
The Board has the powers and duties as set out in the Company’s Articles of Association and the relevant regulations applicable to 
the Company as a public listed company registered in England and Wales. As part of the terms of their appointment, each director 
agreed that they will act collectively with the rest of the Board to ensure the success of the Group. 
The Company has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board including:
• approval of strategic plans;
• approval of major capital projects, acquisitions and divestments;
• approval of long term financing plans;
• setting the annual budget;
• risk management and internal control systems and processes to ensure that the Group is managed appropriately; and
• approving the half-year and annual results and financial statements.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees, details of which are set out on pages 52 to 59 or to the Executive Vice 
Chairman & CEO who is responsible for delivering the Company’s strategic objectives.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE
The Board of the Company currently comprises eleven directors, all of whom have served throughout the year:
• the Non-Executive Chairman who is considered to be Independent
• two Executive Directors
• five Independent Non-Executive Directors
• three Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
In addition, Heather Lawrence was also an Independent Non-Executive Director for the whole of FY2015, but resigned from the 
Board on 12 January 2016.
The biographies of each of the Directors is set out on pages 44 to 47. 
Provision B.1.1 of the Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor in determining the independence of non-executive directors. 
The table below therefore shows how long each Director considered by the Board to be Independent Non-Executive Directors have 
been members of the Board.
Date of appointment Term in office to 2016 AGM (years)
H.J. Mark Tompkins 7 March 2012 4
Dr Ayesha Abdullah 26 June 2014 2
Jonathan Bomford 27 June 2013 3
Lord Clanwilliam 7 March 2012 4
Salma Hareb 26 June 2014 2
Dr Nandini Tandon 26 June 2014 2
The other five Directors are either Executive Directors or connected to, or representing, the Company’s principal shareholders, and 
are therefore not independent.
The Board considers that it is independent.
The Senior Independent Director is Jonathan Bomford, who is available to shareholders should they have any concerns that they 
do not wish to raise with the Company or the Chairman directly. The Senior Independent Director can be contacted through the 
registered office of the Company. 
Corporate governance report continued
Introduction 43 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
BOARD DIVERSITY
The Board considers that the extensive and diverse business, cultural and operational experience of all the Directors, both 
Independent and non-Independent, ensures a good balance in all aspects of Group decision making and control. The above 
attributes also enable the Board to take account of diverse and independent judgement to bear on key issues of:
• strategy, including constructively challenging the strategic direction of the Group;
• scrutinising and challenging the performance of the Group;
• assessing risk and controls operating within the Group and in its decision making; and
• standards of conduct and governance and other matters presented to the Board. 
Similar practices to ensure a diverse employee base are also operated within the Group’s businesses. These are summarised  
in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 28 to 36. 
Therefore the Board is structured to ensure that:
• an appropriate cultural and racial mix is in place considering the Company’s listing in the UK and its diversified operations,  
the vast majority of which are in the UAE, as well as global drivers and practice in healthcare related services;
• the conclusions of the Davis Report on Women on Boards, and in particular the benefits of significant male and female 
representation on the Board, are taken into account; and
• the individual skills and experience that Directors bring to the Board are well balanced.
 
The Board will continue to consider appropriate skills, gender and cultural balance when reviewing future Board appointments. 
Board diversity and composition as at the date of this report is as follows:
Nationality
 UAE 18%
 UK 27%
 Indian 37%
 Kenyan 9%
 USA 9%
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors
 2 years 67%
 3 years 11%
 4 years 22%
Gender of Board
 Male 73%
 Female 27%
Executive/Non-Executive
 Executives 18%
 Non-Exectuives 82% 44 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
MR H.J. MARK TOMPKINS
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Age: 75
Tenure: 4 years
Nationality: British
Skills and Experience 
• Significant public company experience 
on UK, US and French listed company 
Boards
• Experience in investment banking, 
international real estate and the 
financing of small and medium sized 
enterprises
• 2005-2009 Director of Allied Healthcare 
International and Chairman from 2007 
to 2009
• 2002-2010 Non-Executive Director of 
Sodexo S.A.
• 2010-2012 Conseiller Special aupres du 
Conseil D’Administration of Sodexo S.A. 
• Previously, Chief Executive Officer of 
Compagnie Financiere Haussmann
• Previously a Director of Apria 
Healthcare Inc 
Other Current Appointments
• None
Board Committees
• Nominations Committee (Chairman)
DR B.R. SHETTY
EXECUTIVE VICE-CHAIRMAN & CEO
Age: 73
Tenure: 5 years
Nationality: Indian
Skills and Experience 
• Business Entrepreneur
• Founder, Director and principal 
shareholder of NMC Health
• Pioneer in the development of the 
private healthcare sector in the UAE
• Other Board positions and material 
investments in financial, hospitality, 
food and beverage, pharmaceuticals 
and real estate sectors
Other Current Appointments
• Director and principal shareholder of 
UAE Exchange and Travelex
• Member of the Advisory Board of the 
Dubai Economic Department’s 
Financial Sector
• Chairman of the Abu Dhabi Indian 
School
• Member of the Executive Panel of 
Dubai’s Pharmaceutical and Health 
Equipment Trading Business Group 
under the Dubai Chamber of 
Commerce and Industry
• Founder and patron of the Indian 
Pharmaceutical Association in the UAE 
• Founder and member of various 
Business Councils in the UAE
Board Committees
• None
MR PRASANTH MANGHAT
DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
Age: 41
Tenure: 2 years
Nationality: Indian
Skills and Experience
• 20 years’ experience in accounting, 
corporate finance, treasury and 
banking, including 12 years’ in NMC 
related businesses
• 2015 Deputy Chief Executive Officer  
of NMC Health assisting the Executive 
Vice Chairman and CEO on planning, 
strategy and M&A across Group 
businesses
• 2011-2014 Chief Financial Officer of NMC 
Health 
• Spearheaded NMC’s successful IPO  
on the London Stock Exchange in  
April 2012
• Chartered Accountant qualified in India
• CFO of the Year award – 2012 by ICAEW, 
Middle-East
Other Current Appointments
• None
Board Committees 
• None
Board of Directors 45 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
DR AYESHA ABDULLAH
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Age: 49
Tenure: 2 years
Nationality: Emirati
Skills and Experience
• Significant experience in development 
and regulation of the healthcare 
industry in the UAE
• Oversaw development of, and then 
regulatory aspects of, Dubai Healthcare 
City (DHCC)
• Previously, CEO of Dubai Healthcare 
City (DHCC) 
• Previously, Managing Director of the 
Science Cluster
• Previously, Chief Executive Officer at 
the Center for Healthcare Planning and 
Quality (CPQ)
Other Current Appointments
• Executive Dean of Health Sciences  
and Business at Higher College of 
Technology (Dubai)
• CEO of CERT Group of Companies 
Board Committees
• Clinical Governance (Chair) and Audit 
Committees
MR ABDULRAHMAN 
BASADDIQ
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Age: 67
Tenure: 2 years
Nationality: Kenyan
Skills and Experience
• Significant business experience across 
a number of business sectors in the 
Middle East
• Previously 25 years with EY in the UK 
and GCC, including 15 years as an 
equity partner
• Previously Managing Partner of Riyadh 
and Abu Dhabi EY offices
• Since leaving EY, worked with a 
number of GCC based Groups 
operating in multiple jurisdictions and 
business sectors, including two major 
listed Groups
• UK qualified Chartered Accountant and 
licensed auditor in the UAE
Other Current Appointments
• Non-Executive Director Travelex,  
Chair of the Audit Committee and  
a member of the Remunerations 
Committee
• Non-Executive Director Abu Dhabi 
National Hotel Compass LLC, Chair of 
Audit & Remunerations Committees 
• Non-Executive Director One Financial 
Markets, Chair of the Audit Committee
• Non-Executive Director UAE Exchange, 
Chair of the Audit Committee
Board Committees
• Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees
MR JONATHAN BOMFORD
SENIOR INDEPENDENT  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Age: 67
Tenure: 3 years
Nationality: British
Skills and Experience
• Accounting, financial and audit 
experience gained principally in the 
Middle East and East Africa
• UK qualified Chartered Accountant 
• Previously with EY (Middle East, East 
Africa, Abu Dhabi & Riyadh) for 24 years 
(15 years as a partner)
• EY clients included international clients 
across healthcare, oil, banking and 
construction sectors
Other Current Appointments
• Board Member of an Agricultural Trust 
funding UK agricultural projects
• Independent Non-Executive Director  
of Travelex
• Official Mentor providing business 
advice and services to clients of the 
Prince’s Trust
Board Committees
• Audit Committee (Chairman) and 
Remuneration Committee 46 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Board of Directors continued
LORD CLANWILLIAM
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Age: 55
Tenure: 4 years
Nationality: British
Skills and Experience
• Government and financial 
communications specialist
• Extensive network of governmental 
and institutional contacts across 
Middle East, UK and Eastern Europe
• Founding Partner and Chairman of 
Meade Hall Communications Limited
• Non-Executive Director of Polyus Gold 
OJSC 2007 to 2013 
• Chairman of Eurasia Drilling Company 
2007 to 2016
Other Current Appointments
• Non-Executive Director of Soma Oil 
and Gas
Board Committees
• Remuneration (Chairman) and 
Nominations Committees
MRS SALMA ALI SAID BIN 
HAREB ALMHEIRI 
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Age: 50
Tenure: 2 years
Nationality: Emirati
Skills and Experience
• Significant business experience and  
a recognised leading businesswoman 
in the Middle East
• CEO of Economic Zones World (EZW) 
and Jebel Ali Free Zone (Jafza) from 
2005 to 2015
• Instrumental in creation of Dubai 
Logistics Corridor
• Oversaw EZW’s expansion with 
development of international  
logistics parks in UAE, Europe, India, 
USA and Africa
• Chief Haematologist in the 
Department of Health and Medical 
Services from 1987 to 1997
Other Current Appointments
• None
Board Committees
• Remuneration Committee
MR KEYUR NAGORI
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Age: 37
Tenure: 2 years
Nationality: Indian
Skills and Experience
• 9 years’ of experience in international 
audit firms including Deloitte and 
KPMG
• Audit of multinational companies 
based in both India and Abu Dhabi
• 10 years’ experience at KBBO Group
Other Current Appointments
• Chief Financial Officer, KBBO Group
Board Committees
• None 47 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
MR BINAY SHETTY
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Age: 32
Tenure: 2 years
Nationality: Indian
Skills and Experience
• Operations and strategic experience 
within a number of organisations
• 2010 to 2014 Chief Operating Officer, 
NMC Group
• 2004 to 2010 Executive Director of NMC 
responsible for strategic planning
• 2004 to 2006 Business Coordinator, 
NeoPharma
Other Current Appointments
• Director of UAE Exchange and Travelex
• Head of Shetty Family Investment 
office
Board Committees
• Clinical Governance Committee
DR NANDINI TANDON
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Age: 53
Tenure: 2 years
Nationality: USA
Skills and Experience
• Investment and Board experience in 
healthcare and healthcare IT sectors
• Director and investment in numerous 
high tech companies in the USA
• Delegate and speaker on a number  
of high level global investment and 
governmental and investor summits 
and programs
• Investing in next generation education 
and healthcare and in renewable 
energy
• In January 2015 received the Pravasi 
Bharatiya Samman award for her work 
in life sciences and Healthcare and IT 
in USA and India along with other 
emerging markets
• In January 2016 received the Uttar 
Pradesh Ratna (Gem) award, the 
highest state award for non-resident 
Indians, for outstanding contribution  
to humanity and the society at large 
Other Current Appointments
• Board of Trustees, Bay Area Council 
Economic Institute
• Board Member, SF- Bangalore Sister 
City Initiative
• Board Member TeleVital Real Time 
Telemedicine
Board Committees
• Audit and Clinical Governance 
Committees 48 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
DR B.R. SHETTY
EXECUTIVE VICE-CHAIRMAN & CEO
Skills and Experience
• Business Entrepreneur
• Founder, Director and principal 
shareholder of NMC Health
• Pioneer in the development of the 
private healthcare sector in the UAE
• Other Board positions and material 
investments in financial, hospitality, 
food and beverage, pharmaceuticals 
and real estate sectors
MR PRASANTH MANGHAT 
DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Skills and Experience
• 20 years’ experience in accounting, 
corporate finance, treasury and 
banking, including 12 years’ in NMC 
related businesses
• 2015 Deputy Chief Executive Officer  
of NMC Health assisting the Executive 
Vice Chairman and CEO on planning, 
strategy and M&A across Group 
businesses
• 2011-2014 Chief Financial Officer of  
NMC Health 
• Spearheaded NMC’s successful IPO on 
the London Stock Exchange in April 2012
• Chartered Accountant qualified in India
• CFO of the Year award – 2012 by ICAEW, 
Middle-East.Over 40 years’ experience 
with NMC Health and a pioneer in 
developing the private healthcare 
sector in the UAE
DR CHANDRAKUMARI R. 
SHETTY
GROUP MEDICAL DIRECTOR
Skills and Experience
• Over 40 years’ experience with NMC 
Health and a pioneer in developing the 
private healthcare sector in the UAE
• Instrumental in establishing Centres  
of Excellence in various NMC facilities
• Chairs a number of NMC business 
committees covering Governance, 
Infection Control, Patient Rights,  
Quality and Facility Management
• Supervises NMC Healthcare’s 
diversified multi-cultural workforce.
Senior Management Team 49 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
MR ROY CHERRY
HEAD OF STRATEGY & INVESTOR 
RELATIONS
Skills and Experience
• 13 years’ experience in financial 
services and healthcare 
• ➢Assists Executive Vice Chairman and 
CEO and Deputy CEO in relation to NMC 
strategic matters
• ➢Leads Group’s IR and played an 
instrumental role in the re-rating of 
NMC’s shares
• Formerly a Senior Consultant at PwC 
Transaction Services providing advice 
on transactions across several sectors 
including healthcare 
• ➢Contributed to several regional IPO’s 
including Saudi Catering, NMC Health, 
Deyaar, DP World and Royal Jordanian 
Airlines
• Previously headed the Equity Research 
Departments at SHUAA Capital in Dubai 
and Saudi Fransi Capital in Riyadh
• Holds a BSc in Management from 
University of London and speaks 
English, Arabic and Swedish fluently
MR SURESH 
KRISHNAMOORTHY
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Skills and Experience
• Appointed as CFO in January 2015  
and heads up NMC’s finance teams
• Joined NMC in December 2000 and 
held a number of senior finance roles 
in the Group
• Has had significant involvement in  
the Company’s IPO in April 2012 and 
subsequent fund raising initiatives
• Prior to joining NMC, worked as 
Assistant Finance Manager in Kerala 
Industrial Infrastructure Corporation  
in India
• Qualified as a Chartered Accountant  
in India in 1998 
MR SIMON WATKINS
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY
Skills and Experience
• Joined NMC in May 2012 shortly  
after the Group’s IPO
• Responsible for Group’s listing 
obligations and all governance 
matters, assisting the Chairman with 
ensuring effective and appropriate 
Board processes
• Over 25 years’ of experience as  
a Company Secretary in large and 
medium sized UK public companies 
across a number of sectors 
• Significant experience within  
Group’s focussed on strategic and 
acquisitive growth
• Previous experience includes Deputy 
Company Secretary of Rank Group plc 
and Group Company Secretary of 
lastminute.com
• Qualified as a Chartered Secretary  
in the UK in 1987 50 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Corporate governance report
KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. 
CHAIRMAN
The Chairman was appointed to the Board in March 2012 in anticipation of the Company’s IPO. He was independent at the time of 
his appointment and is considered to be independent by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for the proper functioning of the 
Company’s Board of directors including:
• the effective operation and governance of the Board
• setting the agenda and coordinating the style and tone of Board discussions
EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is responsible for identifying, with the Senior Management Team, 
opportunities that are deemed appropriate and in line with the Board’s strategic objectives. He is also responsible for delivering the 
key strategic objectives set by the Board. The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is assisted in this task by the 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the remainder of the Senior Management Team who meet regularly to discuss the performance 
of the business, the progress of key capital projects, new development opportunities as well as other material matters arising within 
the business. 
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors 
as required. The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not managed to 
resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or who feel that such contact is inappropriate for 
the concerns that they may have. 
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the Board Committees. He assists the Chairman in ensuring 
that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and in organising induction programmes for new Directors. 
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board 
on corporate governance matters. The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as 
a whole.
The biography of each individual holding the above positions is set out on pages 44 to 49.
BOARD MEETINGS
The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in finalising an agenda for each Board meeting and ensuring that appropriate 
papers are provided from the management team in a timely manner for circulation in advance of Board and Board Committee 
meetings. This is to ensure that fully informed decisions can be reached. 
BOARD FOCUS IN 2015
Matters considered at all Board Meetings include:
• Operational performance through the Executive Vice Chairman & Chief Executive Officer’s report
• Financial performance, including monitoring current and forecast trading, cash and debt levels against its expectations 
presented through the CFO report
• Progress being made on the Group’s key capital development projects and other potential acquisition or organic  
growth opportunities
• Board Committee updates
During the course of the 2015 financial year the Board has also considered, as appropriate:
• The Group’s future strategy with significant focus on potential organic and inorganic growth opportunities and the associated 
risks of such strategy and opportunities
• Long term acquisition and working capital financing 
• The Group’s half-year and full-year results 
• The proposed operating budget for the following financial year
• The Group’s business and strategic risks, the risk management process in place in the Group and the Group’s approach to risk
BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE IN THE 2015 FINANCIAL YEAR
During the period under review, the Board met on six occasions as scheduled as well as three other brief ad-hoc meetings normally 
called at very short notice on matters requiring board approval or other discussions on matters which arose. During 2015, these 
ad-hoc meetings were principally in relation to acquisitions or long term finance related discussions and approvals. Scheduled 
periodic Board Meetings are planned in each financial year to be split, where possible, evenly between London and Abu Dhabi. 51 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
The attendance of the Directors at each of the scheduled Board meetings during the period is set out in the table below. Whilst the 
ad-hoc meetings held are classified as formal meetings, given their brief nature and the fact that they were called at very short 
notice, the attendance table excludes such meetings.
Board meeting attendance 2015
H.J. Mark Tompkins 6/6
Dr B.R. Shetty 6/6
Dr Ayesha Abdullah 6/6
Abdulrahman Basaddiq 6/6
Jonathan Bomford 6/6
Lord Clanwilliam 6/6
Salma Hareb 6/6
Heather Lawrence 6/6
Prasanth Manghat 6/6
Keyur Nagori 5/6
Binay Shetty 6/6
Dr Nandini Tandon 6/6
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
DIRECTOR INDUCTION
On appointment, directors have the benefit of a personalised induction programme which is undertaken during the first few 
months of their tenure as a director. Each induction programme covers a number of different areas including:
• briefings and presentations from management to understand the business operations and financial drivers
• their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors and the governance environment in which the Company operates
• opportunities to visit the Group’s key facilities and new capital development project locations
• meetings with the Company’s key advisors 
BOARD INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst themselves and with senior management, which ensures that Non-
Executive Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Group’s business.
Following an initial induction process, Non-Executive Directors meet with management and undertake visits to operational facilities 
each year in order to further understand the way the business operates and any change within the business. Emphasis in 2015  
in relation to organised facility visits has been on monitoring progress in relation to the Company’s key capital projects, particularly  
our new Khalifa City facility, and a visit to ProVita, the long term acute care business acquired during the year. The Board also had 
presentations from management during the year in relation to the Group’s acquisition strategy and a presentation from PwC and 
management in relation to the strategic risks considered to be prevalent from their risk reviews within the businesses.
As part of their overall training and development needs, some non-executive directors have attended externally provided seminars 
and discussion forums relating to their general responsibilities as Directors or areas of specific responsibility, in particular in relation 
to the Board Committees on which they serve. 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
During the year the Board undertook its first evaluation of its own performance. This was undertaken by way of a questionnaire 
developed internally by the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary which asked Directors to assess the effectiveness of the 
Board and its committees and the Board and Board committee processes. The questionnaire included questions in relation to the 
suitability of the Board’s discussions and whether the Directors felt able to be candid or raise matters of concern. 
The evaluation questionnaire was completed confidentially by Directors and the results consolidated into a report by the Group 
Company Secretary which was then reviewed by the Chairman and reported to the Board. No material action items arose from 
the review. 
The Board’s intention is to undertake a Board evaluation each year and to conduct an externally facilitated performance appraisal every 
three years in compliance with the Code, with the first external appraisal therefore being conducted during the 2017 financial year. 52 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Corporate governance report continued
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS continued
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
All of the directors of the Company submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held  
on 3 June 2016. Each resolution for re-election or election of a retiring director will be proposed as a separate resolution. The Board 
performance appraisal undertaken during the year has satisfied the Board that the contribution made by each director, and the  
Board as a whole, to board deliberations continues to be effective and that the shareholders of the Company should support their 
re-election. 
OTHER BOARD DISCLOSURES
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Board are aware of the interest that some Directors have in other businesses in which they have invested. Any conflicts of 
interest and related party transactions that may arise are monitored by:
• A list of other relevant interests of each Director being circulated to the Board at each of its Board Meetings;
• Each of the Directors are asked to confirm that they have no other interests which would conflict them for the purposes of any 
item to be discussed at the meeting; where such conflict is reported, the respective Director is not permitted to take part in the 
consideration of that matter by the Board;
• Each Director discloses to the Board any related party transactions in which they are connected, and such transactions are 
reported in the Group’s financial statements.
Whilst Directors on the Board have other business interests, the Board do not consider that these, nor the time commitment that 
they require, affect the ability of such Directors to undertake their role or comply with their statutory obligations. 
INDEPENDENT ADVICE
Each of the directors is permitted to obtain independent legal advice at the Company’s expense in the performance of their duties 
as directors. This would normally be managed through the Group Company Secretary. 
All directors, and the Board as a whole, also have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who, under 
the Chairman’s direction, is responsible for ensuring that good Board procedures are followed. 
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
The Company has put in place a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy which provides all Board members with insurance 
cover in respect of liabilities that may arise against the Directors collectively or individually. The Directors do not benefit from any 
form of qualifying third party indemnities made by the Company.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Clinical Governance Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration 
Committee. The terms of reference for each committee clearly set out its authority and duties and have been approved by the 
Board. The terms of reference for each committee are available on our website at www.nmchealth.com or available from the 
Group Company Secretary. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Overview provided by the Chair of the Audit Committee
This is my third Audit Committee report since my appointment as Audit Committee Chairman in June 2013. 
The 2015 financial year has been another busy year for the Audit Committee. As UK listed company reporting and governance 
requirements continue to evolve, I am pleased to report that both management and the audit committee have been committed 
to ensuring that they have a good understanding of new requirements as they arise. 
This report sets out the work of the Committee, significant matters addressed by the Committee during the year and the 
responsibilities of, and work undertaken by, the external and internal auditors. In addition, the Board asks the Audit Committee to 
review various matters in relation to risk and internal control which, during a year of significant strategic activity and acquisitions,  
is a significant aspect of the Board and Audit Committee focus.  53 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Membership and attendance
The Audit Committee has consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the year under review. Following 
Heather Lawrence’s decision to step down from the Board, Dr Nandini Tandon was appointed to serve on the Committee.  
I would like to thank Heather Lawrence for her contribution to Audit Committee deliberations over the last three years.
The Audit Committee members who have served during the year are:
Audit Committee Member Position Period of membership during 2015
Jonathan Bomford Audit Committee Chairman and
financial expert 
Member and Chairman of Audit Committee throughout
the year
Dr Ayesha Abdullah Independent Non-Executive Director Member of Audit Committee throughout the year
Dr Nandini Tandon Independent Non-Executive Director Member of Audit Committee since 18 October 2015
Heather Lawrence Independent Non-Executive Director Member of Audit Committee until 18 October 2015
During the 2015 financial year, the Chairman of the Committee and the Committee’s financial expert is Mr Jonathan Bomford. 
Mr Bomford is a Chartered Accountant and his brief biographical details and experience are set out on page 45 of the annual report. 
The Audit Committee met formally five times during the year. The Meetings are scheduled to align with the Group’s reporting 
timetable with planning meetings in advance of both the half-year review and full-year audit, and approving meetings shortly  
in advance of the announcement of the Group’s half-year and full-year results.
Audit committee attendance
Jonathan Bomford
5
5
Dr Ayesha Abdullah
5
5
Heather Lawrence
4
4
Dr Nandini Tandon
1
1
 Scheduled Meetings  Attended Meetings
Meetings are normally attended by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. The Chairman and some 
other Non-Executive Directors also attend meetings. The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. The 
Committee also meets separately with the external auditors, the internal auditors and management with the other parties not 
present.
Key role and responsibilities
The key role of the Committee is to ensure that the integrity of published financial information by the Company, and the effectiveness 
of both external and internal audit processes, are appropriate to ensure that the interests of all shareholders are protected.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in:
• discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and controls;
• reviewing the Company’s financial results announcements, Annual Report and audited financial statements;
• monitoring the independence and extent of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors;
• making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and the level of their remuneration;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit activities and internal policies;
• overseeing the Group’s compliance processes; and
• oversight of the Group’s internal controls and risk management systems although the Board retains control over these matters.
The Audit Committee is required to report regularly to the Board of Directors in relation to its findings on the above and the 
discussions at each meeting. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Company’s Annual Report and audited 
financial statements and the half yearly reports remains with the Directors of the Company. 54 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
BOARD COMMITTEES continued
Main activities of the Committee during the year
During the year, the Committee has focussed significantly on areas of acquisition accounting, corporate governance and 
management of risk. In addition to the main activities on which the Committee focuses each year, being the Committee’s 
consideration, and approval, of the Interim Results and the Annual Report, specific items which the Audit Committee discussed 
during the year included:
Accounting for major acquisitions.
There are a number of aspects in relation to the Group’s acquisition strategy which had an impact on accounting and audit matters 
during 2015. These included accounting in relation to the new long term financing facility, various aspects of each acquisition, including 
accounting for goodwill, judgements in respect of contingent consideration, work on the purchase price allocation including the 
identification of intangible fixed assets, assessing the accounting policies within each business for consistency with NMC accounting 
policies and also evaluating the internal control environment in the acquired businesses. These and related matters took up 
significant audit committee time during the year.  
 
The Committee also re-visited and discussed the accounting treatment of consultancy services provided by the Group to both 
Americare and Dr Sunny Healthcare before the acquisition of those entities. This resulted in consultancy services recorded as 
revenue in the 2015 Half Year Results being adjusted from purchase consideration in relation to each acquisition. Further details  
in relation to this issue are set out in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117 to 122.
Review of risk assessment for 2015 audit
The areas of significant risk which the auditors consider to be key for their audit focus, is an important and increasing area of  
Audit Committee deliberations. Whilst the auditors determine the areas of significant risk when assessing their audit program,  
the relevance to the audit committee is to ensure that the auditors have, what the committee believe, is the correct focus during 
their audit for the benefit of both the Company and its shareholders. A number of useful discussions were held in relation to audit 
focus, particularly given the acquisitive nature of the Group in 2015. 
Governance requirements
The various levels of Governance requirements facing UK Premium listed companies is ever growing. Focus for the Committee 
during the year has been the new requirements for a long term viability statement. Whilst the Board has always considered the 
longer term financial position of the Group, particularly in consideration of its growth strategy, the formality of additional review 
required, and the parameters of that review, has been a focus for the committee. The Committee has also reviewed feedback 
included in the FRC’s Audit Quality Inspection reports 2014/15. 
The internal audit program. 
Principal Internal Audit Reports are presented at Committee meetings twice a year with other updates from the Internal Auditors 
as required. During 2015, the internal audit plan has again been focused on areas considered to be key and strategic risks to ensure 
that these are closely and independently monitored. In addition to their core internal audit program, the Internal Audit remit was 
also expanded to carry out a review across aspects of the controls within the UAE acquired businesses and to review work carried 
out in relation to the implementation of the greenhouse gas data reporting within the businesses. 
Revenue recognition
The Group has a number of revenue streams across both its Healthcare and Distribution divisions. In addition, given the significant 
number of acquisitions undertaken by the Group in 2015, there are a number of areas within both divisions where the recognition  
of revenue has been reviewed to ensure that the correct treatment of principal versus agency revenue has been adopted in all 
business areas. There is a risk that incorrect accounting treatment could be adopted within a particular business unit, for example 
agency revenue being treated as principal revenue. Any error of this nature would affect the Revenue and not the EBITDA of the 
Group. The Committee has reviewed the different treatment adopted by management in each relevant business unit and is 
comfortable with the accounting for revenue across the Group.
Other considerations and activities of the Committee
Internal control
The Committee has reviewed the process by which the Group evaluates its control environment across all of its businesses.  
The Chief Financial Officer provides a report to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls and confirms to the 
Committee whether or not he is aware of any significant fraud that may have occurred within the business. The internal auditors 
also undertake a review across a wide range of control areas to give the Audit Committee and the Board assurance on the internal 
control environment.
Risk management
The Committee oversaw a management project in Q4, 2014 and Q1, 2015 to implement an enhanced risk management program. 
This risk register and the risk management process will normally be kept under specific review by the Audit Committee, although  
in 2015 the Board received primary strategic risk presentations as part of their discussions. Further information in relation to the risk 
management process is set out on pages 37 to 39.
Corporate governance report continued 55 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Internal audit
A review of the work undertaken by the Group’s internal auditors is an agenda item for the majority of Audit Committee meetings. 
The internal auditors report to the Committee their findings together with action plans to resolve any matters which they believe 
require to be addressed. Action plans are graded with key high risk matters taking priority to be resolved. 
External audit and auditor independence
The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the external audit is dependent on the identification of key risks during the 
financial year under review. EY produces and discusses with the Committee a detailed audit plan identifying these key risks, the 
focus of audit procedures and the work to be done to test management’s assumptions and accounting treatment in these areas. 
The Committee meets separately with the External Auditors to ensure that an independent dialogue is maintained in relation to 
monitoring key business and financial risks and to ensure that management have not restricted the scope of their audit. The Audit 
Committee Chairman also meets with the lead audit partner on a number of occasions during the year outside the formality of 
Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee discusses separately with management matters arising from the audit process and also to assess their view of 
the effectiveness of the audit work being undertaken. 
The Committee did not undertake a formal review of the effectiveness of the external audit during the year although the Audit 
Committee and the external auditors discussed the FY2014 audit process in detail, including matters which had worked well and 
areas of improvement in the audit process for FY2015. 
Auditor fees and appointment
EY were appointed as auditor to the Company at the time of the Company’s IPO in April 2012. The level of audit fees paid in relation 
to the 2015 financial year is set out in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-Audit fees
During FY2015, the level of non-audit fees, excluding the fees for the half-year review, amounted to a total of US$0.13m. 
The Audit Committee has adopted a non-audit fees policy whereby it will only permit such fees in circumstances where they feel 
that use of the auditor firm is necessary, appropriate or efficient, and has delegated authority to the CFO to agree such projects 
subject to a strict cap on fees in relation to each financial year. 
Auditor Independence
The Audit Committee formally reviewed the independence of the Company’s auditor, EY, during the period under review. The review 
took account of the relationship between management and the audit team, the processes that EY have in place internally to ensure 
objectivity and independence and also the level of non-audit fees incurred during the year.  
 
As part of this review the Committee reviewed the potential threats to auditor independence as a result of:
• auditor self-interests, being those areas where the auditor may have a financial or other interest in the Company;
• auditor self-review, being areas where the results of non-audit services are reflected in the amounts included or disclosed in the 
financial statements;
• management threats, which may occur if partners or employees of the auditor take decision on behalf of management; and
• other threats, such as familiarity and intimidation. 
The Audit Committee is satisfied that in all areas sufficient safeguards were adopted by the auditor and that the independence of 
EY and of the audit engagement partner had not been compromised. There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment 
of the Auditor for the audit of the Company’s financial statements.
The Company has not yet completed five financial years since incorporation, and therefore to date has not been required to comply 
with any provisions of the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order. 
JONATHAN BOMFORD, FCA
On behalf of the Audit Committee 56 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
BOARD COMMITTEES continued
CLINICAL GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
Overview provided by the Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee
This my first report to you as the new Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee. I would like to thank the previous Chair of  
the Committee, Heather Lawrence, for her work in chairing the committee since its inception in 2013. The Committee has made 
good progress under her guidance and it intends to further this development as the Group grows as a result of its strategic 
acquisition program.
The Clinical Governance Committee meets regularly to provide Board oversight in the key area of Clinical Governance. The Committee 
works with management to ensure that the governance structure within the healthcare business is appropriate to ensure that 
clinical care is enhanced and that clinical quality indicators are monitored and maintained at a high standard. This oversight is 
designed to mitigate as far as possible the risks associated with operating a healthcare organisation.
Good progress has again been made during a very busy year with the majority of key clinical care indicators remaining at a strong 
level or improving. A wide range of clinical care indicators are being monitored and a governance structure is now in place in each  
of the Group’s new healthcare facilities. 
Membership and attendance
As well as my appointment as Chair of the Committee, the Committee has also been slightly restructured.
The Committee consists of a majority of Non-Executive Directors and also now includes Dr C R Shetty, the Group Medical Director. 
Her experience of governance structures operating in the Group, and the standards by which the Healthcare businesses are 
monitored, is very important to the Committee’s ongoing monitoring of clinical care. 
The Clinical Governance Committee members who have served during the year are:
Clinical Governance 
Committee Member Position Period of membership during 2015
Dr Ayesha 
Abdullah
Independent Non-Executive 
Director and Clinical 
Governance Committee Chair
Member of Clinical Governance Committee for the full financial year and 
Chair of the Committee since 18 October 2015
Heather 
Lawrence
Clinical Governance 
Committee Chair
Member and Chair of Clinical Governance Committee until 18 October 2015
Binay Shetty Non-Executive Director Member of Clinical Governance Committee for the full financial year
Dr C R Shetty Group Medical Director Member of Clinical Governance Committee since 18 October 2015
Dr Nandini 
Tandon
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Member of Clinical Governance Committee for the full financial year
The Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee is also a member of the Audit Committee which assists in ensuring that the two 
committees interact providing an overall control and governance framework to manage the Group’s key clinical risks.
Meetings of the Committee are scheduled three times per financial year. In addition to the Clinical Governance Committee members, 
the Vice President – Quality and Standards attends each meeting. The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Clinical Governance Committee attendance
Dr Ayesha Abdullah
3
3
Heather Lawrence
1
1
Dr C R Shetty
2
2
Binay Shetty 3
3
Dr Nandini Tandon
3
3
 Scheduled Meetings  Attended Meetings
Corporate governance report continued 57 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Key role and responsibilities
The establishment of the Clinical Governance Committee was undertaken as a result of an appreciation of the clinical risks faced 
by the Group. 
The key role of the Committee is to oversee governance structures, processes and controls in relation to Clinical matters in place 
within the Group healthcare operations. This is to ensure that the risks associated with clinical care are mitigated in the interests of 
the Company and its stakeholders, including shareholders. As a result the Committee is a key aspect of the Group’s internal control 
environment.
Main activities of the Committee during the year
Specific responsibilities of the Committee, and work undertaken by it during the year, include: 
• Ensuring processes and controls are in place across the NMC Healthcare hospitals to promote safety and excellence in patient 
care and manage risks arising from clinical care on a continuing basis;
• Review the systems of clinical governance, monitoring that they operate effectively and that action is being taken to address 
any areas of concern;
• Review clinical performance indicators quarterly; 
• Reviewing the KPI monitoring put in place in the Group’s new healthcare facilities, Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital and NMC 
General Hospital in DIP, to ensure that standards are maintained during their ramp-up phase; 
• Reviewing the implications of new regulations and standards compliance implemented by our local health authority regulators;
• Initial reporting from Clinica Eugin, which was acquired by the Group during the year;
• Reviewing patient satisfaction data across all facilities;
• Specific review of the process undertaken when patients are transferred between our facilities and other medical facilities and 
institutions; and
• Discussion in relation to the use and benefits IT systems for all aspects of patient care and information monitoring.
Principal Management activities on clinical governance matters during the year
2015 has been a very busy year for management in relation to quality and clinical governance matters. In addition to new regulations 
and standards implemented by our regulators during the year to ensure that quality provided by UAE healthcare providers continues 
to be enhanced, two of the Group’s primary facilities, Dubai and Al Ain Specialty Hospitals, completed their triennial JCI re-accreditation 
during the year with excellent results.
Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in Umm Al Quwain, which is managed by NMC, achieved JCI accreditation in June 2015. In addition, work has 
commenced to prepare for JCI accreditation surveys in both NMC General Hospital, DIP and Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital 
during 2016. The triennial re-accreditation of Abu Dhabi Specialty Hospital is also due to take place in Q2, 2016.
In addition to the increasing size of the Group, and the continued monitoring program across the Group’s facilities, the regulatory 
and standards workload has been significant. The Committee is delighted with the dedication and determination of management 
and all of our employees to keep up to date with regulatory changes and new standards ensuring that the Group is well positioned 
in its compliance with its requirements as well as offering an excellent and safe service to our patients.
The Quality and Clinical teams also continue their excellent work ensuring that clinical care monitoring within the business has 
been further enhanced which gives assurance to management and the Board that clinical risk is mitigated. Finally, I would like  
to thank my fellow Committee members for their contribution during the year. 
DR AYESHA ABDULLAH
For and on behalf of the Clinical Governance Committee 58 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
BOARD COMMITTEES continued
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
Membership and attendance
The Remuneration Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, three of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, 
with an Independent Non-Executive Director holding the chairmanship of the Committee. During the 2015 financial year, the following 
served as members of the Committee for the full financial year:
Chairman: Lord Clanwilliam
Committee members: Abdulrahman Basaddiq
Jonathan Bomford
Salma Hareb
The Chairman of the Company is invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings. The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer do attend some Remuneration Committee meetings and the Chairman 
of the Committee discusses proposed remuneration policies with them during their formulation. No Director is present when their 
own remuneration is discussed.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee and provides advice to the Committee on 
Corporate Governance aspects relating to remuneration matters. He also provides assistance to the Chairman of the Committee 
as required in discussions with the Remuneration Committee advisers and on implementation of Committee decisions. The Group 
Company Secretary is not present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee met three times during the financial year. 
Remuneration Committee attendance
Lord Clanwilliam
3
3
Abdulrahman Basaddiq
3
3
Jonathan Bomford
3
3
Salma Hareb 3
3
 Scheduled Meetings  Attended Meetings
Key role and responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in:
• making recommendations to the Board on the Company’s framework of executive remuneration, including the use of incentive 
arrangements within that framework; and
• determining, on the Board's behalf, the entire individual remuneration packages for each Executive Director and advising the Chief 
Executive Officer in relation to the level of remuneration the Committee feel is appropriate for the Senior Management Team.
All other recommendations must be referred to the Board for approval. 
No Committee member is permitted to participate in any discussion or decision regarding his/her own remuneration. The remuneration 
of non-executive directors is a matter for consideration by the Chairman of the Company, assisted by the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman, and the Executive Directors. 
Main activities of the Committee during the year
The principal activities of the Committee during 2015 are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report on page 65 to 83.
The Directors’ Policy and Remuneration Reports are set out on pages 65 to 83. 
Corporate governance report continued 59 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The Nominations Committee consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, 
one of whom holds the chairmanship of the Committee. During the 2015 financial year, the following served as members of the 
Committee for the full financial year:
Chairman: H.J. Mark Tompkins
Committee members: Abdulrahman Basaddiq
Lord Clanwilliam
The Nominations Committee has a role to assist the Board in:
• reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to its structure, size and composition;
• reviewing succession planning in place for senior management;
• determining the appropriate skills and characteristics required of directors; identifying individuals qualified to become Board 
members and recommending such individuals to the Board;
• recommending individuals to be considered for election as Directors at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company  
or to fill vacancies; and
• preparing a description of the experience and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment.
Following the significant changes to the Board and work undertaken on the Senior Management Team structure in 2014, the 
Committee only met once during the year to discuss the new job title given to Dr B.R. Shetty which more reflects the wider 
strategic and visionary role which he undertakes. All Committee members were present at this meeting.
Other than in relation to specific matters which the Nominations Committee will be required to discuss, it is expected that the 
Nominations Committee would normally meet at least once in each financial year, or otherwise as requested by any member of 
the Committee. The Committee would expect to meet to consider appropriate candidates to fill any vacancy created on the Board 
should such a vacancy arise or be considered appropriate given other skills and experience on the Board. 
The duties and activities of the Committee during the year are disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report and audited financial 
statements each year. 60 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK
OVERVIEW
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and operational 
matters across the Group. The Board is responsible for reviewing such internal controls and for ensuring that they are effective to 
properly manage the Group’s businesses.
STRENGTHENING OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
In recent years, as the Group has progressed an organic and inorganic growth strategy, in order to strengthen the governance and 
control structure further across the Group, management have progressively been:
• ●incorporating additional key internal controls into its financial and operational processes;
• ●implementing new policies and procedures covering all aspects of the Group’s accounting policies and controls;
• ●extending its Quality Team and the Group’s Quality and Clinical Governance processes; 
• ●enhancing the Group’s Internal Audit function which independently reviews and monitors key business processes; and
• ●developing new financial and hospital management IT systems. 
All of these changes are part of an overall process to improve the Governance structure within the Group and to improve further 
the Group’s formal internal control processes. 
CHALLENGES
Acquired businesses
The businesses which we have acquired in 2015 all operated under differing levels of control. Similar to the NMC Group prior to 
preparation for its IPO in 2012, some of these businesses have a very centralised approach to control, with the majority of the 
controls over all financial and operational aspects of each business resting with a small number of individuals and, in some of  
the businesses, being manual in nature. We consider this to be a normal environment in which private family owned businesses 
have been used to operating. 
IT environment
Management recognise that the Group’s IT systems are not fully integrated and that an element of manual control procedures are 
still prevalent across the Group. Whilst this is still the case, the manual processes, supported by legacy IT systems in many of the 
Group’s businesses, have provided a robust level of controls for a number of years.
PRINCIPAL RISKS
In Q4, 2014 management reviewed its approach to the monitoring and control of risks within the Group and implemented an 
enhanced risk management program.
The various layers of corporate, healthcare and distribution division management were involved in a program under which the 
Group’s key risks were developed through a bottom up process and then reviewed alongside the macro-economic environment 
within which the Group operates through a top down review process to establish a Strategic Risk Register. This Strategic Risk 
Register is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. Further details on the approach taken to assess risks, and of the Group’s 
strategic risks, are set out on pages 37 to 39. The board’s appetite for risk, the internal controls and processes in place to mitigate 
business risks and the Board’s review of the effectiveness of the control environment are set out below.
CONTROLS AND RISK MITIGATION
Financial and operational controls
The Group has, for over 40 years, grown into a substantial business and a leader in the provision of private healthcare, as well as 
operating a substantial distribution business, in the United Arab Emirates. The Group is a regulated business operating many 
regulatory, financial, clinical and quality control procedures.
The key elements of the Groups’ internal controls are as follows:
• An annual budget and updated long-term forecasts for the Group that identifies risks and opportunities which are reviewed and 
approved by the Board. As part of these processes, management and the Board have processes in place to review appropriate 
risks faced by the Group and also a formal viability review which considers the Group long term viability.
• As part of the annual budget process, budgetary goals are set by the corporate office and these goals are monitored on an 
ongoing basis within each subsidiary by their accounting and finance teams. MIS teams monitor business performance. Within 
each subsidiary, these teams provide relevant analyses to operational management which assists in prudent decision making. 
Such information is also periodically reported to, and consolidated by, the corporate office teams, which analyses consolidated 
performance against budget. 
• Monthly meetings at which the Senior Management Team review Group financial and operational performance, progress on 
capital projects and other principal functional areas of the business.
Corporate governance report continued 61 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
• A system of internal monthly operational and financial reporting which includes monthly comparison of results and against 
budget and forecast, a review of KPIs, each discussed with additional management commentary and the reporting of key 
matters arising within the business during the month under review. The Group has a very flat organisational hierarchy resulting 
in an easy flow of information throughout the organisational structure. Communication of exceptional items happens naturally.
• A defined process for controlling capital expenditure, including appropriate authorisation levels, which is monitored and approved 
by the Board as appropriate.
• The financial statements of each subsidiary are drawn up by relevant accounting departments, which ensure compliance with 
local tax and regulatory requirements. These subsidiary company financial statements are subjected to a limited review for the 
Group’s interim financial statements and a complete audit carried out by the auditors for all the subsidiaries for the Group’s 
year-end financial statements.
• Reporting of accounting information, in standardised monthly reports, is carried out on the basis of a schedule established by 
the Corporate Accounts department. Each subsidiary applies Group procedures for the recording of accounting data for inclusion 
in the interim and annual financial statements.
• The reporting of subsidiaries is established according to the accounting policies of the Group, which are formalized in a Group 
policies manual given to all the subsidiaries.
• A formal process through which approval for organic and inorganic expansion projects is given. A formal transaction request 
paper is produced including details of the proposed transaction, how the transaction will be financed, market studies, strategic 
benefits and longer term effects on the Group, due diligence and key transaction risks are considered.
• Medical Directors’ meetings to monitor clinical governance procedures.
• The production of quarterly and annual Quality reports. 
• An appropriate approach to decentralisation and internal oversight within the Group. 
 — Each NMC healthcare facility has a Medical Director and Head of Administration who are accountable for the operation of the 
facility. In relation to facilities acquired through the Company’s acquisition program, these are generally smaller facilities and 
therefore managed by the lead clinician. This structure ensures that both our larger and smaller facilities have an appropriate 
organisation to provide effective and efficient management of both clinical and non-clinical areas. 
 — Within the Healthcare division structure, a number of multidisciplinary committees are in place to monitor guidelines in respect 
of patient safety and quality, medication management, infection prevention and control, medical record documentation and 
facility management.
 — Both Healthcare and Distribution divisions have Financial Controllers and a finance team and are managed through 
fundamental activities of planning, executing and checking. The strategic direction of all operations is governed by the 
corporate office. With the exception of certain operations in some of the acquired businesses, which are in the process of 
being integrated into group procedures, all banking, treasury, procurement and payment processing is centralised within 
Group functions, but accounting for payments is decentralised. 
 — The Senior Management Team believes that these divisions of responsibility at both facility and corporate levels provide  
a natural check and balance across all internal control areas.
• A delegation of authority which provides that very few individuals within the organisation have payment approval authority. 
Access to cash is also restricted to very few individuals. All material payments, including within the acquired businesses, are 
restricted to the senior management team.
• Group businesses hold very sensitive as well as personal information and data as part of their operations. To guard against the 
material risk of a cyber threat, the Group has numerous controls and procedures in place to control such threats. In addition, 
Group businesses are ISO27001 certified and as part of this certification an independent third party undertakes an annual 
information and systems security audit.
• Specifically in relation to acquired businesses, initial primary controls are implemented following completion of each transaction. 
The Group’s policies and procedures, covering both operational and financial aspects of each business, are incorporated into 
each acquired business over an appropriate timeframe.
Independent and regulatory controls
As a regulated business, the Group operates within a framework of managing all elements of risk which arise within the Group. As a 
result there are a number of ways in which the Company both internally and independently monitors its keys risks.
Internal Audit
An effective externally provided Internal Audit program independently assists management in identifying key risks to business 
operations and monitors those risks through an Internal Audit program agreed with both management and the Audit Committee.
The Internal Auditors report directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee but work in conjunction with the CFO. Their reports to 
the Audit Committee are received and discussed at Audit Committee meetings twice a year, usually in June and December.
Following the completion of each review, the internal auditors identify areas for remedial action and the required action plans are 
discussed and agreed with management. All areas requiring remedial action are highlighted as high, medium or low risk areas. The 
internal auditors present the reviews and the agreed management action plans for any remedies to the Audit Committee and then 
monitor the implementation of any required changes on behalf of the Audit Committee.  62 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK continued
CONTROLS AND RISK MITIGATION continued
The consideration by management of the key risks faced by the Group is crucial to the work to be undertaken by the Internal 
Auditors. Management consider such risks before discussing with the internal auditors their planned areas of focus for reviews  
in each financial year. The Internal Audit plan for each year is agreed with the Audit Committee. 
Crowe Horwath have provided internal audit services to the Group for a number of years. Whilst some internal audit reviews have 
been carried out in the acquired businesses in 2015, management are currently in the process of rolling out the formal internal audit 
program for implementation into the acquired businesses in 2016.
Quality and Regulatory oversight
Aside of financial risks, the Board is aware that as a significant healthcare and distribution business it is subject to a range of risks 
related to clinical care, quality and product safety. 
The Healthcare division, and elements of the Distribution division, are regulated by governmental and non-governmental 
organisations. In summary:
• Each UAE Healthcare facility is licensed by one of four regulatory bodies which exist in the UAE. The regulatory bodies monitor 
performance and clinical procedures against its regulations, key metrics and guidelines;
• Clinica Eugin is subject to local regulatory standards and laws applicable in each jurisdiction in which they operate;
• Each of the Group’s three Specialty Hospitals, the Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in Umm al Quwain which is managed by the Group, 
and the clinical laboratory of Dr Sunny Medical Centres are accredited by Joint Commission International, an internationally 
renowned organisation monitoring clinical metrics and quality of patient care;
• The distribution of pharmaceuticals is controlled through the UAE Ministry of Health;
• The majority of the Group’s healthcare revenue results from medical insurance arrangements. The Group’s contractual 
arrangements with insurance providers include the monitoring of claims processing and clinical outcomes.
The Group has a Quality Team which operates in both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions. Quarterly and annual Quality reports 
monitor performance against a range of key KPIs based on clinical quality and safety metrics. 
Board Committees
The Board and its committees provide independent oversight of management’s control systems, in particular the Audit Committee 
in relation to finance related matters and the Clinical Governance Committee in relation to clinical matters. The work and oversight of 
the board committees is set out on pages 62 to 63.
Risk appetite
As there are multiple risks associated with the healthcare and distribution sectors, the process of risk management is an essential 
mechanism to enable risk based decision making process. The Board recognizes that complete risk control/avoidance is impossible, 
but that risks can be reduced by putting the right controls and mitigations in place as well as agreeing on a threshold for risk taking 
(risk appetite). 
Risk appetite provides a structure within which opportunities can be pursued by setting out which, why and how much risk the 
Group is willing to take. The Senior Management Team has approved a set of risk appetite statements covering different views on 
the risk landscape surrounding NMC’s business environment whilst addressing various risk classes. For each risk class, Key Risk 
Indicators (KRIs) were articulated to alert against unacceptable loss events. 
The purpose of setting limits and triggers is to avoid concentrations of risk which would be out of line with internal or external 
expectations and to:
• keep business activities aligned to the strategic goals of the Group;
• ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying risk and reward;
• ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities.
General Risk Appetite Statement
The Company will not accept any risks that would cause losses due to:
• ●malpractice, 
• ●significant decline in patient satisfaction rate, 
• ●brand damages, 
• ●hospital acquired infections, 
• ●decrease in the utilization rate for outpatient clinics, 
• ●uncontrolled discharge for inpatients,
• ●downtime of life saving/ sustaining systems, 
• ●inaccuracy of patients’ records, 
• ●non-compliance with internal and/or external controls and standards/ regulatory bodies, 
Corporate governance report continued 63 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
• ●sensitive information/ patient record confidentiality breach/ loss,
• ●loss of sole distribution partnership agreement,
• ●loss of key staff/ key specialities,
• ●acquisitions, which are expected to be accretive and not dilutive.
NMC Board of Directors has approved a set of thresholds presented by management which relate to multiple business dimensions 
in the Healthcare and Distribution divisions to protect shareholders’ value. Any areas falling short of the agreed indicators will be 
highlighted by management for action.
Effectiveness of Internal Controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of internal control and on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has 
been engaged in the process of ensuring that management have established continuous processes for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the risks the Group faces. These processes include the reporting from the finance department on Group performance, 
the work of the internal auditors and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work. The Board 
is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of these systems and for conducting a formal annual review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls. 
A system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and is 
designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls in place during the year, the Audit Committee considered, amongst other 
matters, manual controls in place, the independence of the separate operating units, the delegation of authority, the balance of 
centralised and decentralised systems and the reporting process in relation to exceptional items. 
The Audit Committee has noted that the Group does not operate under a fully integrated high end IT environment and therefore an 
element of manual intervention is prevalent within the Group, including the businesses acquired during 2015. The Board has approved 
the implementation of a new Hospital Information System which, together with the implementation of the new ERP financial system, 
will result in a new integrated IT system becoming fully functional across the Group.
The Board notes that the implementation of new IT systems will not change the level of controls inherent in the business, but they 
will remove elements of manual intervention from financial and operational processes. Management have taken time to ensure 
that all previous business processes are captured within the new IT systems. The roll out of the new ERP system into the Healthcare 
division, whilst delayed during the initial execution of the Group’s strategic growth plan due to the challenges faced by the group in 
the initial testing phase, is now well underway across the Group and the final testing phase is in progress. In addition to the growing 
nature and structure of the Group, there have also been challenges in relation to the roll out of the ERP system into the Distribution 
division as a result of the volume and types of transactions to be captured. The Group has now finalised the time schedule for final 
roll out of the ERP system for both Healthcare and Distribution divisions. This schedule indicates the commencement of final roll out 
across the Group beginning in Q3 2016 and, given the number of business units now involved, is due for completion in Q2 2017. 
The Audit Committee have also noted the challenges faced as the acquired businesses are integrated into the Group. Such 
acquired businesses have differing levels of controls within their businesses. The Audit Committee have noted the initial primary 
and delegated authority controls which are put in place in the acquired businesses following completion as well as the roll out of 
financial and operational reporting requirements. The Committee has noted that some elements of the Group’s policies and 
procedures have been implemented in these businesses, and this will continue into 2016. 
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal controls for the 2015 financial year, in light of the key 
elements of the Group’s internal controls outlined above. Given the additional internal controls that have been incorporated into  
the Group’s financial and operational reporting process, such that sufficient internal controls were in place to monitor the Group’s 
key risks, the Board believes, having evaluated the effectiveness of the internal controls and procedures, that these were effective 
during the period covered by this report. The Board also believes that the process undertaken by the Board and its Committees to 
monitor the internal control environment, accords with the guidance provided in the FRC’s Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
The Company is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders and to be available to meet with shareholders 
who require additional explanation of any matter which is of concern to them.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are also available, either through contacting the Company Secretary 
or at the Company’s Annual General Meeting, to discuss any matters within their areas of responsibility or where individuals do not 
feel it is possible to discuss these matters with management. 
During 2015, the Company has continued to focus on its formal program of investor interaction including one-to-one meetings with 
institutional investors and attendance at investor conferences. Mr Roy Cherry, who is the Head of Strategy & Investor Relations and 
a member of the Senior Management Team, leads these efforts.  64 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT continued
During the financial year ended 31 December 2015, the Company issued its 2014 audited results and its 2015 half year unaudited 
results. In addition, given the significant strategic activities during the year, the Company kept shareholders updated regularly  
with regards to its long term financing and its material acquisitions, and the effect that these have on the Group. 
Aside from direct shareholder meetings, the principal ongoing communication with shareholders will be through the publication of 
the Company’s Annual report and audited financial statements and Interim Results as well as the opportunity to question the Board 
and Committees at the AGM. Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy. 
The Company has an investor relations section on its corporate website, www.nmchealth.com. This has been updated regularly 
with information that the Company considers relevant to its investors. Additionally, the number of analysts monitoring the Company 
and issuing notes in relation to their forecasts and expectations for the group continues to increase. 
ETHICS
WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY
A confidential whistleblowing procedure is in operation allow employees to raise concerns of possible improprieties in relation to 
either operational or financial conduct. 
BRIBERY ACT 2010
The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which applies to all directors and employees of all Group Companies. The 
Policy, which has been communicated to all employees, includes clear statements setting out the Group’s Anti-Bribery measures 
and Anti-Corruption culture. Practical guidance has been issued in relation to specific circumstances considered to be most relevant 
to Group employees. These include guidance notes for clinical staff attending pharmaceutical and training and development 
conferences in relation to entertainment and other possible inducements, as well as guidance notes in relation to the receipt of free 
products and equipment and how such products and incentives may affect clinical judgement. Specific guidance has also been 
provided in relation to the provision of sales incentives to senior sales and marketing staff within our Distribution division. 
Employees have been provided with a copy of these policies and are aware of the significance of them. New employees receive 
training on all company policies and procedures as part of their induction program. A copy of the policies is included on the 
Company’s employee intranet. 
The Governance Report set out on pages 41 to 85 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by:
H.J. MARK TOMPKINS
Chairman
Corporate governance report continued 65 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Dear shareholder
This year I am writing to you on the back of an outstanding performance by management and to outline the initial actions which 
the Remuneration Committee have taken, and feel are appropriate, to start to align executive remuneration with the size of the 
organisation, the increased scope of the roles and market positioning. 
TRANSFORMATION AND GROWTH
As shareholders will be aware, 2015 was a very busy and successful year for us, and a year during which management, with the 
Board’s support:
• Developed an updated Group strategy to grow significantly through acquisition;
• Put in place a long-term financing structure to ensure that the Group is well financed for this next period of growth;
• Focussed on developing a number of healthcare verticals to make available to our patients a fully integrated care pathway;
• Executed a significant number of accretive acquisitions towards the achievement of our strategy; 
• Continued to focus on our existing businesses producing an improved performance in the year which can be seen in our Group 
Strategy Report on pages 6 to 39; and 
• Completed development of our flagship NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City, which when fully opened will operate 250 licensed beds 
and provide all multi-specialty care.
These actions have built on the solid base developed by the Group in the period since IPO in:
• Implementing the considerable step-change in culture from the requirements of a privately owned family business to a thriving 
public company;
• The successful execution of the initial organic and then subsequent acquisitive growth strategy; and
• Continued effective management of a vastly different and more complex Group, which has grown more than 50% since 2014.
As a result of the progress made by the management team, the Remuneration Committee has discussed its approach to 
rewarding and incentivising management in the future. A number of factors were considered to ensure an informed debate, 
including Company performance and external market data.
Over the 2015 financial year, our market value has increased by 82.7% bringing the total increase since IPO to 300%. An independent 
report requested by the Remuneration Committee in considering its plans for 2016 remuneration has shown that the Company is 
within the top three of all FTSE250 companies across a number of short and long term metrics, including total shareholder return 
both over one year and the last three years. For example, our three year TSR has been c. 300% compared to an average of 52% in the 
FTSE 250.
The Committee also considered external market data prepared by Deloitte LLP when determining the approach to pay for our 
Executive Directors. Companies positioned within the top quartile of the FTSE 250 based on their financial size were chosen by  
the Committee as a relevant reference point, therefore we have sought to ensure that our Executive Directors are competitively 
positioned against this group. 
The market data shows that the Executive Directors have in prior years received remuneration at levels well below comparative 
market levels. The Committee has therefore decided to take a phased approach to aligning Executive Director remuneration to 
appropriate market levels.
Given this background, the Remuneration Committee has increased in 2016 the base salary of the Executive Vice Chairman  
& CEO to £650,000 and the Deputy CEO to £550,000. The Committee felt it was important to recognise:
• ●the fundamental role our Executive Directors have played in the Group’s progress which, supported by the Board and shareholders, 
have translated into a significant and sustained increase in value for our shareholders; and
• ●the importance of our management team in achieving our future strategic objectives and the need to retain them. We have 
therefore sought to position them competitively against the relevant market reference point.
Directors’ remuneration report 2015
Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman 66 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
INCREASE IN STIP OPPORTUNITY IN 2016
In relation to the operation of the STIP for the 2016 financial year, the Company’s intention is to increase the maximum STIP 
opportunity for the Executive Directors to 150% of base salary. The way in which any award from the 2016 STIP will be delivered will 
also change from previous years, with one-third of any STIP award being made in cash and two-thirds deferred into shares, half of 
which will vest one year after the award is made and the other half two years after the award. The measures and targets against 
which the 2016 STIP will be assessed is set out on pages 76 to 77. 
This change to the operation of the STIP is outside the scope of the Company’s remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM and 
is therefore subject to approval of shareholders at the 2016 AGM. 
FUTURE REMUNERATION POLICY
The Committee is satisfied that, with the exception of the level of maximum STIP opportunity which shareholders will be asked  
to increase for 2016, the current remuneration policy continues to be appropriate, no further changes should be proposed this year 
with all remaining elements of remuneration will be in line with the remuneration policy that was previously approved by our 
shareholders at our 2014 AGM.
The remuneration policy must be approved every three years and the Committee will conduct a full review of the current 
remuneration policy in advance of submitting a new policy for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM. 
LORD CLANWILLIAM
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued
Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman continued 67 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
INTRODUCTION 
This Directors’ Remuneration Report is divided into two sections. 
Firstly the Remuneration Policy summarises our policy on remuneration which was approved by shareholders at the Company’s 
AGM in June 2014. The Committee believes that, with the exception of a change in the way in which the Remuneration Committee 
wishes to operate the STIP in 2016 as set out in the Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman above, the remainder of the 
remuneration policy continues to support the Group’s strategy and therefore no other changes in the policy are being proposed this 
year. Therefore, the remuneration policy set out below is in summary form only for shareholder information and a copy of the full 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy document can be found on our corporate website at www.nmchealth.com/shareholder-information.
Secondly, the Annual Remuneration Report details of how our remuneration policy was implemented in the year ended 
31 December 2015, and what remuneration was paid to the Directors for that period, and then how we intend for the policy to  
apply for the year ending 31 December 2016.
The Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM. 
Where the information is subject to audit in this Directors’ Remuneration Report this is identified in the relevant heading.
SUMMARY OF EXISTING REMUNERATION POLICY
In this remuneration policy section, we summarise the remuneration policy for the Board which shareholders approved at the 
Company’s 2014 AGM. The full remuneration policy can be found on the Company’s website.
CONSIDERATIONS FOR REMUNERATION POLICY
The Committee is aware of the need to be mindful of potential risks associated with elements of executive remuneration. The 
Committee is keen to ensure that variable remuneration is not structured in such a way as to encourage the taking of undue 
business risks for the purposes of achieving higher remuneration. 
However, given the Board’s acquisitive growth strategy, the Committee feels that executives should be incentivised significantly to 
ensure that this strategy is executed well thus creating increased shareholder value over the longer term. The policy is also designed 
to ensure that there is mitigation against key business risks through the setting of performance targets. 
In particular, the policy includes:
• The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which encourages management to focus on long term share value enhancement;
• The Short Term Incentive Plan (STIP) under which Executive Directors and the Senior Management Team are targeted with 
both financial and operational measures each year, with the targets set depending on the Group’s key focus in any particular 
financial year;
• The deferral of 50% of STIP awards into shares for a three year period; 
• Market practice malus provisions allow the Company to forfeit the delivery of share related benefits to plan participants. 
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 68 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
SUMMARY OF EXISTING REMUNERATION POLICY continued
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY
The table below summarises the key components of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors. 
Remuneration  
element
Purpose and link to
remuneration strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
Base salary To attract and retain 
management of the 
calibre required to deliver 
the Group’s strategy 
without paying more 
than is necessary. 
To reward executives  
for the performance  
of their role. 
Salaries are reviewed annually.
When setting base salaries, 
consideration is given to a 
number of factors including 
individual and performance 
and local market conditions.
There is no maximum 
salary level. 
None, although an 
individual’s performance 
in the role will be 
considered when 
reviewing base  
salary levels. 
Benefits To provide benefits that 
are competitive relative 
to the employee’s local 
market. 
The Group provides a  
range of benefits which  
reflect typical benefits offered 
in the UAE including family 
accommodation, Private 
Medical Insurance and Life  
and Permanent Health 
Insurance cover.
The cost of benefit 
provision will depend  
on the cost to the 
Company of providing 
individual items  
and the individual’s 
circumstances and 
therefore there is no 
maximum value.
None. 
Retirement 
benefits
To provide a market 
competitive retirement 
benefit. 
The Company currently does 
not operate any pension 
arrangements, but an end of 
service benefit, payable to the 
employee when he leaves the 
Group, is accrued annually in 
accordance with local UAE laws. 
The Committee  
will determine the  
level of benefit based 
on local market 
practice, individual’s 
circumstances and 
their role.
None. 
STIP To provide an annual 
bonus to attract, retain 
and motivate senior 
executives of the calibre 
required to manage the 
business and to align  
the interests of senior 
executives with those  
of shareholders by  
linking a significant 
proportion of the  
potential remuneration to 
performance and delivery 
of strategic objectives.
Bonus measures and 
performance targets are set 
annually dependent on the 
deemed strategic priorities  
for that year. 
The annual bonus is normally 
paid 50% in cash and 50% is 
deferred into Company shares 
which vest three years from 
award subject to continued 
employment. 
Malus provisions apply.
The maximum bonus 
opportunity is 100% of 
base salary.
Performance is based  
on a mix of key financial, 
operational/strategic 
metrics and individual  
KPIs measured over  
one financial year.
LTIP To incentivise long-term 
value creation and 
exceptional business 
performance through 
the achievement of 
stretching Group  
financial targets. 
Awards vest based on 
performance measured  
over a three year period 
against set targets. 
Awards are subject to  
malus provisions. 
Maximum award is 
normally 150% of base 
salary. In exceptional 
circumstances the 
Committee may grant 
awards of up to 200%  
of base salary.
It is intended that  
awards will be based  
50% on earnings per 
share growth and  
50% on relative total 
shareholder return 
growth against our  
key healthcare peers.
Share option 
plan (“SOP”)
To incentivise executive 
directors to increase the 
share price and deliver 
value for shareholders.
Awards under the plan are  
in the form of market value 
share options.
It is intended that awards 
would only be made under  
this plan in exceptional 
circumstances. 
Maximum award would 
normally be 150% of base 
salary. In exceptional 
circumstances the 
Committee may grant 
awards of up to 200%  
of base salary.
In the event that  
an award was to  
be granted under this 
plan in exceptional 
circumstances the 
Committee would 
determine appropriate 
performance conditions  
at that time.
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued 69 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
In addition the following policies also apply:
Shareholding guidelines
Executive directors are expected to build a shareholding of 200% of base salary over a period of 5 years. The current shareholding of, 
and share awards held by, each of the Executive Directors is set out on page 80. 
Committee discretion
The Committee has retained some discretion in a number of areas of the remuneration policy approved by shareholders including:
• where the terms of any payment were agreed before the policy came into effect; 
• where arrangements were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company;
• the amendment of performance conditions applicable to the LTIP or Share Option Plan awards in certain circumstances;
• any payment which is not explicitly provided in this policy which is it obliged to make under UAE other relevant local laws; or
• minor amendments required for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change  
in legislation.
Remuneration policy on recruitment
The Policy includes a number of principles which the Committee would seek to apply for newly appointed Executive Directors. 
These are not summarised here but can be reviewed within the Directors’ Remuneration Policy document.
Service Agreements
The Committee policy is that notice periods will not exceed 12 months.
Termination of employment policy
The policy includes a number of elements which the Committee will consider when individuals leave their Executive positions with 
the Company. These are not fully summarised here but can be reviewed within the Directors’ Remuneration Policy document. 
In general terms, if an individual leaves as a result of ill health, injury, disability, death, sale of employing company or business from 
the Group or for any other reason at the Committee’s discretion, the Committee will normally pay contractual salary and retirement 
benefits and allow the retention of any incentive awards pro-rated to the date of cessation. For all other leavers, the contractual 
salary and benefits will be paid over any notice period to the date of cessation of employment, but unvested awards made under 
the Company’s incentive arrangements would normally lapse. In the event of termination, the Company would also make any 
payments which it is contractually obliged to do under UAE law.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY
The table below summarises the key components of the remuneration package for the Non-Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to 
remuneration strategy Operation Maximum opportunity 
Chairman and 
Non-Executive 
Director fees
To provide an 
appropriate reward  
to attract and  
retain high-calibre 
individuals. 
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors  
is approved by the Executive Directors following 
recommendations and discussions with the 
Chairman of the Company and the Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive 
any benefits. However, benefits may be provided 
in the future if this was considered appropriate. 
The maximum level of Non-
Executive Director remuneration is 
set out in the Company’s articles of 
association. This may be amended 
from time to time subject to 
shareholder approval.
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2015
Details of the members of the Committee during the 2015 financial year, and its role and responsibility within the Group’s Board and 
governance structure, is set out on pages 58 to 59 of the Governance report. 
Principal matters considered in 2015
The significant discussions in relation to the structure of Executive Director and Senior Management remuneration had taken place 
during 2013, before being approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. No changes to the Remuneration Policy were considered in 
2015 and therefore the Committee’s primary discussions during the year related to the operation of each element of the Executive 
remuneration package as well as consideration in relation to the level of remuneration for management given the Group’s growth 
and strategic acquisition growth plan.  70 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2015 continued
Principal items discussed by the Committee included:
• A review and discussion of management proposals for the operation of the 2015 STIP;
• A review of the levels and targets set in relation to the 2015 LTIP. No changes were made to the targets set, and the initial level  
of LTIP awards made during the year, although a decision was taken to grant an LTIP award to the Executive Directors in 
September 2015 such that their 2015 LTIP grant equated to 150% of their average base salary for the year which is in line with  
our Policy (as opposed to an LTIP grant of 100% of base salary which had been the case before this change);
• Further consideration was given to the remuneration levels of the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Team given 
the excellent execution of the initial phase of the Group’s strategic acquisition plans, management performance in delivering 
this as well as relevant market data. This resulted in an increase in base salaries for the Executive Directors and 
recommendations made in relation to the base salaries for the remainder of the Senior Management Team. Details of the 
remuneration paid to the Executive Directors in 2015 are set out in the single figure pay table on page 71.
Support and External Advice
The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from Deloitte LLP, independent remuneration advisers. Deloitte were 
appointed by the Remuneration Committee and have acted as advisors to the Company since 2012, specifically providing the 
Committee with objective and independent advice on executive remuneration matters. Deloitte is a founding member of the 
Remuneration Consultants’ Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive 
remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte have provided some tax advisory services to the Group in Spain and transaction services advice to the Group in the UAE,  
but none of this advice has related to remuneration matters in the Group and none of these teams have any connection with the 
engagement partner and team advising the Remuneration Committee. The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have 
received from Deloitte during the year has been objective and independent and that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team, 
which provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with NMC that might impair their independence. The 
Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
The Remuneration Committee has direct access to Deloitte as and when required. The Group Company Secretary liaises with 
Deloitte where necessary to ensure that all Committee requests and decisions are dealt with and implemented, but does so under 
the guidance of the Remuneration Committee Chairman. Deloitte attend meetings of the Committee as required.
During the year, Deloitte provided the following services and advice to the Committee:
• Assistance in preparation of the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report;
• The tracking of performance against targets set in relation to awards granted under both the STIP and LTIP incentive 
arrangements; and
• Assistance in relation to the review of certain parts of the remuneration package available to Executive Directors and Senior 
Management and scenario modelling of the same.
Deloitte received fees of £32.2k (charged on a time plus expenses basis) for advice received during the year.
RESULTS OF VOTING ON REMUNERATION MATTERS AT THE COMPANY’S 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The following summarises voting at the 2015 AGM in respect of the advisory vote resolution proposed in relation to the 2014 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Resolution For Against
Number of  
votes withheld
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report 97.59% 2.41% 4,081,168
The Committee is appreciative of the support which shareholders have given in relation to Directors remuneration matters.
REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS THROUGHOUT THE GROUP
The remuneration philosophy is the same throughout NMC – that individuals should be remunerated based on their role, 
responsibilities, experiences and market practice. NMC has a variety of different roles from senior executives, to doctors to 
administrators and therefore remuneration levels and structures vary to reflect the different requirements and expectations  
of these roles. 
The Committee does consider that it is important, however, that Executive Directors and senior executives as a group are 
remunerated in a similar way to ensure that they are incentivised to collectively deliver the Group’s strategy and create long term 
value for shareholders. Executive Directors and senior management therefore all participated in the STIP and LTIP arrangements  
in 2015.
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued 71 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
The Committee also retained the existing benefits structure which applied to UAE based Executive Directors and Senior 
Management in previous years. The benefits included reflect the expatriate nature of senior management in the UAE and are 
similar in nature to the types of benefits which are available to other expatriate employees in the Group. The benefits include 
private medical insurance, which is mandatory for employees in Abu Dhabi, where the Group is based.
SHAREHOLDER VIEWS AND CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP 
Communication with our Shareholders – The Committee maintains an open dialogue with our shareholders and is available to 
discuss remuneration matters concerning shareholders at any time. 
Consideration of pay and conditions of employees – The Committee considers pay information in relation to senior management 
when determining Executive Directors’ pay, to ensure that pay structures are appropriately aligned. However, given the Group’s wide 
geographic reach in relation to both its business interests and shareholders, and the significant corporate and public company 
responsibilities which are not reflected in roles in the rest of the Group, the Committee do not feel that Executive Director and 
Senior Management remuneration needs to be specifically aligned with other remuneration within the business. The Committee 
did not consult with employees when setting Executive Director pay.
2015 REMUNERATION – THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT
This section outlines how the remuneration policy was applied in 2015, together with the outcomes for actual remuneration paid  
in relation to the financial year under review. This is shown in two parts – Remuneration paid to Executive Directors and a separate 
section in relation to Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Director Remuneration 2015
Remuneration paid in 2015 (single pay figure)
The table below sets out the remuneration paid to or received by each Executive Directors of the Company who served during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2015.
Executive Director
Salary 
$’000
Benefits 
$’000
STIP
$’000
LTIP awards
$’000
Pension
$’000
Total 
$’000
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Dr B.R. Shetty 544.5 408.4 163.1 157.9 544.5 283.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,252.1 849.7
Prasanth Manghat 473.7 330.8 20.2 15.2 473.7 222.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 967.6 568.3
Base salaries
The Committee has discussed base salaries of the Executive Directors on several occasions since Q4, 2014.
Our management team have been fundamental in the successful execution of the Group’s strategy, which has led to a significant 
increase in the size and complexity of the Group since listing. During the salary review, the Committee took into account the increase 
in the scope and responsibilities given the enlarged, more complex Group the future acquisitive growth strategy as well as the market 
positioning of the remuneration packages. The Committee has been mindful that base salaries set can become uncompetitive over 
a relatively short timeframe.
Therefore, having recognised the exceptional performance of the executive directors the Committee reviewed Executive Directors 
base salaries during the year and approved an increase in base salaries resulting in average base salaries for the year being £333k 
for the Executive Vice Chairman and CEO and £290k for the Deputy CEO.
Benefits
There was no change to the benefits available to the Executive Directors during the year. The Benefits paid included the 
following items:
Executive Director
Provision of family 
accommodation
$’000
Private medical insurance
$’000
Life insurance cover
$’000
Annual family return flights 
to home country
$’000
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Dr B.R. Shetty 160.6 153.2 2.2 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.5 2.5
Prasanth Manghat 0.0 0.0 4.4 4.4 0.6 0.6 15.2 15.2
Outcome of 2015 STIP
The Group made significant progress during the year. In addition to the continued execution of the Group’s strategic plan through the 
opening of new facilities, whilst the Group was acquisitive during 2015, the significant proportion of time and commitment of the 
Executive Directors and Senior Management in relation to the acquisition program was not included as a target for the 2015 STIP. 72 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued
2015 REMUNERATION – THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT continued
However, the business performed very well both operationally and financially and, as a result, both the Executive Directors achieved 
100% of the 2015 STIP targets for the year. Therefore a bonus entitlement of 100% of average base salary was paid to each of the 
Executive Directors in respect of the 2015 financial year.
50% of the bonus awarded to the Executive Directors is paid in cash and the other 50% is deferred into shares for a period of three 
years under the terms of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, for which additional performance conditions or other conditions, with 
exception of continued employment, do not apply.
The bonuses awarded were based on the achievement of stretching financial and non-financial targets set by the 
Remuneration Committee:
Financial performance measures
Measure
Purpose and link  
to remuneration 
strategy Description of measure Target and performance
Weighting
Outcome 
(percentage 
of 
maximum)
Executive 
Vice 
Chairman 
and CEO
Deputy 
CEO
Healthcare 
Revenues
Grow 
organisational 
revenues
Achieve a minimum 
level of healthcare 
revenues set by  
the Committee 
(including revenues 
from existing 
facilities, Clinica 
Eugin, new facilities 
to open in FY 2015, 
pharmacies and 
management fees).
Continuing growth from existing 
healthcare operations is a key focus for 
the Board and the management team. 
Existing operations and Clinica Eugin 
collectively performed above expectations. 
Given that reported healthcare numbers 
were not used as a target in relation to 
this measure (i.e. because the measure 
was not adjusted to take account of other 
consolidated acquisitions completed  
later in 2015, specific targets are not being 
published in this report as these are 
considered to be commercially sensitive. 
However the Committee can confirm that 
achievement of management against 
the set targets was at stretch level. 
33.3% 20% 100%
EBITDA Optimize cost  
of services
Achieve minimum 
levels of EBITDA set 
by the Committee 
(including EBITDA 
from existing 
facilities, Clinica 
Eugin, new facilities 
to open in FY 2015, 
pharmacies and 
management fees). 
Additionally, this 
targeted level of 
EBITDA had to be 
achieved before any 
STIP entitlement 
could be earned in 
relation to FY2015.
The maintenance of good levels of 
EBITDA are also a key focus for the Board 
and the management team during a 
period of significant acquisitive growth. 
Existing operations and Clinica Eugin 
collectively performed above expectation. 
Again, given that reported healthcare 
numbers were not used as a target in 
relation to this measure (i.e. because  
the measure was not adjusted to  
take account of other consolidated 
acquisitions completed later in 2015, 
specific targets are not being published  
in this report as these are considered  
to be commercially sensitive. However  
the Committee can confirm that 
achievement of management against 
the set targets was at stretch level.
33% 35% 100%
Revenue  
per patient
Grow 
organisational 
revenues
Revenue/patient to 
achieve minimum 
average levels set 
by the Committee.
As a principal financial driver for the  
Group, the Committee set a stretch target 
of $121 revenue per patient against $114.5 
achieved in FY2014. Target performance 
was set at $117 or greater. The revenue  
per patient achieved for FY2015 was $121.1.
– 10% 100%
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued 73 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Measure
Purpose and link  
to remuneration 
strategy Description of measure Target and performance
Weighting
Outcome 
(percentage 
of 
maximum)
Executive 
Vice 
Chairman 
and CEO
Deputy 
CEO
Patient 
Occupancy 
Levels
Optimize cost  
of services
Patient occupancy 
to achieve minimum 
average levels set by 
the Committee. This 
target excludes any 
new facilities opened 
in 2014 and 2015  
as they were 
considered to be  
in ramp-up phase 
with expected 
abnormally low 
occupancy levels.
Utilisation of assets is key to performance 
and therefore growth in patient occupancy 
levels are a continuing target for the 
business. Significant progress had already 
been made in the growth of this KPI in 
previous years as assets matured and a 
stretch target of 75% or more occupancy 
against 71.3% achieved in 2014 was set. 
Target performance was set at 74% or 
greater. Occupancy achieved under this 
measure for FY2015 was 76%.
– 10% 100%
Non-financial performance measures
Measure
Purpose and link  
to remuneration 
strategy Description of measure Target and performance
Weighting
Outcome 
(percentage 
of 
maximum)
Executive 
Vice 
Chairman 
and CEO
Deputy 
CEO
JCI 
Accreditation
Strengthen 
and maintain 
NMC’s 
corporate 
image
Achievement of set 
targets in relation to 
the monitoring of 
those clinical and 
quality indicators 
which are required 
to reach a certain 
standard under  
the Group’s JCI 
accreditations.
Quality standards are key for the Group’s 
healthcare business. The Committee set 
a target of an overall compliance rate 
against JCI quality standards of 97% or 
greater to achieve the stretch target in 
relation to this KPI. Target performance 
was set at 95% or greater. An average of 
98.1% compliance was achieved during the 
financial year
33% – 100%
Organisational 
capability
Build new  
patient 
serving 
facilities and 
implement 
state-of- 
the-art 
infrastructure
Specific targeted 
milestones set by 
the Committee  
for capital and 
technology 
enablement 
programs to  
be met.
The Group’s flagship Khalifa City Royal 
Hospital opened in 2015, and given the 
excellent ramp-up performance of other 
new facilities opened, the Committee 
determined that this target had been  
met at its stretch level.
– 15% 100%
Human 
capital
Attract and 
develop 
capable and 
motivated 
manpower
Targets set by  
the Committee  
in relation to the 
enhancement of 
succession planning 
capabilities within 
the Group given the 
Company’s growth 
and acquisition 
plans for 2015.
The Committee wanted to ensure that  
up to five key management positions had 
succession plans in place during FY 2015. 
This was achieved.
– 10% 100% 74 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued
2015 LTIP 
Awards for Executive Directors under the LTIP were granted for the first time in 2014 and therefore no LTIP grants have yet reached 
their vesting point. 
Awards made in 2015
During 2015, LTIP grants were made to the Executive Directors at 150% of base salary, in line with our approved Policy. 
Initially, an award of 100% of salary was made in February 2015. In September 2015 a grant of 50% of salary was made to incentivise 
the Executive Directors towards sustained improvements in the long-term financial performance of the enlarged Group and further 
align them with the long-term interests of our shareholders. The details of the awards granted under the LTIP during 2015 are set 
out within the Directors’ shareholdings and interests section on page 80.
Performance targets
The following performance targets were used in relation to all LTIP awards granted in 2015.
Company’s Earnings per Share (EPS) growth
This measures the Company’s annual compound growth in EPS and represents 50% of the total award. The table below sets out 
the EPS targets for the 2015 award and the corresponding level of vesting: 
Annual compound growth in EPS over the three-year Performance Period Vesting percentage of target
15% or more 100%
Between 6% and 15% On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%
6% 25%
Less than 6% 0%
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) growth
This measures the Company’s TSR compared against a comparator group of companies and represents 50% of the total award. 
The table below sets out the TSR targets for the 2015 award and the corresponding level of vesting:
Company’s TSR over the three-year performance period  
compared to the comparator group Vesting percentage of target 
Upper quartile or above 100%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100% on a ranking basis
Median 25%
Below median 0%
The Remuneration Committee has chosen a comparator group of international companies that are of a ‘similar’ size and business 
scope to the Company. The table below sets out our comparator group: 
Company Country of listing 
KORIAN MEDICA FRANCE
AL NOOR HOSPITALS GP UK
SPIRE HEALTHCARE GP UK
RAFFLES MEDICAL GP SINGAPORE
BANMEDICA CHILE
SYNERGY HEALTH UK
KPJ HEALTHCARE MALAYSIA
NIB HOLDINGS AUSTRALIA
AL-MAIDAN DNL CLINIC KUWAIT
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued 75 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Pension contributions
There were no pension contributions in 2014 or 2015.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION 2015
Remuneration paid in 2015 (single pay figure)
The fee paid in cash to each Non-Executive Director during the year ended 31 December 2015 is set out in the following table:
Director Position
FY2015 
(£’000)
FY2014 
(£’000)
H.J. Mark Tompkins Independent Non-Executive Chairman 215.0 170.0
Dr Ayesha Abdullah (see Note 1 below) Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 25.2
Abdulrahman Basaddiq (see Note 1 below) Non-Executive Director 85.0 42.3
Jonathan Bomford Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 100.0 59.5
Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 50.0
Salma Hareb (see Note 1 below) Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 25.2
Heather Lawrence Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 50.0
Keyur Nagori (see Note 1 below) Non-Executive Director 85.0 25.2
Binay Shetty (see Note 2 below) Non-Executive Director 85.0 See Note 2 below
Dr Nandini Tandon (see Note 1 below) Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 25.2
Notes:
1. The fees in FY2014 for each of Dr Ayesha Abdullah, Abdulrahman Basaddiq, Salma Hareb, Keyur Nagori and Dr Nandini Tandon were not in relation to a full 
financial year as they were all appointed during FY2014.
2. Mr Binay Shetty was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 1 January 2015 having previously been an Executive Director. Mr Shetty’s total 
remuneration in relation to his previous executive role with the Company for FY2014 was US$460.8k. 
None of the Non–Executive directors received any benefits, pension, STIP or LTIP entitlements or payments during FY2014 and FY2015.
Given the extension of the Company’s growth strategy in 2015 and the complexity of business challenges faced during the year, 
there was a significant increase in the time commitment required from our Non-Executive Directors. To reflect this increase in the 
provision of services to the Group, the Executive Directors agreed to make a payment to each of the Non-Executive Directors during 
the year. The fees paid to reflect the additional time commitment were £25k for each Non-Executive Director, £30k for the Senior 
Independent Director and £35k for the Chairman and are in line with our shareholder approved Policy. These amounts are included 
in the FY2015 Remuneration in the table above.
2016 REMUNERATION
Executive remuneration in 2016
This section summarises the expected implementation of the remuneration policy in 2016.
As noted in the Chairman’s letter, the Committee reviewed the remuneration for our Executive Directors during the year and  
made changes to recognise the exceptional performance of the Company. In addition, we took into account the need to retain  
our management team as they will be critical in successfully executing our future strategic ambitions.
The Committee also considered the positioning of current remuneration against the top quartile of companies in the FTSE 250 based 
on their financial size, and sought to ensure that our Executive Directors are positioned appropriately against this reference point.
Base salaries for 2016 
Given the background outlined above, the Remuneration Committee has increased in 2016 the base salary of the Executive Vice 
Chairman & CEO to £650,000 and the Deputy CEO to £550,000. The Committee felt it was important to recognise:
• the fundamental role our Executive Directors have played in the Group’s progress which, supported by the Board and 
shareholders, have translated into a significant and sustained increase in value for our shareholders; and
• the clear and significant gap between executive remuneration levels paid in previous years and relevant market comparative 
remuneration levels confirmed by Deloitte, the Committee’s independent advisers. 76 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued
2016 REMUNERATION continued
Operation of the STIP for 2016 
As set out in the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s letter above, following a review of the operation of the Company’s STIP 
incentive arrangement against market data prepared by Deloitte LLP, the Remuneration Committee has determined that it intends 
to increase the maximum STIP opportunity for the Executive Directors to 150% of base salary. It is further proposed that the way in 
which any award from the 2016 STIP will be delivered will also change from previous years, with one-third of any STIP award being 
made in cash and two-thirds deferred into shares, half of which will vest one year after the award is made and the other half two 
years after the award.
The increase in the maximum STIP opportunity is outside the scope of the Company’s remuneration policy approved at the 2014 
AGM and is therefore subject to approval of shareholders and will be subject to a vote at the 2016 AGM. 
The performance targets that will apply for the 2016 financial year have been set after considering the Group’s priorities for the year. 
The Remuneration Committee considers that the specific targets are commercially sensitive at this stage as they could disclose 
details of budgeting and strategy for 2016 to the Company’s competitors. The Remuneration Committee will disclose details in respect 
of the targets when it is satisfied that these are no longer commercially sensitive, likely in the 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Measure
Purpose and link to
remuneration strategy Performance measure Target
Percentage 
weighting for 
relevant 
individuals
Financial Optimize cost  
of services
EBITDA target and 
gateway hurdle 
Achieve minimum levels of EBITDA set by the 
Committee (including EBITDA from all Group 
businesses as at the date of this report). 
This target recognises that minimum levels of 
EBITDA must be achieved for the financial year, 
ensuring that new acquisitions in FY2015 and Q1, 
2016 perform well and that the new facilities 
opened by the Company, including NMC Royal 
Hospital, Khalifa City, ramp-up well after opening.
Additionally, a targeted level of EBITDA must be 
achieved before any STIP entitlement is earned  
in relation to FY2015.
25
Non-financial Strengthen and 
maintain NMC’s 
corporate image
JCI Accreditation Achievement of set targets in relation to the 
monitoring of those clinical and quality indicators 
which are required to reach a certain standard 
under the Group’s JCI accreditations.
25
Strategic growth Expansion into  
new geographies
Part of the Strategic growth plan agreed by the 
Board includes the expansion of the Healthcare 
division into new geographic locations, principally 
other GCC countries outside of the UAE.
The Remuneration Committee has set targets 
related to this geographic expansion. 
25
New facility 
performance
Ramp-up of NMC 
Royal Hospital,  
Khalifa City
NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City, is the Group’s 
newest and largest facility, and will be a regional 
flagship hub for the Group’s Healthcare division.  
The Committee has set targets relating to the 
number of operational beds in this facility, and 
average occupancy of those beds, for 2016 as  
this will have a direct impact on both revenue  
and EBITDA levels for the Group
25
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued 77 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Measure
Purpose and link to
remuneration strategy Performance measure Target
Percentage 
weighting for 
relevant 
individuals
Financial Optimize cost  
of services
EBITDA target and 
gateway hurdle 
Achieve minimum levels of EBITDA set by the 
Committee (including EBITDA from all Group 
businesses as at the date of this report). 
This target recognises that minimum levels of 
EBITDA must be achieved for the financial year, 
ensuring that new acquisitions in FY2015 and Q1, 
2016 perform well and that the new facilities 
opened by the Company, including NMC Royal 
Hospital, Khalifa City, ramp-up well after opening.
Additionally, a targeted level of EBITDA must be 
achieved before any STIP entitlement is earned  
in relation to FY2015.
25
Non-financial Strategic growth Expansion into  
new geographies
Part of the Strategic growth plan agreed by the 
Board includes the expansion of the Healthcare 
division into new geographic locations, principally 
other GCC countries outside of the UAE.
The Remuneration Committee has set targets 
related to this geographic expansion. 
25
New facility 
performance
Ramp-up of NMC 
Royal Hospital,  
Khalifa City
NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City, is the Group’s 
newest and largest facility, and will be a regional 
flagship hub for the Group’s Healthcare division.  
The Committee has set targets relating to the 
number of operational beds in this facility, and 
average occupancy of those beds, for 2016 as  
this will have a direct impact on both revenue  
and EBITDA levels for the Group.
25
Group efficiencies Establishment of 
Central Laboratory
This measure relates to plans to open a centralised 
laboratory structure within the Group’s Healthcare 
division. This target has been set to ensure as 
many facilities as possible are using the central 
laboratory for their laboratory testing requirements 
in the short term.
This target specifically promotes efficiencies within 
the Healthcare division and will assist in maintaining 
high laboratory standards.
25 78 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued
2016 REMUNERATION continued
Operation of the LTIP for 2016 
The operation of the LTIP for 2016 will be consistent with the Company’s Remuneration policy approved by Shareholders at the 
Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting and similar in operation to the LTIP commenced in 2014. The award level for achieving 
maximum performance will be 150% of base salary.
The performance targets that will apply for awards made under the plan in the 2016 financial year will be as follows:
Measure
Purpose and link to
remuneration strategy Performance measure Target
Percentage 
weighting  
for relevant 
individuals
Individual subject 
to target
Total 
shareholder 
return (TSR)
To incentivise 
management  
to deliver long 
term returns to 
shareholders
TSR growth compared  
to a comparator group  
of companies.
The Committee has decided 
to change the comparator 
group of companies as the 
previous comparator group 
does not include directly 
comparable business. It has 
been agreed therefore to use 
the constituents of the FTSE 
250 (excluding investment 
trusts) as the relevant 
comparator group for 2016.
25% of this element  
of the award will vest 
for performance equal 
to the median of the 
comparator group with 
100% vesting for upper 
quartile performance  
or better.
Vesting is on a straight 
line basis between 
these points.
50% Executive Vice 
Chairman and CEO 
(Dr B.R. Shetty)
Deputy CEO 
(Prasanth Manghat)
Earnings per 
share (EPS)
To incentivise 
management  
to deliver  
bottom line 
earnings growth
Annual compound growth in 
EPS between the base year 
(i.e. 2015) and the end of the 
performance period.
25% of this element  
of the award vests  
for compound EPS 
growth of 6% per 
annum with 100% 
vesting for EPS growth 
of 15% per annum.
Vesting is on a straight 
line basis between 
these points.
50% Executive Vice 
Chairman and CEO 
(Dr B.R. Shetty)
Deputy CEO 
(Prasanth Manghat)
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration in 2016
For 2016, the fees payable to the non-executive directors effective as at 1 January 2016 are as follows:
(£’000)
Chairman 180
Senior Independent Director 70
Non-executive director 60
Additional fees may be also payable to non-executive directors from time to time for additional board responsibilities (this may 
include fees for additional time commitments).
No additional fees are payable in relation to the Chairmanship or membership of any Board Committees. 
Details of the remuneration paid to each of the non-executive directors who served during the year are included in the table  
on page 75.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or incentive plan or other form or performance-related remuneration.  
The Company does not provide any contribution to their pension arrangements.
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued 79 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
OTHER INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’ SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT
Executive Directors’ service agreement and employment contracts 
Each of the following served as Executive Directors for all of the 2015 financial year and were subject to service agreements entered 
into with NMC Healthcare LLC, one of the Company’s subsidiaries. 
Date of agreement
Dr B.R. Shetty 19 March 2012
Prasanth Manghat 1 May 2011
Dr B.R. Shetty is employed by NMC Healthcare LLC pursuant to a service agreement dated 19 March 2012. The service agreement 
provides for an indefinite term of employment unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the service agreement.  
The service agreement provided that, unless otherwise agreed between the parties, the service agreement can only be terminated 
on twelve months’ prior written notice given by either Dr B.R. Shetty or NMC Healthcare LLC. 
Mr Prasanth Manghat is employed by NMC Healthcare LLC pursuant to an employment contract dated 1 May 2011. The contract 
provides for a renewable two year term of employment unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the contract.  
The Contract provides that, unless otherwise agreed between the parties, the contract can be terminated on one months’ prior 
written notice given by either Prasanth Manghat or NMC Healthcare LLC.
Copies of the Service Agreement for Dr B.R. Shetty and employment contract for Mr Prasanth Manghat are available for inspection 
during normal business hours at the Company’s Registered Office, and are available for inspection at the Company’s annual 
general meeting.
For future executives the Committee policy is that notice periods will not exceed 12 months. There are no matters for which the 
Company requires approval of shareholders for the purposes of Chapter 4A of Part 10 of the Companies Act 2006.
Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.  
The appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors is stated for an initial term until the next annual general meeting of the 
Company at which, and at subsequent annual general meetings, they need to submit themselves for re-election if they so wish. 
Each of the Non-Executive Directors have a minimum time commitment that they need to give to the Company in any year.
The letters of appointment for each Non-Executive Director are summarised below:
Director Position Date of appointment
Company and Director 
notice period
H.J. Mark Tompkins Non-Executive Chairman 7 March 2012 3 months
Dr Ayesha Abdullah Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months
Abdulrahman Basaddiq Non-Executive Director 24 February 2014 3 months
Jonathan Bomford Senior Independent Director 27 June 2013 3 months
Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director 7 March 2012 3 months
Salma Hareb Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months
Keyur Nagori Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months
Binay Shetty Non-Executive Director 1 January 2015 3 months
Dr Nandini Tandon Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months
There is no compensation payable upon the early termination of a Non-Executive Directors’ appointment.
Copies of the above Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment are available for inspection during normal business hours at 
the Company’s Registered Office, and available for inspection at the Company’s annual general meeting. 80 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
OTHER INFORMATION continued
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS – SUBJECT TO AUDIT
Directors’ shareholdings
The table below shows details of the Directors’ holdings of Ordinary Shares in the Company as at 1 January 2015 and at 
31 December 2015.
Director
Ordinary shares of 10p each
Share options over 
Ordinary shares of 10p each
1 January  
2015
31 December 
2015
1 January  
2015
31 December 
2015
H.J. Mark Tompkins (Note 1) 17,083 25,083 0 0
Dr B.R. Shetty (Note 2) 47,749,250 47,749,250 108,949 259,833
Prasanth Manghat 8,308 8,308 53,146 139,859
Dr Ayesha Abdullah 0 0 0 0
Abdulrahman Basaddiq 0 0 0 0
Jonathan Bomford 10,000 12,000 0 0
Lord Clanwilliam 0 0 0 0
Salma Hareb 0 0 0 0
Heather Lawrence (Note 3) 4,557 6,347 0 0
Keyur Nagori 0 0 0 0
Binay Shetty 6,842 6,842 9,926 21,464
Dr Nandini Tandon 0 0 0 0
Notes:
1. The interests of Mr H.J. Mark Tompkins in relation to the ordinary shares of the Company include the shares held in the name of his wife and by a family trust 
of which he is considered a beneficiary.
2. The interests in relation to both ordinary shares and options over ordinary shares of the Company for Dr B.R. Shetty include the shares and options in the 
name of his wife, Dr C R Shetty. 
3. Heather Lawrence resigned as a Director of the Company on 12 January 2016.
None of the Directors received any loans, advances or other form of credit granted by the Company, nor were any guarantees  
of any kind provided by the Company on behalf of any Directors during the year ended 31 December 2015.
Except as stated above, none of the Directors who held office during the year held any Ordinary Shares or options over Ordinary 
Shares of the Company during the year. There have been no changes in the above shareholdings between 31 December 2015  
and the date of this Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Executive directors are expected to build a shareholding of 200% of base salary over the 5 year period to the end of 2019. The first share 
incentive awards granted to the Executive Directors do not vest until October 2017. The Executive Vice Chairman & CEO is a significant 
shareholder in the Company and therefore already meets this shareholding requirement. The Deputy CEO holds shares valued at 
£69.8k (based on the share price at 31 December 2015). These have a value of c. 20% of salary (based on salary at 31 December 2015).
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued 81 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Directors’ interests in shares
The following tables show details of the share awards made to Executive Directors that have not yet vested.
Long Term Incentive Plan
Type of interest
Performance
period ending Award Date
Market price 
at date of 
award
Exercise 
price
Shares 
awarded
Face value 
of award
% vesting for 
minimum 
performance Vesting date
Dr B.R. Shetty LTIP award 
subject to 
performance
31 December 
2016
29 October 
2014
494.9p 0p 50,923 £252,018 25% of
award
29 October 
2017
Dr B.R. Shetty LTIP award 
subject to 
performance
31 December 
2017
25 February 
2015
520p 0p 57,692 £300,000 25% of
award
25 February 
2018
Dr B.R. Shetty LTIP award 
subject to 
performance
31 December 
2017
8 September 
2015
760.5p 0p 26,298 £200,000 25% of
award
8 September 
2018
Mr Prasanth 
Manghat
LTIP award 
subject to 
performance
31 December 
2016
29 October 
2014
494.9p 0p 40,738 £202,834 25% of
award
29 October 
2017
Mr Prasanth 
Manghat
LTIP award 
subject to 
performance
31 December 
2017
25 February 
2015
520p 0p 50,000 £260,000 25% of
award
25 February 
2018
Mr Prasanth 
Manghat
LTIP award 
subject to 
performance
31 December 
2017
8 September 
2015
760.5p 0p 23,011 £175,000 25% of
award
8 September 
2018
Details of the performance measures attached to the LTIP awards are set out on page 74●.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
Type of interest
Financial year 
share award made 
in respect of
Award 
date
Market price 
at date of 
award
Exercise 
price
Shares 
awarded
Face value 
of award Vesting date
Dr B.R. Shetty Deferred shares subject to 
continued employment
2013 29 October 
2014
494.9p 0p 15,510 £76,759 29 October 
2017
Dr B.R. Shetty Deferred shares subject to 
continued employment
2014 25 February 
2015
520.0p 0p 17,470 £90,844 25 February 
2018
Mr Prasanth 
Manghat
Deferred shares subject to 
continued employment
2013 29 October 
2014
494.9p 0p 12,408 £61,407 29 October 
2017
Mr Prasanth 
Manghat
Deferred shares subject to 
continued employment
2014 25 February 
2015
520p 0p 13,702 £71,250 25 February 
2018
Mr Binay 
Shetty
Deferred shares subject to 
continued employment
2013 29 October 
2014
494.9p 0p 9,926 £49,123 29 October 
2017
No options vested or were exercised during the year.  82 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND HISTORIC EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN & CEO REMUNERATION OUTCOMES 
The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return performance of NMC Health plc shares against the FTSE 250. 
Mar
12
Jul
12
Nov
12
Mar
13
Jul
13
Nov
13
Mar
14
Nov
14
Mar
15
Jul
15
Nov
15
Mar
16
Jul
14
NMC Health FTSE 250
0
100
200
300
400
500
Source: DataStream as at 9 March 2016.
The Committee believes that the FTSE 250 Index is an appropriate comparator index used to compare performance given that  
the Company is a constituent of this Index and the lack of direct competitor comparators available in the London market. 
The table below summarises the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO’s single figure for total remuneration since listing. This table is 
also required to show the long-term incentive vesting as a percentage of the maximum for each year, however LTIP grants were 
made for the first time in 2014 and none have yet vested. 
Executive Vice Chairman & CEO – Dr B.R. Shetty
2012  
(US$’000)
2013  
(US$’000)
2014  
(US$’000)
2015  
(US$’000)
Single remuneration figure 550.6 787.4 849.7 1,252.1
STIP payout (% of maximum) n/a 75% 95% 100%
LTI vesting (% of maximum) n/a n/a n/a n/a
The Company did not operate the STIP in respect of 2012. 
PAY ACROSS THE GROUP
The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO and that of all employees during 
the 2015 financial year:
% Salary Annual bonus Benefits 
Executive Vice Chairman & CEO 33.3% 92.1% 4.8%
All-employees 8% n/a* 5%
* Note: the Company does not operate bonus plans for all employees.
Directors’ remuneration report 2015 continued 83 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The graph below shows the total group-wide remuneration expenditure and dividends for the last two years. 
 2014  2015
It is my pleasure to submit this report to shareholders. The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and  
is signed on its behalf by: 
LORD CLANWILLIAM 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
76.6
13.8
158
82.2
15.3
239.2
100
300
250
200
150
50
0
Profit for the 
financial year 
attributable 
to equity 
shareholders ($m)
Distributions to 
shareholders ($m)
Total employee 
pay ($m) 84 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
The Directors of NMC Health plc are pleased to present their Annual Report including the audited consolidated financial statements 
for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management report as required under Disclosure & Transparency 
Rule 4. Certain information required to be set out in this Directors’ Report can be found elsewhere in the 2015 Annual Report and  
is referenced below. This information is incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENTS
The Directors are required to make a statement regarding the preparation of the financial statements and also to provide details 
regarding the disclosure of information to the Company’s auditor. The Code also requires the Board to review and make statements 
in relation to management’s report on internal controls, the adoption of the Going Concern method of accounting and the long 
term viability of the Group. All of these statements are set out on pages 87 to 89.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 41 to 85 is incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference.
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY
The Strategic Report set out on pages 6 to 39 includes the Company’s business model and strategy.
DIRECTORS
The following served as directors of the Company during the 2015 financial year:
Director
H.J. Mark Tompkins
Dr B.R. Shetty
Prasanth Manghat
Dr Ayesha Abdullah
Abdulrahman Basaddiq
Jonathan Bomford
Lord Clanwilliam
Salma Hareb
Heather Lawrence
Keyur Nagori
Binay Shetty
Dr Nandini Tandon
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
All information relating to the Company’s capital structure, including rights attaching to shares, details of the Company’s principal 
shareholders and other shareholder information in contained on the inside back cover.
DIVIDENDS
Details of the Company’s dividend policy and proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 31 December 2015 is set out in the 
Financial Review on page 27.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.4 C
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules (LR 9.8.4C), the information to be included in the Annual Report, 
where applicable, under LR 9.8.4, is set out in this Directors’ Report, with the exception of transactions with controlling shareholders 
which is set out on pages 139 to 140 (Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and interest capitalised which is set out on 
page 132 to 133 (Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
The Company’s disclosure in relation to its greenhouse gas emissions is included within the sustainability section of the Corporate 
Social Responsibility report on pages 29 to 31.
Directors’ report 2015 85 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
POLITICAL DONATIONS
Neither the Company nor any subsidiary company in the Group made any political donations during the year ended 
31 December 2015.
Whilst the Company has no intention of making formal political donations in the future, the Board acknowledge that given the 
wide interpretation of such donations, certain business events in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or the Board, may 
wish to participate may be caught under the formal definition of political donations. The Company will therefore again be seeking 
approval from shareholders at this year’s annual general meeting, for a small approved limit for “political donations”, for use in such 
circumstances. If this is approved by shareholders, the Board will provide full details of any such payments made in the next 
annual report.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, and the exposure of the Group to financial instruments,  
are included in Note 33 to the financial statements on pages 141 to 144.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Details of any important and material events affecting the Group which have occurred since the end of the 2015 financial year,  
are set out in Note 39 to the consolidated financial statements.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
The Group’s strategy and potential future development are outlined in the Group Strategic Report on pages 6 to 39.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Eugin Foundation, part of the Clinica Eugin business, carries out research and development focused on fertility and human 
reproduction with particular regards to personal and social aspects as well as promotion of health.
BRANCHES
The Group normally operates across all jurisdictions where it has a business presence through the incorporation of registered 
entities, but also operates through a number of branches where this is considered appropriate from an operational or regulatory 
perspective. A detailed list of entities and branches in the Group is provided in section 2.2 of financial statements.
CONTRACTS OF SIGNIFICANCE AND CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENT
Under UAE law and regulations, with the exception of certain specific areas designated by the Government as such, all land must  
be held legally by a UAE National. In addition, all healthcare facility and pharmacy operating licences may only be held legally by  
a UAE National, and not a body corporate. As a result, some of the property owned beneficially by the Group and all the Group’s 
medical facility and pharmacy licences, are held legally in the name of either H.E. Saeed Bin Butti or Mr Khalifa Bin Butti, both  
previous Directors and continuing significant shareholders of the Company.
The Company has an agreement with Dr B.R. Shetty, H.E. Saeed Bin Butti and Khalifa Bin Butti (“Controlling Shareholders”) under 
which the Controlling Shareholders agree to comply with the independence provisions of the UKLA Listing Rules. The Company 
has complied with the independence provisions contained in that agreement and, as far as the Company are aware, the 
Controlling Shareholders and any of their associates have also complied with such provisions and the procurement obligations 
included in the agreement.
The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board on 13 March 2016 and are signed on behalf of the Board by:
SIMON WATKINS
Group Company Secretary
NMC Health plc (registered in England and Wales, number 7712220)
Level 1, Devonshire House, One Mayfair Place, London W1J 8AJ 86
Financial Statements
In this section:
87 Directors’ statements
90 Independent auditor’s report
95 Consolidated income statement
99 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income
100 Consolidated statement of financial position
101 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
102 Consolidated statement of cash flows
103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
148 Statement of financial position
149 Statement of changes in equity
150 Statement of cash flows
151 Notes to the financial statements
Financial 
Statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required by Company Law to prepare financial statements for the Group and the Company in accordance with  
the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“IFRS”). 
The financial statements are required to present fairly for each financial period the Company’s financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows. In preparing the Group and parent company financial statements the Directors are also required to:
• Properly select and consistently apply accounting policies;
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• Make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements. The Directors also 
confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding  
the assets and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the 
preparation of a Directors’ report and Directors’ remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU,  
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal  
risks and uncertainties they face.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITORS
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors:
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors‘ Report are set out on pages 44 to 47.  
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Company‘s Auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: 
• to the best of each Director‘s knowledge and belief, there is no information (that is, information needed by the group‘s Auditor  
in connection with preparing their report) of which the Company‘s Auditor is unaware; and 
• each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company‘s Auditor is aware of that information.
EY have confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2016. 
Directors’ statements
87 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report  88 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Directors’ statements continued
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY
Going Concern
The Group has two diverse operating divisions, both of which operate in a growing market. Management have undertaken an 
assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to. In this assessment of whether 
the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, management have considered:
Operating risk: The management team prepare a Group budget for each financial year and a cashflow forecast for the following 
18 months which allows the Board to monitor the financial position of the Group and to consider appropriate risks which the business 
may face from a financial perspective. Included in this review are future cashflow, both acquisition costs and subsequent cashflow 
generation, associated with acquisitions agreed but not completed at the end of the 2015 financial year. The Board receives monthly 
management reports covering key operational matters, monthly comparison to budget and updated forecasts on a half yearly basis 
for the full financial year to ensure that the business is trading in line with its expectations. 
Financing risk: The Company has worked to structure its financing facilities for the medium and long term as well as utilising  
short term facilities to meet the Group’s working capital requirements. In 2015 the Group entered into a structured consortium 
arrangement of US$825m as new syndicated loan facility, comprising US$350m of term debt and US$475m of delayed drawdown 
acquisition facilities. As at 31 December 2015, the Company has utilised all of the US$350m term debt facility available as well as 
US$164m of the delayed drawdown facility. Since 1 January 2016, a further US$219m has been utilised from the delayed drawdown 
facility, leaving US$93m unutilised. 
The Group has banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups. Debt covenants are reviewed by 
the board each month. The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and the improved debt facility 
terms agreed during 2015 mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its acquisitive growth strategy and in relation 
to working capital requirements. 
Customer and Supplier risk: Both the Healthcare and the Distribution divisions have delivered a robust performance in 2015. All 
major financial and non-financial KPIs showed good improvement during 2015. In the Healthcare division, trade receivables are 
monitored regularly, provisions made where necessary and the Group has no history of significant bad debts. In the Distribution 
division, the increase in revenue and product flow has again had the anticipated adverse effect on the Group’s working capital 
position. However trade receivables are monitored regularly and management maintain a close working relationship with all  
major suppliers to monitor performance as well as signs of financial risk. 
The Board has reviewed a high level budget for 2016 as well as considered growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in UAE,  
in particular the continued positive impact from the introduction of mandatory healthcare insurance in Dubai, and from the  
Group’s newly opened and newly acquired businesses, and considers the Group’s future forecasts to be reasonable. 
Impairment risk: The Board has considered the carrying value and useful economic lives of inventories, accounts receivable, 
property and equipment and intangible assets and concluded that there are no indicators of material impairment of these  
items and therefore no material cash flow impact associated with any loss in those areas.
In its review, management also considered other areas of potential risk, including regulatory risk, insurance and legal risks and 
potential areas of material contingent liability and found no matters which are likely to affect the viability of the Group in the 
medium term.
The Board has reviewed and considered management’s formal assessment of the going concern concept of accounting and the 
cash flow forecast that has been prepared for the period to 30 June 2017 and has concluded that this assessment and forecast 
indicates that the Group has positive cash flows with sufficient headroom and will comply with all debt covenants.
The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.  89 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Viability
In order to protect longer term shareholder value, the Board have always considered how Group performance and its strategic 
decisions will affect the financial and operational prospects of the Group in the longer term. This year, as recommended by 
provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a formal assessment of the prospects  
of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months review period required under the ‘Going Concern basis of accounting. 
Management conducted a formal viability review looking forward for a period of three years. This period was selected as the most 
appropriate timeframe over which the future prospects of the Group should be considered given the Group’s changing nature and 
significant growth, the time taken to fully integrate acquired businesses and ramp-up newly opened facilities and the maturity 
date of current debt obligations. 
In its review, management considered the current position of the Group and the following principal financial risks associated with 
the business:
• Risks associated with investments 
• The impact of UAE market competition
• Potential instability associated with the UAE macroeconomic environment
The three year review considered the Group’s profitability, cash flows, banking covenants and other key financial ratios over the 
period. These metrics were subjected to sensitivity analysis which involved flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying 
the forecasts both individually and in unison, including increases in financing costs and inflationary pressures, reduction in revenues 
resulting from lower expat residencies in the UAE and insurance reimbursement and an increase in human capital costs. Where 
appropriate, an analysis was carried out to evaluate the potential impact of any of these principal risks actually occurring. 
Based on the results of this formal assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of the assessment.
By Order of the Board
SIMON WATKINS
Group Company Secretary 90 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Independent auditor’s report 
To the members of NMC Health Plc
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
• NMC Health plc’s Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true 
and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the group’s profit for 
the year then ended;
• The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED
NMC Health plc’s financial statements comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015
Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year  
then ended
Statement of cash flows for the year then ended
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 15 to the financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended
Related Notes 1 to 39 to the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as regards the parent company financial statements as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Risks of material 
misstatement
• Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition and the determination of whether 
the Group is acting in the capacity of an agent rather than principal.
• Accounting for major complex transactions.
Audit scope • We performed an audit of the complete financial information of ten components and audit procedures 
on specific balances for a further five components.
• The components (including consolidation adjustments) where we performed full or specific audit 
procedures accounted for 100% of adjusted Profit before tax, 94% of Revenue and 97% of Total assets.
Materiality • Overall Group materiality of $4.62m which represents 5% of adjusted Profit before tax.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, 
the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed 
the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not 
express any opinion on these individual areas. 91 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to  
the Audit Committee
Revenue recognition, including the timing of 
revenue recognition and the determination  
of whether the Group is acting in the capacity  
of an agent rather than principal 
(The Group has revenue of $880.9m,  
2014: $643.9m).
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 54); 
Accounting policies (pages 109 to 110); and Note 5 
and 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(starting on pages 117 and 123 respectively).
The Group has a number of revenue streams 
relating to its Healthcare and Distribution 
segments including clinic revenues, insurance 
claims, over-the-counter sales, pharmacy sales 
and sales of goods. There is a risk of improper 
revenue recognition, particularly with regard to 
cut-off at period end dates, in the healthcare 
business, given the diversity of the Group’s 
healthcare operations, and in the distribution 
business. Furthermore, there is a risk that 
management may incorrectly determine 
whether the Group is acting as principal  
or agent in certain arrangements such as 
distribution agreements with key suppliers 
and revenue sharing agreements with doctors.
The risk has increased in the current year  
due to the acquisitions which have resulted  
in new revenue streams for the Group.
We relied upon the controls tested over  
revenue recognition, including the timing  
of revenue recognition. 
We performed analytical review procedures and 
performed cut-off testing procedures (by selecting 
a sample of transactions either side of year-end) 
to check that revenue had been recognised in  
the appropriate accounting period. 
We performed procedures on contractual 
arrangements in respect of new and one-off  
fee income and considered the appropriateness 
of the accounting through verification to legal 
agreements and vouching the amounts 
recognised to invoices and cash receipts.
We tested a sample of new distribution 
agreements entered into during the year and 
revenue sharing contracts with doctors in newly 
acquired businesses to verify that the Group’s 
determination that they are acting as a principal 
rather than an agent is appropriate. 
We checked the Group’s adherence to their 
revenue recognition policies and we agreed  
that these policies are in accordance with  
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. 
We performed full and specific scope audit 
procedures over this risk area in 13 locations, 
which covered 94% of the risk amount  
(including consolidation adjustments).
Based on the audit 
procedures performed, we 
are satisfied that revenue 
recognition is appropriate 
and that the Group has 
appropriately adhered to 
their revenue recognition 
policies, including the 
determination of whether 
the Group is acting as agent 
rather than as principal. 92 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to  
the Audit Committee
Accounting for major complex 
transactions 
(The Group recognised goodwill of $345.1m 
and intangible assets of $74.8m in respect 
of the acquisitions made in the current 
year. There were no acquisitions in the 
prior year.)
Refer to the Audit Committee Report  
(page 54); Accounting policies (pages 111  
to 113); Significant Accounting Judgements 
and Estimates (Note 2.3) and Notes 5, 18,  
36 and 37 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements (starting on pages 117, 133,  
145 and 146 respectively).
The Group made a number of significant 
acquisitions during the year including  
the Luarmia S.L group of companies, 
Americare Group, Dr Sunny Healthcare 
Group and ProVita International Medical 
Center LLC. The contractual arrangements 
for such transactions can be complex and 
require management to apply judgement 
in determining whether a transaction 
represents an acquisition of an asset  
or a business combination.
There is a risk that the estimates and 
judgements made in the recognition of  
an acquisition as a business combination 
may be inappropriate and the valuation  
of the assets and liabilities acquired may 
be misstated.
The complexity of the multiple contractual 
arrangements in respect of certain 
acquisitions and related services, and  
the different legal environments in which 
acquisitions have been undertaken, may 
lead to inappropriate judgements as to  
the basis of accounting.
Furthermore, there is a risk that these 
acquisitions may be recognised before the 
Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable 
returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the investee.
This is a new risk in the current year  
given that there were a number of such 
transactions in the current year and none 
in the prior year.
We obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase 
agreements entered into for the acquisitions  
which took place in the year and other relevant 
documentation to understand the terms and 
conditions of the agreements.
We assessed the judgements applied in determining 
whether acquisitions in the year represented an 
acquisition of an asset or a business combination.  
This involved assessing whether or not the entities  
and the assets acquired constitute the carrying  
on of a business, i.e., whether there are inputs and 
processes applied to those inputs that have the  
ability to create outputs. 
Where transactions met the definition of a business 
combination we audited the Group’s assessment of  
the assets and liabilities acquired and the allocation of 
the purchase consideration to these and the resultant 
goodwill or gain on bargain purchase recognised by 
performing the following procedures:
• We assessed the appropriateness of the recognition 
of intangible assets and consideration of their 
valuation inputs.
• We verified that the consideration transferred, and 
where relevant contingent consideration, in respect  
of each transaction was appropriately calculated  
in accordance with contractual arrangements.
• We assessed management’s judgements in respect 
of what arrangements should be accounted for  
as part of the business combination and those  
that should be accounted for separately from the 
business combination.
We assessed whether the Group is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with  
the investee and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the investee as at the date upon 
which the acquisitions were recognised.
We verified the appropriateness of the consolidation 
adjustments in respect of accounting for these 
transactions.
We assessed the accounting for the acquisitions  
to verify that they were accounted for and, where 
appropriate, disclosed in the financial statements  
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the  
European Union.
We performed full scope audit procedures over Luarmia 
S.L group of companies, Americare Group, Dr Sunny 
Healthcare Group and ProVita International Medical 
Center LLC which represented all of the significant 
complex transactions in the current year. 
Based upon the procedures 
we have performed, we 
concur with the Group’s 
final accounting for the 
acquisitions of Luarmia S.L 
group of companies and 
Americare Group, and the 
provisional accounting for 
the acquisitions of Dr Sunny 
Healthcare Group and 
ProVita International 
Medical Center as at 
31 December 2015.
We have reviewed the 
business combinations 
disclosures in respect  
of the acquisitions which 
completed in 2015 and  
we believe that these  
are appropriate and in 
compliance with the 
requirements of IFRS 3 
Business combinations.
We also performed audit procedures on the purchase 
price allocation exercise in respect of these acquisitions 
which covered 100% of the goodwill and intangible 
assets recognised in respect of these transactions.
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of NMC Health Plc 93 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included risks of material misstatement in relation to the risk of valuation of trade receivables.  
In the current year, based upon the demonstrated history of debt collection and expected future trends, this was not a risk that had 
the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of efforts of the audit team. 
In the prior year, our auditor’s report also included capitalisation of costs into capital work in progress as a risk of material misstatement. 
This year this was not a risk that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the 
direction of efforts of the audit team given that the quantum of capital work in progress has reduced and the likelihood of material 
misstatement was not considered to be high given that the majority of capitalised work in progress at year-end relates to a fixed price 
construction contract.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT 
TAILORING THE SCOPE
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope 
for each entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We 
take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business 
environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results and whether the components have been newly acquired when 
assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative 
coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 21 reporting components of the Group, we selected 14 components 
covering entities within the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Spain, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 14 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of ten components (full scope 
components) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics; one of these components is located in Spain and the 
remainder in the UAE. For the remaining four components (specific scope components), all of which are located in the UAE, we 
performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest 
impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. 
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 139% of the Group’s adjusted Profit before tax  
(2014: 150% of the Group’s Profit before tax), 97% (2014: 96%) of the Group’s Revenue and 154% (2014: 156%) of the Group’s Total assets. 
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 139% of the Group’s adjusted Profit before tax (2014: 152% of the Group’s 
Profit before tax), 85% (2014: 89%) of the Group’s Revenue and 140% (2014: 149%) of the Group’s Total assets. 
The specific scope components contributed 0% of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax (2014: -2% of the Group’s Profit before tax), 
12% (2014: 7%) of the Group’s Revenue and 14% (2014: 7%) of the Group’s Total assets. The audit scope of these components may not 
have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts 
tested for the Group. Specific scope component testing is primarily focused on the significant risk in relation to revenue recognition 
however it also included procedures on property and equipment balances. 
We also performed specified procedures over certain aspects of property and equipment at a 15th component located in the UAE.
Of the remaining six components, all of which are located in the UAE, that together represent -1% of the Group’s adjusted Profit 
before tax, none are individually greater than 2% of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax. For these components, we performed 
other procedures, including analytical review testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any 
potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The Group audit team also performed audit procedures over consolidation and foreign exchange adjustments, which were  
net negative to Revenue and adjusted Profit before tax of 3% and 39%, respectively (2014: net negative to Revenue and Profit  
before tax of 4% and 49% respectively), and reduced the calculated total overall percentage coverage to 97% (2014: 96%) and 100%, 
(2014: 100%) respectively. 94 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Group audit scope
Number of 
locations
% of 
adjusted 
PBT
% of 
Revenue
% of Total 
assets 
Full 10 139% 85% 140%
Specific 4 0% 12% 14%
Specified procedures 1 1% 1% 0%
Not significant by size or risk (other procedures) 6 (1%) 5% 3%
Consolidation adjustments audited by Group audit team (39%) (3%) (57%)
Total coverage 100% 100% 100%
CHANGES FROM THE PRIOR YEAR 
During the year the Group acquired Luarmia S.L, Americare Group, Dr Sunny Healthcare Group and ProVita International Medical 
Center LLC; these components were all assigned as full scope components. Furthermore, one component which was not in scope 
in the prior year was a specific scope component this year in order to increase the coverage of the Group’s revenue and adjusted 
Profit before tax subject to audit procedures. 
INTEGRATED TEAM STRUCTURE AND INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS 
The overall audit strategy is determined by the Senior Statutory Auditor. The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK but, since 
Group management and the majority of the operations reside in the UAE, the Group audit team includes members from both the 
UK and the UAE. The Group audit team members from the UAE are also members of the component teams.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the 
components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating 
under our instruction. Of the ten full scope components, audit procedures were performed on one of these directly by the primary 
audit team and audit procedures were performed on the remaining nine by the component audit teams, one of which is located in 
Spain and the others in the UAE. For the components where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the 
appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our 
opinion on the Group as a whole.
Given that the Group operates predominantly in the UAE the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the UAE five times during the current 
year audit process and members of the Group audit team in both jurisdictions work together as an integrated team throughout the 
audit process. During the year the Group acquired Luarmia S.L group of companies based in Spain which are audited by a component 
team in Spain. The Senior Statutory Auditor or members of the Group audit team visited Spain three times during the current year 
audit process. These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, 
meeting with local management (including of newly acquired entities), attending planning and closing meetings, performing site 
visits to medical facilities, reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas as well as involvement by the Group audit team in the 
audit procedures on significant risk areas, primarily revenue recognition and accounting for major complex transactions. The primary 
team interacted regularly with the component teams in the UAE and Spain where appropriate during various stages of the audit, 
reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional 
procedures performed at Group level by the Group audit team, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on 
the audit and in forming our audit opinion. 
MATERIALITY
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent 
of our audit procedures.
We initially determined materiality for the Group to be $5.67m (2014: $3.88m), which is 5% of forecast adjusted Profit before tax (2014: 
5% of Profit before tax). We believe that it is appropriate to use adjusted Profit before tax in order to exclude the effects of certain 
non-recurring items from profit before tax. These related to the write-off of unamortised finance fees resulting from the refinance 
of loan facilities in the year of $2.61m and the costs of $4.13m in respect of the acquisitions which took place during the year.  
We Note that management have excluded these one-off items when assessing the performance of the Group. In the prior year 
there were no such non-recurring items and hence Profit before tax was used as the basis for setting materiality last year. We 
used a profit based measure for determining materiality as profit is one of the KPIs of the business and a focus of users of the 
financial statements.
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of NMC Health Plc 95 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
The increase in materiality from the prior year predominantly reflects the impact of the newly acquired entities on the Group’s profit.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and, as the actual adjusted profit before tax figure was lower than that 
which we had used as the basis for determining materiality, we revised our materiality threshold to $4.62mn, which is approximately 
5% of adjusted profit before tax. 
PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low  
level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement 
was that performance materiality was 50% (2014: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely $2.83m (2014: $1.94m). We have set 
performance materiality at this percentage due to our expectation of misstatements, our risk assessment and changes in the 
organisation, particularly given the acquisitions which took place during the year. During the course of the audit, we revised our 
performance materiality threshold to $2.31mn, which is 50% of our revised materiality threshold. 
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts  
is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is 
based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement  
at that component. In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $0.46m to $1.50m 
(2014: $0.34m to $1.18m). 
REPORTING THRESHOLD
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $0.28m (2014: $0.17m), 
which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. Given the revision of materiality we reported all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $0.23mn.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light 
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Starting basis
Adjustments
Materiality
Profit before tax – $85.36mn
Write off of unamortised finance fees – $2.61mn
One-off costs in respect of acquisitions – $4.13mn
Adjusted Profit before tax $92.10mn
Materiality of $4.62m (5% of adjusted Profit before tax) 96 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 87, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit  
and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed. 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
• The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report is: 
• Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or 
• Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
• Otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing 
the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report and 
accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, 
business model and strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately 
addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that 
we consider should have been disclosed.
  We have no 
exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company,  
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
• The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
• Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; 
or
• We have not received all the information and explanations we require for  
our audit.
  We have no 
exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review 
requirements
We are required to review:
• The directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 88,  
and longer-term viability, set out on page 89; and
• The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
  We have no 
exceptions to report.
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of NMC Health Plc 97 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS’ ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT  
WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything 
material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• The directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
entity, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity;
• The disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks  
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
• The directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether 
they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material 
uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period 
of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial 
statements; and
• The directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have 
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and 
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 
that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
 We have nothing 
material to add or 
to draw attention to.
CAMERON CARTMELL (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
13 March 2016
Notes:
1.    The maintenance and integrity of the NMC Health plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements 
since they were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 98 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015 
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
Revenue 7 880,870 643,931
Direct costs 8 (575,926) (434,725)
GROSS PROFIT 304,944 209,206
General and administrative expenses 8 (191,247) (137,188)
Other income 9 36,649 30,440
PROFIT FROM OPERATION BEFORE DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND TRANSACTION COSTS 150,346 102,458
Transaction costs in respect of business combinations 5 (4,131) —
Depreciation 17 (29,851) (14,050)
Amortisation 18 (5,475) —
PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS 110,889 88,408
Finance costs 10 (23,845) (14,497)
Finance income 11 925 3,623
Unamortised finance fees written off 27 (2,612) —
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR BEFORE TAX 12 85,357 77,534
Tax 15 403 —
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 85,760 77,534
Profit for the year attributable to:
Equity holders of the Parent 82,215 76,566
Non-controlling interests 3,545 968
Profit for the year 85,760 77,534
Earnings per share for profit attributable to the equity holders of the Parent:
Basic EPS (US$) 16 0.443 0.412
Diluted EPS (US$) 16 0.442 0.412
Diluted Adjusted EPS (US$) 16 0.505 0.412
 ADJUSTED PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD BEFORE ONE OFF ITEMS 16 97,498 77,534
One off items includes transaction costs in respect of business combinations (US$4.1m), unamortised fees written off (US$2.6m), 
amortisation of acquired intangibles (US$5.0m). 99 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015 
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 85,760 77,534
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to income statement in subsequent periods (net of tax) 
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (5,342) —
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to income statement in subsequent periods (net of tax) 
Re-measurement gains on defined benefit plans 28 260 —
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) (5,082) —
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 80,678 77,534
Total comprehensive income attributable to :
Equity holders of the Parent 77,859 76,566
Non-controlling interests 2,819 968
Total comprehensive income 80,678 77,534
These results relate to continuing operations of the Group. There are no discontinued operations in the current and prior year.
The attached Notes 1 to 39 form part of the consolidated financial statements. 100 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2015
Notes
2015 
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property and equipment 17 433,524 368,357
Intangible assets 18 413,059 4,236
Deferred tax assets 15 1,316  —
Loan receivable 19 1,725 —
849,624 372,593
Current assets
Inventories 20 134,788 110,209
Accounts receivable and prepayments 21 282,475 196,569
Loan receivable 19 2,670 —
Amounts due from related parties 31 4,116 7,985
Income tax receivable 2,810 —
Bank deposits 22 58,886 183,577
Bank balances and cash 22 118,511 79,592
604,256 577,932
TOTAL ASSETS 1,453,880 950,525
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 23 29,566 29,566
Share premium 23 179,152 179,152
Group restructuring reserve 24 (10,001) (10,001)
Foreign currency translation reserve (4,616) —
Option redemption reserves 5 (24,496) —
Retained earnings 25 318,092 250,306
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent 487,697 449,023
Non-controlling interests 11,968 4,004
Total equity 499,665 453,027
Non-current liabilities
Term loans 27 483,725 114,457
Employees’ end of service benefits 28 19,284 12,450
Other payables 30 14,024 21
Option redemption payable 5 & 37 25,084 —
Deferred tax liabilities 15 9,761 —
551,878 126,928
Current liabilities
Accounts payable and accruals 29 123,511 98,044
Other payables 30 11,150 —
Amounts due to related parties 31 17,419 8,380
Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 22 154,962 169,607
Term loans 27 91,621 92,055
Employees' end of service benefits 28 3,206 2,484
Income tax payable 468 —
402,337 370,570
Total liabilities 954,215 497,498
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,453,880 950,525
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 13 March 2016 and were signed on its 
behalf by
DR B.R. SHETTY MR SURESH KRISHNAMOORTHY
Executive Vice Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
The attached Notes 1 to 39 form part of the consolidated financial statements. 101 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Attributable to the equity holders of the Parent
Non- 
controlling 
interest 
US$‘000
Total  
US$‘000
Share 
capital 
US$‘000
Share 
premium 
US$‘000
Group 
restructuring 
reserve 
US$‘000
Retained 
earnings 
US$‘000
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
US$‘000
Option 
redemption 
reserve 
US$‘000
Total  
US$‘000
Balance as at 1 January 2014 29,566 179,152 (10,001) 187,519 — — 386,236 2,915 389,151
Total comprehensive income  
for the year — — — 76,566 — — 76,566 968 77,534
Dividend (Note 26) — — — (13,846) — — (13,846) — (13,846)
Contribution by non-controlling 
interest — — — — — — — 121 121
Share based payments (Note 32) — — — 67 — — 67 — 67
Balance as at 31 December 2014 29,566 179,152 (10,001) 250,306 — — 449,023 4,004 453,027
Profit for the year — — — 82,215 — — 82,215 3,545 85,760
Other comprehensive income — — — 260 (4,616) — (4,356) (726) (5,082)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year — — — 82,475 (4,616) — 77,859 2,819 80,678
Dividend (Note 26) — — — (15,866) — — (15,866) — (15,866)
Option redemption reserve  
(Note 5) — — — — — (24,496) (24,496) — (24,496)
Acquisition of subsidiaries — — — — — — — 5,145 5,145
Share based payments (Note 32) — — — 1,177 — — 1,177 — 1,177
Balance as at 31 December 2015 29,566 179,152 (10,001) 318,092 (4,616) (24,496) 487,697 11,968 499,665
The attached Notes 1 to 39 form part of the consolidated financial statements. 102 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015 
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year before tax 85,357 77,534
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 17 29,851 14,050
Employees’ end of service benefits 28 4,869 3,492
Amortisation of intangible assets 18 5,475 —
Finance income 11 (925) (3,623)
Finance costs 10 23,845 14,497
Loss on disposal of property and equipment 185 224
Foreign exchange gain (536) —
Non-cash other income (418) —
Unamortised finance fees written off 27 2,612 —
Share based payments expense 32 1,177 88
151,492 106,262
Working capital changes:
Inventories (19,139) (16,086)
Accounts receivable and prepayments (59,969) (28,080)
Amounts due from related parties 3,869 1,269
Accounts payable and accruals 1,292 19,673
Amounts due to related parties 9,039 3,301
Net cash from operations 86,584 86,339
Employees’ end of service benefits paid 28 (1,133) (657)
Income tax paid (1,367) —
Net cash from operating activities 84,084 85,682
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property and equipment (79,281) (111,245)
Purchase of intangible assets 18 (561) (22)
Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 85 256
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 5 (375,505) —
Bank deposits maturing in over 3 months 27,115 66,171
Restricted cash 6,498 14,150
Finance income received 1,533 3,637
Loan receivable 19 (4,395) —
Net cash used in investing activities (424,511) (27,053)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
New term loans and draw–downs 27 822,698 263,594
Repayment of term loans 27 (472,796) (307,282)
Transaction cost of term loan (10,789) —
Receipts of short term borrowings 407,849 383,705
Repayment of short term borrowings (422,629) (314,013)
Dividend paid to shareholders 26 (15,866) (13,846)
Finance costs paid (20,335) (13,669)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 288,132 (1,511)
(DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (52,295) 57,118
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 136,319 79,201
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 22 84,024 136,319
The attached Notes 1 to 39 form part of the consolidated financial statements. 103 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
1 CORPORATE INFORMATION
NMC Health plc (the “Company” or “Parent”) is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011. The 
Company is a public limited company operating in the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”), Spain, Colombia and Italy. The address of the 
registered office of the Company is Level 1, Devonshire House, One Mayfair Place, London, W1J 8AJ. The registered number of the 
Company is 7712220. The Company’s immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals (H.E. Saeed Mohamed 
Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi (H.E. Saeed Bin Butti), Dr B.R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi (Mr Khalifa Bin 
Butti) who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the Company and who together have the ability to control 
the Company.
The Parent and its subsidiaries (collectively the “Group”) are engaged in providing professional medical services, home care services, 
long term care services and the provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and 
human reproduction, and the rendering of business management services to companies in the health care and hospital sector.  
The Group is also engaged in wholesale of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics, food, IT products and services.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the board of 
directors on 13 March 2016 and the consolidated statement of financial position was signed on the Board’s behalf by Dr B.R. Shetty 
and Mr Suresh Krishnamoorthy.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 
applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments 
and contingent consideration payable which have been measured at fair value. The principal accounting policies adopted in the 
preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all 
periods presented. From period ended 30 June 2015 onwards, the Group elected to present the consolidated income statement  
and consolidated statement of other comprehensive income separately, whereas in the financial statements for year ended 
31 December 2014 and prior to that, a single consolidated statement of comprehensive income was presented.
FUNCTIONAL AND REPORTING CURRENCY
The functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries in the UAE is the UAE Dirham and the functional currency of the 
subsidiaries in Spain and Italy is the Euro. The reporting currency of the Group is United States of America Dollar (US$) as this  
is a more globally recognized currency. The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar at a rate of 3.673 per US Dollar.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars ($000) except when otherwise indicated.
GOING CONCERN
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Strategic Review on pages 6 to 39. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 27.
The Group has two diverse operating divisions, Healthcare and Distribution, both of which operate in a growing market.
The directors have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed 
to. In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the directors 
have considered the adequacy of financial resources in order to manage its business risks successfully, together with other areas 
of potential risk such as regulatory, insurance and legal risks.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 31 December 2015 104 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
2.1  BASIS OF PREPARATION continued
The Group has considerable financial resources including banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking 
groups and utilizes short and medium term working capital facilities to optimise business funding. Debt covenants are reviewed by 
the Board each month. The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and debt facilities mitigates the 
financing risks that the Group faces from both its expansion through acquisitions and in relation to working capital requirements.
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2015. Both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions have continued their positive 
growth in revenue during 2015. Net profit and EBITDA of both healthcare and distribution divisions have increased in 2015. EBITDA 
margin of Distribution is almost same as last year whereas for Healthcare it decreased slightly which is due to opening of new 
facilities during the year. The directors have reviewed the business plan for 2016 and the five year cash flow, together with growth 
forecasts for the healthcare sector in the UAE. The directors consider the Group’s future forecasts to be reasonable. 
The directors have not identified any other matters that may impact the viability of the Group in the medium term and therefore 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
2.2  BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015. 
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has  
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if,  
the Group has:
• Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee). 
• Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee. 
• The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns. 
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control. To support this presumption and when the Group 
has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in 
assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
• The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee. 
• Rights arising from other contractual arrangements. 
• The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights. 
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or 
more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and 
ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed 
of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the 
Group ceases to control the subsidiary. 
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the 
Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When 
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the 
Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions 
between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. 
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest 
and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any investment retained is recognised 
at fair value.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 105 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
2.2  BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION continued
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries listed below:
Country of  
incorporation
Percentage of holdings
31 December  
2015
31 December  
2014
Direct subsidiaries:
NMC Holding Co LLC UAE 100% 100%
NMC Health Holdco Limited UK 100% 100%
Indirect subsidiaries:
NMC Healthcare LLC UAE 100% 100%
New Pharmacy Company Limited UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99%
NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 99% 99%
NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99%
Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain UAE 99% 99%
Reliance Information Technology LLC UAE 99% 99%
BR Medical Suites FZ LLC UAE 100% 100%
Brightpoint Hospital LLC UAE 99% 99%
NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC UAE 99% 99%
NMC Hospital LLC (DIP Hospital) UAE 99% 99%
Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi branch. UAE 99% 99%
New Marketing & Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99%
Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-Al Ain branch UAE 99% 99%
New Marketing & Trading Co LLC-Al Ain branch. UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Trading LLC-branch 2 UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Trading LLC-branch 3 UAE 99% 99%
Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-branch UAE 99% 99%
National Marketing & Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99%
New Marketing & Trading Company LLC-branch UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading LLC-branch UAE 99% 99%
Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99%
National Marketing & Trading Co LLC-Dubai branch UAE 99% 99%
New Marketing & Trading Co LLC-Dubai branch UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Trading (Store) LLC UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Veterinary Medicine & Equipment Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading LLC branch UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading LLC-Fujairah branch UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading RAK-branch LLC UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre UAE 100% 100%
New Medical Centre-branch (Al-Ain, Al wadi) UAE 100% 100%
Medifertil, S.A Columbia 60.5% —
Centro de infertilidad y Reproduccion Humana SLU (CIRH) Spain 86.4% —
Centro de Medicina della Riproduzione (Biogenesi) Italy 51.8% —
EUVITRO, S.L.U Spain 86.4% —
ProVita International Medical Center LLC UAE 100% —
NMC Royal Hospital LLC UAE 99% —
The American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC UAE 90% —
The American Surgecenter LLC UAE 90% —
Americare LLC UAE 90% —
Trans Arabia Drug Store LLC UAE 75% —
Sunny Specialty Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
New Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
Sunny Al Buhairah Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
Sunny Al Nadha Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
Sunny Dental Care LLC UAE 100% —
Grand Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% —
Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% —
Sharjah Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% — 106 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
2.3  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES 
The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the reporting date 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below:
SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES
Impairment of inventories
Inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value. When inventories become old or obsolete, an estimate is made  
of their net realisable value. For individually significant amounts this estimation is performed on an individual basis. Amounts  
which are not individually significant, but which are old or obsolete, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according  
to the inventory type and the Group’s policy for inventory provisioning. The gross carrying amount of inventories at 31 December 
2015 was US$136,176,000 (2014: US$111,597,000) and the provision for old and obsolete items at 31 December 2015 was US$1,388,000 
(2014: US$1,388,000) (Note 20). 
Impairment of accounts receivable
An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. 
For individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis. Amounts which are not individually significant, 
but which are past due, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the length of time past due, based on historical 
recovery rates.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired pertains to Group’s operations in UAE, these receivables are from 
insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their 
long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures. Payments continue to be received from these customers and 
accordingly the risk of non-recoverability is considered to be low.
Gross trade accounts receivable at 31 December 2015 were US$255,038,000 (2014: US$177,203,000) and the provision for doubtful 
debts at 31 December 2015 was US$13,022,000 (2014: US$8,996,000) (Note 21). Any difference between the amounts actually collected 
in future periods and the amounts expected will be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher  
of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data 
from binding sales transactions, conducted at arm’s length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for 
disposing of the asset. The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model. The cash flows are derived from the budget for the next 
five years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future investments that will 
enhance the asset’s performance of the CGU being tested. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF 
model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes. These estimates are most 
relevant to goodwill recognised by the Group. The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different CGUs 
are disclosed and further explained in Note 18.
In addition, the Group has work in progress in respect of Hospital Information System (HIS) and ERP amounting to US$3,991,000 
(2014: US$4,216,000). This amount is included in capital work in progress in property, plant and equipment and in software in 
intangible assets (Note 17 and Note 18). Management believes this amount is fully recoverable.
Valuation of intangibles assets
The Group measures its intangible assets acquired in a business combination as follows:
Brand Relief from royalty
Database and software Replacement cost
Patient relationships Multi period excess earning method
Non-compete agreements Income approach-with or without method
Rental and private contracts Multi period excess earning method
Estimating the fair value of the brand requires determination of the most appropriate valuation method. This estimate also 
requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation method including the base revenue, expected life of the 
intangible assets, selecting an arm’s length royalty rate, discount rate and making assumptions about them. Similarly, estimating 
the replacement cost of the database requires an estimate of the number of cycles that are recorded in the database along with 
the best estimate of the hours dedicated by the staff (such as doctors, nurses, biologists, and other specialist technicians) to collect 
the data, the useful life of the database, discount rate and an estimate of tax saving.
Estimating the fair value of patient relationships and the non-compete agreements requires an estimate of the expected revenue 
over an appropriate period of time, a churn rate to account for the reduction in the number of patients over the years, discount rate, 
rate of inflation and the useful life and the risk inherent in ownership of the asset or security interest being valued.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 107 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
2.3  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued
SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES continued
Useful economic lives of property and equipment and depreciation method
Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates 
calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life. Management has re-assessed the 
useful economic lives of all asset categories with effect from 1 January 2015, following a review of the useful economic lives of the 
Group’s assets and market research conducted on depreciation rates and methods in the industry: 
Rate applied 
from  
1 January  
2015
Rate applied 
from 
31 December 
2014
Hospital building 6% 6%
Buildings 6% 6%
Leasehold improvements 10% — 20% 20%
Motor vehicles 20% 20%
Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5% — 20% 12.5% — 20%
Medical equipment 10% — 25% 10% — 25%
The impact of the re-assessment of useful economic lives and depreciation method is an increase in reported profit of 
US$1,944,000 in the current year.
Useful economic lives of intangible assets and amortisation method
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite. Intangibles assets are amortised on straight line 
basis over their useful life. The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets:
Brand names — 5-20 years
Software — 5 years
Database — 15 years
Patient relationships — 7 years
Non-compete agreement — 3-4 years
Rental contracts — 7 years
Private contracts — 3 years
Contingent consideration on acquisitions
Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is valued at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business 
combination. When the contingent consideration meets the definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently re-measured to fair 
value at each reporting date. The change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement. 
The determination of the fair value is based on discounted cash flows. The key assumptions taken into consideration in determining 
the fair value are the probability of meeting relevant performance targets, securing certain agreements, completing certain 
acquisitions and the discount factor (Note 5).
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS
Business combinations and goodwill
When a business combination occurs, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets,  
are recognised. The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on management’s 
judgement. If the purchase consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired then the difference is recognised as 
goodwill. If the purchase price consideration is lower than the fair value of the assets acquired then a gain is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement. Allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets and indefinite lived assets such as 
goodwill affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, 
including goodwill, are not amortised The key judgements in respect of the contingent consideration recognised as part of a business 
combination relate to the performance of the business, the discount rates used and the contractual arrangements of ownership.
Valuation of put option
The accounting for put options requires significant management judgment and is driven by the specific contract terms. Put and  
call options were issued as part of the Luarmia SL acquisition. On the basis of the contract terms and interpretation of relevant 
accounting standards and guidance, the judgment is that the Group does not have present ownership of the 13.6% non-controlling 
interest (NCI) as at the date of acquisition. This judgment leads to the next stage of the accounting decisions required. The Group has 
concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32, and the permitted policy choice is that there should be full recognition of NCI 
using the proportionate method. This means that the full 13.6% NCI is recognised as part of the Luarmia acquisition, a financial liability 
for the redemption value of the options was recognised at US$24,496,000 as at the date of acquisition, and an equal amount was  
set against other equity. As at 31 December 2015, the present value of the redemption liability is US$25,084,000 (Note 5 and 37). 108 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
2.3  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS continued
Functional currency
The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company.
Judgement has been used to determine the functional currency of the Company that most appropriately represents the economic 
effects of the Company’s transactions, events and conditions. 
The primary economic environment influencing the Company’s income (dividends) is the UAE and the effect of the Companies local 
environment is limited to expenses incurred within the UK. The ability of the Company to meet its obligations and pay dividends to 
its shareholders is dependent on the economy of, and the operation of its subsidiaries in, the UAE. 
Assets held in the name of the previous shareholder
In accordance with local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held  
in the name of a UAE national. As a result, land and buildings of the Group are legally registered in the name of shareholders or 
previous shareholders of the Group. As at 31 December 2015 certain land and buildings with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 (2014: 
US$9,321,000) are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group. As the beneficial interest of such 
land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Group consolidated financial 
statements. The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Group’s entitlement to the beneficial interest 
arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired (Note 17). 
Leases for buildings and land 
Generally our hospitals, day patient medical centres and hospital projects under development are located on land and in buildings 
which are leased. As at 31 December 2015, the majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from the 
leases for New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai (“Dubai General Hospital”) and the warehouse facilities, which had leases which 
are renewable on an annual basis with a total value of US$778,000 (2014: US$1,105,000) included within property, and equipment as 
at 31 December 2015 (Note 17). If any such leases are terminated or expire and are not renewed, the Group could lose the investment, 
including the hospital buildings and the warehouses on the leased sites which could have a material adverse effect on our 
business, financial condition and results of operations. The directors have considered the following facts in determining the 
likelihood that these leases will be renewed:
• Whilst some leases can be for long term durations, it is not unusual and can often be common practice throughout all of the 
emirates in the United Arab Emirates for landlords to lease land and buildings to companies on annually renewable leases of 
one year terms and for these leases to be renewed automatically. Throughout the Group’s over 40 year history it has never had  
a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains 
strong relationships with the landlords. 
• Both the Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities have been occupied by the Group on annually renewable leases, 
for a period of more than 15 years and each year these leases have been automatically renewed.
• The warehouse facilities have been built by the Group on land leased from government bodies in the Emirates of Dubai and  
Abu Dhabi on the back of the policies of these governments to attract investment in warehousing in the United Arab Emirates.
2.4  CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES
NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
The Group applied for the first time certain standards and amendments which are effective for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2015.
The amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2015 and are listed below, have no impact on the Group.
• Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
• Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle
 — IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
 — IFRS 3 Business Combinations
 — IFRS 8 Operating Segments
 — IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets
 — IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
• Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle
 — IFRS 3 Business Combinations
 — IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
 — IAS 40 Investment Property
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 109 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be 
reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, less discounts and rebates and taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding 
taxes or duties.
Revenue streams include clinic service revenues, sale of goods — Pharmacy, sale of goods —Distribution, Healthcare management 
fees and revenue sharing arrangement with doctor. 
The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent.  
The Group determines it is acting as principal when it has exposure to the significant risks and rewards associated with the 
transaction and measures revenue as the gross amount received or receivable. When the Group does not retain the significant 
risks and rewards, it deems that it is acting as an agent and measures revenue as the amount received or receivable in return for 
its performance under the contract and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of a third party. 
Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues:
Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues represent the revenue which NMC generates from the provision of either 
inpatient or outpatient medical services, homecare services or long term care services. The group primarily receives clinic service, 
homecare and long term care revenues from patients’ private/medical insurance schemes. Clinic, home care and long term 
revenues are recognised when, and to the extent that, performance of a medical service occurs, and is measured at the fair value 
of the consideration received or receivable. NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in these arrangements as it has the 
responsibility for providing the medical services to the patient, it sets the prices for services which are provided, it bears the credit 
risk and it bears the risk of providing the medical service. 
Gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction
Revenue in respect of the different types of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction services is recognized as follows:
Donor IVF and Own IVF sales (In Vitro Fecundation)
Revenue in respect of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction is mainly from In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) treatment.
Revenue from IVF treatment is recognized based on the stage of the treatment. The treatment is divided into three stages. Each 
stage takes about 20 days. 25% of revenue is booked in the first stage (at the beginning of the treatment), 50% of revenue is booked 
in the middle stage (at patient’s egg extraction in the case of the use of the patient’s own egg or in the case of the use of a donor 
egg at the fertilization date) and 25% of revenue is booked at the final stage (embryo implantation). These percentages are based 
on an internal study of the costs incurred in the different streams performed in 2014. 
Cryo transfer sales
Total cost of the treatment is split in two phases in terms of revenue recognition. 25% is recorded when the doctor agrees with the 
patient to initialize the treatment and 75% at the embryo implantation. The time between both phases is about 2-3 weeks. 
Intrauterine insemination
Revenue is recognized in full at the insemination date.
Sale of Goods — Pharmacy
The sales of goods from pharmacy relates to the sale of pharmaceutical and other products from hospitals and pharmacies. 
Whilst the Group does not establish the prices for the pharmaceutical products sold as both the purchase and selling prices for  
all pharmaceutical products are fixed by the Ministry of Health, UAE. NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in respect  
of these sales as it provides the goods for sale, it bears the inventory risk, and it bears the credit risk from customers. Revenue  
from the sale of goods — Pharmacy is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods  
have passed to the buyer. Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer at the point of sale.
Sale of Goods — Distribution
Where the Group bears the inventory risk and the customer credit risk and has the ability to set the prices for the products sold 
then the Group has determined that it is acting as Principal. Revenue from the sale of goods is therefore recognised when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer. Significant risk for retail goods is passed to  
the buyer for wholesale goods at the time of delivery.
For agency relationships, the revenue earned is measured as the Group’s share of the revenue, as specified in the contract. Any 
amounts collected on behalf of the third party are excluded from revenue and are recorded as a payable. There are currently no 
material agency relationships. 110 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
REVENUE RECOGNITION continued
Healthcare Management fees
Management fees represent fees earned for managing a hospital. Management fees are recognised when the services under  
the contract are performed, and the service level criteria have been met, and are measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, in line with the terms of the management contract.
Revenue sharing arrangements with doctors
The Group enters into contracts with doctors whereby these doctors are employed to perform certain procedures or run outpatient 
services using the facilities. In return the doctors obtain a share of the revenues that are generated from these facilities. Each 
contractual arrangement with individual doctors is assessed against specific criteria to determine whether the Group is acting  
as principal or agent in the arrangement with these doctors.
OTHER INCOME
Other income comprises revenue from suppliers for the reimbursement of advertising and promotion costs incurred by the Group. 
Revenue is recognised following formal acceptance of the Group’s reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the 
confirmed amount receivable.
INTEREST INCOME
For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest rate 
(EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the 
financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. Interest 
income is included in finance income in the consolidated income statement.
REBATES FROM SUPPLIERS 
The Distribution business receives rebates in the ordinary course of business from a number of its suppliers of pharmaceutical 
products, in accordance with contractual arrangements in place with specific suppliers. Rebates are accounted for once approval 
has been received from the supplier following the negotiations which have taken place with them. Rebates receivable are 
accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchasing pharmaceutical goods, once the rebate has been approved by the 
supplier on the basis under IAS 18 that the probability of inflow is not sufficiently certain and the amounts cannot be reliably 
measured until that point. When rebates have been agreed in advance, for example when it has been agreed that a certain rebate 
will be applied to the purchase of specific goods for a set period of time rather than just to a specific one off purchase, then the 
rebate is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price as soon as the goods are purchased. When rebates are offered based 
upon the volume purchased and it is probable that the rebate will be earned and the amount can be estimated reliably, then the 
discount is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price when the goods are purchased and the assessment is reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Rebates receivable are accounted for on a net basis, being set off against the trade payables to which they relate,  
as they are a reduction in the amount we owe to our suppliers in respect of pharmaceutical products purchased.
CURRENT INCOME TAX
Current income tax assets and liabilities arising from overseas operations for the current period are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities in the respective overseas jurisdictions. The tax rates and tax laws 
used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the countries where the 
Group operates and generates taxable income. 
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income 
statement. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable  
tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
DEFERRED TAX
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except:
• When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not  
a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss;
• In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, when the timing of the reversal  
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the  
foreseeable future.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 111 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
DEFERRED TAX continued
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any unused 
tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except:
• When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss;
• In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are recognised 
only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will 
be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that 
future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised  
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred tax assets and deferred 
tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business combination, but not satisfying the criteria for separate recognition at that date, are 
recognised subsequently if new information about facts and circumstances change. The adjustment is either treated as a reduction 
in goodwill (as long as it does not exceed goodwill) if it was incurred during the measurement period or recognised in profit or loss.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate 
of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree. For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair 
value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and 
disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement. 
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and 
designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition 
date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. 
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent 
consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated 
income statement.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised 
for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the  
fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has 
correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the 
amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets 
acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating 
units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are 
assigned to those units. 
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on 
disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the 
portion of the cash-generating unit retained. 112 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
RESTRUCTURING RESERVE
The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for the group restructuring 
which took place on 1 April 2012. This represents the difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC, the previous 
parent company of the Group, and the carrying amount of the investment in that company at the date of the restructure.  
This reserve is non-distributable.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates 
calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life:
Hospital building 6%
Buildings 6%
Leasehold improvements 10% — 20%
Motor vehicles 20%
Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5% — 20%
Medical equipment 10% — 25%
The carrying amounts of property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated 
recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of their fair value less cost to sell 
and their value in use.
Capital work in progress is stated at cost and is not depreciated. Lease costs in respect of capital work in progress are capitalised 
within capital work in progress during the period up until it is commissioned. When commissioned, capital work in progress is 
transferred to the appropriate property and equipment asset category and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policies.  
The carrying amounts of capital work in progress are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated 
recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised 
and the carrying amount of the component that is replaced is written off. Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when  
it increases future economic benefits of the related item of property and equipment. All other expenditure is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income as the expense is incurred.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business 
combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less  
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised 
development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income in the period in which the expenditure is incurred. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite. The following useful lives have been determined  
for acquired intangible assets:
Brands — 5-20 years
Software — 5 years
Database — 15 years
Patient relationships — 7 years
Non-compete agreement — 3-4 years
Rental contracts — 7 years
Private contracts — 3 years
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset 
with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected 
pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or 
method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with 
finite lives is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the 
intangible assets. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 113 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues 
to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. 
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the consolidated income statement when the asset is derecognised. 
BORROWING COSTS
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the 
asset until the asset is commissioned for use. Borrowing costs in respect of completed assets or not attributable to assets are 
expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
PRE-OPERATING EXPENSES
Pre-operating expenses are the expenses incurred prior to start of operations of a new business unit. These are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement in the year in which they occur.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving 
items. Costs are those expenses incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition and are determined on  
a weighted average basis. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred  
to disposal.
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
Accounts receivable are stated at original invoice amount less a provision for any uncollectible amounts. Accounts receivable with 
no stated interest rates are measured at invoiced amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial. An estimate of doubtful 
debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when there is no possibility 
of recovery.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, bank balances 
and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
EQUITY
The Group has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity. The difference between the issue price and the par value of 
ordinary share capital is allocated to share premium. The transaction costs incurred for the share issue are accounted for as a 
deduction from share premium, net of any related income tax benefit, to the extent they are incremental costs directly attributable 
to the share issue that would otherwise have been avoided.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS
Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received whether billed by the supplier or not. 
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of  
the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value  
and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation (legal or constructive) arising from a past event, and the costs to settle 
the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation. Increases in provisions 
due to the passage of time are recognised in the consolidated income statement within ‘Finance costs’.
PUT OPTION-NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST
In circumstances where the Group has determined that they do not have the present ownership interest in the shares subject to  
a put option, the Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32 and accordingly a non-controlling interest (NCI) is 
fully recognised at the date of acquisition, The Group recognises the full NCI using the proportionate share of net assets method. 
The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the NCI is recognised at fair value within liabilities, 
with the liability being treated as an immediate reduction to equity attributable to the parent (other reserves). The financial liability 
is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date and the change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded 
in the consolidated income statement.  114 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
TERM LOANS
Term loans are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.  
After initial recognition, term loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Interest  
on term loans is charged as an expense as it accrues, with unpaid amounts included in “accounts payable and accruals”.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an 
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement.
EMPLOYEES’ END OF SERVICE BENEFITS 
The Group operates an un-funded post-employment benefit plan (employees’ end of service benefits) for its expatriate employees 
in the UAE, in accordance with the labour laws of the UAE. The entitlement to these benefits is based upon the employees’ final 
salary and length of service, subject to the completion of a minimum service period. Payment for employees’ end of service 
benefits is made when an employee leaves, resigns or completes his service. 
The cost of providing benefits under the post-employment benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method. 
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, are recognized immediately in the statement of financial position 
with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. 
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the defined benefit liability. The rate used to discount the end of service 
benefit obligation is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds. The 
current and non-current portions of the provision relating to employees’ end of service benefits are separately disclosed in the 
consolidated statement of financial position. 
The Group recognises the following changes in the employees’ end of service benefits under ‘direct costs’ and ‘general and 
administrative expenses’ in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
• Service costs comprising current service costs
• Interest expense 
With respect to its UAE national employees, the Group makes contributions to the relevant UAE Government pension scheme 
calculated as a percentage of the employees’ salaries. The obligations under these schemes are limited to these contributions, 
which are expensed when due.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees (including executive directors) are measured at the fair value of the equity 
instruments at the grant date. The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. Details regarding the 
determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in Note 32.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each reporting date, the Group 
revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting 
conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of other 
comprehensive income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to 
equity reserves/other payables.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting are 
conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or 
non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share 
(see Note 16).
FOREIGN CURRENCIES
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in UAE Dirhams at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.  
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 115 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at 
the reporting date and their income statements are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are 
translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions). All resulting currency translation differences are recognised as a separate 
component of equity. 
The Group’s principal geographical segment is the United Arab Emirates. The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar so a single 
rate of 3.673 per US Dollar is used to translate those assets and liabilities and balances in the consolidated income statement. 
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition  
of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts, put options and contingent consideration. 
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives with positive market values (unrealised gains) are recognised as assets and 
derivatives with negative market values (unrealised losses) are recognised as liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial 
position. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year are taken directly to profit or loss. 
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
• In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
• In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the 
asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits 
by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest 
and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure 
fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair 
value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: 
• Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
• Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable. 
• Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers 
have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.  116 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
An assessment is made at each consolidated statement of financial position date to determine whether there is objective evidence 
that a specific financial asset may be impaired. If such evidence exists, any impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. Impairment is determined as the difference between carrying value and the present value of future cash flows discounted 
at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
LEASES
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception 
date, whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a 
right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. Operating leases are recognised as an operating 
expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis.
4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE
The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial 
statements are listed below. The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS
IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with 
customers. Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The principles in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach 
to measuring and recognising revenue. The new revenue standard is applicable to all entities and will supersede all current revenue 
recognition requirements under IFRS. Either a full or modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted. The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt the 
new standard on the required effective date.
IFRS 16 LEASES
IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016, and specifies how an IFRS reporter will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases. The 
standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the 
lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, 
with IFRS 16’s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
IFRS 16 applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 
16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
In addition, the standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Group’s 
financial statements that are not expected to have any material impact on the Group are as follows:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
• IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
• Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants
• Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
Annual improvements 2012-2014 Cycle:
• IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
• IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
• IAS 19 Employee Benefits
• IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
• Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 117 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of entities acquired as at the date of acquisition are as follows:
Particulars
Luarmia SL
US$’000
CIRH
US$’000
Biogenesi
US$’000
TADS
US$’000
Americare
US$’000
Dr Sunny
US$’000
ProVita
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Assets
Intangible assets 35,657 378 7,373 — 2,623 6,847 21,935 74,813
Property and equipment 1,932 73 645 30 1,158 1,219 8,635 13,692
Deferred tax asset 842 — 1 — — — — 843
Inventories 3,521 — — 362 85 810 662 5,440
Accounts receivable 678 174 — 851 2,724 5,372 9,881 19,680
Other receivables 3,821 41 — 172 350 2,880 2,386 9,650
Cash and bank balances 9,610 1,976 9 2,001 1,199 3,828 9,825 28,448
56,061 2,642 8,028 3,416 8,139 20,956 53,324 152,566
Liabilities
Current tax — 35 — — — — — 35
Borrowings 25,006 — — — 39 1,566 54 26,665
Deferred tax 8,804 92 2,058 — — — — 10,954
Accounts payable 2,887 382 2 922 1,016 3,865 3,066 12,140
Other payable 5,100 1,691 111 1,126 1,884 1,942 1,869 13,723
41,797 2,200 2,171 2,048 2,939 7,373 4,989 63,517
Total identified net assets at fair value 14,264 442 5,857 1,368 5,200 13,583 48,335 89,049
Non-controlling interest (1,940) — (2,343) (342) (520) — — (5,145)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 117,059 13,622 8,329 4,879 26,763 53,838 120,582 345,072
Purchase consideration 129,383 14,064 11,843 5,905 31,443 67,421 168,917 428,976
Purchase consideration:
Payable in cash 127,107 11,393 5,522 5,905 31,443 57,973 160,592 399,935
Contingent consideration 2,276 2,671 6,321 — — 9,448 8,325 29,041
Total consideration 129,383 14,064 11,843 5,905 31,443 67,421 168,917 428,976
With the exception of Luarmia SL and Americare all fair values stated in table above are provisional.
Analysis of cash flows on acquisitions is as follows:
Particulars
Luarmia SL
US$’000
CIRH
US$’000
Biogenesi
US$’000
TADS
US$’000
Americare
US$’000
Dr Sunny
US$’000
ProVita
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Cash paid (127,107) (11,393) (5,522) (5,905) (31,443) (57,973) (160,592) (399,935)
Contingent consideration paid (2,276) — — — — (1,742) — (4,018)
Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 9,610 1,976 9 2,001 1,199 3,828 9,825 28,448
Transaction costs (1,745) (87) (96) (81) (313) (374) (608) (3,304)
Net cash flow on acquisition (121,518) (9,504) (5,609) (3,985) (30,557) (56,261) (151,375) (378,809)
The transaction costs reported in the consolidated income statement comprise of the following:
2015 
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
Transaction costs for the acquired entities 3,304 —
Transaction costs for Fakih IVF 750 —
Transaction costs for acquisitions in progress 77 —
4,131 —
The non-controlling interest in all acquired entities is measured at the proportionate share of net assets of subsidiaries. 118 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
Other financial information with respect to acquired entities is as follows:
Particulars 
Luarmia SL
US$’000
CIRH
US$’000
Biogenesi
US$’000
TADS
US$’000
Americare
US$’000
Dr Sunny
US$’000
ProVita
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Revenue from the date of acquisition 29,668 6,645 2,858 5,243 11,435 12,158 19,701 87,708 
Profit after tax from the date of acquisition 6,708 1,660 819 2,485 2,126 1,192 5,033 20,023
Revenue from 1 January to 31 December 
2015 (unaudited) 36,063 8,804 5,990 5,841 16,601 36,357 54,007 163,663
Profit after tax from 1 January to 
31 December 2015 (unaudited) 6,010 2,631 2,312 2,656 3,143 2,588 9,298 28,638
Trade receivables gross value as of 
acquisition date 858 174 — 851 2,724 6,510 12,451 23,568
Trade receivables fair value as of  
acquisition date 678 174 —  851 2,724 5,372 9,881 19,680
ACQUISITION OF LUARMIA SL
On 23 February 2015, the Group acquired 86.4% of the voting shares of Luarmia SL (“Luarmia”) and its subsidiaries, an unlisted company 
based in Spain and specialising in research and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction. 
Luarmia owns Clinica Eugin through a wholly owned subsidiary. The Group acquired Luarmia SL because Eugin is a leading In Vitro 
Fertilisation (IVF) centre of excellence with world-leading technology and expertise as well as strong brand recognition and to bring 
the technologies in fertility services to NMC’s network in the UAE to complement the existing NMC women’s health services.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Luarmia SL and its subsidiaries for the 10 month period from the 
acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities  
of Luarmia and rolling out of fertility services to other entities of the Group. Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment.  
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brands amounting to US$19,855,000, software of 
US$3,168,000,intellectual properties of US$3,000, patients procedures database of US$11,683,000 and rental contract of US$948,000 
(with a related deferred tax liability in respect of these intangible assets of US$8,713,000). The related deferred tax liability has been 
assessed using the rate of corporation tax (25%) applicable in Spain.
A contingent tax liability of US$1,445,000 has been recorded within the liabilities of Luarmia recognised at the acquisition date, the 
timing of the outflow of which is uncertain. The carrying amount of this liability was US$1,420,000 as at 31 December 2015. Under the 
terms of the share purchase agreement the Group is indemnified for any subsequent tax liabilities in respect of the pre-acquisition 
period and accordingly a corresponding asset of an equal amount has also been recognised.
As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owner, contingent consideration has been agreed. The purchase 
consideration of US$129,383,000 includes contingent consideration amounting to US$2,276,000. This relates to potential amounts 
payable in the event the advanced stage acquisitions of the acquired company are completed within 12 months from the purchase 
agreement date. Both of the acquisitions completed in 2015 and the contingent consideration has been paid during 2015.
The Group entered into separate co-investment/shareholder agreements dated 23 February 2015 with the sellers relating to put & 
call options on the minority 13.6% shareholdings that remains with the previous owners post-acquisition. The Group does not have 
‘present ownership’ of this 13.6% minority shareholding due to the terms of the option agreements and will continue to account for 
the acquisition of Luarmia on the basis of an 86.4% equity stake, with full recognition of the 13.6% non-controlling interest. The put 
options are exercisable between 1 & 30 June 2018, 1 & 30 June 2019 and 1 & 30 June 2020 (three exercisable windows). On exercise  
of the put options, cash will be paid. The value of the put option is calculated based on the multiple of purchase price and further 
multiples are measured on the number of reproductive cycles specified in the agreement. A redemption liability for the value of the 
options at the acquisition date has been created amounting to US$24,496,000 (being the present value of the redemption liability  
at the acquisition date), with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity. As at 31 December 2015, the present value  
of the redemption liability is US$25,084,000 (Note 37).
The call options are exercisable between 1 & 30 June 2019 and 1 & 30 June 2020 (two exercisable windows). On exercise of the call 
options, cash will be paid. The value of the call option is calculated on the basis of Black Scholes model. The call options value is 
immaterial and hence not recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 119 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
ACQUISITION OF CENTRO DE INFERTILIDAD Y REPRODUCCION HUMANA SLU (CIRH)
On 18 March 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of CIRH, an unlisted company based in Spain and specialising in 
research and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction. The Group acquired CIRH to enable 
Clinica Eugin to reinforce its presence in Spain and strengthen its brand and positioning at the forefront of its market. 
The consolidated financial statements include the results of CIRH for the 9 month period from the acquisition date.
Goodwill represents future business potential and profit growth of CIRH and it comprises all of intangibles that cannot be individually 
recognised such as the assembled workforce, customer service, future client relationships and presence in the geographical market. 
Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment. None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included rental and private contracts amounting to 
US$371,000,software of US$7,000 (with a related deferred tax liability of US$92,000). The related deferred tax liability has been 
assessed using the rate of corporation tax applicable in Spain.
As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owner, a contingent consideration has been agreed. The total purchase 
consideration of US$14,064,000 includes consideration paid of US$11,393,000 and contingent consideration of US$2,671,000 payable 
subject to the attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets. Management believes these targets will be met. The full value 
of the contingent consideration payable is US$3,255,000 and the present value of US$2,768,000, as at 31 December 2015. This is due 
in 2017 and is included in other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position (Note 30).
ACQUISITION OF CENTRO DE MEDICINA DELLA RIPRODUZIONE (BIOGENESI) 
On 6 July 2015, the Group acquired a 60% equity interest in Biogenesi, an unlisted company based in Italy and specialising in research 
and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction. The Group acquired Biogenesi to enable 
Clinica Eugin to reinforce its presence in Italy and strengthen its brand and positioning at the forefront of its market. 
The acquisition has been accounted for using the acquisition method. The consolidated financial statements include the results  
of Biogenesi for the 6 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities 
of Biogenesi with those of the Group. Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment. None of the recognised goodwill is expected 
to be deductible for income tax purposes.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included commercial contracts amounting to US$7,373,000 
(with a related deferred tax liability of US$ 2,058,000).The related deferred tax liability has been assessed using the corporation tax 
rate applicable in Italy.
As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owner, a contingent consideration has been agreed. The total purchase 
consideration of US$11,843,000 includes consideration paid of US$5,522,000 and contingent consideration of US$6,321,000 payable 
subject to the attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets. Management believes these targets will be met. The full value of 
the contingent consideration payable is US$7,700,000 and the present value at reporting date is US$6,578,000. Out of total contingent 
consideration, amount of US$2,130,000 is due in 2016 and amount of US$4,448,000 is due in 2019. This is included in other payables in 
the consolidated statement of financial position (Note 30).
ACQUISITION OF TRANS ARABIA DRUG STORE LLC (TADS) 
On 23 March 2015, the Group acquired 75% of the voting shares of TADS, an unlisted company based in Dubai, UAE and specialising  
in the distribution of specialist pharmaceutical products. The Group acquired TADS because of the synergies which will flow to the 
distribution segment (NMC Trading) because of entry into a niche area. The segment faces less competition due to the specialized 
products which they deal with. 
The acquisition has been accounted for using the acquisition method. The consolidated financial statements include the results  
of TADS for the 9 month period from the acquisition date. 
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities 
of TADS with those of the Group. Goodwill is allocated to the distribution and services segment. None of the recognised goodwill  
is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in the UAE. TADS is exclusive UAE distributor  
for various specialist pharmaceutical products, a business which will enhance distribution and services segment revenues  
and profitability. 120 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
ACQUISITION OF AMERICARE 
On 29 April 2015, the Group acquired 90% (39% of the registered shareholdings and 51% beneficial interest in the shareholdings) of 
Americare LLC, the American Surgecenter LLC and the American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC (collectively referred to as “Americare”) 
which are unlisted companies based in Abu Dhabi, UAE specialising in home health services and other diversified medical and 
pharmacy services. The 51% beneficial shares are registered in the name of a UAE national. NMC has beneficial interest in these 
shares through an agreement entered into with the UAE national. All controlling rights (i.e. voting, appointment and removal of 
directors, dividend rights) vest with NMC. These rights are not relinquishable.
The Group acquired Americare because this acquisition extends NMC’s service offering along the care pathway by complementing 
existing in-hospital healthcare services and expanding into the home based long term care market segment. In addition, Americare 
includes a medical centre with on-site pharmacy located in the upmarket Khalidiya residential area of Abu Dhabi City. This medical 
centre is expected to contribute to the patient cross-referral capabilities of NMC’s nation-wide and multi-specialty hub-and-spoke 
healthcare services network.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Americare for the 8 month period from the acquisition date. 
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities  
of Americare with those of the Group. Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment. None of the recognised goodwill is expected  
to be deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in the UAE. Synergistic benefits will arise in the following ways:
• Americare home services will complement the existing in-hospital services offered by Group. The addition of a home based 
service offering will increase healthcare segment value chain.
• Group’s in-hospital patients will be referred to Americare for home based services as appropriate, thereby expanding healthcare 
segment revenues.
• Americare home based patients will be referred to NMC hospitals for in-hospital treatment as required, with a direct impact on 
hospital revenues.
At the date of the acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brands amounting to US$1,545,000 and 
non-compete agreements US$1,078,000. No deferred tax liability has been recognised as there is no corporation tax in the UAE.
Management fees of US$1,500,000 in respect of services provided by the Group to Americare prior to its acquisition were recognised 
as revenue in the first half of the year. In finalising the acquisition accounting, management have now concluded that the two 
arrangements were non-separable and hence the management fees should be treated as a reduction to the purchase 
consideration paid.
ACQUISITION OF DR SUNNY HEALTHCARE 
On 29 April 2015, the Group agreed to acquire 100% of the business of the Dr Sunny health centres and pharmacies (unincorporated 
businesses) and 100% of the voting shares of Sunny Speciality Medical Centre LLC (a company based in Sharjah, UAE). These 
businesses together are referred to as Dr Sunny Healthcare and specialise in the provision of medical services.
The Group acquired Dr Sunny Healthcare because it expands NMC’s existing Sharjah operation into a network of healthcare facilities 
through the addition of six medical centres and three pharmacies. Consequently, this acquisition expands the geographical footprint, 
addressable market and patient cross-referral capabilities of NMC’s nation-wide and multi-specialty hub-and-spoke healthcare 
services network. 
NMC acquired control of Dr Sunny Healthcare on 25 August 2015, date on which conditions precedent were completed. The 
consolidated financial statements include the results of Dr Sunny Healthcare for the 4 month period from the acquisition date. 
Other receivables include an amount of US$2,200,000 in respect of a receivable from previous shareholders in respect of some  
of the liabilities of the acquired entities assumed by the previous shareholders as at the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities  
of Dr Sunny Healthcare with those of the Group. Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment. None of the recognised goodwill  
is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in the UAE. Synergistic benefits will arise in the 
following ways:
• The acquisition of Dr Sunny Healthcare will give the Group enhanced direct access into Sharjah healthcare market and extends 
the healthcare segment’s market position in Sharjah and UAE as a whole.
• The ability to cross refer patients from Dr Sunny medical centres to the nearby NMC Speciality Hospital in Dubai.
At the date of the acquisition, the fair value assessment of identifiable net assets included brands amounting to US$6,043,000 and 
non-compete agreements US$804,000. No deferred tax liability has been recognised as there is no corporation tax in the UAE.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 121 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
ACQUISITION OF DR SUNNY HEALTHCARE continued
As part of the acquisition the Group entered into contractual earn-out arrangements with the Chief Medical Director and CEO of 
Dr Sunny Healthcare who were the owners of the business. This entitles them to shares of the future profits of Dr Sunny Healthcare 
in respect of financial years 2015 and 2016. At the acquisition date, the estimated fair value of this contingent consideration was 
$9,448,000. In addition, the Group also entered into consultancy arrangements with these two individuals. 
The full value of the contingent consideration has been measured as US$10,176,000. During the year the Group has paid an amount of 
US$1,742,000 in respect of contingent consideration. Present value of remaining outstanding contingent consideration is US$7,345,000 
and is included in other payables (Note 30). Outstanding contingent consideration is payable partly in 2016 and partly in 2017.
Management fees of US$4,500,000 in respect of services provided by the Group to Dr Sunny Healthcare prior to its acquisition were 
recognised as revenue in the first half of the year. In finalising the acquisition accounting, management have now concluded that 
the two arrangements were non-separable and hence the management fees should be treated as a reduction to the purchase 
consideration paid.
PROVITA INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CENTRE LLC (PROVITA)
On 15 June 2015, the Group agreed to acquire 100% (49% of the registered shareholdings and 51% beneficial interest in the 
shareholdings) of the voting shares of ProVita, an unlisted company based in Abu Dhabi, UAE and specialising in the provision of 
long-term care in the healthcare market. The Group acquired ProVita, a provider of long term patient care because it contemplates 
expansion in the GCC region supported by its growing healthcare services capabilities. The 51% beneficial shares are registered in the 
name of a UAE national. NMC has beneficial interest in these shares through an agreement entered into with the UAE national. All 
controlling rights (i.e. voting, appointment and removal of directors, dividend rights) vest with NMC. These rights are not relinquishable.
NMC acquired control of ProVita on 20 August 2015, the date on which conditions precedent were completed. The consolidated 
financial statements include the results of ProVita for the 4 month period from the acquisition date. 
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of 
ProVita with those of the Group. Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment. None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be 
deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in UAE. Synergistic benefits will arise from in the following ways:
• ProVita’s long-term care services will complement the existing in-patient services offered by the Group hospital, as well as the 
shorter term in-home services offered by Americare.
• The addition of a long-term care provider offering will increase healthcare segment value chain. Synergies include expanded 
service offering, plugging an existing service gap, enhancing positioning as integrated healthcare provider, access to thiqa 
patients (thiqa is the premium insurance coverage for the UAE nationals), operational, revenue and cost synergies with NMC's 
existing facilities.
At the date of the acquisition, the fair value of identifiable assets included brands amounting to US$8,415,000, patient relationship 
US$13,471,000 and software of US$49,000.
Purchase consideration includes contingent consideration of US$8,325,000. The full value of the contingent consideration is 
US$8,500,000 and the present value as at 31 December 2015 is US$8,325,000. The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable 
in the event that licenses to operate in certain other GCC countries are obtained. As of 31 December 2015, contingent consideration 
remains payable and is included in other payables (Note 30). Contingent consideration is expected to be payable in 2016. 
POST BALANCE SHEET ACQUISITION: FAKIH IVF LLC AND FAKIH IVF FERTILITY CENTER LLC (FAKIH IVF)
On 24 November 2015, NMC agreed to acquire a 51% controlling stake in the voting shares of Fakih IVF, an unlisted group registered in 
Cayman Islands and operationally headquartered in Abu Dhabi, UAE, which is the Middle East’s leader in the provision of IVF and 
fertility services. Regulatory approvals and legal formalities were completed on 8 February 2016, meaning that control has passed 
to the Group, and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
The agreed purchase consideration for the business is US$197,800,000, with additional potential earn out payments of US$9,000,000. 
The Group has agreed a mechanism by which it could increase its stake in Fakih over time (the buyout period) based on certain 
conditions being met. 
The fair value assessment of identifiable net assets at the acquisition date remains in progress and therefore the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets is preliminary. The Group has a 1 year timeframe from the date of acquisition to finalise the measurement  
of the net assets acquired. The net assets identified to date are those existing at the acquisition date, those forming part of the 
acquisition, and those that meet the recognition criteria for assets and liabilities. No acquisition date contingent liabilities requiring 
full recognition have been noted as yet.  122 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
Provisional goodwill has been calculated being the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid, and the fair value of 
the net assets acquired. For convenience, the closest available balance sheet date has been used for the purposes of measuring 
net assets acquired. This date is 31 January 2016, with full consolidation commencing on 8 February 2016. We are not aware of any 
material transactions in the period between 31 January 2016 and 8 February 2016. 
Details of the provisional goodwill calculated as of 31 January 2016 are as follows:
Fair value 
recognised on 
acquisition
US$’000 
Assets
Intangible assets 126
Property, plant and equipment 4,590
Inventories 613
Accounts receivable 12,717
Cash and bank balances 3,392
21,438
Liabilities
Accounts payable 5,942
Other Payable 2,653
8,595
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 12,843
Non-controlling interests (6,293)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 200,338
Purchase consideration transferred 206,888
The acquisition of Fakih IVF has resulted in a provisional goodwill of US$200,338,000. The Group has elected to measure the 
non-controlling interests in the acquiree using the proportionate method, resulting in an NCI on acquisition of US$6,293,000  
(being 49% of the identifiable net assets at fair value). 
The transaction costs of US$750,000 have been expensed and are included under transaction costs in respect of business 
combinations in the consolidated income statement. 
6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES 
The financial information in respect of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below:
PROPORTION OF EQUITY INTEREST HELD BY NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST: 
Country of
Incorporation
Percentage of holdings
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
Indirect subsidiaries:
Luarmia SL Spain 86.4%* —
Americare LLC UAE 90% —
*  Shareholding disclosed is for Luarmia SL only. Within Luarmia SL there are certain other subsidiaries. The financial information provided below is for Luarmia 
SL and its subsidiaries.
ACCUMULATED BALANCES OF MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Luarmia SL 4,298 —
Americare 704 —
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 123 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES continued
PROFIT ALLOCATED TO MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Luarmia SL 15 —
Americare 184 —
The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below. This information is stated before inter-company 
eliminations.
Summarised statement of profit or loss for 2015:
Luarmia
US$‘000
Americare
US$‘000
Revenue 39,020 11,435 
Direct costs (16,205) (6,485)
Administrative and other expenses (14,116) (2,538)
Depreciation & amortisation (3,823) (570)
Profit before tax 4,876 1,842 
Income tax 403 — 
Profit for the year 5,279 1,842 
Other comprehensive loss (5,342) — 
Total comprehensive (loss) income (63) 1,842 
Attributable to non-controlling interests 15 184 
Summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015
Luarmia
US$‘000
Americare
US$‘000
Inventories & cash and bank balance (current) 17,831 1,180 
Accounts receivable and prepayments (current) 5,163 4,194 
Property and equipment and other non-current assets (non-current) 108,265 3,333 
Accounts payable and accruals (current) (9,026) (1,350)
Interest-bearing loans (current) (9,708) — 
Interest-bearing loans and deferred tax liabilities (non-current) (35,524) — 
Other payable (non-current) (12,801) (313)
Total Equity 64,200 7,044 
Attributable to:  
 Equity holders of parent 59,902 6,339 
 Non-controlling interest 4,298 705 
Summarised cash flow information for period ended 31 December 2015
Luarmia
US$‘000
Americare
US$‘000
Operating 5,324 1,611 
Investing (18,440) (121)
Financing 16,312 (1,595)
Net Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 3,196 (105)
Comparatives are not provided for the above financial information in respect of material non-controlling interests as both of the 
subsidiaries were acquired in 2015.
7 SEGMENT INFORMATION
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has two 
reportable segments as follows:
• ·The healthcare segment is engaged in providing professional medical services, comprising diagnostic services, in and outpatient 
clinics, provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction and 
retailing of pharmaceutical goods. It also includes the provision of management services in respect of a hospital. 
• The distribution & services segment is engaged in wholesale trading of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics 
and food.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments. 124 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
7 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
The new acquired companies, Luarmia SL, CIRH, Biogenesi, Americare, Dr Sunny Healthcare and ProVita come under the healthcare 
segment and TADS under the distribution and services segment. 
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource 
allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA and profit or loss. These are 
measured consistently with EBITDA and profit or loss excluding finance income and group administrative expenses, unallocated 
depreciation and unallocated other income, in the consolidated financial statements. 
Finance costs and finance income relating to UAE subsidiaries are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on  
a group basis. In addition Group overheads are also not allocated to individual segments as these are managed on a Group basis.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group‘s business 
segments for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Healthcare
US$‘000
Distribution  
and services
US$‘000
Total 
segments
US$‘000
Adjustments 
and eliminations
US$‘000
Consolidated
US$‘000
Year ended 31 December 2015
Revenue
External customers 511,029 369,841 880,870 — 880,870
Inter segment 6,087 23,575 29,662 (29,662) —
Total 517,116 393,416 910,532 (29,662) 880,870
(Expenses)/Income
Depreciation and amortization (27,887) (2,705) (30,592) (4,234) (34,826)
Finance costs (1,154) (4) (1,158) (22,687) (23,845)
Segment EBITDA 136,976 43,498 180,474 (30,128) 150,346
Segment profit 108,037 40,708 148,745 (62,985) 85,760
Segment assets 1,029,305 257,484 1,286,789 167,091 1,453,880
Segment liabilities 160,677 65,748 226,425 727,790 954,215
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure 78,271 2,085 80,356 1,907 82,263
Year ended 31 December 2014 (restated)
Revenue
External customers 327,714 316,217 643,931 — 643,931
Inter segment 4,484 22,675 27,159 (27,159) —
Total 332,198 338,892 671,090 (27,159) 643,931
(Expenses)/Income
Depreciation (11,215) (2,349) (13,564) (486) (14,050)
Finance costs-restated — — — (14,497) (14,497)
Segment EBITDA-restated 89,138 34,417 123,555 (21,097) 102,458
Segment profit-restated 77,924 32,067 109,991 (32,457) 77,534
Segment assets 459,745 208,935 668,680 281,845 950,525
Segment liabilities 50,497 58,300 108,797 388,701 497,498
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure 108,809 3,005 111,814 501 112,315
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated upon consolidation and reflected in the ‘adjustments and eliminations’ column. All other 
adjustments and eliminations are part of detailed reconciliations presented further below.
From the current year the Group stopped allocating finance cost and IT cost to its UAE subsidiaries. Accordingly the prior year 
comparatives with respect to finance costs, segment EBITDA and segment profit have been restated.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 125 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
7 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
ADJUSTMENTS AND ELIMINATIONS
Finance income and group overheads are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
Term loans, bank overdraft and other short term borrowings and certain other assets and liabilities are substantially not allocated  
to segments as they are also managed on a group basis.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property and equipment and intangible assets. 
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT EBITDA TO GROUP PROFIT
2015
US$‘000
(restated)
2014
US$‘000
Segment EBITDA 180,474 123,555
Unallocated group administrative expenses (31,153) (21,233)
Unallocated other income 1,025 136
Unallocated finance income 925 3,623
Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off (2,612) —
Finance costs (23,845) (14,497)
Depreciation (29,851) (14,050)
Amortisation (5,475) —
Transaction costs related to business combination (4,131) —
Tax 403 —
Group Profit 85,760 77,534
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT PROFIT TO GROUP PROFIT
2015
US$‘000
(restated)
2014
US$‘000
Segment profit 148,745 109,991
Unallocated finance income 1,043 3,623
Unallocated finance costs (22,687) (14,497)
Unallocated group administrative expenses (31,153) (21,233)
Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off (2,612) —
Unallocated depreciation (624) (486)
Unallocated other income 1,025 136
Unallocated amortisation cost (4,110) —
Unallocated transaction cost (3,867) —
Group Profit 85,760 77,534
RECONCILIATION OF GROUP ASSETS
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Segment assets 1,286,789 668,680
Unallocated property and equipment 10,290 9,341
Unallocated inventory 22 26
Unallocated accounts receivable and prepayments 8,913 7,253
Unallocated bank balances and cash 86,321 78,633
Unallocated bank deposits 58,858 183,577
Unallocated intangible assets 2,687 3,015
Group assets 1,453,880 950,525 126 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
7 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
RECONCILIATION OF GROUP LIABILITIES
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Segment liabilities 226,425 108,797
Unallocated term loans 539,875 206,512
Unallocated employees’ end of service benefits 1,854 1,101
Unallocated accounts payable and accruals 5,837 11,335
Unallocated bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 154,962 169,607
Unallocated amounts due to related parties 178 146
Unallocated option redemption liability 25,084 —
Group liabilities 954,215 497,498
OTHER INFORMATION
The following table provides information relating to Group’s major customers who contribute more than 10% towards the 
Group’s revenues:
Healthcare
US$‘000
Distribution 
and 
services
US$‘000
Total
US$‘000
Year ended 31 December 2015
Customer 1 154,772 — 154,772
Customer 2 47,083 — 47,083
201,855 — 201,855
Year ended 31 December 2014
Customer 1 92,246 — 92,246
Customer 2 35,005 — 35,005
127,251 — 127,251
GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
2015
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
Revenue from external customers
United Arab Emirates 841,851 643,931
Spain 34,994 —
Others 4,025 —
Total revenue as per consolidated income statement 880,870 643,931
Non-current assets 
United Arab Emirates 671,956 372,593
Spain 176,824 —
Others 844 —
Total non-current assets 849,624 372,593
Deferred tax assets 
United Arab Emirates — —
Spain 1,302 —
Others 14 —
Total deferred tax assets 1,316 —
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 127 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
7 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Revenue from services:
Healthcare — clinic 410,408 260,938
Healthcare — management fees 7,280 5,717
417,688 266,655
Sale of goods:
Distribution 369,841 316,217
Healthcare 93,341 61,059
463,182 377,276
Total 880,870 643,931
8 EXPENSES BY NATURE
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 389,702 314,408
Salary expenses 239,139 157,990
Rent expenses 44,859 27,728
Sales promotion expenses 43,882 35,174
Repair and maintenance expenses 9,891 7,630
Electricity expenses 4,927 3,932
Legal and licence fees 3,561 2,073
Motor vehicle expenses 3,292 2,572
Insurance expenses 2,688 1,233
Printing and stationery 2,560 2,214
Communication expenses 2,393 1,725
IT expenses 1,193 665
Others 19,086 14,569
767,173 571,913
Allocated to :
Direct costs 575,926 434,725
General and administrative expenses 191,247 137,188
767,173 571,913
The classifications of the remaining expenses by nature recognised in the consolidated income statement are:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Depreciation 29,851 14,050
Amortisation 5,475 —
Finance costs 23,845 14,497
Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 —
61,783 28,547
9 OTHER INCOME
Other income includes US$35,256,000 (2014: US$30,180,000) relating to reimbursement of advertisement and promotional expenses 
incurred by the Group. Revenue is recognised following the formal acceptance of the Group’s reimbursement claims by suppliers 
and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
Furthermore, other income includes US$536,000 (2014: US$Nil) in respect of a re-measurement gain on contingent 
consideration payable. 128 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
10 FINANCE COSTS 
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Bank interest 18,106 12,324
Bank charges 2,489 2,173
Financial instruments fair value adjustments 1,793 —
Amortisation of option redemption liability 1,457 —
23,845 14,497
11 FINANCE INCOME
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Bank and other interest income 925 3,623
925 3,623
12 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR BEFORE TAX
The profit for the year before tax is stated after charging:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 389,702 314,408
Cost of inventories written off and provided (Note 20) 1,678 2,318
Minimum lease payments recognised as operating lease expense 44,859 27,728
Depreciation (Note 17) 29,851 14,050
Amortisation (Note 18) 5,475 —
Net Impairment of accounts receivable (Note 21) 1,740 2,498
Employees’ end of service benefits (Note 28) 4,869 3,492
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss (593) 1,490
Loss on disposal of property and equipment 185 224
Share based payments expense (Note 32) 1,177 88
13 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor and its associates in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for 
other services provided to the Group.
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 1,300 593
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
— the audit of the company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 453 149
— audit related assurance services 233 130
— other assurance services — —
— Tax compliances services 12 12
— Tax advisory services — 8
— non-audit services 115 41
2,113 933
Included in the fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts is US$12,000 (2014: US$NIL) 
which was under-accrued in respect of the prior year audit of the Company’s annual accounts.
The fees paid to the auditor includes US$115,000 (2014: US$92,000) in respect of out of pocket expenses. There were no benefits in 
kind provided to the auditor or its associates in either 2015 or 2014.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 129 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
14 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
(A) ST AFF COSTS
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Wages and salaries 217,439 144,942
Employees’ end of service benefits (Note 28) 4,869 3,492
Share based payments expense (Note 32) 1,177 88
Others 15,654 9,468
239,139 157,990
Staff costs include amounts paid to directors, disclosed in part (b) below. The average number of monthly employees during the 
year was made up as follows:
2015 2014
Healthcare 5,495 3,874
Distribution & services 2,456 1,846
Administration 230 174
8,181 5,894
(B) DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Directors’ remuneration 4,623 2,141
Some of the executive directors are entitled to end of service benefits and to participate in share option plans as disclosed in Note 
32. Further information in respect of this compensation paid to directors is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
15 TAX
The Group operates in the United Arab Emirates and Spain. As there is no corporation tax in the United Arab Emirates, no taxes are 
recognised or payable on the operations in the UAE. There is no taxable income in the UK and accordingly there is no tax liability 
arising in the UK. The unused tax losses amount to US$13,049,000 as at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$5,155,000). 
With respect to operations in Spain, the tax disclosures are as follows:
Consolidated income statement
2015
US$ ‘000
2014
US$ ‘000
Current income tax:
Charge for the year 753 —
Adjustment in respect of prior period income tax (163) —
590
Deferred tax:
Credit relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences in the current year (993) —
Income tax credit reported in the income statement (403) —
No tax is included in other comprehensive income (2014: NIL). 
The rate of corporation tax in Spain is 28%. Given that there is no tax payable in respect of operations in the UAE and no UK 
corporation tax payable, the Group has used the Spanish tax rate for the purpose of the preparation of the tax reconciliation 
presented below as all the taxable profits have been generated by Luarmia S.L. group of companies. 130 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
15 TAX continued
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by the Spanish domestic tax rate of 28% for 2015 is represented below:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Group accounting profit before tax from continuing operations for the year 85,357
Less: Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations (not subject to tax) 78,558 —
Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations (subject to tax) 6,799 —
Tax at Spanish income tax rate of 28% 1,904 —
Non-taxable dividend income (1,032) —
Tax saved on amortisation of intangibles (480) —
Adjustment in respect of prior period income tax (163) —
Deductible expenses for tax purpose:
  R&D and IT (609) —
  Accelerated depreciation (39) —
  Other non-deductible expenses 16 —
Income tax credit reported in the income statement (403) —
The effective tax rate of the Group is -0.47% (2014:0.00%).
Deferred tax assets and liabilities comprise of:
Deferred tax assets:
2015
US$ ‘000
2014
US$ ‘000
Tax credit for R&D expenses 1,235 —
Limit on tax deductibility of depreciation and amortisation 81 —
Total deferred tax assets 1,316 —
Deferred tax liabilities:
2015
US$ ‘000
2014
US$ ‘000
Depreciation and amortisation 9,761 —
Total deferred tax liabilities 9,761 —
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities, net
2015
US$ ‘000
2014
US$ ‘000
As of 1 January — —
Tax charge/(credit) for the year (993) —
Foreign exchange adjustments (673)
Deferred taxes acquired on business combinations 10,111 —
As at 31 December 8,445 —
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable as supported by forecasts that future taxable profits will be 
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
There are no income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends in either 2015 or 2014 by the Group to its shareholders.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 131 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
16 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) 
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would 
be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
2015 2014
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent (US$‘000) 82,215 76,566
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (‘000) for basic EPS 185,714 185,714
Effect of dilution from share based payments (‘000) 484 56
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (‘000) for diluted EPS 186,198 185,770
Basic earnings per share (US$) 0.443 0.412
Diluted earnings per share (US$) 0.442 0.412
The table below reflects the income and share data used in the adjusted earnings per share computations. All one off expense and 
expenses incurred first time i.e. amortisation, have been adjusted from the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent to 
arrive at the adjusted earnings per share:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 82,215 76,566
Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 —
Transaction costs in respect of business combination 4,131 —
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 4,995 —
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 93,953 76,566
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (’000) 186,198 185,770
Diluted adjusted earnings per share (US$) 0.505 0.412
Adjusted profit disclosed in the consolidated income statement is calculated as follows:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Profit for the year 85,760 77,534
Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 —
Transaction costs in respect of business combination 4,131 —
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 4,995 —
Adjusted profit 97,498 77,534 132 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment consists of the following:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Property and equipment 433,524 368,357
433,524 368,357
Freehold 
land
US$‘000
Hospital 
building
US$‘000
Buildings
US$‘000
Leasehold 
improve-
ments
US$‘000
Motor 
vehicles 
US$‘000
Furniture, 
fixtures 
fittings and 
medical 
equipment
US$‘000
Capital work 
in progress
US$‘000
Total
US$‘000
31 December 2015
Cost: 19,206 12,343 26,300 51,859 7,421 143,488 213,758 474,375
Additions — — — 2,317 1,564 14,088 63,733 81,702
Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries — — — 2,268 571 7,222 3,631 13,692
Disposals — — — — (234) (2,231) (33) (2,498)
Transfer from CWIP — — — 101,444 — 17,893 (119,337) —
Exchange difference — — — — — (118) (8) (126)
At 31 December 2015 19,206 12,343 26,300 157,888 9,322 180,342 161,744 567,145
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2015 — 8,114 5,920 13,730 5,185 73,069 — 106,018
Charge for the year — 310 1,419 13,054 800 14,268 — 29,851
Exchange difference — — — — — (20) — (20)
Relating to disposals — — — — (206) (2,022) — (2,228)
At 31 December 2015 — 8,424 7,339 26,784 5,779 85,295 — 133,621
Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2015 19,206 3,919 18,961 131,104 3,543 95,047 161,744 433,524
31 December 2014
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 19,206 12,343 26,300 17,388 5,887 114,074 171,389 366,587
Additions — — — 1,064 1,576 14,967 94,686 112,293
Disposals — — — — (42) (1,265) — (1,307)
Transfer from CWIP progress — — — 33,407 — 15,712 (49,119) —
Transfer to Intangible assets — — — — — — (3,198) (3,198)
At 31 December 2014 19,206 12,343 26,300 51,859 7,421 143,488 213,758 474,375
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2014 — 7,804 4,501 10,279 4,868 65,343 — 92,795
Charge for the year — 310 1,419 3,451 359 8,511 — 14,050
Relating to disposals — — — — (42) (785) — (827)
At 31 December 2014 — 8,114 5,920 13,730 5,185 73,069 — 106,018
Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2014 19,206 4,229 20,380 38,129 2,236 70,419 213,758 368,357
As part of the Group’s capital expenditure programme, borrowing costs of US$1,691,000 (2014: US$4,068,000) have been capitalised 
during the year. The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 2.1% (2014: 3.15%) which  
is the effective rate of the borrowings used to finance the capital expenditure. Companies in the UAE are not subject to taxation 
and as such there is no tax relief in respect of capitalised interest. 
Total capital expenditure during the year ended 31 December 2015 was US$81,702,000 (2014: US$112,293,000). Of the total capital 
expenditure spend during the year, US$63,733,000 (2014: US$94,686,000) related to new capital projects and US$ 17,969,000  
(2014: US$17,607,000) related to further capital investment in our existing facilities. 
Generally hospital and distribution operations are carried out on land and buildings which are leased from Government authorities 
or certain private parties. The majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from New Medical Centre 
Hospital LLC-Dubai (“Dubai General Hospital”), and the warehouse facilities which have leases renewable on an annual basis 
(Note 2.3). As at 31 December 2015 US$778,000 (2014: US$1,015,000) of the amounts included in property and equipment related to 
assets with annually renewable leases.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 133 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT continued
In accordance with the local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held  
in the name of a UAE national. As a result, land and buildings of the Group are legally registered in the name of shareholders or previous 
shareholders of the Group. Certain land and buildings with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 (31 December 2014: US$9,321,000) are  
held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group. As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings 
resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The 
directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Group’s entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from  
these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired. 
18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Software
US$‘000
Brands
US$‘000
Patient
relationship
and
Database
US$‘000
Goodwill
US$‘000
Others
US$‘000
Total
US$‘000
31 December 2015
Cost:
At 1 January 2015 3,220 — — 1,016 — 4,236
Additions 548 — — — 13 561
Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 3,217 40,914 20,098 345,072 10,584 419,885
Exchange difference (144) (785) (460) (4,668) (122) (6,179)
At 31 December 2015 6,841 40,129 19,638 341,420 10,475 418,503
Amortisation:
At 1 January 2015 — — — — — —
Charge for the year 1,099 1,588 1,270 — 1,518 5,475
Exchange difference (21) — — — (10) (31)
At 31 December 2015 1,078 1,588 1,270 — 1,508 5,444
Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2015 5,763 38,541 18,368 341,420 8,967 413,059
31 December 2014
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 — — — 1,016 — 1,016
Additions 22 — — — — 22
Transfer from Intangible 3,198 — — — — 3,198
At 31 December 2014 3,220 — — 1,016 — 4,236
Amortisation:
At 1 January 2014 — — — — — —
Charge for the year — — — — — —
At 31 December 2014 — — — — — —
Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2014 3,220 — — 1,016 — 4,236
Others include intellectual property, rental contracts, private contracts and non-compete arrangements.
GOODWILL
Additions to goodwill in the year relate to goodwill measured in respect of the acquisitions of Luarmia SL, CIRH, Biogenesi, ProVita, 
Dr Sunny Healthcare, Americare and Trans Arabia Drug Store LLC.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36. The Group performed 
its annual goodwill impairment test in December 2015 and 2014. Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to 
the following operating segments representing a group of cash generating units (CGUs), which are also operating and reportable 
segments, for impairment testing:
• Healthcare
• Distribution and services
The healthcare CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$336,541,000 at the year-end (2014: US$1,016,000). The distribution and services 
CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$4,879,000 at the year-end (2014: US$ nil). 134 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued
The recoverable amounts for both CGUs are based on value in use, which has been calculated using cash flow projections  
from financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five year period. Cash flows beyond the five year period are 
extrapolated using a 3.0% growth rate (2014: 3.0%) which is significantly lower than the current annual growth rate of both CGUs.  
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flows of both CGUs is 7.7% (2014:8%), which is based on the Group’s weighted average 
cost of capital (WACC) and takes into account such measures as risk free rates of return, the Group’s debt/equity ratio, cost of debt 
and local risk premiums specific to the CGUs. As a result of the analysis, there is headroom in both CGUs and no impairment has 
been identified. Reasonable sensitivities have been applied to each CGU’s cash flows and the discount rates used, and in all cases 
the value in use continues to exceed the carrying amount of CGU goodwill.
The key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections for the five period covered by the most recent 
forecasts are those related to growth in available beds, patient numbers for the healthcare segment and revenue from the 
distribution of products for the distribution and services segment. The assumptions made reflect past experience and are  
based on management’s best estimate and judgment.
OTHER ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis. All amortisation charges for the year 
have been charged against operating profits.
Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any intangible assets with an indefinite life.
Included in software are HIS and ERP projects amounting to US$ 2,995,000 (2014: US$3,220,000) which are work-in-progress as of 
year-end. Management is currently in the process of estimating the useful economic life of the HIS and ERP projects. Amortization 
of the software will commence once it is implemented and goes live.
19 LOAN RECEIVABLE
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Loan receivable 4,395 —
4,395 —
Classification of loan receivable into current and non-current is as follows:
Current 2,670 —
Non-current 1,725 —
4,395 —
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group entered into a loan arrangement, with a third party (Borrower), to finance certain 
payables in connection with a hospital facility, for an aggregate amount not to exceeding US$8,595,000. The loan will be repaid over 
a term of three years, US$2,670,000 each for the first two years and the balance outstanding amount in the third year. The Group 
believes that the amount is fully recoverable.
The loan is interest-free, however, any unpaid loan receivable as of due date shall bear commission at the rate of 15% per annum.
20 INVENTORIES
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Pharmaceuticals and cosmetics 65,166 58,444
Scientific equipment 14,093 11,295
Consumer products 40,766 32,719
Food 9,118 6,041
Egg bank 2,622 —
Consumables 783 211
Opticals 315 333
Goods in transit 2,087 1,750
Other 1,226 804
136,176 111,597
Less: provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories (1,388) (1,388)
134,788 110,209
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 135 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued
The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 December 2015 is US$1,678,000  
(2014: US$1,646,000). This is recognised in direct costs.
Charge for the year in respect of provision provided for slow moving and obsolete inventories is US$NIL (2014: US$672,000). 
Trust receipts issued by banks amounting to US$21,370,000 (2014: US$25,059,000) are secured against the inventories.
21 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Accounts receivable 242,016 168,207
Receivable from suppliers for promotional expenses 10,690 9,349
Other receivables 12,225 6,262
Prepayments 17,544 12,751
282,475 196,569
Receivables from suppliers relate to advertising and promotional expenses incurred by the Group. Accounts receivable are stated net 
of provision for doubtful debts of US$13,022,000 (2014: US$8,996,000). Movements in the provision for doubtful debts are as follows:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
At 1 January 8,996 8,241
Written off (1,595) (1,743)
Written back (Note 12) (1,295) (471)
Charge for the year (Note 12) 3,035 2,969
Addition from business combinations 3,888 —
Exchange difference (7) —
At 31 December 13,022 8,996
The ageing of unimpaired accounts receivable is as follows:
Total 
US$‘000
Neither past 
due nor 
impaired 
US$‘000
Past due but not impaired
< 90 days
US$‘000
91-180 days
US$‘000
181-365 days
US$‘000
>365 days
US$‘000
31 December 2015
Accounts receivable 242,016 168,747 49,460 12,466 7,016 4,327
31 December 2014
Accounts receivable 168,207 115,379 37,884 9,985 3,777 1,182
Unimpaired receivables are expected, on the basis of past experience, to be fully recoverable. It is not the practice of Group to  
obtain collateral over receivables and they are therefore unsecured. As at 31 December 2015 accounts receivables of US$13,022,000 
(2014: US$8,996,000) were impaired and fully provided for.
Credit risk is managed through the Group’s established policy, procedures and controls relating to credit risk management (Note 33).  
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in 
the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures. 
Payments continue to be received from these customers and accordingly the risk of non-recoverability is considered to be low.
Of the net trade receivables balance of US$242,016,000 (2014: US$168,207,000) amount of US$108,936,000 is against five customers 
(2014: US$73,069,000 is against five customers). 
The Group’s terms require receivables to be repaid within 90-120 days depending on the type of customer, which is in line with local 
practice in the UAE. Due to the long credit period offered to customers, a significant amount of trade accounts receivable are neither 
past due nor impaired. 
Amounts due from related parties amounting to US$4,116,000 (31 December 2014: US$7,985,000) as disclosed on the face of the 
consolidated statement of financial position are trading in nature and arise in the normal course of business. 136 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
22 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents included in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprise of the following:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Bank deposits 58,886 183,577
Bank balances and cash 118,511 79,592
Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings (154,962) (169,607)
22,435 93,562
Adjustments for:
Short term borrowings 129,095 143,875
Bank deposits maturing in over 3 months (55,094) (82,209)
Restricted cash (12,412) (18,909)
Cash and cash equivalents 84,024 136,319
Bank deposits of US$58,886,000 (2014: US$183,577,000) are with commercial banks in the United Arab Emirates and Spain. These are 
mainly denominated in the UAE Dirhams and Euro and earn interest at the respective deposit rates. These deposits have original 
maturity between 3 to 12 months (2014: 3 to 12 months). 
Short term borrowings include trust receipts and invoice discounting facilities which mature between 90 and 180 days. Trust receipts 
are short term borrowings to finance imports. The bank overdrafts and short term borrowings are secured by assets of the Group  
up to the amount of the respective borrowings and personal guarantees of the shareholders (H.E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B.R. Shetty and 
Mr Khalifa Bin Butti) and carry interest at EIBOR plus margin rates ranging from 1% to 4% (2014: 1% to 4%) per annum. 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had US$42,356,000 (2014: US$19,474,000) of undrawn bank overdraft facilities, which are 
renewable annually.
Restricted cash mainly represents funds held by a bank in respect of upcoming loan repayment instalments.
23 SHARE CAPITAL
As at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014:
Number of 
shares
(thousands)
Ordinary 
shares
US$‘000
Share 
premium
US$‘000
Total
US$‘000
Issued and fully paid
(nominal value 10 pence sterling each) 185,714 29,566 179,152 208,718
24 GROUP RESTRUCTURING RESERVE
The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for group restructuring, which  
took place on 28 March 2012 when the Company became the holding company of NMC Healthcare LLC through its wholly owned 
subsidiaries, NMC Holding LLC and NMC Health Holdco Limited. Under this method, the group is treated as a continuation of the NMC 
Healthcare LLC group. The difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC (US$27,226,000) and the carrying amount of 
the investment in that company (US$37,227,000), which equates to the net assets of NMC Healthcare LLC at the date of reorganisation 
(28 March 2012), amounting to US$10,001,000(debit), is recorded on consolidation as a group restructuring reserve. This reserve is 
non-distributable.
25 RETAINED EARNINGS
As at 31 December 2015, retained earnings of US$17,590,000 (2014: US$16,101,000) are not distributable. This relates to a UAE Companies 
Law requirement to set aside 10% of annual profit of all UAE subsidiaries until their respective reserves equal 50% of their paid up 
share capital. The subsidiaries discontinue such annual transfers once this requirement has been met. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 137 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
26  DIVIDEND 
In the AGM on 16 June 2015 the shareholders approved a dividend of 5.4 pence per share, amounting to GBP10,028,600 
(US$15,866,000) to be paid to shareholders on the Company’s share register on 29 May 2015. The dividend amount was paid to the 
shareholders on 25 June 2015 (2014: a dividend of GBP8,212,700 equivalent to US$13,846,000 was approved on 26 June 2014 and paid 
on 4 July 2014). No interim dividend was declared during the year. Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting 
on 3 June 2016, a final dividend of 6.2 pence per share, GBP11,580,000 (US$16,443,000) will be paid to shareholders on the Company’s 
share register on 20 May 2016.
27 TERM LOANS 
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Current portion 91,621 92,055
Non-current portion 483,725 114,457
575,346 206,512
Amounts are repayable as follows:
Within 1 year 91,621 92,055
Between 1 — 2 years 98,355 49,129
Between 2 — 5 years 385,370 65,328
575,346 206,512
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group agreed a new syndicated loan facility, of US$825,000,000 (US$350,000,000 of 
term debt and US$475,000,000 of delayed drawdown acquisition facility). The loan facility is repayable over 60 monthly instalments 
with a grace period of twelve months. The applicable interest rate is dependent upon the respective leverages. Based upon the 
leverage at the time of initial drawdown, the initial margin was 100bps/70bps over 1 month LIBOR/EIBOR per annum.
The new syndicated loan facility has been utilised to repay some of the existing debts including the previous syndication loan obtained 
in FY2013 and will also be utilised for capital expenditures and acquisitions. The Group has utilised an amount of US$350,000,000 against 
the new syndicated loan facility as well as US$163,679,000 of the delayed drawdown acquisition finance as of 31 December 2015.
This new syndicated loan is guaranteed by corporate guarantees provided by NMC Health plc and operating subsidiaries of the 
Group. The new syndicated loan is secured against a collateral package which includes an assignment of some insurance 
company receivables and their proceeds by the Group and a pledge over certain bank accounts within the Group.
In addition to the new syndicate loan facility, term loans also include other short term revolving loans which get drawn—down and 
repaid over the year.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group drew down term loan of US$822,698,000 (Year ended 31 December 2014: 
US$263,594,000) and repaid term loans of US$472,796,000 (Year ended 31 December 2014: US$307,282,000).
Total transaction fees in respect of the new loan amounts to US$10,789,000.
The Group has charged an amount of US$2,612,000 to the consolidated income statement with respect to unamortised transaction 
costs of existing debts which have been settled using the proceeds of new syndicated loan. 138 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
28 EMPLOYEES’ END OF SERVICE BENEFITS
Movements in the provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Balance at 1 January 14,934 12,099
Charge for the year 4,869 3,492
Actuarial gain (260) —
Employees’ end of service benefits paid (1,133) (657)
Addition from business combinations 4,080 —
Balance at 31 December 22,490 14,934
Current 3,206 2,484
Non—current 19,284 12,450
Balance at 31 December 22,490 14,934
Charge for the year comprise of the following:
Current service cost 4,234 2,991
Interest cost 635 501
Balance at 31 December 4,869 3,492
In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 — ‘Employee Benefits’, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present 
value of its obligation at 31 December 2015 and 2014, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees’ end of service 
benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law. 
During the current year, the Group has recognised an actuarial gain of US$260,000 in other comprehensive income. Management  
has assumed an average length of service of 5 years (2014: 5 years) and increment/promotion costs of 2.25% (2014: 3.0%). The expected 
liability at the date of employees’ leaving service has been discounted to its net present value using a discount rate of 3.25% (2014: 4.0%). 
Management also performed a sensitivity analysis for changes in discount rate and increment costs; the results of this analysis 
showed that none of the factors had any material impact on the actuarial valuation.
29 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Trade accounts payable 87,029 77,906
Accrued interest 1,014 1,532
Accrued expenses 7,536 2,428
Others 27,932 16,178
123,511 98,044
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 50-60 day terms. 
30 OTHER PAYABLES
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Contingent consideration payable for acquisitions (Note 36) 25,016 —
Other payable 158 21
25,174 21
Classification of other payables into current and non-current is as follows:
Current 11,150 —
Non-current 14,024 21
25,174 21
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 139 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
These represent transactions with related parties, including major shareholders and senior management of the Group, and entities 
controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties, or where such parties are members of the key management 
personnel of the entities. Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved by the management of the Group. 
The Company’s immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals (H.E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B.R. Shetty and 
Mr Khalifa Bin Butti) who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the Company and who together have the ability to 
control the company. As the immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of individuals, it does not produce consolidated 
financial statements.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT
The Controlling Shareholders and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement, the principal purpose of which is to 
ensure that the Company is capable of carrying out its business independently of the Controlling Shareholders and that transactions 
and relationships with the Controlling Shareholders are at arm’s length and on a normal commercial basis. 
In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, the Controlling Shareholders have a collective right to appoint a number 
of Directors to the Board depending upon the level of their respective shareholdings. This entitlement reduces or is removed as the 
collective shareholdings reduce. The relationship agreement includes provisions to ensure that the Board remains independent.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated income statement are as follows:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC
Sales 699 9,775
Purchases 54,252 32,336
Rent charged 440 422
Other income 1,195 970
Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of such entity
Management fees received from such entity by NMC 6,003 5,717
Sales 438 2,015
Amounts due from and due to related parties disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC
Amounts due from related parties 328 3,603
Amounts due to related parties 17,419 8,380
Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of the entity management 
personnel of such entity
Amounts due from related parties 3,788 4,382
Outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 were unsecured, payable on 50-60 days term 
and carried interest at 0% (31 December 2014: 0%) per annum. Settlement occurs in cash. As at 31 December 2015 US$1,778,000 of the 
amounts due from related parties were past due but not impaired (31 December 2014: US$1,998,000). 
The Group has incurred expenses and recharged back an amount of US$1,854,000 (31 December 2014: US$3,018,000) made on behalf 
of a related party where a shareholder who has significant influence over the Group is a key management personnel of that entity.
Out of total term loans outstanding as of 31 December 2015, term loans of US$28,372,000 (2014: US$35,325,000) are secured by joint 
and several personal guarantees of the Shareholders (HE Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B.R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti).
Pharmacy licenses in UAE under which the Group sells its products, are granted to the shareholders or directors of the Company, 
who are UAE nationals. No payments are made in respect of these licenses to shareholders or directors.  140 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued
COMPENSATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Short term benefits 6,469 3,074
Employees’ end of service benefits 16 20
6,485 3,094
The key management personnel include all the Non-Executive Directors, the two (31 December 2014: three) Executive Directors  
and four (31 December 2014: three) senior management personnel.
During the year additional shares of 345,649 were granted to Executive Directors and other senior management in the form  
of share options.
One individual (31 December 2014: two) who is a related party of one of the shareholders is employed by the Group. The total 
compensation for employment received by that related party in the year ended 31 December 2015 amounts to US$786,000  
(2014: US$572,000 for two individuals). 
32 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
The Group currently operates two share option schemes:
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP)
Options awarded under the LTIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management. The exercise prices are 
nil. Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years. The LTIP is subject to performance conditions which can be 
found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 83. 
SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (STIP)
Options awarded under the STIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management. The exercise prices are 
nil. Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years. 
Fair values are determined using the Black-Scholes model. Expected volatility has been based on historical volatility over the period 
since the Company’s shares have been publicly traded. 
Administrative expenses include a charge of US$1,177,000 (2014: US$88,000) in respect of the cost of providing share options. The 
cost is calculated by estimating the fair value of the option at grant date and spreading that amount over the vesting period after 
adjusting for an expectation of non-vesting.
For options granted in the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used  
in the calculation are as follows:
2015
STIP 
2014
STIP
Share price at grant date £5.200 £4.570
Fair value at measurement date £5.060 £4.403
Exercise price £nil £nil
Expected volatility 40% 35%
Expected option life 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 0.91% 1.23%
Risk free interest rate 0.98% 0.98%
2015
LTIP 1
2015
LTIP 2
2014
LTIP
Share price at grant date £5.200 £7.650 £4.949
Fair value at measurement date £5.060 £7.377 £4.769
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil
Expected volatility 40% 40% 35%
Expected option life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 0.91% 1.21% 1.23%
Risk free interest rate 0.98% 1.05% 0.98%
LTIP 1 and LTIP 2 represent long term incentive plans issued in February and September 2015 respectively.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 141 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
32 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued
SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (STIP) continued
The options existing at the year-end were as follows:
Number of 
shares
2015
Exercise 
price Period when exercisable
2014
Number of 
shares
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
October 2014 160,778 £nil 29/10/17 to 28/10/24 160,778
Short term incentive plan (STIP)
October 2014 55,527 £nil 29/10/17 to 28/10/24 55,527
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
February 2015 221,539 £nil 25/02/18 to 24/02/25 —
Short term incentive plan (STIP)
February 2015 74,801 £nil 25/02/18 to 24/02/25 —
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
September 2015 49,309 £nil 09/09/18 to 08/09/25 —
Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares 561,954 216,305
Percentage of issued share capital 0.3% 0.1%
Movement of share options during the year is as follows:
2015 2014
At 1 January 216,305 —
Granted during the year 345,649 216,305
Outstanding at 31 December 561,954 216,305
No options expired, were exercised or forfeited during the year (2014: nil).
33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries, put 
option redemption liability and trade and other payables. In addition to these financial liabilities the Group has forward exchange 
contract as of 31 December 2015. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group has 
accounts and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations. 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. These risks and the Group’s financial risk 
management objectives and policies are consistent with last year except for foreign currency risk which has increased due to the 
acquisition of subsidiaries in Spain, Italy and Columbia. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk now includes risk on the Group’s 
net investment in foreign subsidiaries in Spain, Italy and Columbia.
The Group’s senior management oversees the management of these risks. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for 
managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
INTEREST RATE RISK
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities (bank deposits, bank 
overdrafts and other short term borrowings and term loans). Management is of the opinion that the Group’s exposure to interest 
rate risk is limited. 142 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued
INTEREST RATE RISK continued
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the consolidated income statement to reasonably possible changes in interest 
rates, with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed 
changes in interest rates on the Group’s profit for the year based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities as of 
the respective year end. 
Increase/(decrease) in basis points
Effect on profit at
31 December 2015
US$‘000
Effect on profit at
31 December 2014
US$‘000
100 (6,714) (1,925)
(100) 6,714 1,925
CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a 
financial loss. The Group limits its credit risk with respect to customers due to the nature of the customers that it has dealings with. 
Within the Healthcare business in the UAE, the majority of the Group’s customers are insurance companies. The largest insurance 
company in UAE is fully backed by Sovereign wealth funding from Abu Dhabi. All other insurance companies in the UAE are required 
to be listed on a stock exchange and therefore are governed by the regulations of their respective markets. The Group limits its credit 
risk with respect to healthcare customers in markets other than UAE by requesting certain percentage of advance payments from 
customers and obtaining final payments before completion of treatment. Within the distribution business the Group deals primarily 
with large reputable multinational retail companies. The Group further seeks to limit its credit risk by setting credit limits for individual 
customers and monitoring outstanding receivables.
The Group limits its credit risk with regard to bank deposits by only dealing with reputable banks. The external credit ratings for the 
banks at which the bank deposits and cash at bank are held are as follows:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
B2 — 229
AA-/A-1/Aa3 18,038 812
A+/A1 722 4,345
A/A2 19,426 267
A+/A-1 419 —
A3/A- 4,352 599
AA+ 4 —
B1 1,145 —
BB 2,496 —
BB+ 812 —
Baa2 — 16,224
Baa3 109,728 208,694
BBB 2,609 —
BBB- 7,941 30,229
BBB+/Baa1/Baa1/P-2 5,769 280
Without external credit rating 2,895 1,149
Total bank deposit and cash at bank 176,356 262,828
With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the 
counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
LIQUIDITY RISK
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of banking facilities. The 
Group limits its liquidity risk by raising funds from its operations and ensuring bank facilities are available. Trade payables are normally 
settled within 50-60 days of the date of purchase.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 143 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued
LIQUIDITY RISK continued
The table below summarises the maturities of the Group’s undiscounted financial liabilities, based on contractual payment dates 
and current market interest rates.
On demand
US$‘000
Less than 3 
months
US$‘000
3 to 12 
months
US$‘000
1 to 5 years
US$‘000
Total
US$‘000
At 31 December 2015
Trade accounts payable — 87,029 — — 87,029
Amounts due to related parties — 17,419 — — 17,419
Other payables — 32,932 4,194 18,321 55,447
Option redemption payable — — — 30,163 30,163
Terms loans — 46,612 54,889 506,722 608,223
Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 26,325 58,350 74,189 — 158,864
Financial guarantees 9,069 — — — 9,069
Total 35,394 242,342 133,272 555,206 966,214
On demand
US$‘000
Less than 3 
months
US$‘000
3 to 12 
months
US$‘000
1 to 5 years
US$‘000
Total
US$‘000
At 31 December 2014
Trade accounts payable — 77,906 — — 77,906
Amounts due to related parties — 8,380 — — 8,380
Other payables — 16,178 — 21 16,199
Terms loans — 21,847 78,342 121,135 221,324
Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 26,180 60,136 87,982 — 174,298
Financial guarantees 8,311 — — — 8,311
Total 34,491 184,447 166,324 121,156 506,418
The Group also has future capital commitments for the completion of ongoing capital projects of US$30,230,000 (2014: US$25,012,000) 
(Note 31). These are to be financed from the fixed deposits held by the Group. 
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
foreign exchange rates. Foreign currency risk comprises of transaction risk, statement of financial position risk and the Group’s net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries. Transaction risk relates to the Group’s cash flow being adversely affected by a change in the 
exchange rates of foreign currencies against the UAE Dirham. Statement of financial position risk relates to the risk of the Group’s 
monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies acquiring a lower or higher value, when translated into UAE Dirhams, as a result 
of currency movements.
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its trade accounts payable, put option redemption payable and certain receivables 
denominated in foreign currencies, mainly in Euros and Saudi Riyal. As the US Dollar is pegged to the UAE Dirham, balances in  
US Dollars are not considered to represent significant currency risk.
The table below indicates the impact of Group’s foreign currency monetary liabilities and assets at 31 December, on its profit 
before tax.
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
+5% (1,690) (96)
-5% 1,690 96 
As a result of acquisition of new subsidiaries in Spain, Italy and Columbia the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries. During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group has recorded a foreign currency exchange 
loss of US$5,342,000 on the translation of foreign subsidiaries in other comprehensive income.
During the year, the Group also entered into a forward currency contract. This derivative is not designated in a hedge relationship.  
It acts as an economic hedge and will offset the underlying transaction when that occurs. 144 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support  
its business and maximise shareholders’ value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions. Capital comprises 
share capital, share premium, group restructuring reserve and retained earnings and is measured at US$487,697,000 as at 31 December 
2015 (2014: US$449,023,000). In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to 
shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Certain banking facilities may also impose 
covenant requirements on the Group with respect to capital management. 
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by capital plus net debt. The Group includes within net 
debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, accounts payable and accruals and other payables less bank deposits and bank 
balances and cash. 
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 730,308 376,119
Accounts payable and accruals 123,511 98,065
Other payable 25,174 —
Option redemption payable 25,084 —
Less: bank deposits, bank balances and cash (177,397) (263,169)
Net debt 726,680 211,015
Capital 487,697 449,023
Capital and net debt 1,214,377 660,038
Gearing ratio 60% 32%
34 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of 
business from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise at 31 December 2015 of US$9,069,000 (2014: US$8,311,000). 
35 COMMITMENTS
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
The Group had future capital commitments of US$30,230,000 at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$25,012,000) principally relating to the 
completion of ongoing capital projects.
OTHER COMMITMENTS
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases 
Within one year 12,846 10,816
After one year but not more than five years 53,943 44,947
More than five years 84,407 91,003
Total 151,196 146,766
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015 145 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
36 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE
FORWARD EXCHANGE CONTRACT
The Group holds a forward exchange contract to manage foreign exchange exposure. The forward contract has a principal value  
of US$15,000,000 and is denominated in Qatari Riyal. This contract has not been designated as a cash flow hedge and the decrease 
in the fair value during 2015 of US$ 1,200,000 (2014: US$ Nil) has been included in finance costs and the corresponding liability is 
included in the ‘others’ category within accounts payable and accruals (Note 29). This is a level 2 derivative financial instrument.
CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION
The consideration to acquire Luarmia SL, Dr Sunny Healthcare, ProVita, CIRH and Biogenesi includes contingent consideration of 
US$29,041,000 (Note 5). In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, contingent consideration is classified as a level 3 
derivative financial instrument. The fair value of outstanding contingent consideration as at the reporting date is US$25,016,000.  
The valuation technique used for measurement of contingent consideration is the weighted average probability method and then 
applying discounting. Movement in contingent consideration payable is as follows:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Contingent consideration recognised at acquisition 29,041 —
Unrealised gain recognised in other income (Note 9) (536) —
Unwinding adjustment 585 —
Exchange gain (56) —
Payments made (4,018) —
25,016 —
Unwinding adjustment is included in financial instruments fair value adjustments in finance cost (Note 10). Exchange gain is recognised 
in exchange difference on translation of foreign operations in other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration payable as of 31 December 2015 comprises of following:
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
CIRH 2,768 —
Biogenesi 6,578 —
Dr Sunny Healthcare 7,345 —
ProVita 8,325 —
25,016 —
CIRH
Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets. Management believes that 
these targets will be met. Significant unobservable inputs used is discount rate (9.2%). A 1% increase in discount rate would result  
in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$48,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase  
in fair value by US$49,000.
BIOGENESI
Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets. Management believes that 
these targets will be met. Significant unobservable inputs used is discount rate (10.7%). A 1% increase in discount rate would result  
in decrease in fair value of the contingent Consideration by US$84,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase  
in fair value by US$86,000.
DR SUNNY HEALTHCARE
Significant unobservable inputs used are growth rate (13%) and WACC 7.7%. A 5% increase/decrease in growth rate would result in  
an increase/decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$332,000. A 1% increase in WACC would result in a decrease 
in fair value by US$225,000 and a 1% decrease in WACC would result in increase in fair value by US$62,000. 
PROVITA
The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the event that licenses to operate in certain other GCC countries are 
obtained. Management believes that it is highly probable that these licenses will be obtained. Subsequent to year end, one of the 
licenses has been obtained and an amount of US$5,000,000 has been paid. 146 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
37 OPTION REDEMPTION PAYABLE
The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the non-controlling interest in Luarmia SL is 
recognised at expected amount payable of US$25,084,000 within non-current liabilities (Note 5). The key assumption in estimating 
the expected amount is the multiple of purchase price and reproductive cycles projections. The financial liability is sensitive to 
changes in these assumptions. For example a 10% increase in reproductive cycles will result in an increase in the financial liability  
to US$28,129,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability to US$22,039,000. 
38 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The fair values of the Group’s financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement of 
financial position date.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly 
or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable 
market data.
Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value are disclosed in Note 36.
During the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value 
measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements. 
39 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
The Group entered into an agreement to buy 51% shareholding in Fakih IVF. The Group completed the acquisition of Fakih IVF  
on 8 February 2016. Refer to Note 5 for further details.
The Group entered into agreements to acquire two healthcare related businesses for purchase consideration amounting to 
US$14.5 million and US$11 million respectively. One of these transactions completed by 31 January 2016 and other is expected  
to complete before end of Q1 2016. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
At 31 December 2015  148 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiary 4 204,127 204,127
Current assets
Other receivables and prepayments 5 114 290
Amounts due from a related party 6 610 —
Bank balances and cash 600 131
1,324 421
TOTAL ASSETS 205,451 204,548
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 7 29,566 29,566
Share premium 7 179,152 179,152
Accumulated losses 9 (3,495) (12,029)
Total equity 205,223 196,689
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 21 21
Current liabilities
Other payables and accruals 8 207 261
Amount due to a related party 6 — 7,577
207 7,838
Total liabilities 228 7,859
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 205,451 204,548
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 13 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by
DR B.R. SHETTY       MR SURESH KRISHNAMOORTHY
Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   Chief Financial Officer
The attached Notes 1 to 15 form part of the financial statements. 149 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Share 
Capital
US$’000
Share 
premium
US$’000
Accumulated 
losses 
US$’000
Total 
US$’000
Balance as at 1 January 2014 29,566 179,152 (2,904) 205,814
Total (other) comprehensive income for the year (Note 9) — — 4,654 4,654
Share based payments (Note 12) — 67 67
Dividends paid (Note 14) — — (13,846) (13,846)
Balance as at 31 December 2014 29,566 179,152 (12,029) 196,689
Total (other) comprehensive income for the year (Note 9) — — 23,223 23,223
Share based payments — — 1,177 1,177
Dividends paid (Note 14) — — (15,866) (15,866)
Balance as at 31 December 2015 29,566 179,152 (3,495) 205,223
The attached Notes 1 to 15 form part of the financial statements. 150 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015  
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year before tax 23,223 4,654
Adjustments for:
Finance costs — 2
Share based payments 1,177 88
Dividends payment 14 (15,866) (13,846)
8,534 (9,102)
Working capital changes:
Amounts due from a related party (610) 2,875
Other receivables and prepayments 176 (240)
Amounts due to a related party (7,577) 7,577
Other payables and accruals (54) (1,211)
Net cash from/(used in) operations 469 (101)
FINANCING ACTIVITY
Finance costs paid — (2)
Cash used in financing activity — (2)
INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 469 (103)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 131 234
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 600 131
The attached Notes 1 to 15 form part of the financial statements. 151 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Notes to the financial statements
At 31 December 2015
1 CORPORATE INFORMATION
NMC Health plc (the “Company” or “Parent”) is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011. The Company 
is a public limited company. The address of the registered office of the Company is Level 1, Devonshire House, One Mayfair Place, 
London, W1J 8AJ. The registered number of the Company is 7712220. The Company’s immediate and ultimate controlling party is  
a group of three individuals (H.E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi (H.E Saeed Bin Butti), Dr B.R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Butti 
Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi (Mr Khalifa Bin Butti) who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the company and 
who together have the ability to control the company.
The Parent and its subsidiaries (collectively the “Group”) are engaged in providing professional medical services and the provision of all 
types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction, and the rendering of business 
management services to companies in the health care and hospital sector. The Group is also engaged in wholesale of pharmaceutical 
goods, medical equipment, cosmetics, food, IT products and services.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 
13 March 2016 and the statement of financial position was signed on the Board’s behalf by Dr B.R. Shetty and Mr Suresh Krishnamoorthy. 
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 and applied in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation 
of these financial statements are set out below. 
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY
The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company. The reporting currency of the Company is United 
States of America Dollar (US$) as this is a more globally recognised currency. The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar at  
a rate of 3.673 per US Dollar.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars ($000) except when otherwise indicated.
GOING CONCERN
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Company has made a profit of US$23,223,000  
(2014: US$4,654,000) and has equity of US$205,223,000 (2014: US$196,689,000). 
The Company is the parent of NMC Health plc group and is solely a holding company with no business activities of its own. The Company 
earned a dividend and reported a net profit during the year. The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review on pages 6 to 39. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Review on pages 24 to 27.
The Group has considerable financial resources including bank facilities. As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group  
is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. 
 
The directors expect that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
2.2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES
The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the statement of 
financial position date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are discussed below:
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS
Functional currency
The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company. 
Judgement has been used to determine the functional currency of the Company that most appropriately represents the economic 
effects of the Company’s transactions, events and conditions. As part of this assessment, the following information has been taken 
into account:
The primary economic environment influencing the Company’s income (dividends) is the UAE and the effect of the local environment 
is limited to expenses incurred within the UK. The ability of the Company to meet its obligations and pay dividends to its shareholders 
is dependent on the economy of, and the operation of its subsidiaries in, the UAE.  152 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
2.3 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial period.
NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
The Company applied for the first time certain standards and amendments which are effective for annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2015.
The amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2015 and are listed below, have no impact on the Group.
• Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
• Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle
 — IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
 — IFRS 3 Business Combinations
 — IFRS 8 Operating Segments
 — IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets
 — IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
• Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle
 — IFRS 3 Business Combinations
 — IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
 — IAS 40 Investment Property
2.4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company controls the operating and financial policies, generally by owning more than 50% 
of voting rights. Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment.
When the Company incurs increases in or return of share capital, to/from its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised within 
the cost of investment in subsidiaries. 
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment. Where an indicator 
of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to 
be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use. Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained 
from the sale of the investment in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties. When this information 
is not available the fair value is determined based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries, using 
a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. If the 
carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the 
investment at the recoverable amount. 
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period as to 
whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, 
an estimate of the recoverable amount is made. An impairment loss is reversed to the income statement to the extent that the 
increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed the carrying value that would have been determined had 
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. 
Acquisition of subsidiary under common control
When the Company acquires a subsidiary under common control, the cost of the investment is deemed to be the Company’s 
share of the net assets of the subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consists of cash in hand and bank balances,
Equity
The Company has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity. The difference between the issue price and the par value  
of ordinary share capital is allocated to share premium. The transaction costs incurred for the share issue are accounted for as a 
deduction from share premium, net of any related income tax benefit, to the extent they are incremental costs directly attributable 
to the share issue that would otherwise have been avoided.
Accounts payable and accruals
Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received whether billed by the supplier or not. 
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of  
the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 153 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
2.4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has an obligation (legal or constructive) arising from a past event, and the costs  
to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation. Increases in provisions 
due to the passage of time are recognised in the income statement.
Share based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. 
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. Details regarding the determination of the fair value  
of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in Note 12.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each reporting date, the Group 
revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting 
conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  
such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves/other payables.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting are 
conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or 
non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in UAE Dirhams at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.  
All differences are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment of financial assets
An assessment is made at each statement of financial position date to determine whether there is objective evidence that a specific 
financial asset may be impaired. If such evidence exists, any impairment loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Impairment is determined as the difference between carrying value and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the 
current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Financial guarantee contracts
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the 
holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt 
instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are 
directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate  
of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date and the amount recognised less 
cumulative amortisation.
3 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE
The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Company’s financial 
statements are disclosed below. The Company intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
AMENDMENTS TO IAS 27: EQUITY METHOD IN SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The amendments will allow entities to use the equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 
in their separate financial statements. Entities already applying IFRS and electing to change to the equity method in its separate 
financial statements will have to apply that change retrospectively. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on its 
financial statements.
IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS
IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with 
customers. Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The principles in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach 
to measuring and recognising revenue. The new revenue standard is applicable to all entities and will supersede all current revenue 
recognition requirements under IFRS. Either a full or modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt 
the new standard on the required effective date. 154 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
3 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE continued
IFRS 16 LEASES
IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016, and specifies how an IFRS reporter will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.  
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless 
the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or 
finance, with IFRS 16’s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
IFRS 16 applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Company is currently assessing the impact  
of IFRS 16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
In addition, the standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Company’s 
financial statements that are not expected to have any material impact on the Company are as follows:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
• IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
• Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants
• Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
• Annual improvements 2012-2014 Cycle:
 — IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
 — IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
 — IAS 19 Employee Benefits
 — IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
 — Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative
 — Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception
4 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY
2015 
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
As at 1 January and 31 December 204,127 204,127
This represents the cost of the investment in NMC Healthcare LLC (previous parent company), a wholly owned subsidiary held 
through the holding company subsidiaries NMC Health Holdco Limited and NMC Holding Co LLC.  155 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
4 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY continued
The subsidiaries held by NMC Heath plc are as follows:
Percentage of holdings
Country of 
incorporation
31 December 
2015
31 December 
2014
Direct subsidiaries:
NMC Holding Co LLC UAE 100% 100%
NMC Health Holdco Limited UK 100% 100%
Indirect subsidiaries:
NMC Healthcare LLC UAE 100% 100%
New Pharmacy Company Limited UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99%
NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 99% 99%
NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99%
Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain UAE 99% 99%
Reliance Information Technology LLC UAE 99% 99%
BR Medical Suites FZ LLC UAE 100% 100%
Brightpoint Hospital LLC UAE 99% 99%
NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC UAE 99% 99%
NMC Hospital LLC (DIP Hospital) UAE 99% 99%
Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi branch. UAE 99% 99%
New Marketing & Trading Co. LLC UAE 99% 99%
Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-Al Ain branch UAE 99% 99%
New Marketing & Trading Co –LLC-Al Ain branch. UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Trading LLC.-branch 2 UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Trading LLC-branch 3 UAE 99% 99%
Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-branch UAE 99% 99%
National Marketing & Trading Co. LLC UAE 99% 99%
New Marketing & Trading Company LLC-branch UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading LLC-branch UAE 99% 99%
Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading Co. LLC UAE 99% 99%
National Marketing & Trading Co. LLC – Dubai branch UAE 99% 99%
New Marketing & Trading Co. LLC-Dubai branch UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Trading (Store) LLC UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre Veterinary Medicine & Equipment Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading LLC branch UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading LLC –Fujairah branch UAE 99% 99%
NMC Trading RAK-branch LLC UAE 99% 99%
New Medical Centre UAE 100% 100%
New Medical Centre –branch (Al-Ain,Al wadi) UAE 100% 100%
Medifertil, S.A Columbia 60.5% —
Centro de infertilidad y Reproduccion Humana SLU (CIRH) Spain 86.4% —
Centro de Medicina della Riproduzione (Biogenesi) Italy 51.8% —
EUVITRO, S.L.U Spain 86.4% —
ProVita International Medical Center LLC UAE 100% —
NMC Royal Hospital LLC UAE 99% —
The American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC UAE 90% —
The American Surgecenter LLC UAE 90% —
Americare LLC UAE 90% —
Trans Arabia Drug Store LLC UAE 75% —
Sunny Specialty Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
New Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
Sunny Al Buhairah Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
Sunny Al Nadha Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% —
Sunny Dental Care LLC UAE 100% —
Grand Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% —
Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% —
Sharjah Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% — 156 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
5 OTHER RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS
2015 
US$‘000
2014 
US$‘000
Other receivables 83 263
Prepayments 31 27
114 290
6 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
These represent transactions with related parties, i.e. major shareholders and senior management of the Company, and entities 
controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties. Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved  
by the management of the Company.
The Company’s immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals (H.E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B.R. Shetty and 
Mr Khalifa Bin Butti) who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the Company and who together have the ability to 
control the Company. As the immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of individuals, it does not produce consolidated 
financial statements.
During the year the Company was charged a management fees of US$1,914,000 (2014: US$5,506,000) by NMC Healthcare LLC. 
Dividend amount of US$15,866,000 (2014: US$13,846,000) was paid, on behalf of the Company, by a subsidiary to the shareholders  
of the Company. 
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Amounts due from Subsidiary
Amounts due from a related party 610 —
Amounts due to Subsidiary
Amounts due to a related party — 7,577
The Company is a guarantor along with other fellow subsidiary undertakings for the US$825,000,000 (2014: US$166,561,000) new 
syndicated loan facility (2014: Previous syndicated loan) raised by its subsidiary NMC Healthcare LLC. 
COMPENSATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Short term benefits 3,037 1,504
Key management personnel include all the Non-Executives Directors (2014: all) and two senior management personnel (2014: two).
7 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM
As at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014:
SHARE CAPITAL
Number of 
shares
(thousands)
Ordinary 
shares
US$‘000
Share 
premium
US$‘000
Total
US$‘000
Issued and fully paid
(nominal value 10 pence sterling) each) 185,714 29,566 179,152 208,718 
8 OTHER PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Other payables 104 67
Accrued expenses 103 194
207 261 157 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
9 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
The Profit for the year in the financial statements of the Company is US$23,223,000 (2014: US$4,654,000). 
10 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
The Company paid US$1,300,000 to its auditor in respect of the audit of the Company’s annual accounts for the year ended 
31 December 2015 (2014: US$593,000), which includes a portion in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Company. 
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual 
accounts of NMC Health plc because group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a 
consolidated basis. 
11 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
2015
US$‘000
2014
US$‘000
Directors’ remuneration 1,754 863
Further information in respect of this compensation paid to directors is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
12 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
The Company currently operates two share option schemes:
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP)
Options awarded under the LTIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management. The exercise prices are 
nil. Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years. The LTIP is subject to performance conditions which can be 
found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 83. 
SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (STIP)
Options awarded under the STIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management. The exercise prices are 
nil. Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years. 
Fair values are determined using the Black-Scholes model. Expected volatility has been based on historical volatility over the period 
since the Company’s shares have been publicly traded. 
The cost is calculated by estimating the fair value of the option at grant date and spreading that amount over the vesting period 
after adjusting for an expectation of non-vesting.
For options granted in the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in 
the calculation are as follows:
2015
STIP 
2014
STIP
Share price at grant date £5.200 £4.570
Fair value at measurement date £5.060 £4.403
Exercise price £nil £nil
Expected volatility 40% 35%
Expected option life 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 0.91% 1.23%
Risk free interest rate 0.98% 0.98%
2015
LTIP 1
2015
LTIP 2
2014
LTIP
Share price at grant date £5.200 £7.650 £4.949
Fair value at measurement date £5.060 £7.377 £4.769
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil
Expected volatility 40% 40% 35%
Expected option life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 0.91% 1.21% 1.23%
Risk free interest rate 0.98% 1.05% 0.98%
LTIP 1 and LTIP 2 represent long term incentive plans issued in February and September 2015 respectively. 158 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
12 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued
SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (STIP) continued
The options existing at the year-end were as follows:
Number of 
shares
2015
Exercise 
price Period when exercisable
2014
Number of 
shares
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
October 2014 160,778 £nil 29/10/17 to 28/10/24 160,778
Short term incentive plan (STIP)
October 2014 55,527 £nil 29/10/17 to 28/10/24 55,527
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
February 2015 221,539 £nil 25/02/18 to 24/02/25 —
Short term incentive plan (STIP)
February 2015 74,801 £nil 25/02/18 to 24/02/25 —
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
September 2015 49,309 £nil 09/09/18 to 08/09/25 —
Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares 561,954 216,305
Percentage of issued share capital 0.3% 0.1%
Movement of share options during the year is as follows:
2015 2014
At 1 January 216,305 —
Granted during the year 345,649 216,305
Outstanding at 31 December 561,954 216,305
No options expired, were exercised or forfeited during the year (2014: nil).
13 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company’s principal financial liabilities are other payables, arising in the normal course of business. The Company’s financial 
assets include an amount due from a related party and bank balances. The company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial 
risks: interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. 
INTEREST RATE RISK
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its bank balances only, as the balance due from a related 
party is interest free, and therefore the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk is limited. 
CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument, leading to a financial loss. The Company’s 
credit risk arises from amounts due from a related party and bank balances. 
The directors assess the credit quality of the related party by taking into account their financial position, past experience and other 
factors. Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by this counterparty, which is a subsidiary of the Company. 
The Company limits its credit risk with regard to bank balances by only dealing with reputable banks. The credit rating of the bank  
at which the cash at bank is held is AA+.
The Company’s credit risk exposure against a corporate guarantee provided to NMC Healthcare LLC in respect of the new syndicate 
(2014: earlier previous) loan is US$825,000,000 (2014: US$166,561,000).  159 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
13 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued
LIQUIDITY RISK
The Company’s objective is to maintain sufficient funding to meet its obligations as they fall due. 
The table below analyses the Company’s undiscounted financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the 
contractual payment dates. 
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
On demand
US$‘000
Less than 3 
months
US$‘000
3 to 12 
months
US$‘000
1 to 5 years
US$‘000
Total
US$‘000
At 31 December 2015
Other payables — 104 — 21 125
Total — 104 — 21 125
At 31 December 2014
Other payables — 67 — 21 88
Total — 67 — 21 88
In addition to the above financial liabilities the Company has provided a corporate guarantee of US$825,000,000 (2014: US$166,561,000) 
to NMC Healthcare LLC in respect of the new syndicate (2014: Previous syndicate) loan. The fair value of the corporate guarantee is 
US$nil as at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$nil).
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
Foreign currency risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency 
that is not the entity’s functional currency.
The Company is exposed to currency risk on its other payables denominated in Pound Sterling. Foreign currency payable balances 
included in the statement of financial position denominated in Pound Sterling are US$170,000 (2014: US$144,000). The impact of 
possible of foreign currency movement is not significant.
FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION
The fair values of the Company’s financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement  
of financial position date. 
FINANCIAL GUARANTEES
The Company is a guarantor along with other fellow subsidiary undertakings for US$825,000,000 (2014: US$166,561,000) of a new 
syndicated loan Bank (2014: previous syndicate loan) raised by its subsidiary NMC Healthcare LLC. 
14 DIVIDENDS
In the AGM on 16 June 2015 the shareholders approved a dividend of 5.4 pence per share, amounting to GBP10,028,600 
(US$15,866,000) to be paid to shareholders on the Company’s share register on 29 May 2015. The dividend amount was paid to the 
shareholders on 25 June 2015 (2014: a dividend of GBP8,212,700 equivalent to US$13,846,000 was approved on 26 June 2014 and paid 
on 4 July 2014). No interim dividend was declared during the year. Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting 
on 3 June 2016, a final dividend of 6.2 pence per share, GBP11,580,000 (US$16,443,000) will be paid to shareholders on the Company’s 
share register on 20 May 2016.
The Company was advised that the dividend paid on 25 June 2015 should have been preceded by the filing of interim accounts 
with Companies House for the financial year end to a date preceding the distribution. As a result of the company not doing so,  
the dividends paid on 25 June 2015 did not comply fully with the technical requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The Company 
intends to propose appropriate resolutions to rectify this position at the Company’s 2016 Annual General Meeting.
15 TAX
The Group operates in the United Arab Emirates and Spain. As there is no corporation tax in the United Arab Emirates, no taxes are 
recognised or payable on the operations in the UAE. There is no taxable income in the UK and accordingly there is no tax liability 
arising in the UK. The unused tax losses amount to US$13,049,000 as at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$5,155,000).  160 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements
Notes Shareholder information
AGM AND DIVIDEND DATES
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 19 May 2016
Record date for final dividend 20 May 2016
Annual General Meeting 3 June 2016
Final dividend payment 20 June 2016
DIVIDENDS
Information in relation to the Company’s dividend policy and the proposed dividend payment per share is set out in the Financial 
Review on page 27 and in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 137.
SHARE CAPITAL
There have been no changes to the issued share capital of the Company during the year. The issued share capital as at 1 January 
2015 and at 31 December 2015 was £18,571,428 divided into 185,714,286 shares of 10p each. Options and share awards granted by the 
Company over its share capital are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 83.
Under the articles of association of the Company, all Ordinary shares have equal rights to dividends and capital and to vote at 
general meetings of the Company. There are no restrictions on the size of holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both 
governed under the terms of the articles of association and relevant legislation. The directors are not aware of any agreements 
between holders of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or in voting rights. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The annual general meeting of NMC Health plc will be held at Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD on 3 June 2016 
at 2.00 pm. 
Further details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
circular which is included in a separate circular enclosed with this annual report.
SHARE REGISTRAR
Our Registrars are Capita Asset Services who can be contacted as follows:
Address:  The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU
Email:  shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 
  International: +44 (0) 208 639 3399
   Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company’s access charge. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be 
charged at the applicable international rate. Lines are open between 09:00 – 17:30, Monday to Friday excluding 
public holidays in England and Wales.
PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS
As at 13 March 2016, the Company is aware of the following significant shareholdings in the Ordinary shares of the Company:
Shareholder
Number of  
shares
% of 
issued 
share 
capital held
Nature of 
holding
Dr B.R. Shetty 47,742,409 25.7 Direct
H.E. Saeed Bin Butti 43,466,559 23.41 Direct
Khalifa Bin Butti 19,059,842 10.3 Direct
Infinite Investment LLC 14,072,024 7.6 Direct NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NMC Health plc
Level 1 Devonshire House 
One Mayfair Place, 
Mayfair  
London W1J 8AJ
