 Annual Report and  
Accounts 2015
Focused  
on value  
creation
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our purpose
Who we are: 
We are entrepreneurial, free thinking and differentiated. 
We pursue excellence and are empowered to build the most valued independent E&P company.
What we do: 
We create value through safely exploring for and providing sources of energy in the most sustainable way. 
We are trusted to share the value we create through intelligent partnering with society and shareholders.
Read more at ophir-energy.com
These pages provide insight and understanding of how our business delivers value:
High grading 
the exploration 
portfolio
Innovative 
approach, proven 
technology
Balance sheet 
strength and 
financial stability
See page  
10
See page  
12
See page  
14
Finding hydrocarbons that can  
be monetised 
Ophir has demonstrated it can combine the 
technical excellence required to find oil and 
gas with the commercial skills to monetise 
this success. This combination creates value 
for shareholders.
Fortuna FLNG
Fortuna is a unique asset where many 
factors including the world-class reservoirs, 
dry, pure-methane gas and benign 
metocean conditions allow for a low-cost, 
low-risk, floating LNG development utilising 
standard, proven industry technologies.
Stability in an uncertain world
The combination of Ophir’s balance  
sheet and low levels of committed capital 
expenditure means it has a position of 
relative strength in the current environment. Strategic report 1
Overview 
Highlights in 2015 1
Business model 2
Chairman’s statement 4
Strategy 
Chief Executive’s review  6
Strategy and key performance indicators 8
Our strategy in action – case studies 10
Principal risks 16
Performance
Review of operations 20
Financial review 26
Corporate Responsibility 30
Governance report 39
Corporate Governance introduction 39
Board of Directors 40
Corporate Governance report 42
Report of the Audit Committee 48
Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 54
Report of the Nomination Committee 57
Directors’ Report 60
Directors’ Remuneration report 
Chairman’s Annual Statement on Remuneration 64
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 67
Annual Report on Remuneration 78
Responsibility statement of the Directors  
in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts 89
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation to  
the financial statements and Annual Report 89
Financial statements 90
Independent Auditor’s report 90
Consolidated income statement and  
statement of comprehensive income 99
Consolidated statement of financial position 100
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 101
Consolidated statement of cash flows 102
Notes to the financial statements 103
Company statement of financial position 140
Company statement of changes in equity 141
Company statement of cash flows 142
Notes to the financial statements 143
Appendix A – Subsidiary companies 158
Supplementary information 161
Shareholder information 161
Glossary 164
Contents
Highlights in 201 5 
5 new plays
High-graded the exploration 
portfolio; added five new plays 
and exited, or in process of 
exiting, five plays 
$60million
Delivered G&A savings and 
synergies of $60 million 
$355million
Net cash at year end 
2015 of $355 million 
(2014: $1.1 7 billion) 
$122million
Pre-tax cash generated 
from operations $122 million 
($150 million on a full year  
pro-forma basis) (2014: cash 
outflow of $16.4 million)
$87 million
Commitment capital 
expenditure of only $87 million 
(as the balance sheet date) 
$15per bbl
Production break-even 
at oil price of $15 per bbl
$161 million
Revenue of $161 million 
($21 1 million on a full year  
pro-forma basis) (2014: nil) 
1 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Cash
Development
• Self-funded 
 development activity 
• Minimal existing capital
 will be deployed to
 development activity
2
Return to
shareholders
Production
• Production is a 
 ﬁnancing stream
 for E&A activity
• Reserves replacement 
 and production are
 not a key metric
• Assets must break
 even at low oil price
3
Exploration
• Exploration is focus for 
 creation of shareholder value 
• Unique position to deliver
 high graded portfolio due
 to strong balance sheet and
 minimal well commitments
1
Business model
Overview
Our operational focus is on the exploration and appraisal (E&A) part of 
the industry cycle which typically drives the highest return on investment 
for shareholders. We have added producing barrels as a means of 
generating cash flow to fund the resource-finding part of our business.
Ophir’s platform in the Gulf of Thailand
The asset life cycle and Company’s model is summarised in the chart opposite. As a prospect or 
play is matured through the process, its potential value increases, especially if a commercial 
discovery is made, but this comes with associated costs which generally rise as we move 
from prospect/licence capture through analysis and eventually into the exploration phase. 
It is management’s responsibility to manage the risk/reward profile at each stage to ensure 
that shareholders’ capital is deployed efficiently to maximise returns. 
Ophir is BIG E and little p Ophir strives to be the leading independent 
international oil and gas exploration and 
production company.
2 Ophir Energy plc Cash
Development
• Self-funded 
 development activity 
• Minimal existing capital
 will be deployed to
 development activity
2
Return to
shareholders
Production
• Production is a 
 ﬁnancing stream
 for E&A activity
• Reserves replacement 
 and production are
 not a key metric
• Assets must break
 even at low oil price
3
Exploration
• Exploration is focus for 
 creation of shareholder value 
• Unique position to deliver
 high graded portfolio due
 to strong balance sheet and
 minimal well commitments
1
Review of operations 
page 20
Ophir is BIG E and little p
3 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 4 Ophir Energy plc
Chairman’s statement
During 2015 we:
• reduced underlying costs by $60 million. This was achieved 
through a number of measures including synergies from the 
acquisition of Salamander Energy, the closure of five operational 
offices, and the attendant staff reductions;
• made significant progress with moving forward the Fortuna FLNG 
project in Equatorial Guinea by agreeing Heads of Terms (HoT) 
with Golar LNG to be the Midstream provider and with seven 
potential gas offtakers. Post year-end we also agreed HoT with 
Schlumberger for an Upstream investment of 40% in the project 
that will see Ophir’s share of capital expenditure on the project 
covered to beyond first gas. This project will deliver in excess of 
$200 million of free cash flow per annum from 2019 net to our 
residual 40% economic interest; and
• continued to act counter-cyclically to secure attractive 
exploration acreage with minimal commitments that effectively 
provide us with a series of options.
2015 was a milestone year with the commencement of continuous 
revenues and cash flow from the Asian producing assets obtained 
through the acquisition of Salamander Energy. This brought with it 
a new set of operational challenges and the Board is pleased that 
we maintained our excellent track record for operating safely with 
no Lost Time Incidents recorded during the year. We constantly 
review our health and safety and environmental practices and will 
be adopting leading, as well as lagging, indicators this year as we 
seek to further advance our management systems and procedures. 
More details on this are available in the Corporate Responsibility 
section of this Annual Report. 
Dear Shareholder
2015 proved to be a hard year for our industry and Ophir 
has responded well in adapting to a very different operating 
environment. Although we are fortunate to have a strong balance 
sheet and high quality asset base, we rebalanced swiftly our 
business to reduce costs which ensured we utilised fully the 
strength of our balance sheet.
In the Chief Executive’s review, Nick Cooper outlines our thinking 
in terms of how we can ensure value creation in both the current 
and future cycles through a sharper strategic focus on increasing 
net asset value (NAV) per share. 
I am pleased that the work of our excellent team of people, together 
with our strong governance processes and structure, has enabled 
the Board to lead the business forward to comprehensively meet our 
strategic objectives. 
Overview
 “ We are making NAV per share growth  
the strategic driver for the business.” Nicholas Smith
Chairman
Dr Nicholas (Nick) Cooper
Executive Director and Chief Executive Ocer
Dr William (Bill) Higgs
Executive Director and Chief Operating Ocer
Ronald Blakely
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Alan Booth
Independent Non-Executive Director
Vivien Gibney
Independent Non-Executive Director
William (Bill) Schrader
Independent Non-Executive Director
Anthony (Tony) Rouse
Executive Director and Chief Financial Ocer
R N
N
N
R A
Dr Carol Bell
Independent Non-Executive Director
Philip Laing
General Counsel & Company Secretary
C R
Indicates Chairman of Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Technical Advisory Committee
5 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
As I have mentioned before, we are making NAV per share growth 
the strategic driver for the business. To reflect this, we felt it was 
necessary to establish a new Group-wide remuneration structure 
that we believe aligns shareholders’ and employees’ interests most 
appropriately. Details of this new policy are set out in detail in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 77. We have engaged with 
both employees and shareholders on this and have received strong 
indications of support. The policy will be put forward for shareholder 
approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Finally, as was indicated in last year’s Annual Report, I will be 
stepping down from the role of Chairman and retiring from the 
Board of Ophir on 30 April 2016 after nine years. I would like to 
thank all the staff at Ophir for their efforts over the past seven years 
that I have been Chairman. There is a first class team in place and 
I have every confidence they will deliver on the strategic aims of the 
business over the coming years. I would also like to congratulate 
Bill Schrader on his appointment to the role of Chairman. Having 
worked alongside Bill on the Board for the past three years, I know 
he will make an excellent Chairman for the next phase in the 
Company’s evolution. 
Nicholas Smith 
Chairman
Board of Directors and Officers*
*As at the date of publication
Corporate Governance 
introduction 
page 39 6 Ophir Energy plc
Chief Executive’s review
At Ophir we have given considerable 
thought over the past 18 months as to 
how we can develop a business that is 
differentiated from that of other E&P 
companies, both in terms of its approach 
to doing business, and as a place to work.
The current commodity price environment 
creates an opportunity for Ophir to redefine 
itself, placing net asset value creation at the 
forefront of everything we do. I would like 
to take this opportunity to set out our 
assessment of the international upstream 
sector, and Ophir’s place within it.
Let us start with the bad news. Despite 
fluctuating share and commodity prices, 
and some notable discoveries, the 
international upstream sector as a whole 
has had a poor record of value creation 
over the past decade. 
In particular, the sector has suffered 
in two ways:
1. Diminishing exploration success rates, 
which with hindsight have been driven by:
• financial and risk-taking indiscipline 
amongst exploration companies;
• too many commitment wells drilled 
as host governments increased their 
demands of explorers; and
• an indecent haste, partly motivated 
by equity market appetite, to chase  
new or breaking frontier plays rather 
than assimilate and build on collective 
understanding as a play is de-risked 
over time.
2. Increasing finding costs, as the above 
factors reduced finding rates, compounded 
by increased pricing in all three key 
exploration cost areas: acreage entry, 
seismic and drilling.
Even before the collapse in commodity 
prices, investors were beginning to question 
the value equation for upstream, seeing 
high finding costs and only rare examples 
of companies monetising their discoveries 
promptly and profitably. 
The significant capital inflow into the sector, 
primarily on the back of the unprecedented 
oil price rise in the period 2004 to 2008, had 
led many upstream players to chase growth 
at almost any cost, losing sight of the fact 
that value is created for investors by ‘finding 
cheap and monetising high’.
Specifically, when we look back on the recent 
period, it is clear that Ophir too made 
misjudgements and that we can sharpen 
our focus on value creation. At times we 
were drawn into high-risk commitment wells 
and chased look-alike plays with more haste 
than our geoscientists would have wanted. 
As a result, much deliberation has gone into 
how Ophir can tighten up its model with 
a real focus on return on invested capital.
Now that prices have been reset, the weaknesses 
in the E&P sector have been laid painfully bare.  
A rethink of the upstream model and of how  
to create value is essential and overdue.
Despite our mistakes, we feel Ophir’s track 
record is good. 
Ophir has demonstrated in Tanzania that 
it can monetise exploration success and we 
expect to provide further evidence of our ability 
to monetise our successes when we make 
a FID on the Fortuna FLNG project in 2016.
Ophir has been one of the more successful 
international E&P companies of the past 
decades with finding costs of $3.78/boe 
and success rates of 65%. 
We have found 3,000mmboe of gross 
discovered commercial resource in the past 
seven years and have divested 560mmboe 
of this for cash at $2.31boe. We have also 
achieved this without overly leveraging our 
balance sheet to much higher, mid-cycle 
oil prices.
And now the good news. We believe that 
there is an opportunity right now to amend 
our model and build an upstream business 
which will more consistently create value for 
shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Current exploration conditions are arguably 
the most favourable for decades:
1. Competition for assets has dramatically 
decreased and host governments have 
generally adjusted their demands in terms 
of work commitments to levels more aligned 
with the technical maturity of licence blocks.
2. The cost environment is deflating. 
Exploration service costs – both seismic 
and drilling – have dropped significantly. 
Development cost reductions are starting 
to feed through to operators.
3. The equity markets’ scepticism toward 
exploration and upstream investment 
means there is less pressure on upstream 
companies to rush the science.
4. Those upstream parties now able to 
secure acreage from a position of technical 
competitive advantage find themselves at the 
table for opportunities that were out of reach 
just two years ago.
Strategy
 “ We believe there is an opportunity right now to amend the 
model and build an upstream business which will consistently 
create value for shareholders and other stakeholders.” 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Ophir’s response to these conditions will be 
as follows:
• Our primary objective must remain that 
of protecting and growing NAV per share.
• We define NAV as the value of our 
producing assets, net cash and a risked 
value of developments that are beyond 
FID, minus 12 months of G&A costs. 
• We remain an exploration company 
at heart and will look to create NAV 
through best-in-class exploration and 
then monetising our exploration success. 
We are well-capitalised with a $355 million 
end-2015 net cash position, a significantly 
lowered capital expenditure programme 
and with much discretion in where we 
use our funds. 
• We will remain a ‘big E, little p’ upstream 
player. Our focus is on value creation 
with the drill bit. Our development and 
production activity will be sized to deliver 
a self-sustaining company. Each project 
decision will be made on a risked IRR 
basis. We do not have production or 
reserve growth targets, and so will not 
chase these opportunities if they do 
not create value. 
• We have rebuilt our exploration portfolio 
in Africa and Asia with high quality 
positions where Ophir has competitive 
advantage, where drilling commitments 
are minimised and where the fiscal 
regime allows material value creation at 
current commodity prices. This approach 
enables us to properly pace the exploration, 
high grade plays (withdrawing from any 
plays which, over time, disappoint) and 
focus our attention, and ultimately our 
drilling, solely on those attractive plays. 
• We will not rush to drill; we are carefully 
and counter-cyclically building an 
exploration acreage of low-cost options 
that we can decide whether or not to 
pursue at an appropriate stage when 
our play analyses are complete.
To deliver this model we have re-thought 
the way we manage our assets, our people 
and our capital. 
Assets are only held and progressed if they 
can demonstrably create substantial value 
for shareholders. If they do not, then they 
will be divested or relinquished.
Capital is being directed only at those assets 
which offer the highest risk-weighted returns. 
Assets offering weaker IRRs will either be 
improved or managed out of the portfolio.
Ophir’s people are its biggest asset. 
The technical team is stronger now than at 
any time in the Company’s history. We have 
reorganised to maximise the impact of our 
technical professionals and to minimise our 
support activities. 
All Ophir’s staff are stakeholders and their 
compensation is designed to include 
rewards only when investors benefit through 
NAV per share growth. That is why I sincerely 
hope that shareholders will support the new 
remuneration scheme which will more tightly 
align the actions of our team with the 
interests of our shareholders.
Moreover, we think it is necessary to define 
the purpose of upstream companies to 
include another element of shareholder 
value creation. The 2015 Paris Agreement 
re-emphasises the obligation on us to focus 
on a model of ‘finding cheap, monetising 
high’ whilst minimising environmental 
impact in doing so.
Ophir’s purpose is simple: to create value 
through safely exploring for and providing 
sources of energy in the most sustainable 
way. Ophir has the experience and the 
operational track record that gives the 
management the belief, and should give 
shareholders the reassurance, that we can 
deliver this. 
The E&P industry makes decisions based on 
a risk-adjusted outcome and on occasion our 
endeavours will not succeed, so we will learn 
from failure and success in equal measure to 
improve Ophir’s performance. Our ambition 
is to become the most valued E&P company.
As a final note, I thank the Chairman, Nic 
Smith, who steps down on 30 April 2016, for 
all the support, guidance and energy he has 
brought to Ophir since 2007. I would also like 
to welcome Bill Schrader to the role of 
Chairman, Bill has been a Board member 
since 2013 and his expertise will be 
invaluable for the next phase.
Dr Nick Cooper 
Chief Executive Officer
Ophir’s strategy for growth overview 
The key elements of the strategy are: 
Value creation 
through 
exploration
Active portfolio
management 
Focus on capital 
allocation and 
returns
Vision
Ophir’s vision is to be the 
leading independent 
international oil and 
gas exploration and 
production company.  8 Ophir Energy plc
Key elements of the strategy
Value creation 
through 
exploration
•  Building a series of options for 
future drilling: 
 – Acquire new acreage in the 
bottom of the cycle with no 
drilling commitments. 
 – Mature and high grade these 
plays, drilling only those that 
offer shareholders material 
returns on investment.
Active portfolio 
management
•  Transacting at the most appropriate 
time to create value for shareholders.
•  Realising value from existing assets 
and adding new assets to the portfolio 
that have the ability to generate 
material returns on capital employed.
Focus on capital 
allocation and 
returns
•  Target is to derisk the business model 
through funding core exploration 
activity from operating cash flow: 
 – Apply prudent levels of debt to 
development and production 
activity and preserve balance 
sheet strength and flexibility.
• Only allocate capital to highest return 
opportunities following rigorous risk 
reward analysis: 
 – We are focused on cash balances 
and cost management and will seek 
to manage the risk profile through 
farm-outs, exits etc.
A clear strategy to create 
exploration-led growth
Strategy
Vision 
Ophir’s vision is to be the 
leading independent 
international oil and 
gas exploration and 
production company.
Strategy 
Ophir is focused on 
finding resource and 
monetising it to create 
value for shareholders.
Ophir’s strategy is to create value for shareholders through having 
an industry-leading exploration success rate and then monetising 
this success to grow NAV per share.  9 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
2013
2014
2015 996
1,031
1,256
2013
2014
2015 3.8%
11.2%
11.9% 2013
2014
2015 $3.78/boe
$1.34/boe
$0.89/boe
We continue to measure our success on the resource we add, the ability 
to achieve this at economic rates and to do it as safely as possible. 
Key performance indicators
Classification 
The basis of the finding cost calculation is 
straightforward. Expenditure on exploration and 
appraisal activity is divided by contingent resources 
added in the year. This number increased in 2015 
relative to previous years as we were not successful with 
any of our play opening wells. However, this rate still 
compares favourably to our international peer group. 
2015 three-year average finding cost
$3.78/boe
The Company has a large contingent resource base. 
Importantly the majority of these resources are cost 
advantaged and therefore remain commercially 
viable in the current commodity price environment. 
We expect to convert a significant proportion of these 
resources to reserves in 2016. 
2C Contingent Resources (mmboe)
996.0mmboe
Staff turnover
3.8%
Classification 
The rate of turnover relates to employees who 
have left the Company voluntarily during the year. 
The figure excludes employees who left as a direct 
result of redundancy or dismissal on the grounds 
of poor performance.
Business impact 
Turnover rates were lower than in the previous year. 
Turnover has remained within manageable levels 
and has not had a negative impact upon technical 
disciplines. Recruitment levels remained consistent 
across all areas of the business. Ophir continues to 
be able to attract high calibre staff.
Outlook 
The Company aims to monitor and reduce turnover 
rates and will continue to provide highly competitive 
pay and benefits to attract and retain key personnel.
The health, safety and welfare of people working for 
and on behalf of Ophir’s business underpins everything 
the Company does. Ophir’s health and safety culture 
is based on individual responsibility and commitment 
from the very top of the Company.
Accountability rests with every employee, including 
management and senior executives, who uphold their 
obligations through the active management of Ophir’s 
health and safety agenda.
Performance 
The acquisition of Salamander Energy early in 2015 
resulted in a large increase in man-hours worked during 
2015. Although the number of man-hours is nearly 
double the previous year, the 2015 TRIR rate recorded 
was 0.83, which puts Ophir into the top quartile of 
safety performance (Company and contractor 
personnel included) according to the IOGP survey data. 
We are very proud of this superior HSE performance 
and will continue to put the health, safety and welfare 
of those working for and on behalf of Ophir at the top 
of the agenda on how Ophir does business.
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
(incidents/million man-hours worked) 
0.83
2015 2014 2013
Average number of employees and contractors 826 445 197
Total man-hours worked 2,416,734 1,462,332 522,056
Lost time incidents 0 1 1
TRIR (incidents/million man-hours worked) 0.83 n/a n/a
LTIF rate 0 0.7 1.9
Lost Time Incident Frequency rate (LTIF) 
(incidents/million man-hours worked) 
0
Principal risks  
page 16 10 Ophir Energy plc
Ophir is focused on creating 
growth in Net Asset Value (NAV) 
per share. The international 
Exploration and Production (E&P) 
sector has a poor track record 
in terms of value creation over 
the past few years. There are 
numerous drivers for this which are 
discussed in the Chief Executive’s 
review. Our response is to be 
relentlessly focused on how to 
maximise the value created 
from our assets. 
As we went through 2015 and started  
to mature and high grade our exploration 
portfolio, we screened the various plays 
against a number of commercial and 
technical criteria. This enabled us to rank 
the projects, not only against each other, 
but against new opportunities outside 
the portfolio. 
In practice, this meant that in 2015 we 
high graded exploration opportunities 
in Myanmar, Indonesia (Aru Trough) and 
matured new opportunities that we brought 
into the portfolio in early 2016 in Cote 
d’Ivoire and Malaysia. As we determined 
that these areas would be a focus for our 
capital and people, naturally it meant 
that other areas dropped to the bottom 
of the portfolio. 
$3.78/boe
2015 three-year average finding cost 
5
New plays added to portfolio in 2015
High grading 
the exploration 
portfolio
Strategy 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
These were for a variety of reasons, some 
purely technical, while others were technically 
interesting but did not work for commercial 
reasons. On this basis, we exited or are 
in the process of exiting, nine licences in 
Indonesia, Kenya, Seychelles and Tanzania. 
This provides a more focused portfolio with 
lower carrying costs. 
All exploration areas where we work need to 
offer transformational potential at breakeven 
prices below the new oil price ceiling imposed 
by US unconventional production.
Going forward, we expect to continue 
the process in 2016, bringing further new 
acreage into the portfolio as we mature 
other prospects to drill-ready status. 
These new blocks are effectively low-cost 
options. We will also have the discipline 
to exit those blocks that do not screen well. 
If we are to improve returns to shareholders 
from exploration, then we must be disciplined 
and only drill prospects that can ultimately 
be monetised in the event of success. 
We believe that this process will result in 
Ophir holding a streamlined, world-class 
exploration portfolio with the aim of 
exposing shareholders to a number of new 
plays every year. We believe this is the way 
we can differentiate ourselves and deliver 
material returns to shareholders.  12 Ophir Energy plc
The Fortuna FLNG project is simple 
in both development and operating 
philosophy. This simplicity begins 
with the reservoir, which is shallow 
and has excellent porosity and 
permeability. This then extends 
through the hydrocarbon 
composition, benign sea state  
and all the way through to 
the development of the field.
Development plan
The project has been structured to bring 
together several industry-leading partners 
and contractors, leveraging off Company 
skill sets. Ophir will be the operator of the 
upstream development and Golar LNG 
will be the Midstream FLNG supplier.
Upstream development
The upstream development will consist 
of 17 development wells over four phases. 
In the first phase, up to first gas in 2019, 
four wells will be drilled. A minimum of two 
wells are required to achieve the 2.2mmtpa 
plateau. These production wells in the 
Fortuna and Viscata reservoirs will be simple 
well completions and tie-backs. The gas will 
be produced from these wells via gathering 
flowlines, manifolds and risers to an external 
turret of the FLNG facility.
Over the next three phases of development, 
13 more wells will be drilled with a view 
to elevating the production plateau to 
4.4mmtpa utilising a second FLNG vessel.
60,000 boepd
Gross production from first vessel
$1 billion
Peak (gross) cash flow
Innovative 
approach, proven 
technology
A schematic of the Fortuna FLNG development
Wells
Strategy 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Midstream solution
In its role as the Midstream partner, 
Golar LNG will convert, own, operate and 
maintain an existing vessel, the Gandria. 
Golar LNG will deploy topsides, processing 
and liquefaction facilities designed and 
engineered by Black and Veatch; technology 
chosen for its long-established record of 
reliable performance in global operations. 
The Gandria will store the gas, in liquefied 
form, for other specialist tankers to 
transport away.
Upcoming milestones:
• Upstream FEED to be completed 
in 1H 2016.
• Sign a definitive agreement with 
Schlumberger whereby Schlumberger 
will receive a 40% economic interest in 
the Fortuna FLNG project and reimburse 
50% of Ophir’s past costs in the form 
of a development carried interest.
• Progress various commercial and 
technical workstreams ahead of FID 
in mid-2016.
• First gas expected mid-2019.
• Finalising gas sales agreements.
Storage 
Tanks
Flare  
Stack
External 
Turret
LNG 
Liquefaction 
Trains x 4 
Mooring 
Lines
Umbilical 
and Risers
Manifold
Inlet 
Processing 
Facilities 14 Ophir Energy plc
Indonesia West Papau/Aru seismic
Indonesia Bangkanai seismic
Thailand B8/38 produced water debottlenecking
Malaysia PM322 3D seismic
Gabon Manga well
Tz Blocks 1,4 Block 1 well
Kenya L9 well
2019
onwards
2018 2017 2016
10
20
30
40
0
$ millions
 
Ophir is focused on growing NAV 
per share. We believe we are a top 
quartile explorer and the route for 
us to deliver NAV per share growth 
is through the monetisation of 
exploration success. Management 
has demonstrated its ability to 
monetise, and not just find barrels, 
through the partial sell-down of 
our position in T anzania. We expect 
to take a material step forward in 
the monetisation of Equatorial 
Guinea when we make a FID in 
mid-2016. The ability to monetise 
Tanzania, and the cash generated 
from the sale of a 20% interest in the 
project, has helped to differentiate 
Ophir as one of the handful of 
international E&P companies 
that are in a net cash position. 
This balance sheet strength has been 
especially important as we have entered 
a downturn in the commodity price cycle. 
Ultimately we want to be a self-sustaining 
explorer. Although we are still some way 
off this goal, we added low breakeven 
production, and therefore recurring cash 
flow, to the business for the first time in 2015.
In 2020 with a first full-year contribution 
from when the Fortuna FLNG project comes 
onstream, we will be producing around 
30,000 boepd in our base case. 
A key challenge from a financial management 
perspective is to make sure we have sufficient 
funds to come through the low point of the 
cycle and reach mid-2019 when we will start 
to receive cash flow from our Fortuna FLNG 
project. Therefore we are extremely focused 
on capital allocation, cost minimisation and 
preserving financial flexibility. 
Balance sheet 
strength and 
financial stability
Alpha and Bravo platforms on the Bualuang field, Thailand
Committed Capex
Strategy 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Cost reduction
We entered the downturn with a ‘top of the 
cycle’ General and Administration (G&A) 
base and we have spent 2015 re-aligning 
the business to the new commodity price 
environment. We closed five offices during 
the year and, with the associated reduction 
in headcount, we have reduced underlying 
G&A costs by $60 million per annum. We 
are conscious of the need to protect as well 
as grow NAV per share and therefore have 
to think carefully about every dollar we 
spend. The proposed new remuneration 
structure discussed elsewhere in this report 
aims to embed this thinking in all our 
decision making. By only allocating capital 
and people to the best assets, we will 
optimise returns to shareholders. 
Financial flexibility
The relative strength of our balance sheet 
permits us to invest counter-cyclically in 
opportunities that carry low levels of 
commitment expenditure but also provides 
options with the potential to create 
significant amounts of value. As a result, we 
have a modest total of $87 million of 
commitment spend between now and 2019 
and none thereafter. When coupled with our 
cash-producing assets and cash on the 
balance sheet, this provides sufficient 
liquidity for us to get to the point where we 
will start to receive cash flow from Fortuna 
without additional capital. 
Having said that, we expect to refinance, 
and prudently expand, our debt facilities 
during 2016. As Fortuna matures, this 
project will also be leverageable, providing 
additional sources of liquidity. We therefore 
believe we will still be able to allocate capital 
to discretionary opportunities over the next 
few years and this may well be evidenced by 
drilling in a number of new plays in 2017 
and 2018.  16 Ophir Energy plc
Ophir works in often challenging environments that present risks 
to its activities, operational sites and assets. Managing these risks 
is critical to address uncertainty, protect Ophir and create value. 
The risk management process continued to be developed in 201 5 
and will be further strengthened in 2016.
Principal risks
Board
The Board has overall accountability for 
determining the type and level of risk it is 
prepared to take, whilst also ensuring that 
sound risk management and internal control 
systems are in place across the Group. 
Reporting within the Group is arranged so 
that risks are escalated through various 
internal management and Board 
committees and, when appropriately 
material, to the Board. These principal risks 
are regularly discussed at Board meetings 
with a focus on the effectiveness of the 
controls and the associated risk action plans. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board has conducted a full assessment 
of principal risks that could potentially threaten 
the Group’s business. 
Viability Statement
The Directors have assessed the viability 
of the Group over a four year period to 
December 2019, taking account of the 
Group’s current position and the potential 
The Board has assigned risk oversight to the Audit Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Technical Advisory 
Committee. These Committees report their findings to the Board on a regular basis. 
impact of the principal risks documented 
in this report. Based on this assessment, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the period to December 2019.
In making this statement, the Directors have 
considered the resilience of the Group, taking 
account of its current position, the principal 
risks facing the business in severe but 
reasonable scenarios, and the effectiveness 
of any mitigating actions. This assessment has 
considered the potential impacts of these risks 
on the business model, future performance, 
solvency and liquidity over the period.
The Directors have determined that the 
four year period to December 2019 is an 
appropriate period over which to provide 
its Viability Statement. This period is when 
the Group’s Fortuna FLNG development is 
expected to be completed and the asset 
is onstream delivering a long-term source 
of funds. In addition to Fortuna, Ophir has 
assessed its capital expenditure 
requirements to 2019 recognising that the 
Group has significant flexibility to defer its 
investment programmes, as required, with 
only $87 million of committed capital 
expenditure at the balance sheet date. 
In making their assessment, the Directors 
have additionally taken into account the 
Group’s current cash position, along with the 
need to service the Group’s debt portfolio, 
and the possibility that the current low 
commodity price environment may prevail 
for an extended period. 
The Group further anticipates that 
additional funding needs may be met,  
as appropriate, by access to the debt  
and capital markets, although there are  
no immediate plans to do so, along with  
the divestment of assets. The divestment  
of assets may include 50% of the Group’s 
interest in the Fortuna project which is 
currently subject to a non-binding Heads  
of Terms, and of other tradable assets in  
its portfolio.
Strategy
Corporate Responsibility Committee
To review the operational, 
people, information and ethical
compliance risks and controls
Technical Advisory Committee
To review subsurface risks and controls
Audit Committee
To review ﬁnancial, regulatory and 
information risks and controls
Board
To review the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties which may aect Ophir achieving its objectives 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
External 
•  zero recordable environmental incidents
•   preserved and advanced the dialogue with 
stakeholders with a focus on creating 
shared value
•  supported successful sustainable initiatives with 
local communities
Strategic 
•  moved to a more distinct focus on maximising 
value created from our assets
•  high graded the exploration portfolio in Africa 
and Asia to those blocks that offer the highest 
risk-weighted returns, lower carrying costs 
and where we have competitive advantage
• improved portfolio measurement 
 
Operational 
• operated safely with no Lost Time Incidents 
•  output from production operations outperformed 
budget by 5% 
•  completed and commissioned the Kerendan 
gas plant facilities with excellent safety record 
•  made major progress in the Fortuna FLNG project 
through an innovative approach in contracting, 
gas marketing and financing strategies
•  shortly after completing our Myanmar  
PSC, successfully and safely conducted a  
seismic campaign validating the Company’s 
operational agility 
•  drilled two operated exploration wells, three 
work-over projects and three 3D seismic surveys 
safely, securely and under budget
•  successfully integrated Salamander Energy
•  maintained and improved an exceptionally strong 
technical capability within the Company
Financial 
•  rebalanced the business to lower G&A and 
significantly reduce running costs
•  added low breakeven production and recurring 
cash flow to the business
•  preserved financial flexibility through low 
commitment spend
•  reallocated capital to only be focused at those 
assets which offer the highest risk weighted return 
•  made significant progress in funding 
arrangements for the Fortuna FLNG project 
to reduce risk and maximise returns 
Risk management performance in 2015
The key elements of Ophir’s risk management are:
• establishing the risk context with reference to Ophir’s objectives 
• conducting a risk assessment through: 
 – understanding the causes, impacts, likelihood and potential impacts on Ophir’s objectives;
 – assessing if the risks can be reduced to a tolerable level; and
 – determining appropriate controls to deal with the risk, allocating responsibility for managing the risk controls  
and executing the activities based on plans and procedures
• regularly communicating and consulting on the risks through established management control procedures 
• recurrent monitoring and reviewing of risks
Communicate & Consult
Monitor & Review
Context Assessment Control 18 Ophir Energy plc
Our principal risks that have been identified within the Group are summarised as follows:
T ype Risk Description of Risk Control Responsibility Change
External Legal 
compliance 
regulatory or 
litigation 
• The Group conducts business in 
jurisdictions with inherent risks relating 
to fraud, bribery and corruption.
• Litigation against the Group could 
materially impact its business.
• Reputational damage – withdrawal 
of support by shareholders, 
governments, lenders and partners. 
• Investigation could lead to 
significant business disruption. 
• Loss of assets, PSCs and projects. 
• The Group accords the highest importance to corporate governance 
matters and upholding the highest ethical standards.
• The Group employs suitably experienced and qualified staff and, 
when required, external advisors to ensure full compliance.
• Legal risk assessment and due diligence is undertaken as appropriate. 
• Robust Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policies and standards.
General Counsel 
Capital 
Constraints 
and adverse 
market 
sentiment 
towards the 
E&P sector
• Depressed sector.
• Significant competition for 
development funds.
• Market questioning the value equation 
for upstream, seeing high finding 
costs and only rare examples of 
companies monetising their discoveries, 
promptly and for a profitable price. 
• Impact on project value and modelling.
• Maintain cash balance to sustain business through reduction in LNG capex.
• Aim to internally fund core exploration and appraisal 
activities from the addition of production assets and 
monetisation of resources to generate cash flow. 
• Diversify the sources of funding and apply prudent levels 
of debt to development and production activities. 
• Ensure that commercial terms on new acreage reflect 
the changing landscape and involve minimal financial 
commitments with options to exit early.
• Refocus Ophir’s upstream model and how to create value as follows: 
 - assets will only continue to be held and progressed if they can demonstrably 
create substantial value for shareholders. Capital is being selectively directed 
at those assets which offer the highest risk-weighted returns. 
 - we have reorganised to maximise the impact of our technical professionals 
and to minimise our support activities.
Chief  
Financial Officer 
Political • The Group operates in jurisdictions 
that are subject to significant 
political, economic, legal, regulatory 
and social uncertainties. 
• Dependence on permits and consents 
granted by the authorities where we 
operate can lead to delays and increased 
costs in obtaining necessary permits.
• Uncertainties in the interpretation and 
application of laws and regulations in 
the jurisdictions in which we operate.
• Ophir regularly monitors and seeks to understand changes 
taking place in political and regulatory environments 
and the potential for unforeseen events.
• The Group works to the highest industry standards 
with regulators, closely monitoring compliance with 
the Group’s licence and PSC obligations.
• Spread our portfolio/regional exposure. 
• Maintain positive relationships with governments and key stakeholders  
in host countries.
• All material information is released to the market on a timely 
basis and in accordance with all applicable regulations.
Director Security 
and Surface Risk
Stakeholder 
sentiment
• Actual or perceived failure to address 
social and environmental issues or 
corporate responsibility matters 
may adversely affect the Group.
• Ophir is committed to a shared value approach to ensure 
sustainable development with its stakeholders.
• The Group conducts its operations in an ethical, 
responsible, apolitical and transparent manner. 
• Ophir places a strong emphasis on maintaining excellent relationships 
with the local communities and host country governments. 
• There is ongoing monitoring of public sentiment 
towards the Group and its operations.
Director Security 
and Surface Risk 
Global 
economic 
volatility
• Numerous and complex changes 
in macro environment around 
global affairs and international 
economics, e.g. China’s slowdown and 
deceleration in the growth of global 
trade, are contributing to uncertainty 
and higher market volatility. 
• Regularly review how external risks impact the 
Group’s strategy and remain agile to change. 
• Act counter-cyclically to take advantage of the opportunities 
developing from the industry downturn. 
Director Portfolio  
and Strategy
Low 
commodity 
price
• Continued supply and demand concerns.
• ‘Lower for Longer’.
• Continue to review the Group’s cost structure and make 
sure it reflects the new oil price environment.
• Economics of development plans re-worked 
to reflect low oil price environment.
• Selectively exploit the low service costs that have 
resulted from the drop in the oil price.
Chief  
Financial Officer 
Strategic Divestment • Difficult divestment environment.
• Inability to successfully divest assets 
at an acceptable price and/or time. 
• Management restructuring designed to provide greater 
focus on IRR when making investment decisions.
• Monitor and tailor projects to fit macro environment.
• Facilitate buyer access/relationship with host Government. 
• Maximise transparency with equity buyers. 
• Contingency planning and preparedness to change 
the course of action as situations change.
Director Portfolio  
and Strategy 
Strategy
Principal risks  
continued 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
T ype Risk Description of Risk Control Responsibility Change
Investment 
decisions
• The Group may not be able to 
identify appropriate expansion 
opportunities or be able to manage 
such expansion effectively. 
• Investments are not dictated by production or reserves growth targets; 
instead each investment will be assessed on an IRR and materiality basis.
• Focus on growing a revenue generating business to fund 
exploration activities and minimise the overall cost of capital.
• Allocate capital to highest return opportunities 
following rigorous risk reward analysis.
• Risk assessment and due diligence process is undertaken 
on all potential new country entries.
• Ophir endeavours to transact at the most appropriate 
time to create value for shareholders.
Director Africa 
Global New 
Ventures/
Director Asia 
Operational Health 
Safety and 
Environment 
(HSE) and 
Security 
incident
• Oil and gas exploration, development 
and production can involve 
numerous risks and hazards, the 
most significant for Ophir are loss 
of hydrocarbon containment and 
the transportation of staff.
• Ophir is committed to maintaining robust health, safety, security 
and environmental management, and procedures are in place 
in order to respond to unexpected events that have a direct 
impact on the Group and the communities in which it works. 
• Comprehensive HSE and operations management systems 
including emergency response and oil spill response 
capability, as well as maintaining asset integrity. 
• Active security monitoring and management. 
• Learning from Group and third-party incidents.
• Introduction of leading indicator system. 
• The contracting and procurement process ensures 
suitably qualified contractors are employed and trained 
in Ophir’s requirements and industry best practices.
Director Security 
and Surface Risk 
Commercial • Discovery risk and success rate. • Ophir has rebuilt its exploration portfolio in Africa and Asia with 
high quality operated positions where Ophir has competitive 
advantage, where drilling commitments are minimised and where 
the fiscal regime allows material value creation at current prices.
• This approach enables Ophir to manage the exploration risk by 
high grading plays in prospective acreage; this focuses attention 
(and ultimately drilling) solely on the most prospective plays.
• Ophir is carefully and counter-cyclically building a portfolio of low-
cost opportunities with defined exit options for investors in order to 
decide whether or not to progress to the next phase of exploration.
• Technical Advisory Committee and peer reviews.
• Appropriate balance between growth by exploration and acquisition.
• Report on finding costs.
• Measuring value of exploration investments. 
• Application of technical excellence and use of appropriate 
technologies in exploration methodologies. 
• Review new geographic opportunities without 
impacting focus on strategic core growth areas. 
• Managing risk with partners in existing assets and new ventures.
Director 
Commercial/
Director 
Subsurface 
Financial Inability 
to fund 
exploration 
work 
programmes
• Liquidity and inability to 
deliver the business plan.
• Gas discoveries may require the 
Group to invest in LNG development 
projects which require long lead 
times and material investment in 
receipt, processing and transportation 
infrastructure and the marketing of LNG.
• The Group’s business will require 
significant capital expenditure and the 
future expansion and development of its 
business could require future debt and 
equity financing. The future availability 
of such funding is not certain.
• Revenues, profitability and cash 
flows concentrated in a small 
number of producing assets.
• The Group may face the possibility 
of future decommissioning costs 
that it cannot accurately predict. 
• Regular review of cash flow, working capital and funding 
options, and prudent approach to budgeting and planning, 
to ensure sufficient capital to meet commitments.
• Effective portfolio management via farm outs/asset sales as appropriate. 
• Budget focused on high and medium ranked assets/projects to deliver 
value creation and to ensure the Group can live within its means.
• A formalised annual budget process and ongoing 
monthly reviews and analysis of actuals. 
• Board approval of Annual Work Programme.
Chief  
Financial Officer  20 Ophir Energy plc
The morning of 4 March 2015 signalled 
a significant change for Ophir, when our 
first-ever daily production report was published 
relating to the newly-acquired assets in 
Thailand, the Bualuang oil field and the 
Sinphuhorm gas field. The addition of 
revenue from production is a key strategic 
objective to move towards our goal of 
becoming a self-sustaining explorer. 
Becoming a producer created a number 
of new challenges for Ophir, in particular 
making sure our operating standards and 
procedures were appropriate for an operator 
now involved in activities across the full cycle 
of exploration and production. 
I am pleased to report that Ophir 
has adapted well to these changes and 
this transition has been achieved in line 
with our plans. In some areas, such as in 
the approach to managing relationships 
with local communities, Ophir has been 
able to enhance and improve its processes 
and procedures through learning from the 
experience of the teams already working on 
the Kerendan development in Indonesia and 
the production, development and exploration 
operations in the Gulf of Thailand. 
In other areas, such as drilling, where 
Ophir has demonstrated ‘best in class’ 
performance, we have been able to apply 
Ophir’s operational practices to improve 
the processes within the Asian business 
units. The net result has been that it has 
been a good opportunity to upgrade our 
processes and procedures in pursuit of 
operational excellence. A great example 
of this in practice was the work that we 
completed on the Bualuang field in late 
2015/early 2016. A series of drilling and 
well workover activities to increase water 
handling were completed ahead 
of schedule, with no safety incidents 
and under budget. We expect this to be 
a template for Ophir as we move forward.
Health and safety
Against the background of integrating the 
new production assets into the broader 
Ophir portfolio, it was a pleasing 
achievement for us to complete over 2.4 
million man-hours of work in 2015 with only 
two minor recordable injuries. We promptly 
completed investigations into both incidents 
and applied the lessons learned.
While we have achieved top quartile 
performance for our Total Recordable 
Incident Rate, unfortunately, both incidents 
were employees being hurt while conducting 
routine operations. As part of the continuous 
improvement of our operations, we have 
introduced our first leading indicators of 
safety performance, which are focused 
on our highest risk operational activities.
Review of operations
 “ We are committed to taking advantage of the softness in the  
market for exploration acreage to add high quality exploration  
licences to our portfolio.”
Performance  Blocks 
 Oil play 
 Gas play
21 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Africa
 Equatorial Guinea  
80% operated interest, Block R
Gross area: 2,051km
2
Water depths up to 1,950m
 Gabon 
40% operated interest, Mbeli and Ntinsa Blocks
70% operated interest, Gnondo and Manga Blocks
100% operated interest, Nkawa and Nkouere Blocks
Gross area: 15,472km
2
Water depths up to 2,500m
 Cote d’Ivoire
45% operated interest, Blocks CI-513
Gross area: 1,443km
2 
Water depths up to 3,000m
 Tanzania 
20% non-operated interest, Blocks 1 and 4
Gross area: 12,294km
2
 
Water depths up to 3,000m
 Kenya 
100% participating interest, Block L9
Gross area: 3,833km
2
Water depths up to 1,400m
Asia
 Myanmar 
95% operated interest, Block AD-03
Gross area: 9,898km
2
 
Water depths up to 2,500m
 Malaysia
85% operated interest, Block PM-322
Gross area: 20,000km
2
 
Water depths up to 70m
40% non-operated interest, Block 2A
Gross area: 2,400km
2
 
Water depths up to 1,600m
 Thailand
Gulf of Thailand
100% operated interest, Block B8/38 (Bualuang)
100% operated interest, Block G4/50
Gross area: 6,201km
2
Onshore North East Thailand
9.5% non-operated interest, Block E5N/EU1 
(Sinphuhorm) (PTTEP operator)
27.2% non-operated interest, Block L15/43 
(APICO operator)
27.2% non-operated interest, Block L27/43 
(Dong Mun) (APICO operator)
Gross area: 926km
2
 Indonesia
Onshore Kalimantan
70% operated interest, Bangkanai Block
70% operated interest, West Bangkanai Block
100% operated interest, North East Bangkanai Block
Gross area: 12,352km
2
Makassar Straight
100% operated interest, Bontang Block
100% operated interest, South East Sangatta Block
18.5% non-operated interest, North Ganal
Gross area: 2,697km
2
Eastern Indonesia
50% operated interest, West Papua Block
60% operated interest, Aru Block
Gross area: 5,701km
2 22 Ophir Energy plc
Review of operations  
continued
Production assets
Production operations outperformed 
with output from the Bualuang and 
Sinphuhorm fields more than 5% ahead 
of budget at 13,000 boepd (on a full year 
proforma basis). The Bualuang field produced 
its 25 millionth barrel in October 2015, a 
significant achievement given the field was 
originally projected to contain 14 million barrels 
of proven and probable reserves. The field is 
expected to carry on producing into the next 
decade. This operational milestone has been 
achieved whilst maintaining an excellent track 
record for health and safety with no LTIs 
having been recorded since May 2014. 
The focus now is on extracting maximum 
value from the remaining reserves over 
the rest of the field life. With a view to 
optimising the next phase of development, 
we completed an Ocean Bottom Node 3D 
seismic survey in mid-2015. For the first 
time we now have modern 3D seismic 
data coverage of the field, designed with 
development in mind. These data are being 
integrated into our models and will help us 
make better-informed investment decisions 
as we design the optimal Asset 
Development Plan. 
During 2016, our focus will be on completing 
the facilities de-bottlenecking project on the 
Bualuang field, which will allow higher rates 
of water treatment and disposal, and thus 
accelerate oil production and recovery. 
We expect the project to deliver additional 
production and increase recovery from the 
field. The first phase of this project was 
completed successfully in 1Q 2016. 
Gross production from the Sinphuhorm 
gas field was 26% ahead of budget at 121 
mmscfd (11.5 mmscfd net). This was driven 
by additional demand for power from the 
Growing asset value
As Nick Cooper outlines in his Chief Executive’s 
review, in 201 5 we have focused on ways to 
differentiate Ophir, and a relentless focus 
on delivering growth in asset value is a key 
part of this strategy. From an operational 
perspective, we have continued the 
implementation of our asset-led strategy 
and have restructured all our operations 
to put in place Asset Managers to lead 
value creation. In their enhanced role, 
they are tasked to develop long-term 
asset development plans and determine 
the returns that can be offered through 
investment in their asset. As a management 
team, we will benchmark opportunities 
across the portfolio and only move ahead 
with those that we believe create the 
highest risk-adjusted returns. 
The consequences of this approach can 
already be seen by Ophir making the 
decision to exit a number of low-graded 
exploration acreage opportunities during 
2015 and to high grade the portfolio by 
replacing it with new acreage that we 
believe has the potential for higher returns. 
We will maintain this discipline across the 
portfolio and will seek to execute our 
selected operations with excellence.
Asset overview
Reserves
With the addition of the Asian production 
base, we report reserves for the first time. As at 
31 December 201 5 we booked 54.4 mmboe 
of proved and probable reserves in line with 
expectations. In addition we had 996.0 
mmboe of contingent resource. We expect 
a significant proportion of the contingent 
resource to move to reserves when we make 
the FID on the Fortuna FLNG project. 
Nam Phong power plant, which utilises gas 
from Sinphuhorm, as a result of a dry season 
in Laos that reduced the availability of 
imported hydro-power from the supply mix. 
Development projects
We were pleased to complete the 
construction and commissioning of the 
Kerendan gas plant facilities during 2015, 
and right at the end of the year we supplied 
a small quantity of commissioning gas 
to the PLN Power Plant. The project was 
completed with an excellent HSE record 
despite being in a remote, challenging 
environment. We forecast that low rate 
commissioning activities will continue into 
the second half of 2016, at which time the 
plant will start full production of phase 1.
Agreement has been reached with PLN to 
amend the Gas Sales Agreement (GSA) to 
set the commercial start date as 11 January 
2016 with Take or Pay on the initial GSA 
applicable from this date. There is little 
progress to report so far in revising upwards 
the price of the gas; the negotiation is taking 
longer than hoped due to regulatory 
processes that have had to be completed 
prior to the gas price being finalised. We 
expect these processes to conclude during 
2016 and to yield an improvement to the 
current gas price. In the meantime, as part 
of the amendment to the GSA, the inflation 
mechanism was amended from 3% every 
three years to 3% per annum. 
The Fortuna FLNG project in Equatorial 
Guinea was a main focus of activity for us 
during 2015. Given the challenging macro 
environment, Ophir has made remarkable 
progress on this asset. The approach we 
have taken exemplifies all that is good about 
the independent sector as we have had to 
be innovative and ground-breaking in our 
Performance 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
quickly to demonstrate the Government’s 
commitment to the project by commencing 
the programme for the acquisition of the 
land. Pre-FEED studies continued whilst the 
land issue was waiting to be resolved. This year 
we will focus on ensuring that land acquisition 
and resettlement plans are robust and meet 
international standards. In addition, a focus 
on completing terms for a Host Government 
Agreement (HGA) will enable the project to 
complete the year with a clear plan for first gas. 
Exploration
As stated in the Chief Executive’s review,  
we are committed to taking advantage of 
softness in the market for exploration acreage 
to add high quality exploration licences to our 
portfolio. We can mature these licences with 
low capital expenditure outlay and then 
retain the top-ranked opportunities whilst 
relinquishing those which we think are least 
prospective or not commercially viable. This 
process will result in Ophir focusing capital and 
people on those exploration opportunities 
that offer shareholders the best potential 
risk-adjusted return. 
The Rakhine Basin in Myanmar has 
exploration potential that has excited the 
industry. It is a large deepwater province 
with proven basins that, for political reasons, 
has been under-explored. Ophir moved 
quickly from signing the PSC at the end of 
2014 to completing the acquisition of over 
10,000 sq km of 3D seismic by mid-2015. 
This seismic survey was completed safely 
and under budget. The processing of this 
seismic will be completed in 2Q 2016. Work 
has already started on interpreting the 
fast-track data and we are hoping to mature 
the prospect inventory during the second 
half of 2016 to give us the option of drilling 
a well in Myanmar in 2017. 
contracting, gas marketing and financing 
strategies. During 2015 we achieved all the 
milestones we set, reaching agreement with 
Golar LNG to be the Midstream provider, 
agreeing Heads of Terms (HoT) on gas sales 
with seven off-takers and embarking on 
Upstream FEED with our two world-class 
competing consortia. 
In January 2016, we announced that we 
had agreed HoT with Schlumberger for them 
to acquire a 40% economic interest in the 
field in return for reimbursing 50% of Ophir’s 
back costs (in the form of a development 
carry). This agreement is expected to be 
finalised in 2Q 2016, at which point our 
share in the development will be fully 
funded to beyond first gas. 
Clearly, the first half of 2016 will be 
important for the Fortuna FLNG project as 
we look to finalise gas off-take agreements, 
award EPCIC contracts for the sub-sea 
production system, finalise the agreement 
with Schlumberger, submit and receive 
approval of the development plan and 
sign the Umbrella Agreement with the 
Government of Equatorial Guinea. I am 
pleased to say all of these items are 
currently proceeding to schedule and we 
anticipate making a FID in mid-2016.
In Tanzania, progress has been relatively 
disappointing as momentum on the award 
of the land was slow prior to the presidential 
election in November 2015. Since the 
election, the new President has moved 
Ophir’s platform in the Gulf of Thailand 24 Ophir Energy plc
Review of operations  
continued
The two play fairways of Kutai Basin and 
West Papua in Indonesia are focal points 
for exploration activity. Having completed 
the acquisition of five licences from Niko 
Resources Limited, we have continued 
to high grade our exploration footprint. 
We believe the West Papua and Aru licences 
have the potential to be liquids prone and 
initial work suggests prospects could contain 
several hundred million barrels. We will 
acquire new 3D seismic in 2016 over the 
key leads and prospects. Once this has 
been fully processed and interpreted, we 
will determine whether to move ahead 
and drill – most likely in 2017.
Having obtained all of the environmental 
approvals to enable drilling in the G4/50 
licence in the Gulf of Thailand, we were 
disappointed not to make a commercial 
discovery with our 2015 drilling programme, 
although we did prove a working hydrocarbon 
system in a previously undrilled basin. 
The Soy Siam well was disappointing in that it 
did not encounter hydrocarbons. The Parichat 
South West well however encountered oil, 
albeit not in commercial quantities. We are  
in the process of completing the post-well 
analysis to determine whether a breached 
seal or a limited charge is the root cause of 
the result. If it was due to the seal, then the 
basin may warrant another well, most likely  
on the Sala North prospect in 2H 2016, before 
we call a halt to the exploration of this licence. 
In Gabon, we completed the acquisition of 
the Olumi Rouge 3D seismic survey and will be 
interpreting these data during 2016 with a view 
to making a drill or drop decision in 1H 2016.
As referred to earlier, we are exiting our 
low-priority assets in order to focus our people 
and capital on maximising value creation from 
high-priority acreage. As a result, during 201 5 
we exited – or started the process of exiting – 
from Kenya, Seychelles and a number of blocks 
in Indonesia (South Sokang, Kofiau, Halmahera 
Kofiau, Kutai) and Tanzania (Block 3, Block 7 
and East Pande). 
However we have at the same time 
continued to take advantage of the lack 
of competition for exploration acreage to 
rebuild the portfolio with high-class acreage. 
We have signed our first PSC in Cote d’Ivoire. 
The CI-513 Block, located in a relatively 
under-explored part of the transform-
margin play fairway, contains exploration 
opportunities of similar geology and scale 
to the discoveries in the Tano Basin to the 
east. Success in CI-513 would unlock another 
segment of this emerging oil play fairway 
in which Ophir is seeking to establish a 
Performance
Ophir’s operations in the Gulf of Thailand 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
material position, and we are excited about 
the potential for this basin, where we expect 
to be drilling in 2017. Furthermore, we have 
continued to build on our entry to Southeast 
Asia by adding a new block in Malaysia 
(Block 2A). Block 2A is pushing an extension 
of an existing play in the Sarawak basin 
into deeper water. We hope to be further 
expanding our position in both Malaysia 
and Myanmar during 2016. 
Summary
Conditions for the Upstream E&P sector 
are difficult at present, but quality projects 
are always more resilient to macro 
conditions. We believe we have a high-
quality asset base with a production base 
that is cash-generative at an oil price in 
the low $20s per barrel. Our Fortuna FLNG 
project in Equatorial Guinea is robust and we 
are confident that we will be in a position to 
make a FID in mid-2016 thereby leading to 
first production in the second half of 2019. 
Production in 2016 is expected to be 
between 10,500 and 11,500 boepd and we 
scope for it to increase to around 30,000 
boepd in our base case for 2020. 
We are focused on value creation and the 
restructuring we have completed means 
that assets, and how to extract maximum 
value from them, are front and centre 
of everything we do. 
Bill Higgs 
Chief Operating Officer
Statement of contingent resources and proved and probable reserves 
(working interest basis)
Africa Asia Total
Contingent  
Resource (2C)
Oil
MMstb
Gas
bscf
Total
MMboe
Oil
MMstb
Gas
bscf
Total
MMboe
Oil
MMstb
Gas
bscf
Total
MMboe
1
Opening Balance – 5,120.0 853.3 – – – – 5 120.0 853.3
Additions – – – 18.5 452.6 98.9 18.5 452.6 98.9
Revisions – 285.0 47.5 2.2 (34.7) (3.7) 2.2 250.3 43.8
Production – – – – – – – – –
Closing Balance – 5,405.0 900.8 20.7 417.9 95.2 20.7 5,822.9 996.0
Africa Asia Total
Proved and Probable 
Reserves (2P)
Oil
MMstb
Gas
bscf
Total
MMboe
Oil
MMstb
Gas
bscf
Total
MMboe
Oil
MMstb
Gas
bscf
Total
MMboe
Opening Balance – – – – – – – – –
Additions – – – 26.4 191.4 59.7 26.4 191.4 59.7
Revisions – – – (0.5) (0.3) (0.6) (0.5) (0.3) (0.6)
Production – – – (4.0) (4.2) (4.7) (4.0) (4.2) (4.7)
Closing Balance – – – 21.9 186.9 54.4 21.9 186.9 54.4
1  All gas reserves are converted at 6.0 Bcf/MMboe except Kerendan, which is converted at 5.5 Bcf/MMboe. Gas reserves include those attributable to the Sinphuhorm asset which is equity accounted for 
in the financial statements.
2C contingent resources are based on reports produced by the Group’s independent engineer, ERC, and are supplemented by the Group 
where necessary with additional and more recent information.
2P commercial reserves are based on reports produced by the Group’s independent engineer, RPS Energy, and are supplemented by the 
Group where necessary with additional and more recent information.
The Group provides for amortisation on its oil and gas properties on a new entitlements basis, which reflects the share of future production 
estimated to be attributable to the Group under the terms of the PSCs related to each field. 26 Ophir Energy plc
Financial review
Units 2015 2014 2013
Operating income  
and cash flow
Realised prices: 
oil/liquids (including  
oil hedge realisations) $/bbl 56.32 – –
Realised prices: gas $/Mscf 4.73 – –
Revenue $’millions 161.1 – –
Field operating cost $/boe 10.01 – –
Profit/(loss)  
before taxation $’millions (376.0) 288.5 (280.5)
Cash generated from 
operations: 122.1 (16.4) (15.7)
Investing cash flow  
and capital expenditure:
Acquisitions $’millions 1,128 – –
Exploration and appraisal $’millions 132.0 594.3 389.1
Development and production $’millions 42.7 – –
Financing cash flow  
and debt:
Net cash $’millions 354.9 1,172.8 666.7
  
Introduction
2015 was a year of significant change for Ophir, both in terms 
of our asset mix and the broader market context. The macro 
environment saw a further deterioration of the capital markets, a 
34% fall in the oil price, from $56/bbl at the beginning of the year to 
$37/bbl at the end of the year, and a tightening of the debt markets. 
Ophir has a relatively strong balance sheet after partially monetising 
our exploration success in Tanzania in 2014. A key objective for us is 
to preserve our financial strength through the cycle whilst retaining 
our ability to invest counter-cyclically in opportunities that provide 
low-cost options of potential long-term value creation. 
During 2015, we advanced discussion with the various stakeholders 
in our Fortuna FLNG project and developed innovative ways by 
which to finance the development to first gas in mid-2019. These 
measures include the signing of the HoT with Schlumberger in 
January 2016. It is expected that this agreement will be finalised 
in 2Q 2016, at which time we will be able to confirm that our share 
of the development project is fully funded.
Having solved the funding of the Fortuna FLNG project, this will 
free up capital for other assets in our portfolio.
Recognising changes to the external environment and our need 
to preserve capital, we took steps to lower our operating cost base 
during 2015 by reducing our General and Administration (G&A) 
costs by $60 million and we expect to further reduce in 2016. 
The all-share acquisition of Salamander Energy plc for $326.1 million 
completed in March 2015, bringing for the first time production 
revenues as a source of funds. This transaction followed the decision 
to become a self-sustaining explorer and the acquisition secured a 
cash-flow stream with a low break-even of only $15/boe. The assets 
continued to perform to expectations, producing on average 
13,000 boepd for the full year (on a pro forma basis), exceeding 
production guidance.
Overall, as set-out in the Group’s viability statements, the Group 
is well placed and has sufficient flexibility to fund itself through 
to first gas at Fortuna in 2019.
“We are fortunate that our forward programme 
is relatively free of committed expenditure.”
Performance 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Financial statements
With the acquisition of Salamander Energy completing on 
3 March 2015, the financial statements reflect revenues and 
expenses incurred for the Salamander Energy assets for the 
10-month period from the date of acquisition. In addition, the 
Sinphuhorm asset, under IFRS 11, is reflected in the financial 
statement on an equity accounting basis through APICO LLC. 
For completeness, full year pro forma numbers are also stated 
in the relevant sections below, which include both the Sinphuhorm 
asset, as if accounted on a proportional consolidated basis.
Overall, the Group reported a loss after taxation for the year 
of $322.5 million (2014: profit of $54.8 million), representing a loss 
per share of $0.47 (2014: profit per share $0.09). After removing the 
non-cash adjustments, the underlying pre-tax cash flow from the 
producing assets was $122.1 million ($149.9 million on a full year 
pro forma basis) with a net cash outflow reported after accounting 
for all activities of $268.6 million (2014: inflow $382.2 million).
Operating income and cash flow
Revenue
Revenue for 2015 amounted to $161.1 million ($211.1 million on 
a full year pro forma basis). The realised price for oil and liquids 
is $56.32/bbl including $17.1 million of commodity price hedges 
which are accounted for in other financial gains in the consolidated 
income statement. 
Cost of sales
2015 cost of sales predominantly included field operating 
costs of $31.8 million (or $10.01/boe), royalty of $14.5 million 
(or $4.50/boe) and depreciation and amortisation of $80.9 million 
(or $21.40/boe). On a full year pro forma basis, the equivalent 
numbers were: operating costs $40.3 million (or $10.03/boe), 
and royalty of $19.5 million.
Equity accounted investments
Reporting of Sinphuhorm’s financial contribution under IFRS 11 
resulted in a share of profit through APICO LLC of $7.2 million for 
2015. Sinphuhorm gas revenues of $16.7 million ($4.73/Mscf) were 
offset by operating costs of $4.4 million, taxes of $4.6 million and 
other costs of $0.5 million. 
Impairment of producing and development assets and 
exploration expenses 
Following the 34% reduction in the commodity price during the 
year, the pre-tax fair values of the producing and development 
assets were assessed at the balance sheet date based on the lower 
commodity price environment. Consequently, the assets were 
impaired on a pre-tax basis by $126.7 million and on a post-tax 
basis by $63.4 million. In addition, impairment of investments 
amounted to $42.1 million.
Exploration expenses for 2015 amounted to $183.1 million 
(2014: $333.8 million). The 2015 exploration charge partly reflects 
the decision to high grade the exploration portfolio and exit from 
licences that do not offer sufficient returns. Therefore, the 2015 
write off partly results from decisions to exit operations in Kenya 
and Indonesia and reduce activity levels in Gabon.
General and administration expenses 
With our clear focus on minimising costs in 2015, underlying gross 
G&A expenses were reduced by $60 million. Our target in 2016 is to 
further decrease long-run gross G&A expenses by a further $15 million, 
representing a total reduction of 47% over the two-year period. 
After allocating costs to operating activities, our net G&A 
expenses for 2015, after eliminating one-off restructuring costs 
of $13.5 million, were 14% lower than 2014 at $17.8 million 
(2014: $20.7 million). The one-off restructuring costs arose through 
the implementation of synergies, the closure of offices and the 
reduction in staff numbers following the acquisition of Salamander.
Operating profit and cash flow generated from 
operating activity
Pre-tax operating loss for 2015 is reported as $376.0 million 
(2014: profit $288.5 million). After adjustment for non-cash items 
totalling $498.1 million (2014: $304.9 million), the pre-tax cash 
flow generated from operating activity for 2015 is $122.1 million or 
$38.59/boe (2014: outflow $16.4 million). On a full year pro forma 
basis, pre-tax cash flow generated from operating activity for 2015 
amounted to $149.9 million.
Key performance 
indicators 
Page 9 28 Ophir Energy plc
Financial review 
continued
Taxation
The 2015 taxation credit of $53.6 million comprised an income 
tax charge of $5.0 million, Special Remuneratory Benefit (SRB) 
charge of $19.6 million and a deferred tax credit of $78.2 million. 
The taxation charge predominantly arose on production activities 
in Thailand where income tax is charged at a rate of 50% on taxable 
profits, and SRB which was incurred at a rate of 28% in 2015. With 
the fall in commodity prices, the SRB component is expected to be 
negligible in 2016. The deferred tax credit predominantly arose with 
the impairment of the Bualuang asset.
This compared to taxation payments made during the year totalling 
$83.0 million (2014: $3.2 million).
Investing cash flow and capital expenditure
Investing cash flow as reported in the cash flow statement was an 
outflow of $39.4 million (2014: inflow $435.9 million) and included 
net payments in respect of oil and gas assets of $374.9 million, partly 
offset by the withdrawal of long-term cash deposits of $294.9 million. 
Translating this into capital expenditure as reported in the balance 
sheet (by adjusting for accrued expenditures and other non-cash 
adjustments), capital expenditure for the year totalled $174.7 million 
($209.8 million on a full year pro forma basis). This predominantly 
comprised investments on: exploration activities in Myanmar, 
Thailand and Indonesia; FEED studies for the Fortuna FLNG project 
in Equatorial Guinea; and a seismic and water handling upgrade 
for the Bualuang field in the Gulf of Thailand.
Oil and gas assets held on the balance sheet at year end 2015 
comprised exploration totalling $879.9 million (2014: $764.9 million) 
and producing and development totalling $662.2 million 
(2014: $nil).
Financing cash flow and debt
Financing cash outflows of $270.3 million (2014: outflow of 
$42.3 million) were driven by the deleveraging of the balance 
sheet following the acquisition of Salamander with debt repayments 
totalling $240.5 million, and interest payments against the facilities 
of $22.5 million (at an average all-in interest cost of 5.6%). 
This reduced the Company’s gearing from 30% to 15%.
In addition, we closed out the share buy-back programme 
implemented in 2014 with the further acquisitions in 2015 
totalling $56.1 million (2014: $44.2 million).
Liquidity, going concern and  
longer-term viability
A total of $502.6 million of debt and $48.8 million of cash 
was inherited as part the Salamander acquisition. The debt 
comprised a convertible bond of $93.9 million, a Norwegian 
bond of $154.8 million and reserves based lending facility of 
$253.9 million. Since the acquisition, total debt has reduced 
by $242.9 million (to $259.7 million) with the full repayment of the 
convertible bond, the Norwegian bond lenders’ put option being 
exercised at change of control totalling $45.6 million and scheduled 
repayment of the reserves based lending facility of $100.9 million.
Total cash available to the Company at year-end 2015 totalled 
$614.6 million (2014: $1,172.8 million), comprising cash and cash 
equivalent of $614.6 million (2014: $877.9 million) and investments 
(short-term deposits) of $nil (2014: $294.9 million). Consequently, 
closing net cash at year end 2015 was $354.9 million (2014: 
$1,172.8 million).
Performance 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position, are set 
out in the strategic review on pages 1 to 38. The financial position 
of the Company, consisting of cash resources of $614.6 million, its 
cash flows and its liquidity position are described in the financial 
statements on pages 90 to 160. In addition, Note 26 to these Group 
financial statements include the Company’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; 
and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In making our going concern assessment, the Directors have 
considered Company budgets and cash flow forecasts, which 
include the impact of approving the investment decision for its 
Fortuna FLNG project during 2016. As a result of this review, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements. 
The Directors have also considered the longer-term four-year 
viability of the Company, and based on their assessment as fully 
detailed on page 16, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 2019.
Financial outlook
The Company has reviewed its plans for the remainder of 2016 to 
position itself against the possibility that the current low commodity 
price environment is protracted and will continue beyond the current 
year. Accordingly, the Company has reset its guidance for 2016. 
On the basis of production guidance outlined in the review of 
operations, at the current forward curve price assumption, revenue 
is forecast at $140-160 million for 2016, with cash flow from 
producing assets of $75-100 million. 
Capital expenditure forecast for 2016 is revised downwards to 
$150-200 million. 
Our current plans remain to refinance our debt facilities in 2016 
subject to market conditions improving. Accordingly, with a lower 
oil price forecast for 2016, the Company expects to close the year 
with net cash of $200-250 million and cash of $525-575 million.
With a strong net cash position, reduced cost base and high degree 
of financial flexibility, Ophir is well positioned to navigate through 
the difficult market conditions at present and emerge on the other 
side as a stronger entity. 
Tony Rouse 
Chief Financial Officer Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility (CR) is about the manner in which we approach 
maintaining our reputation and the trust of our stakeholders, as well as 
completing our operations in a safe and environmentally responsible way. 
Our commitment to CR will both protect NAV (Net Asset Value) and 
create the right conditions for it to grow. 
Performance
Corporate Responsibility is a key part of our Company. 
The Corporate Responsibility Committee, a sub-committee of 
the Board, provides oversight into all of our activities in this area. 
Our focus is on having an appropriate framework in place to 
preserve our reputation, manage risk, build strong sustainable 
relationships with our internal and external stakeholders and 
conduct our operations in a safe and responsible manner.
CR underscores the principle that it is vital to explore for, and 
produce oil and gas responsibly, to the highest international 
standards. At Ophir, we have established a clear set of guidelines 
in terms of how we expect our people to behave. These were 
enhanced in 2015 when a new Code of Conduct was launched 
and our Values were rolled out across the Company. 
However, we recognise that we have a responsibility to review our 
approach to CR in light of the Paris Agreement at the end of 2015. 
After much consideration, we have decided that we will embed the 
principle of creating shared value throughout all of our operations. 
The central premise behind this is that the competitiveness of 
a company and the health of its stakeholders are mutually 
dependent. Recognising this and capitalising on the connections 
between societal and economic progress can allow Ophir to create 
value for itself and all its stakeholders. We already have some 
examples of where we are successfully creating shared value and we 
will be making this a central part of our planning process in future. 
A strong approach to CR also involves transparent communication. 
We engage regularly with stakeholders including employees, 
governments, local communities and shareholders through a 
combination of, amongst other things, meetings and written 
communication. We recognise a need to enhance our reporting 
in this area and this year have expanded our HSE (Health, Safety, 
and the Environment) reporting to include a number of new metrics. 
Board visit to Ophir’s platform in the Gulf of Thailand
30 Ophir Energy plc We strive to be an open and transparent company, which is why we 
have made a commitment to report to CDP’s 2016 Climate Change 
Questionnaire. We are also implementing systems to gather more 
data from across the Company so that, from next year, we can begin 
to report in line with the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Environment
We have a responsibility to protect the environment and recognise 
that we all need to address the effects of climate change while  
we meet all applicable standards in managing environmental risks. 
Ophir is in the process of expanding its emissions reporting standards 
and seeking ways to reduce carbon emissions. Our ultimate aim is  
to minimise the environmental impact of operations, reduce waste, 
conserve resources and respect biodiversity. 
Environment highlights
Prior to every new activity in the field, we carry out appropriate 
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) to assess the current 
baseline environment and identify potential environmental risks. 
Following the risk assessment, effective mitigation measures are 
then designed and implemented. The implementation process 
applies to all our operations, including those carried out by 
contractors and sub-contractors. For example, prior to acquiring 
3D seismic offshore Myanmar in 2015, we conducted an extensive 
programme of stakeholder meetings with local communities, 
informing and educating those potentially affected by the seismic 
planning and operational activities.
These local environment engagement processes are part of 
our Company-wide HSE policy. Our environmental planning 
and performance are routinely scrutinised by local governmental 
agencies and NGOs before and during activities. We repeat these 
assessments at various stages of the project using qualified 
consultants and professional service providers. All aspects of our 
environmental performance are monitored during operations and 
then, when the operations are completed, the findings are reported 
back to local agencies to ensure transparency and compliance.
Group-wide environmental KPIs
CO
2
 emissions (tonnes)
1
 82,904 tonnes
 
CO
2
 emissions (tonnes per  
thousand tonnes production)
2 
144 
 
In 2014 the average upstream figure was 134 (source: OGP), therefore 2015 
was slightly higher than average. This is due to our mix of business activities 
that focus more on exploration activities than production.
Flaring  No flaring reported  
from Ophir assets in 2015
Venting (MMscf) 1.16MMscf At the Bualuang field a small amount of gas is produced along with the oil.  
This gas is vented to the atmosphere.
Venting (tonnes per  
thousand tonnes of production)
0.04  In 2014, OGP average was 0.9 tonnes CH4 per thousand tonnes oil production; 
our low figure is due to minimal associated gas with the oil we produce. 
Oil and chemical spills  None
Oil and chemical spills –  
released to the environment
 N o ne
Produced water  
discharged (tonnes) 
 No produced water  
discharged in 2015 All water at the Bualuang field is re-injected into the reservoir.
Oil in produced water  
discharged (tonnes)
None 
1 Compiled from data from individual locations.
2 Based on full year Bualuang production.
31 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Performance
Corporate Responsibility  
continued
Across the business, indirect emissions from passenger air travel 
and offices make up the remaining data. In Thailand, the combined 
activities of drilling and production made this asset the producer 
of the majority of emissions for the Company followed by Myanmar 
in second place due to the extensive offshore seismic acquisition 
programme in 2015.
In 2014 Ophir reported the emissions data as an intensity ratio, 
calculated by dividing the emissions total by the number of 
exploration wells drilled. In 2015 this metric is no longer meaningful 
following the shift from being a pure explorer to a combined 
explorer and producer. Therefore in 2015 we are reporting the 
figures as absolute totals. 
Reporting criteria:
Office energy  
 
Calculated average annual electricity use from 
actual invoices or estimates for all office and 
logistics base locations
Ground transport  For all office locations, collected data for 
actual fuel used for vehicles
Exploration & 
Production activities 
 
 
 
For our offshore and onshore operations 
calculated fuel use rate which includes 
production-related fuel as well as drilling rigs, 
helicopter support, seismic vessels, PSVs 
(service boats) covering the operations period 
for each country with activities in 2015
Air transport 
 
Estimated total number of long haul 
passenger flights in 2015, booked and paid for 
by Ophir (includes employees and contractors)
Health and safety 
We strive to achieve the highest standards in health and safety, 
ensuring that everyone working for the Company does so in a safe 
and healthy environment. All activities are carried out in accordance 
with applicable local and international health and safety best practices.
Strict health and safety procedures are applied to all aspects of our 
operations, from simple everyday office activities to highly complex 
subsea technical drilling risk assessments, vessel operations and 
emergency response planning. All employees and contractors have 
a duty to ensure their activities are compliant with the rules and 
standards that apply. 
Emissions data
We are committed to improving our transparency and scope of 
reporting on emissions data and are ever mindful of the necessity 
to minimise emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and to encourage 
energy efficiencies wherever possible. Emissions data is collected 
from every location where we operate. Where actual measured 
data is not available, estimates are made. The measuring system is 
defined in the Ophir Health Safety and Environmental Management 
System (HSEMS).
Ophir records and reports on Scope 1 and 2 and certain Scope 3 
emissions. Scope 1 emissions are those over which Ophir has direct 
control via ownership of activities, such as emissions from 
combustion in production facilities, contracted offshore drilling rigs, 
seismic vessels as well as Company vehicles. Scope 2 emissions are 
indirect emissions, for example emissions from Ophir-chartered 
aircraft and electricity used in offices and logistic bases. Scope 3 
emissions are also indirect emissions from sources not directly 
owned or controlled by Ophir, an example being emissions from 
passenger air miles from business flights.
The emissions figures are provided as an absolute total figure 
(Scope 1 – 3) of estimated CO
2
 production for the Company’s 
worldwide activities during 2015. This includes data from Ophir as 
well as full-year data for Salamander Energy including the period 
prior to its acquisition by Ophir in March 2015. This is the third year 
emissions data are reported for the Company. Total emissions 
during 2015 (Salamander and Ophir combined) were estimated at 
82,904 tonnes of CO
2
. This compares to 66,046 tonnes (Ophir only) 
of CO
2
 in 2014. The increase in emissions in 2015 compared with 
that of 2014 is due primarily to the inclusion of Southeast Asia 
emissions from Ophir’s newly-acquired Salamander assets. 
2015 marked a major shift in Ophir’s activities, from being a pure 
explorer in 2014 to becoming a combined explorer and producer in 
2015. This shift affects the character of the emissions we produce. 
Our emissions relating to exploration activities were produced 
primarily by third-party contracted services; such as drilling units 
(e.g. Bualuang, Thailand), seismic vessels (e.g. 3D seismic in 
Myanmar) and service boats working offshore. GHG emissions 
from production operations (Thailand) come primarily from crude 
oil combusted offshore to fuel generators and equipment used 
in the production processes. 
32 Ophir Energy plc Report of the Corporate 
Responsibility 
Committee
page 54 
It is part of our duty of care to ensure our subcontractors and 
suppliers provide a safe and healthy working environment for 
their employees and to provide appropriate training, support and 
protective equipment. In order to confirm compliance with the 
appropriate health and safety practices, subcontractors and 
suppliers are subject to regular checks.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to review 
these standards, and is responsible for monitoring Health, Safety, 
Security and Environmental (HSSE) practices. The Committee is 
also responsible for planning appropriate independent HSE audits 
across the range of our activities to assess our progress.
Corporate Responsibility team developments
In 2015 the Corporate Responsibility management with respect  
to health and safety continued to evolve and in January 2016 
we appointed a Group Head of HSE and Operational Excellence.  
We continued to concentrate our health and safety focus on  
those areas with the highest risk. In 2015 that meant targeting  
the new producing assets and associated drilling programme 
offshore Thailand. Each project was provided with full-time,  
on and offshore, HSE professionals to ensure HSE compliance  
and foster operational excellence.
Health and safety highlights
During 2015 our employees and contractors recorded zero LTIs. 
There were only two recordable incidents during the year, giving 
Ophir a Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of 0.83.
In early 2015, prior to contracting the drilling company engaged 
to carry out the Thailand drilling campaign, we carried out extensive 
health and safety assessments, audits and held integration sessions 
with the service company personnel to ensure health and safety 
alignment and compliance before and during the campaign.  
 The 2015 Thailand drilling campaign ended on a very positive 
safety note having had the fewest safety related incidents (of all 
kinds) of any Ophir drilling campaign in the history of the Company. 
Overall, we are proud of our excellent health and safety record, 
especially bearing in mind the Company’s shift into more 
operationally complex production activities with the acquisition 
of Salamander in 1Q 2015. 
33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Performance
Corporate Responsibility 
continued
O-NET T utor Camp in Thailand
Over 600 Thai students took part in a successful education 
scheme in 2015
In 2015 we worked in partnership with the Koh Samui 
municipality and the Koh Pha-Ngan Tourism Association to 
sponsor the O-NET (Ordinary National Education Test) Tutor 
Camp project. 665 students in Koh Samui and Koh Pha-Ngan 
attended tutoring sessions aimed at preparing them for 
Thailand’s national education tests. School children in Thailand 
are required to take this test and if they do not pass, are unable 
to continue on to the next level of education. The Tutor Camp 
provides tips and useful suggestions to help the students 
understand the key subject areas that will enable them to 
attain higher scores in the O-NET examination. 
Security
During 2015 we continued to operate in several challenging 
environments in both East and West Africa, and from March 
onwards had responsibility for a number of additional assets  
in Southeast Asia. Our assessments have evaluated the various 
physical risks our personnel and sites could be exposed to during 
our operations. There were no security incidents during 2015. 
Community projects 
We are very aware of our responsibility towards the communities 
where we operate as an international oil and gas operator. These 
responsibilities include aiding the development of the economic  
and social conditions of local communities. This year we have focused 
on improving access to education (primary and vocational), on water 
provision and supporting health initiatives through donations. 
When selecting projects, we adopt a collaborative approach, 
conducting varied stakeholder engagement and needs assessments 
in order to identify projects that most positively contribute to the 
requirements of the local communities in the long term, as well 
as the Company itself.
Community development highlights
In 2015 we continued two corporate Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs) in line with community development:
1.  At least one project to be started or in progress in each of our  
key operational assets.
2.  The completion of two projects or phases in separate countries.
Our Asset Managers’ performance was judged against these KPIs 
which reinforced our positive commitment to the initiation and 
completion of community projects in Tanzania, Seychelles, Kenya, 
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Thailand and Indonesia. 
To continue this progression, we conducted a gap analysis of our 
current approach to community development. This highlighted  
a need for greater corporate governance and a more strategic 
approach to the selection and implementation of projects. We have 
reviewed the International Financial Corporation (IFC) guidance to 
help us more closely align our strategy for community development 
with our core business and to concentrate our efforts on sustainable 
projects that have a greater and longer lasting benefit to the 
communities in which we operate. 
34 Ophir Energy plc 2015 Community projects by location
In 2015 in Thailand we provided funding for a number of Fishing 
Aggregation Devices for the Chumpon and Ban Chalokelum 
communities on the islands of Koh Samui and Koh Pha-Ngan.  
The devices attract marine wildlife and provide a vital source 
of food and income for these fishing communities.
In Equatorial Guinea we continued to provide funding for the 
National Technical Institute, which provides valuable training  
and development for the local communities.
In Gabon, we financed the training of 50 Gabonese students at 
the Sodexo Training Centre in Libreville. The training helps trainees 
to gain skills in catering and hospitality, and helps young people 
move into the working world.
Continuing work from the previous year, in 2015 we also sponsored 
two Petroleum Geoscience Masters students in London, and offered 
a number of internship opportunities throughout the year to 
students or recent graduates. 
Fishery Observer training in Gabon
52 fishery training sessions took place in 2015
In early 2015 we began working with international NGO the 
Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) to provide funding for a 
Fishery Observer Training Programme initially for 30 Gabonese 
nationals. The programme provides vocational training in order 
to develop the observer competencies of the students who, 
once qualified, will be offered full-time employment as Fishery 
Observers, working on 25 trawling vessels off the coast of Gabon. 
The Fishery Observers assist with the regulation of the fishing 
industry; improving the biodiversity of Gabonese oceans and 
the state of national food security. 
By December 2015, 52 training sessions had taken place, with 23 
people having completed their first on-board mission. 1 5 of the trainees 
were employed as Industrial Observers as of December 2015.
Clean water provision in Indonesia
Water filtration systems installed to help local communities
The clean water project in Indonesia, near our Kerendan 
operations, is an excellent example of creating shared value. 
We worked in partnership with communities in the villages of 
Kerendan, Luwe Hulu, Muara Pari and Haragandang along the 
Barito River. Through our stakeholder mapping and engagement, 
we identified a need for a regular supply of clean water.  
A filtration system was installed by which water is taken from 
the river and then filtered and purified using a Floating Filtration 
System. The filtered water is then stored in a tower and piped 
to the houses in the villages. The local community has seen 
improvements in the health of its people due to having access 
to clean water. As a number of our employees come from these 
villages, Ophir has therefore benefited from a more productive 
and reliable workforce. 
35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Performance
Corporate Responsibility  
continued
The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery and corruption 
is the responsibility of all those working for and on behalf of Ophir, 
who are expected to:
• understand their responsibilities and act with fairness, honesty 
and integrity at all times;
• comply with all anti-corruption laws and regulations, no matter 
where they are working. This includes, but is not limited to, 
the UK Bribery Act 2010; 
• avoid doing anything which gives even the appearance of 
violating anti-bribery laws, as this can damage our reputation; 
and
• report any suspicions of bribery, including requests for bribes, 
immediately.
Our people and our Values
We continue to evolve as a leading international company, and 
our business plans are ambitious and require people with superior 
performance to deliver them. Our people are therefore key to success 
and we continue to build an experienced, resourceful and globally-
diverse employee base. In 2015, we undertook a Company-wide 
Employee Engagement Survey to ensure an understanding of our 
expanded workforce. The Survey was very successful with a higher-
than-average industry response rate. Since the survey closed, 
management have been reviewing all the feedback and have 
already implemented targeted responses to the data received. 
Integral to our Company’s success will be the combined efforts 
of our people, who must be led and managed by an inspired and 
highly competent senior management team, comprising technical 
specialists supported by professional/functional experts. As part 
of a wider corporate initiative to further strengthen our Company 
(in line with the outcomes from the Employee Survey), we are 
investing in leadership development as a critical factor in support 
of our strategic objectives.
We provide exciting opportunities and challenging work 
assignments for people to gain wider experience across the business 
to enhance their skills. This culture allows us to successfully attract 
and retain the best in our industry. 
Our performance review philosophy is designed to encourage robust 
feedback conversations to take place and for individual performance 
to be aligned to deliver corporate performance and create value. 
Business ethics
We must comply with all applicable local, national and international 
laws and regulations in all locations in which we operate and have 
interests. This is crucial to both our sustained commercial success 
and our reputation. All staff are accountable for the way they 
conduct themselves in the course of their work. Managers have 
additional responsibility to set the tone and foster best practices 
within their teams.
In 2015 we materially strengthened our Ethical Compliance processes 
to reflect changes to the corporate risk profile and scope of our activities. 
We have launched a Code of Conduct (the Code) clearly defining our 
expectations of staff and key stakeholders in relation to business integrity. 
We have also introduced enhanced Ethical Compliance processes, 
notably an Anti-Corruption Policy (the Policy) and a suite of Personal 
Conduct Standards (the Standards). All staff are required to confirm 
at the start of each calendar year that, in relation to the prior 
year, they complied with the Code, the Policy and the Standards. 
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Ethical 
Compliance programme and receives regular reports.
The Ethical Compliance processes also introduce an enhanced 
requirement for Anti-Corruption Reporting, for example any third 
party request for a facilitation payment is reported to a designated 
Compliance function which takes up the matter further on behalf 
of Ophir, and there is clearer guidance around seeking corporate 
approvals for gifts and hospitality given and received, and the 
declaration of employee conflicts of interest. Gifts and Hospitality, 
Conflict of Interest and Anti-Corruption Reporting Registers 
are maintained by assets and functions and monitored by the 
Compliance function. 
Due diligence on third parties including intermediaries, suppliers, 
prospective business partners and social investment counter-
parties is supported by a set of improved processes enabling 
early identification of red flags and appropriate risk management 
measures to be applied prior to contract award, contract execution 
and during the life of any contract. 
36 Ophir Energy plc Respect for human rights
We recognise the importance of respecting and promoting human 
rights, both internally and externally. At Ophir we are committed 
to maintaining the fair and equal treatment of all of our employees 
and contractors, without discrimination. We support human rights 
and encourage our joint ventures, partners, suppliers and 
contractors to do the same.
We comply with all applicable human rights laws and regulations 
and use the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights 
for guidance.
Equality and diversity 
We are an equal opportunities employer and have a stated policy 
as part of our Global Code of Conduct to deal fairly and equitably 
with all of our employees in the workplace.
We are committed to equal opportunities in recruitment and 
succession planning policies and continue to welcome the current 
emphasis on diversity in general. We remain dedicated to 
encouraging diversity at all levels of the business, acknowledging 
that a more diverse workforce, with the right mix of skills, experience, 
culture, ethnicity, nationality, gender and knowledge, can make 
a valuable contribution to the Company.
We have a commitment to extend equal employment opportunities  
to all, irrespective of race, colour, gender, sexual orientation, gender 
reassignment, religion or belief, age, nationality, ethnicity, marital  
or civil partnership status, pregnancy and maternity, or disability. 
As at 31 December 2015 the Company has two female Directors 
representing 25% of the Board, 7.7% of the senior management  
are female and throughout the Company, women represent 27% 
of our workforce.
We have six key Values which underpin our business and capture the 
essence of Ophir’s identity. They form the foundation on which we 
all perform and conduct ourselves and the Company expects all of 
its people to demonstrate these Values in their daily working lives.
37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements We have six key Values which underpin our business and capture the essence of Ophir’s identity. They form the foundation on which 
we all perform and conduct ourselves and the Company expects all of its people to demonstrate these Values in their daily working lives.
This Strategic report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf
Nick Cooper 
Chief Executive Officer 
9 March 2016
Ophir’s Values
Grounded 
down-to-earth, never arrogant
Integrity 
act in an honest and ethical way
Respect 
for our people and our partners
A grounded individual conducts themselves in 
a pragmatic and practical way. They are down to 
earth and display no airs and graces in terms of 
their approach or how they interact with others. 
They welcome comments and interactions and, 
though confident, do not display traits of arrogance.
A person who has integrity demonstrates the 
Values every day in their relationships with 
colleagues and stakeholders. Honesty and a strong 
sense of ethics are central to integrity. People who 
demonstrate integrity draw others to them 
because they are trustworthy and dependable.
Treating those around you with respect means 
that through your behaviour you demonstrate  
that you have regard for them, their thoughts  
and feelings. It is imperative that this is shown,  
not just within the Company but also to external 
parties, as it is a core driver of our reputation  
and therefore our licence to do business.
Collaborative 
work in partnership
Dynamism 
positive, energised and innovative
Excellence 
in everything we do
A person who collaborates is open to the input  
of others and welcomes alternative views to  
their own. They look to partner with colleagues, 
internal and external to Ophir, to deliver the best 
possible outcome for the Company.
A dynamic person will help drive forward the 
Company agenda by making quality decisions, 
acting as a positive force in their team and wider 
function. They will contribute to a dynamic 
organisation where there exists energy, 
enthusiasm and determination to succeed.
Striving for excellence is a key component of  
a job at Ophir. We aim to continue to have a 
significant presence in the industry, which can  
only be attained through the efforts of everyone 
internally to create and deliver excellence in all 
activities we undertake.
Corporate Responsibility  
continued
Performance
38 Ophir Energy plc Your Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance and is responsible for reviewing governance, risk 
management and internal controls. These reviews bind the various 
elements of our business and empower our staff to make decisions by 
establishing clear parameters for behaviour. In 2015, we updated our 
Code of Conduct and established a clear set of Values that we expect 
to be demonstrated by our employees in all facets of their work. 
The information contained in this report, along with the reports of 
the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility 
Committees set out the processes in place that both protect net asset 
value and foster the right conditions under which we can grow NAV. 
During 2015 an independent external Board evaluation was 
conducted. The principal conclusions from this were that the Board’s 
effectiveness had improved in 2015. Board governance had also 
continued to improve and is fully compliant with the Combined 
Code. More details on this can be found on page 46 of this report.
Corporate governance 
framework (at date 
of publication)
The Board has a coherent 
corporate governance 
framework with clearly 
defined responsibilities and 
accountabilities designed 
to safeguard and enhance 
long-term shareholder 
value and provide a robust 
platform to realise the 
Company’s strategy. 
Board 
Chairman, three 
Executive Directors 
and five Independent 
Non-Executive Directors
Remuneration Committee – Chairman: Vivien Gibney
Four Independent Non-Executive Directors and Company Chairman
Main responsibilities are determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration framework for  
the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and recommending and monitoring 
reward of the senior management team.
Corporate Responsibility Committee – Chairman: Bill Schrader
Four Independent Non-Executive Directors
Main responsibilities are evaluating effectiveness of Group’s Corporate Responsibility policies and systems 
as well as social, charitable and educational community projects across the Company’s operations.
Audit Committee – Chairman: Ronald Blakely 
Four Independent Non-Executive Directors 
Main responsibilities are monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and 
reviewing effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems.
Technical Advisory Committee – Chairman: Alan Booth
Two Independent Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director
Main responsibilities are advising the Board on technical aspects of operational business proposals  
and their potential risks and that they are consistent with the Company strategy.
Nomination Committee – Chairman: Nicholas Smith
Four Independent Non-Executive Directors, one Executive Director and Company Chairman
Main responsibilities are regularly reviewing structure, size and composition of the Board and identifying  
and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Executive 
Committee
UK Corporate Governance Code 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the ‘Code’) applies to the year under review. A copy of the Code can be found at www.frc.org.uk. This report, which 
incorporates reports from the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Nomination Committees on pages 48 to 59 together with the Remuneration report on pages 
64 to 88 and the Directors’ Report on pages 60 to 63 describes how the Company has applied the relevant principles of the Code. The Board, along with its 
own assessment of compliance with the Code, therefore concludes that during the year the Company has fully complied with all provisions of the Code. 
Corporate Governance  
introduction
“ At Ophir, we are committed to ensuring that robust 
and effective governance processes are in place, as 
they are key to the future success of the Company.”
39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Board of Directors
The Board brings a broad range of skills and experience to 
the Company, across the oil and gas industry, commercial 
and financial sectors and capital markets.
Name and title Nicholas Smith 
Chairman of the Board
Dr Nick Cooper 
Executive Director & 
Chief Executive Officer
Dr William (Bill) Higgs 
Executive Director & 
Chief Operating Officer
Anthony (Tony) Rouse
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
Ronald Blakely 
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Dr Carol Bell  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Alan Booth  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Vivien Gibney  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
William (Bill) Schrader  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Biography Nicholas Smith was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director 
in October 2007 and as 
Chairman in September 
2009. He is a member of the 
Remuneration Committee and 
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. Nicholas Smith 
trained as a chartered 
accountant before joining 
the Jardine Fleming Group, 
becoming Chief Financial 
Officer from 1993 to 1997. 
He is Chairman of Aberdeen 
New Thai Investment Trust 
plc and Schroder AsiaPacific 
Fund plc and a Director of 
JPMorgan European Smaller 
Companies Trust plc. Nicholas 
Smith will retire from the 
Board on 30 April 2016.
Dr Nick Cooper was appointed 
as an Executive Director and 
Chief Executive Officer in June 
2011. Nick Cooper is a member 
of the Nomination Committee. 
Prior to joining Ophir, he was 
Chief Financial Officer and 
co-founder of Salamander 
Energy plc. He began his career 
as a geophysicist with BG and 
Amoco before joining Booz-
Allen & Hamilton. From 1999 
to 2005, he was a member 
of the oil and gas team at 
Goldman Sachs. In September 
2014 Nick Cooper was 
appointed as Non-Executive 
Director of Siccar Point Energy 
Limited. Nick Cooper has a 
BSc in Geophysical Sciences 
from the University of Leeds, a 
PhD in Exploration Geophysics 
from the University of Leicester 
and an MBA from INSEAD.
Dr Bill Higgs was appointed 
as an Executive Director and 
Chief Operating Officer in 
September 2014. Bill Higgs 
is a member of the Technical 
Advisory Committee. He 
has over 25 years of global 
exploration, development 
and operations experience, 
the majority with Chevron 
Corporation. His roles at 
Chevron included Senior 
Vice President of Operations 
for Saudi Arabia Chevron, 
Reservoir Manager for 
Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan, 
Asset Manager for the BBLT 
development in Block 14 
Angola and General Manager 
for Strategy for Chevron 
Corporation. In his time at 
Chevron he was also a member 
of the Corporate Reserves 
Audit Committee and the 
Decision Review Boards for 
the Gorgon and Wheatstone 
LNG developments in 
Australia. Before joining 
Ophir, he was Chief Executive 
Officer of Mediterranean 
Oil & Gas plc (acquired by 
Rockhopper Exploration 
plc). Bill Higgs has a BSc in 
Geological Sciences from 
the University of Leeds and 
a PhD in Structural Geology 
from the University of Wales.
Tony Rouse joined Ophir 
in October 2014 and was 
appointed as an Executive 
Director in January 2016. 
Tony has over 30 years’ 
experience in the Upstream 
oil and gas industry including 
13 years of assignments in 
Europe, Africa, Asia and South 
America. Tony started his 
career with BP, before moving 
to LASMO plc, Premier Oil and 
most recently Salamander 
Energy plc where he was 
Group Financial Controller for 
nine years. Tony is a Fellow 
of the Chartered Certified 
Accountants (FCCA).
Ronald Blakely was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director 
in July 2011 and as Senior 
Independent Director 
in February 2013. He is 
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. 
Ronald Blakely spent over 
38 years working for Royal 
Dutch Shell companies. 
On his retirement in October 
2008, he held the role of 
Executive Vice President 
Global Downstream Finance, 
while previous roles included 
CFO of Shell Oil Products in 
the USA and CFO of Shell 
Canada. Ronald Blakely is 
a member of the Society of 
Management Accountants 
of Alberta, Canada.
Dr Carol Bell was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director 
in March 201 5. Carol Bell has 
over 30 years of experience 
in the energy industry having 
enjoyed a successful career 
in the City, most recently as a 
Managing Director of Chase 
Manhattan Bank’s Global Oil & 
Gas Group. Carol Bell currently 
sits on the Boards at Petroleum 
Geo-Services ASA, Bonheur ASA 
and Ganger Rolf ASA and was 
a Non-Executive Director at 
Salamander Energy plc. She is 
also a Non-Executive Director 
of the BlackRock Commodities 
Income Investment Trust plc 
and sits on the board of Finance 
Wales, the venture capital arm  
of the Welsh Government.  
Carol Bell holds an MA in natural 
sciences from the University 
of Cambridge and a PhD in 
Archaeology from University 
College London. Carol Bell is a 
trustee of the Renewable Energy 
Foundation (a UK think tank), the 
National Museum of Wales, The 
Wales Millennium Centre, The 
British School at Athens, and the 
Institute for Archaeometallurgical 
studies. She is also a member  
of the S4C Authority and the 
Council of Cardiff University.  
On 30 April 201 6 Carol Bell 
will become Chairman of the 
Corporate Responsibility 
Committee.
Alan Booth was appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director in 
April 2013. He is the Chairman 
of the Technical Advisory 
Committee and member of 
the Remuneration, Corporate 
Responsibility and Audit 
Committees. Alan Booth 
has 30 years’ experience in 
oil and gas exploration at 
Amerada Hess, Oryx Energy 
and Encana. Most recently, 
Alan Booth was Founder 
and Chief Executive Officer 
of EnCore Oil plc and is now 
the Founder and Director of 
EnCounter Oil Ltd. Alan Booth 
holds a BSc in Geology from 
the University of Nottingham 
and MSc.DIC in Petroleum 
Geology from the Royal School 
Mines, Imperial College. 
He is a former president of 
the UK Offshore Operators 
Association (UKOOA) and 
currently a director of the 
Oil and Gas Independents 
Association (OGIA).
Vivien Gibney was appointed 
as a Non-Executive 
Director in August 2013. 
She is the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee 
and member of the 
Corporate Responsibility and 
Nomination Committees. 
Vivien Gibney has 25 years’ 
experience as counsel in 
the upstream oil and gas 
industry, including roles with 
Mobil Oil and Enterprise Oil 
plc. Whilst at Enterprise Oil, 
Vivien Gibney set up the legal 
department and held the 
positions of General Counsel, 
Company Secretary and Head 
of HR. Vivien Gibney has held 
a number of Non-Executive 
Board positions in the 
voluntary sector and in listed 
companies. More recently, 
she was a member of the 
Board of Directors of Encore 
Oil plc where she chaired the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Vivien Gibney is a barrister 
with an LL.B. and received 
an Honorary Fellowship 
in Petroleum law from the 
University of Dundee.
Bill Schrader was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director in 
February 2013. He is a member 
of the Audit, Corporate 
Responsibility and Technical 
Advisory Committees. Bill 
Schrader has over 30 years’ 
experience working at 
BP plc, including as Chief 
Executive of several country 
operations, as President of 
the Azerbaijan International 
Operating Company and as 
Chief Operating Officer of 
TNK-BP . In December 2014 
Bill Schrader was appointed 
Non-Executive Director of 
CHC Group Ltd, he is also 
Non-Executive Chairman of 
Bahamas Petroleum Company 
plc and Non-Executive Director 
of the Hess Corporation. 
Bill Schrader holds a BSc in 
Chemical Engineering from 
the University of Cincinnati 
and an MBA from the 
University of Houston. 
On 30 April 2016 Bill Schrader 
will succeed Nicholas Smith 
as Chairman of the Board. At 
that date he will also become 
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and will step down 
from the Audit Committee and 
as Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee 
(but will remain a member).
Year appointed 2007 2011 2014 2016 2011 2015 2013 2013 2013
Committee  
membership
Nomination (Chairman), 
Remuneration 
Nomination Technical Advisory Audit (Chairman), 
Nomination, Remuneration
Audit, Nomination, 
Corporate Responsibility 
Technical Advisory (Chairman), 
Audit, Remuneration, 
Corporate Responsibility
Remuneration (Chairman), 
Corporate Responsibility, 
Nomination
Corporate Responsibility 
(Chairman), Audit, 
Remuneration, Technical 
Advisory, Nomination 
40 Ophir Energy plc Other Officers of the Company
Philip Laing  
Position General Counsel & Company Secretary
Appointed   2 February 2016
Directors who retired or resigned during reporting period
Lyndon Powell 
Position Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed 10 October 2007
Name and title Nicholas Smith 
Chairman of the Board
Dr Nick Cooper 
Executive Director & 
Chief Executive Officer
Dr William (Bill) Higgs 
Executive Director & 
Chief Operating Officer
Anthony (Tony) Rouse
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
Ronald Blakely 
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Dr Carol Bell  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Alan Booth  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Vivien Gibney  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
William (Bill) Schrader  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Biography Nicholas Smith was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director 
in October 2007 and as 
Chairman in September 
2009. He is a member of the 
Remuneration Committee and 
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. Nicholas Smith 
trained as a chartered 
accountant before joining 
the Jardine Fleming Group, 
becoming Chief Financial 
Officer from 1993 to 1997. 
He is Chairman of Aberdeen 
New Thai Investment Trust 
plc and Schroder AsiaPacific 
Fund plc and a Director of 
JPMorgan European Smaller 
Companies Trust plc. Nicholas 
Smith will retire from the 
Board on 30 April 2016.
Dr Nick Cooper was appointed 
as an Executive Director and 
Chief Executive Officer in June 
2011. Nick Cooper is a member 
of the Nomination Committee. 
Prior to joining Ophir, he was 
Chief Financial Officer and 
co-founder of Salamander 
Energy plc. He began his career 
as a geophysicist with BG and 
Amoco before joining Booz-
Allen & Hamilton. From 1999 
to 2005, he was a member 
of the oil and gas team at 
Goldman Sachs. In September 
2014 Nick Cooper was 
appointed as Non-Executive 
Director of Siccar Point Energy 
Limited. Nick Cooper has a 
BSc in Geophysical Sciences 
from the University of Leeds, a 
PhD in Exploration Geophysics 
from the University of Leicester 
and an MBA from INSEAD.
Dr Bill Higgs was appointed 
as an Executive Director and 
Chief Operating Officer in 
September 2014. Bill Higgs 
is a member of the Technical 
Advisory Committee. He 
has over 25 years of global 
exploration, development 
and operations experience, 
the majority with Chevron 
Corporation. His roles at 
Chevron included Senior 
Vice President of Operations 
for Saudi Arabia Chevron, 
Reservoir Manager for 
Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan, 
Asset Manager for the BBLT 
development in Block 14 
Angola and General Manager 
for Strategy for Chevron 
Corporation. In his time at 
Chevron he was also a member 
of the Corporate Reserves 
Audit Committee and the 
Decision Review Boards for 
the Gorgon and Wheatstone 
LNG developments in 
Australia. Before joining 
Ophir, he was Chief Executive 
Officer of Mediterranean 
Oil & Gas plc (acquired by 
Rockhopper Exploration 
plc). Bill Higgs has a BSc in 
Geological Sciences from 
the University of Leeds and 
a PhD in Structural Geology 
from the University of Wales.
Tony Rouse joined Ophir 
in October 2014 and was 
appointed as an Executive 
Director in January 2016. 
Tony has over 30 years’ 
experience in the Upstream 
oil and gas industry including 
13 years of assignments in 
Europe, Africa, Asia and South 
America. Tony started his 
career with BP, before moving 
to LASMO plc, Premier Oil and 
most recently Salamander 
Energy plc where he was 
Group Financial Controller for 
nine years. Tony is a Fellow 
of the Chartered Certified 
Accountants (FCCA).
Ronald Blakely was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director 
in July 2011 and as Senior 
Independent Director 
in February 2013. He is 
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. 
Ronald Blakely spent over 
38 years working for Royal 
Dutch Shell companies. 
On his retirement in October 
2008, he held the role of 
Executive Vice President 
Global Downstream Finance, 
while previous roles included 
CFO of Shell Oil Products in 
the USA and CFO of Shell 
Canada. Ronald Blakely is 
a member of the Society of 
Management Accountants 
of Alberta, Canada.
Dr Carol Bell was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director 
in March 201 5. Carol Bell has 
over 30 years of experience 
in the energy industry having 
enjoyed a successful career 
in the City, most recently as a 
Managing Director of Chase 
Manhattan Bank’s Global Oil & 
Gas Group. Carol Bell currently 
sits on the Boards at Petroleum 
Geo-Services ASA, Bonheur ASA 
and Ganger Rolf ASA and was 
a Non-Executive Director at 
Salamander Energy plc. She is 
also a Non-Executive Director 
of the BlackRock Commodities 
Income Investment Trust plc 
and sits on the board of Finance 
Wales, the venture capital arm  
of the Welsh Government.  
Carol Bell holds an MA in natural 
sciences from the University 
of Cambridge and a PhD in 
Archaeology from University 
College London. Carol Bell is a 
trustee of the Renewable Energy 
Foundation (a UK think tank), the 
National Museum of Wales, The 
Wales Millennium Centre, The 
British School at Athens, and the 
Institute for Archaeometallurgical 
studies. She is also a member  
of the S4C Authority and the 
Council of Cardiff University.  
On 30 April 201 6 Carol Bell 
will become Chairman of the 
Corporate Responsibility 
Committee.
Alan Booth was appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director in 
April 2013. He is the Chairman 
of the Technical Advisory 
Committee and member of 
the Remuneration, Corporate 
Responsibility and Audit 
Committees. Alan Booth 
has 30 years’ experience in 
oil and gas exploration at 
Amerada Hess, Oryx Energy 
and Encana. Most recently, 
Alan Booth was Founder 
and Chief Executive Officer 
of EnCore Oil plc and is now 
the Founder and Director of 
EnCounter Oil Ltd. Alan Booth 
holds a BSc in Geology from 
the University of Nottingham 
and MSc.DIC in Petroleum 
Geology from the Royal School 
Mines, Imperial College. 
He is a former president of 
the UK Offshore Operators 
Association (UKOOA) and 
currently a director of the 
Oil and Gas Independents 
Association (OGIA).
Vivien Gibney was appointed 
as a Non-Executive 
Director in August 2013. 
She is the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee 
and member of the 
Corporate Responsibility and 
Nomination Committees. 
Vivien Gibney has 25 years’ 
experience as counsel in 
the upstream oil and gas 
industry, including roles with 
Mobil Oil and Enterprise Oil 
plc. Whilst at Enterprise Oil, 
Vivien Gibney set up the legal 
department and held the 
positions of General Counsel, 
Company Secretary and Head 
of HR. Vivien Gibney has held 
a number of Non-Executive 
Board positions in the 
voluntary sector and in listed 
companies. More recently, 
she was a member of the 
Board of Directors of Encore 
Oil plc where she chaired the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Vivien Gibney is a barrister 
with an LL.B. and received 
an Honorary Fellowship 
in Petroleum law from the 
University of Dundee.
Bill Schrader was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director in 
February 2013. He is a member 
of the Audit, Corporate 
Responsibility and Technical 
Advisory Committees. Bill 
Schrader has over 30 years’ 
experience working at 
BP plc, including as Chief 
Executive of several country 
operations, as President of 
the Azerbaijan International 
Operating Company and as 
Chief Operating Officer of 
TNK-BP . In December 2014 
Bill Schrader was appointed 
Non-Executive Director of 
CHC Group Ltd, he is also 
Non-Executive Chairman of 
Bahamas Petroleum Company 
plc and Non-Executive Director 
of the Hess Corporation. 
Bill Schrader holds a BSc in 
Chemical Engineering from 
the University of Cincinnati 
and an MBA from the 
University of Houston. 
On 30 April 2016 Bill Schrader 
will succeed Nicholas Smith 
as Chairman of the Board. At 
that date he will also become 
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and will step down 
from the Audit Committee and 
as Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee 
(but will remain a member).
Year appointed 2007 2011 2014 2016 2011 2015 2013 2013 2013
Committee  
membership
Nomination (Chairman), 
Remuneration 
Nomination Technical Advisory Audit (Chairman), 
Nomination, Remuneration
Audit, Nomination, 
Corporate Responsibility 
Technical Advisory (Chairman), 
Audit, Remuneration, 
Corporate Responsibility
Remuneration (Chairman), 
Corporate Responsibility, 
Nomination
Corporate Responsibility 
(Chairman), Audit, 
Remuneration, Technical 
Advisory, Nomination 
41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance and fully recognises the benefits it 
brings to making the best decisions for the Company’s future.
Corporate Governance report
Leadership
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the continuing 
success of the Company. To achieve this, the Board provides leadership 
to the business and, either directly or through the operation of its 
Committees and by delegating authority, brings an independent 
judgement on all matters of strategy, performance, risk management, 
resources, standards of conduct and accountability. The Board also 
leads in establishing the values and the culture of the Company.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved 
for its approval and has delegated other specific responsibilities to 
its Committees. The Board undertook a review of the schedule of 
matters specifically reserved for the Board in November 2015 as part 
of its annual review process. The Board concluded that only minor 
amendments were required to those matters; principally to formally 
note that the Board remains responsible for financial hedging 
decisions, approving Group treasury policies and ensuring that 
the monitoring of financial and non-financial risks are being 
appropriately carried out between the Audit Committee and the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee. The Directors felt that these 
changes made to its schedule of reserved matters better reflect 
the size and complexity of the Company’s operations in particular, 
following the acquisitions of Salamander Energy plc and assets from 
Niko Resources Limited.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Committees of the 
Board, each of which has clear written Terms of Reference. The Terms 
of Reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility 
and Nomination Committees are available on the Company’s 
website at www.ophir-energy.com/about-us/board-committees. 
Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer are clearly established, separate and have been set out in writing.
Nicholas Smith was appointed as Chairman of the Company in 
2009, having been a Non-Executive Director since 2007. On 
30 April 2016 he will retire as Chairman and will be succeeded by 
Bill Schrader who has served as an Non-Executive Director since 
February 2013. As Chairman, he is responsible for the leadership 
and effective running of the Board as well as for ensuring that 
it plays a full and constructive part in the development and 
determination of the Company’s strategy. 
Together with the Chief Executive Officer and the General Counsel 
& Company Secretary, the Chairman sets the agenda for Board 
meetings, ensuring that the decision-making process adopted by 
the Board allows for open and constructive debate. The Chairman 
works closely with the Chief Executive Officer, providing support and 
advice as well as ensuring that the strategies and actions agreed 
by the Board are effectively implemented.
The Chairman was considered to be independent in character 
and judgement on his appointment.
Dr Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in June 201 1. 
He is responsible for managing the day-to-day business of the 
Company, proposing and developing strategy and overall commercial 
objectives in consultation with the Board and, as leader of a strong 
and experienced executive team, implementing the decisions of the 
Board and its Committees. Underpinning this, the Chief Executive 
Officer is supported by the Executive Committee consisting of the 
Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, in addition 
to other members of the senior management team. 
Role of the Chairman
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board. 
In particular, he will:
• cultivate a boardroom culture of honesty and openness which 
encourages appropriate debate and challenges amongst the 
Board
• ensure that the Board and its Committees operate in a way that 
conforms to expected high standards of corporate governance
• set the style and tone of Board discussions, promote 
constructive debate and ensure an accurate, timely and clear 
flow of information to the Directors
• lead the Nomination Committee in the appointment of an 
effective and complementary Board, review succession planning 
and evaluate the performance of the Board, its Committees 
and individual Directors
• foster effective Board relationships between the Executive and 
Non-Executive members, support and advise the Chief Executive 
Officer generally and in the implementation of agreed strategy
• ensure effective communication with the Company’s 
stakeholders and that their views are understood by the Board.
42 Ophir Energy plc Non-Executive Directors’ length of service as at 31 December 20 15
 0–3 years
 3–6 years 
 6+ years
2
3
0
Role of the Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the business within the authorities delegated 
by the Board. In particular, he will:
• propose, develop and supervise the Company’s strategy and 
overall commercial objectives and ensure that agreed strategies 
are implemented by the senior management team through  
the sub-committees of the Executive Committee
• build and develop an appropriate organisational structure 
for the Company, establish processes and systems and plan 
resourcing to ensure that the Company has the capability 
to achieve its aims
• lead the Executive and senior management team including 
undertaking appraisals, reviewing development needs and 
making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee 
with regard to remuneration where appropriate
• promote and conduct the affairs of the Company with the 
highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance
• progress the Company’s communication programme with 
shareholders and ensure that financial results, business 
strategies and targets are appropriately communicated 
to the Company’s investors.
Non-Executive Directors
The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of 
knowledge from the oil and gas industry together with experience 
from other sectors to the Board and its Committees. Through their 
contributions, they provide the Company with independent views on 
matters of strategy, performance, risk and conduct. Non-Executive 
Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term, although 
subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
with the expectation that a further three-year term will follow, 
subject to review by the Board. Following a second term, 
consideration as to whether a serving independent Non-Executive 
Director should be recommended for reappointment for a third term 
is subject to the review of the Chairman in consultation with the 
Chief Executive Officer. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive 
Directors are available for inspection at the registered office during 
normal business hours. While the expected time commitment from 
Non-Executive Directors is set out in their letter of appointment as 
approximately two days per month, plus preparation time, each is 
required to confirm that they are able to devote such time as is 
necessary for the satisfactory performance of their duties. 
The Board considers that all its Non-Executive Directors at year end, 
namely Carol Bell, Ronald Blakely, Alan Booth, Vivien Gibney and 
Bill Schrader, were independent in character and judgement and 
free from relationships or circumstances that might affect their 
judgement. Throughout 2015 and up to the date of publication 
of this report, a majority of the Board members, excluding the 
Chairman, were independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dr Carol Bell  
Date of appointment: March 2015 
Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 2 years
Considered to be independent: Yes
Ronald Blakely  
Date of appointment: July 2011 
Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 5 years
Considered to be independent: Yes
Alan Booth  
Date of appointment: April 2013 
Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 4 years
Considered to be independent: Yes
Vivien Gibney  
Date of appointment: August 2013 
Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 3 years
Considered to be independent: Yes
William (Bill) Schrader  
Date of appointment: February 2013 
Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 4 years
Considered to be independent: Yes
43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Corporate Governance report  
continued
Senior Independent Director
Ronald Blakely is the Senior Independent Director and was in place 
throughout the year. The Senior Independent Director is charged 
with maintaining a communication channel between the Chairman 
and the Non-Executive Directors and for leading the Non-Executive 
Directors in the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman. 
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to 
shareholders who have concerns that have not been, or cannot be, 
resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Chief 
Executive Officer or where such contact is inappropriate. The specific 
terms of the role of the Senior Independent Director have been set 
out in writing and approved by the Board.
Ronald Blakely has notified the Board of his intention not to stand 
for re-election as a Non-Executive Director of Ophir at the 2017 
AGM, consequently he will be stepping down from his role as Senior 
Independent Director, and will retire as a Director, all in the first 
quarter of 2017.
Company Secretary
Chandrika Kher was appointed as Company Secretary in March 
2014, having previously been the Deputy Company Secretary 
since October 2013. Philip Laing succeeded Chandrika as Company 
Secretary on 2 February 2016 and this role is combined with his 
duties as General Counsel. 
Board activity
Key areas of focus for the Board in 2015 included:
• strategy
• financial performance and budget approval
• assessment and evaluation of production assets
• risk reviews and assessment
• prospective acquisitions and new business development
• post-acquisition integration
• governance and Board performance
• investor feedback and communication 
• Corporate Responsibility, including health and safety, 
security, environmental and community related projects
• legal and regulatory compliance
• employee engagement.
During 2016, the Board expects these areas of focus to remain 
broadly similar with the exception of post-acquisition integration.
The Board occasionally holds its meetings overseas. In November 
2013, the Board visited Tanzania and, in November 2015, following 
the Salamander acquisition, the Board held its meeting in 
Bangkok, Thailand.
Effectiveness
Board composition
At 31 December 2015 the Board was composed of the Chairman, 
two Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The following changes to the Board took place during the year 
ended 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report:
• 2 March 2015: Dr Carol Bell was appointed as an Independent  
Non-Executive Director.
• 20 May 2015: Lyndon Powell retired as an Independent  
Non-Executive Director.
• 27 January 2016: T ony Rouse was appointed as an Executive Director.
The following changes to the Board will take place after the 
publication of this report:
• 30 April 2016 Nicholas Smith will retire as Chairman. 
• 30 April 2016 Bill Schrader will be appointed Chairman.
The Board believes that this balance of Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors provides for high quality discussion and consideration 
of the key issues concerning the Company.
The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure that 
the Directors have the required skills, knowledge and experience 
to meet the needs of the business. 
Further information on how this is achieved and consideration of 
this in the year, is contained in the Nomination Committee Report 
on pages 57 to 59. Biographical details for each of the Directors who 
served at the end of the year and at the date of this report are set 
out on pages 40 and 41.
44 Ophir Energy plc Board composition at date of publication
 Non-Executive Chairman 1
 Executive Directors  3
 Independent Non-Executive 
 Directors 5
Board composition at 31 December 2015
 Non-Executive Chairman 1
 Executive Directors  2
 Independent Non-Executive 
 Directors 5
Meeting attendance
The Board held six formal meetings during 2015, as well as a meeting 
to consider the strategic direction of the business. In addition, two 
further meetings were called at short notice in order to consider 
specific items of business. Details of the attendance of all Directors 
who served during the year ended 31 December 2015 at the formal 
and short-notice Board meetings are shown in the table below: 
Scheduled
 Board 
meetings
Meetings 
held at 
short notice
Nicholas Smith, Chairman 6/6 2/2
Nick Cooper, Chief Executive Officer 6/6 2/2
Bill Higgs, Chief Operating Officer 6/6 2/2
Carol Bell, Non-Executive Director 2/4 1/2
Ronald Blakely, Non-Executive Director 6/6 2/2
Alan Booth, Non-Executive Director 4/6 2/2
Vivien Gibney, Non-Executive Director 6/6 2/2
Bill Schrader, Non-Executive Director 6/6 2/2
Former Directors
Lyndon Powell
1
4/4 1/1
1 Lyndon Powell retired from the Board on 20 May 2015.
The Non-Executive Directors met with the Chairman four times 
during the year, without any Executives present, to discuss the 
performance of the Executive Directors. In 2015, the Chairman 
introduced a post-Board meeting review process, whereby the 
performance of the Chairman is discussed, and led by the Senior 
Independent Director. 
Formal quarterly meetings also take place between the Chairman, 
the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive Officer. 
These meetings focus on governance and operating activities in 
order to enhance the ability of the Senior Independent Director to 
fulfil the independence mandate of that role and aid communication.
Board process
Directors are provided with full and timely information before 
meetings, including detailed financial and risk management 
information where applicable. The Chairman agrees the agenda for 
Board meetings in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, and formal minutes are 
prepared to record all decisions made. Minutes of Board and 
Committee meetings are formally approved at the following 
meetings. In the meantime, draft minutes are circulated to each 
Director or Committee member as appropriate and as soon as 
practicable after the conclusion of the meeting.
Minutes of Committee meetings may be made available to other 
Board members on request and as appropriate. If a Director objects 
to a particular proposal, this will be recorded in the minutes of the 
relevant meeting. 
In August 2013, the Board approved the establishment of the 
Technical Advisory Committee which would (amongst many other 
matters) consider the technical aspects of any operational business 
proposals requiring Board approval and advise the Board if there are 
any significant technical risks or concerns that should be taken into 
consideration when considering any such proposals. The Committee 
also ensures the technical activities of the Company are consistent 
with the overall strategy of the Company. The Board recognises that 
while the Committee is not a requirement of the Code, nonetheless, 
it enhances the Board’s ability to approve appropriate business 
proposals of a technical nature pertaining to the oil and gas 
industry. During the course of 2015, the Committee undertook the 
following: a review of the Company’s operating assets, evaluated 
new business developments, a review of the Group’s reporting 
on reserves, and acted as technical advisors to the Board. The 
Committee is comprised of three members and meets at least four 
times a year and as otherwise required. The Chair of the Committee 
is Alan Booth and other members are the Chief Operating Officer 
and Bill Schrader. The Committee’s Terms of Reference are available 
on the Company’s website at www.ophir-energy.com/about-us/
corporate-governance/board-committees/technical-advisory/.
45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Board Evaluation
A full external Board evaluation in relation to Board effectiveness 
was carried out in November 2015 by Mr Raymond Dinkin of 
Consilium Limited. This follows full Board appraisals in 2012 and 
2014 and a comprehensive appraisal of the Board Committees in 
2013, all in the context of the appointment of the new Chairman. 
The aim of the 2015 evaluation was to assess how the Board 
currently operates, its focus, capability, behaviours and dynamics, 
and to provide an opportunity to improve how the Board operates 
in the future. 
Mr Dinkin conducted interviews with each member of the Board, 
the Company Secretary and members of the Executive Committee. 
He also attended a full Board meeting as well as a full cycle of 
sub-committee meetings and was furnished with Board minutes 
and Terms of Reference for each Board Committee and other 
documentation to facilitate the evaluation. The anonymity 
of all respondents was ensured throughout the process, in order 
to encourage an open and frank discussion. The resulting report, 
including recommendations for action, was then presented to 
the Board and a series of action items agreed. 
The principal conclusions from the 2015 Board evaluation were 
that the Board’s effectiveness and governance had continued to 
improve and the Company is fully compliant with the Combined 
Code. The report made a number of recommendations to improve 
the effectiveness of the Board, including recommendations relating 
to strategic stewardship and organisational capability, improving 
the quality of Board meetings and Board succession and composition. 
These recommendations are being addressed during 2016.
Risk management
The Board believes that effective risk management is crucial to the 
Company’s strategic objectives and long-term success. The Board 
has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is effectively managed. 
The Company’s approach to risk is further detailed on pages 16 
to 19. The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk 
management process on the Board’s behalf, and its approach to 
this can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 48 to 53. 
Insurance and indemnification
The Company provides its Directors and Officers with the benefit 
of appropriate insurance, which is reviewed annually. In addition, 
Directors and Officers have received an indemnity from the 
Company against (a) any liability incurred by or attaching to the 
Director or Officer in connection with any negligence, default, 
breach of duty, or breach of trust by them in relation to the 
Company or any associated company; and (b) any other liability 
incurred by or attaching to the Director or Officer in the actual or 
purported execution and/or discharge of their duties and/or the 
exercise or purported exercise of their powers and/or otherwise in 
relation to/or in connection with their duties, powers or office other 
than certain excluded liabilities including to the extent that such 
an indemnity is not permitted by law.
Appointment, induction and training
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate 
induction is given to new Board members. The induction 
programme is specifically tailored to the needs of the incoming 
Director and will include training on the business and strategy of 
the Company, copies of Board policies and procedures, meetings 
with senior management and site visits, where appropriate. 
Ongoing development and training is provided to Directors at Board 
and Committee meetings. During 2015 the Directors received 
training on: 
• regulatory developments in the UK Listing Rules;
• regulatory developments on Corporate Governance; 
•  insider trading and market abuse;
•  c ri s i s m a n a g em en t ;
•  anti-bribery and corruption matters; and
•  m o ne y l a und eri n g . 
The Board and Committees expect to receive regular updates 
and briefings on new legislation and changes to best practice on 
corporate governance including anti-bribery and corruption matters 
from the General Counsel & Company Secretary, the Company’s 
Auditor and, in terms of Directors’ remuneration-related matters, 
from the Company’s Remuneration Consultants. 
Corporate Governance report  
continued
46 Ophir Energy plc Independent advice
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the General 
Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has established a 
procedure whereby any Director may take independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense on any matter in the furtherance 
of their duties.
Re-election
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all continuing Directors 
of the Company offer themselves for annual re-election at the AGM.
External directorships
The Company has adopted a policy which allows the Executive 
Directors to accept directorship of other quoted companies provided 
that they have obtained the prior permission of the Chairman. 
As set out in the Code, no Executive Director would be permitted 
to take on more than one Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 
company or the chairmanship of such a company.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, none of the Company’s 
Executive Directors held directorships in any other quoted company.
Conflicts of interest
Every Director has a duty to avoid a conflict between their personal 
interests and those of the Company. The provisions of Section 175 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles of Association 
permit the Board to authorise situations identified by a Director in 
which he or she has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that 
conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the Company. The Board 
continues to undertake regular reviews of the outside positions and 
interests or arrangements with third parties held by each Director and, 
where appropriate, to authorise those situational conflicts following 
consideration. Notwithstanding the above, each Director is aware of 
their duty to notify the Board should there be any material change to 
their positions or interests during the year. Directors do not participate 
in Board discussion or decisions which relate to any matter in which 
they have or may have a conflict of interest.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining 
good relations with all the Company’s shareholders. Nick Cooper, the 
Chief Executive Officer, is primarily responsible for investor relations, 
supported by Executive Directors, senior management and the 
Investor Relations function. Over 250 investor meetings and calls 
were hosted during the year in Europe, Asia, Africa and North America. 
Additionally, Nicholas Smith, the Chairman, and Ronald Blakely, the 
Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman, met 
with major institutional shareholders during the first quarter of 2016 to 
listen to their views on the Company’s strategic direction, developments 
since listing and the executive management team. This process, which 
was well received by investors and produced positive responses on the 
Company and its management team, is ongoing. 
In addition, the Chairman, with Vivien Gibney, Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, met or spoke with principal shareholders 
and the leading shareholder protection bodies to explain and seek 
their support for the proposed new remuneration scheme.
All financial and regulatory announcements, as well as other 
important business announcements, are published on the Investors 
section of the Company’s website and stakeholders can subscribe to 
receive news updates by email by registering online on the website 
at www.ophir-energy.com/investors/register-for-email-alerts/.
Annual General Meeting
All shareholders are invited to attend the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) when they are given the opportunity to ask 
questions on the financial report and accounts and on the general 
business of the Company.
The 2016 AGM will be held on 10 May 2016 at the offices of 
Linklaters LLP, 1 Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ. Full details of the 
business of the AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting and sent 
to those shareholders who have elected to receive hard copy 
notifications, together with any related documentation, at least 
20 clear business days before the date of the meeting in accordance 
with the requirement of the Code. The Notice of Meeting together 
with a copy of the 2015 Annual Report will also be made available 
at: www.ophir-energy.com.
47 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Report of the  
Audit Committee
Ronald Blakely,  
Audit Committee 
Chairman
Membership and attendance
The members of the Committee, all of whom are independent 
Non-Executive Directors, together with details of their individual 
attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 
2015, are set out below:
Committee members
Meeting 
attendance
Ronald Blakely (Committee Chairman) 3/3
Carol Bell
1
2/2
Alan Booth 3/3
Bill Schrader 3/3
1  Carol Bell was appointed to the Committee on 20 May 2015 and therefore she was unable to 
attend the Committee meeting held prior to her appointment. 
On 30 April 2016 Bill Schrader will step down from the Committee. 
A process to recruit two new Non-Executive Directors to replace 
Nicholas Smith and Ronald Blakely has commenced and is expected 
to be concluded during 2016. It is anticipated that one of the new 
appointees will become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board considers all members of the Committee to be 
independent and that, as Chairman, Ronald Blakely has recent 
and relevant financial experience and competence in accounting 
as required by section C.3.1 of the Code and section 7.1.1 of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, respectively. The Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and representatives of the external 
Auditor and internal Auditor attend Committee meetings on a 
regular basis. The external Auditor also met with the Committee 
on several occasions throughout the year without executive 
management being present. 
Report of the Audit Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder
In my continuing capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
I’m pleased to provide you with my report on the deliberations 
of the Audit Committee during the past year.
The Committee expanded in 2015 with Carol Bell joining 
as a fourth member. Carol had previously been a member 
of the Salamander Energy Audit Committee and following 
the acquisition of Salamander Energy, which brought Carol to 
the Board of Ophir, amongst other Committees, Carol joined 
the Audit Committee. She has brought to our discussions 
and considerations a strong background in capital markets 
and energy industry finance as well as her knowledge of 
the Salamander Energy assets and operations. 
As has been previously highlighted in this report, the past 
year has been one of significant transition for Ophir with the 
acquisition of Salamander Energy. This immediately brought 
into focus several matters for the Audit Committee to consider. 
Firstly, on an operational level, there was the need to integrate 
financial reporting systems, which always carries an element of 
control risk. As important was the integration of staff functions 
in the Finance Department. This included the closure of the Perth 
office and transfer of certain Finance activities from Perth to 
both the London and Bangkok offices. At corporate level, 
redundant positions were managed as a number of staff exited 
the organisation. Again, these discontinuities could raise control 
risks for the organisation. The Committee reviewed plans and 
execution of these transitional activities and by the fourth 
quarter, all changes had been implemented successfully.
Several accounting matters also required consideration and 
review. Accounting policies required harmonisation between 
the organisation. Accounting was applied to allocate the 
acquisition costs to the fair value of Salamander Energy assets 
and liabilities. The Company produced financial statements 
for the first time including production revenue, along with all 
the complexities of accounting for Thai taxation, both current 
and deferred. 
48 Ophir Energy plc Areas of focus in 2015
 Financial Reporting
 (including going concern and viability) 40%
 External Audit 19%
 Risk and Internal Control 20%
 Internal Audit 17%
 Other 4%
In addition, 2015 was the first year the Company had commercial 
reserves and the Committee reviewed both the reporting of the 
reserves along with the accounting impacts driven by those reserves 
such as DD&A, impairment and decommissioning. These matters 
generated added discussion and review with our Auditors and 
increased the scope of the year-end audit.
Lastly, the integrated organisation required a full review of the 
risk matrix to ensure all risks are identified and significant risks 
appropriately reviewed by the Board.
Beyond the acquisition related issues, the Committee considered 
the areas of major risk and accounting judgement which were 
a continuation from prior years. The most significant being asset 
impairments related to unsuccessful drilling programmes and 
abandoned assets, and at year-end with the substantially lower 
oil price, the carrying value of development and producing assets. 
The other areas of particular review were the ‘Going Concern’ review 
and the ‘Viability Statement’, the results of which for both are 
outlined in the report. As this was the first year for the Viability 
Statement, considerable time was given to this requirement. In an 
environment of low oil prices, projected by many to endure through 
a long trough, the Company will remain dependent on asset sales, 
joint partnering and, potentially, capital market funding until a 
sustainable business model is fully in place. Therefore, we felt it 
was incumbent on the Board to ensure shareholders fully assess 
the longer-term risks associated with the Company’s viability, 
as outlined in our disclosure. 
Shareholders will also read our commentary on Auditor assessment. 
This past year provided ample opportunity to appraise Auditor 
effectiveness following the acquisition of Salamander Energy. It was 
a challenging period to assume the audit responsibility in a timely 
manner, which was handled extremely well from planning through 
to execution and ultimately to sign off of the year-end accounts. 
In addition to the accounting matters, the Committee also 
received and approved an updated Tax Policy for the Company. 
Given the concerns raised in public debate related to cross-
jurisdictional tax matters, the updated Policy provides much clearer 
linkage between the business model and corporate structure that 
influence tax transactions.
I would also like to come back to a matter that I’ve highlighted 
the past two years in my letter which is that of non-audit fees 
to our Auditor, which is an ongoing dilemma for the Committee. 
As a very proactive transactional-focused organisation, that leads 
to a significant requirement for accounting support particularly 
related to the production of offering memorandums and for 
a relatively small organisation, a heavy burden to manage the 
duplicate activity when the work relates to presentation of 
financial statements. In addition, the work invariably takes longer 
to complete when it involves a company that has no history 
with the financials. For example, when preparing the Offering 
Memorandum for Salamander Energy, the Committee weighed 
up the work requirements and time lines to produce the document 
and decided in favour of using EY as the most economic and 
efficient use of resources. The Committee is however conscious 
of the regulatory direction on non-audit work directed to our 
Auditors and will work toward this in future, particularly as specific 
guidelines come into effect. It will be a challenging proposition.
This will be my last report to shareholders as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. For succession planning purposes, I have 
notified the Board of my intention not to stand for re-election in 
2017. In the course of the next year, the Board will recruit a new 
Chairman which will allow a full and effective transition. I shall 
depart Ophir with very fond memories of the first six years of 
Ophir as a public company.
Ronald Blakely 
Audit Committee Chairman 
9 March 2016
49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Report of the 
Audit Committee  
continued
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee
During 2015, the Committee reviewed its objectives and 
Terms of Reference to ensure that they remained appropriate. 
The Committee’s full Terms of Reference are available on the 
Company’s website at www.ophir-energy.com/about-us/corporate-
governance/board-committees/audit and are fully compliant 
with section C.3.2 of the Code.
Financial reporting
The Committee has the responsibility of assessing the integrity of 
the financial statements of the Company on behalf of the Board. 
The Committee’s approach to achieving this includes ensuring 
appropriate accounting standards are applied, reviewing in depth 
any material areas where accounting judgements have been used 
and/or new accounting policies or procedures have been applied. 
In addition, the Committee reviews and assesses the Annual Report 
to determine whether it can advise the Board that, taken as a whole, 
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides shareholders with the information they need to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy as 
required by provision C.1.1 of the Code. The Committee considers 
the external Auditor’s proposed approach to their review of the 
interim results and their audit of the full-year financial statements, 
to ensure that the scope of the relevant review or audit was 
appropriate. The Committee also reviewed and discussed the 
external Auditor’s report on the full and half-year financial results 
with EY LLP, prior to agreeing to recommend each set of financial 
statements and associated reports to the Board for approval. 
One of the more significant areas of accounting judgement is the 
carrying value of capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 
to ensure that expenditure is appropriately expensed to the P&L, 
should impairments arise. Impairment reviews are undertaken by the 
Company in accordance with IFRS 6 and assessed by the Committee. 
If necessary, the Committee can receive advice from the Technical 
Advisory Committee. The external Auditor also reports on this most 
prominent area of accounting risk to the Audit Committee and the 
Committee has been satisfied that exploration has been treated in 
the correct and consistent way in the financial statements.
Impairment review
A significant area recognised by the Committee as subject to 
management judgement is the determination of impairments 
of the Group’s exploration and evaluation assets. The Committee 
received a report from management on the status of each asset 
and, along with their technical as well as commercial knowledge and 
expertise on the assets, challenged management on their proposed 
impairment recommendations. Accordingly, the Committee 
reviewed each of the Group’s assets for impairment in accordance 
with IFRS 6 and concluded that full impairment of certain of the 
Group’s assets was appropriate given the Group’s future plans for 
those assets. 
Additionally, the Committee reviewed the carrying value of the 
Group’s remaining assets and either ascertained that, given the 
Group’s future plans the carrying values of those assets were more 
than supported by the underlying fair value of the assets, or that 
impairment was appropriate.
Going concern assessment
An important element of review by the Audit Committee is the 
appropriateness of preparing the accounts on a going concern 
basis. The Audit Committee receives a report setting out the going 
concern review undertaken by management which forms the basis 
of the Board’s going concern conclusions. The going concern 
review includes consideration of forecast plans and supporting 
assumptions, as well as the options available to the Company for 
obtaining additional funding, such as portfolio management and 
equity. As portfolio management is a key strategic activity of the 
Company there is a regular review of the financial impacts and 
flexibility available to the Company. At both full and half-year, the 
Committee agreed that the Company’s financial position was such 
that it continued to be appropriate for the accounts to be prepared 
on a going concern basis. 
50 Ophir Energy plc The Company adds value through its ability to find, develop and 
eventually monetise early stage oil and gas exploration assets, 
which invariably are non-revenue generating. It follows from this 
that the principal focus of the Audit Committee, when considering 
the financial reporting of the Company, is to ensure that the 
exploration expenditure commitments of the Company are 
appropriately funded. This results in major focus being placed 
on forward spending plans and working capital models as much 
as retrospective scrutiny of financial reporting. Prior to approving 
the full-year financial statements for 2015, the Audit Committee 
considered the Company’s forward plans for fund raising and 
drilling commitments (being the most significant forward financial 
commitments that the Company makes) as part of its assessment of 
the going concern basis of preparation of the 2015 Accounts (further 
detail on the going concern statement is set out on page 63). 
Viability Statement
The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) has revised the Code to 
include a Viability Statement and the Company’s full Statement 
can be found on page 16 of the Strategic Report.
External Auditor
The Committee has approved the Company’s policy governing the 
provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the Auditor 
and their associates. The policy clearly identifies permitted and 
prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be followed for the 
approval of all audit and non-audit services. All engagements with 
an expected fee in excess of $100,000 require the prior approval 
of the Committee. The Committee reviews statements on the 
independence and objectivity of the external Auditor at least twice 
a year in order to satisfy itself that independence and objectivity 
have been met. The Committee is satisfied that there are no 
relationships between the Company and the Auditor, its employees 
or its affiliates that may reasonably be thought to impair the 
Auditor’s objectivity and independence. 
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Company committed 
expenditure of $1,088,650 on audit services (2014: $411,000), an 
increase of $677,650 due to the additional audit and audit related 
work required post acquisition of Salamander Energy plc and the 
introduction of producing assets into the Group. In addition, the 
Company committed expenditure of $1,127,910 on non-audit work 
(2014: $601,000). The non-audit work undertaken by EY related 
to audit-related assurance services and corporate finance services 
and these fees were reviewed and approved by the Committee 
under the terms of the policy. Further details as to the nature of the 
services provided are set out in Note 8 to the consolidated financial 
statements. There is no limitation of liability in the terms of 
appointment of EY as Auditor to the Company.
Effectiveness of external Auditor
To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the 
external Auditor provides information on the steps they have taken 
to ensure objectivity and independence, including in relation to 
the provision of any non-audit services. The Committee monitors 
the external Auditor’s performance, behaviour and effectiveness 
during the exercise of their duties, and this informs the Committee’s 
decision on whether or not they should recommend reappointment 
on an annual basis. The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets 
with the Company’s audit partner at EY, apart from formal 
scheduled meetings, between three to four times during the year 
to discuss matters of process, relationships between the country 
audit teams as well as review of plans and completion progress. 
Re-appointment of external Auditor
The Committee has reviewed the independence and effectiveness 
of EY and is satisfied they have remained independent throughout 
the year. The Committee has recommended to the Board that the 
re-appointment of EY as the Company’s Auditor is proposed to 
shareholders at the AGM in May 2016.
51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Report of the 
Audit Committee  
continued
Internal audit
Mazars LLP remained appointed as the Company’s internal 
Auditors during the period under review.
To ensure the continued effectiveness of the function, the 
Committee reviewed and approved the 2015 Internal Audit Plan. 
Key actions undertaken by Mazars LLP during 2015 included 
the following: 
• review and control testing of a new accounting system 
implemented during the year;
• review of the payroll system function;
• review of processes and control surrounding the Treasury 
function;
• key assets visits to Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania focusing 
on internal controls; and
• evaluated the authorisation processes and controls relating 
to Joint Venture and Production Sharing Contracts.
Key actions to be undertaken as part of the internal audit plan 
scheduled for 2016 include: 
• reviewing the Group’s governance and controls around tax 
accounting to ensure compliance against regulatory standards 
and internal policies;
• an assessment of the Company’s processes and controls 
around cyber security and the mitigating factors used to 
prevent a cyber attack; 
• asset visits to Indonesia to assess the overall risk management 
and reporting controls that have been deployed around key 
assets in the area; and
• reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and control 
across the Group.
The findings from the review will be followed up during 2016 
and reported to the Audit Committee.
Risk management and internal controls
The Board has delegated its responsibility for monitoring the 
Company’s system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness on a continual basis to the Committee. 
The Company’s system of internal control is designed to safeguard 
the Company’s assets and to ensure the reliability of financial 
information for internal and external use. Any system of control 
can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that assets 
are safeguarded, transactions are correctly authorised and recorded 
and that any material errors and irregularities are detected within 
a reasonable time frame. The Company’s internal controls are 
therefore designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, risk, 
recognising that not all risks can be eliminated and the cost of 
control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the 
Company’s system of internal controls which covers financial, 
operational and risk management processes. Lines of responsibility 
have been clearly defined and a delegated authority schedule 
approved and implemented. The Committee considers the draft 
papers prepared for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk 
management procedures adopted by the Company prior to being 
submitted to the Board for approval.
The Company operates a risk management process under which 
significant risks are identified, their likelihood and impact considered 
and actions taken to manage those risks. The Committee also 
receives regular updates on operational risks from the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee. The Committee reviews the Company’s 
risks every six months prior to a Board review, from which particular 
risks may be identified for further detailed presentation and 
discussion at the Board meetings. In particular, during 2015 the 
Committee met with the Executives Directors and the senior 
management team responsible for evaluating new country risks in 
particular in Southeast Asia immediately following the acquisition 
of Salamander Energy plc and assets from Niko Resources Limited. 
The Committee also undertook a review of the policies relating to 
internal controls for both entities and developed an action plan to 
amalgamate these with the Company’s existing policies to better 
streamline the Company’s risk management structure. 
52 Ophir Energy plc The principal risks identified by the Company are set out on pages 
16 to 19.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control 
systems in operation during the financial year and, where necessary 
and appropriate, action has been taken to remedy any identified 
failings or weaknesses. The following illustrates how the risk 
management process and the system of internal control operated 
during 2015: 
Matter Action
Schedule of 
delegated  
authority 
 
Management had undertaken its annual 
review of the Group’s delegation of authority. 
Appropriate modifications and improvements  
to the authority levels were made to reflect the 
Group’s current operations.
Year-end  
compliance 
 
 
 
 
A formal process exists for year-end risk 
management compliance reporting, requiring 
the Executive Directors together with the 
senior management team to confirm their 
responsibilities for risk management and 
internal control. Ultimate compliance reporting 
is required from each Board member.
Treasury and 
Finance policies 
and procedures 
 
A formal review of the various treasury and finance 
policies and procedures to ensure consistency across 
the Group in particular, following the acquisitions  
of Salamander Energy plc and assets from Niko 
Resources Limited.
Anti-bribery and whistleblowing
In 2015 Ophir materially strengthened its ethical compliance 
processes to reflect changes to the corporate risk profile and scope 
of our activities. Ophir has revised its Code of Conduct clearly 
defining its expectations of staff and key stakeholders in relation 
to business integrity. 
The Code of Conduct has been supplemented by the introduction 
of enhanced Ethical Compliance processes notably, a revised 
Anti-Corruption Policy (the Policy) and a suite of personal conduct 
Standards (the Standards) observance of which is mandatory for 
all staff who are required to confirm at the start of each calendar 
year that, in relation to the prior year, they complied with the 
Policy and the Standards. 
The Ethical Compliance processes introduce an enhanced 
requirement for Anti-Corruption Reporting, for example any third 
party request for a facilitation payment is reported to a designated 
compliance function who address the matter. Further, there is 
clearer guidance around seeking corporate approvals for gifts and 
hospitality given and received and the declaration of employee 
conflicts of interest. Gifts and Hospitality, Conflict of Interest and 
Anti-Corruption Reporting Registers are maintained by assets 
and functions and monitored by the Compliance function. 
Due diligence on third parties including intermediaries, suppliers, 
prospective business partners and social investment counter-
parties is supported by a set of improved processes enabling 
early identification of red flags and appropriate risk management 
measures to be applied prior to contract award, contract execution 
and during the life of any contract. A rolling staff Ethical Compliance 
training programme is also in place to raise awareness and 
understanding of the application of the Code, the Policy and 
the Standards. 
The Company is committed to the highest standards of business 
conduct and has adopted a whistleblowing hotline to support the 
achievement of this goal. All Company staff are encouraged to raise 
concerns with their line manager initially, or General Counsel & 
Company Secretary, Ronald Blakely, or the Director of HR. Concerns 
are carefully considered in order to decide what action, if any, should 
be taken. For those who do not wish to raise a concern within the 
Company, they may report it through Safecall, an independent 
company which provides an alternative method of reporting 
concerns, using specially trained call operators. The service is 
available 24/7 for all staff as well as business partners. It also 
allows for anonymous reporting. The Company will not tolerate 
any retaliation or victimisation against anyone who has raised 
a concern in good faith.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, no whistleblowing 
issues were raised.
53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Report of the  
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Report of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is mindful that as 
we grow, continued success depends on our ability to work 
responsibly and to deliver safety and environmental performance 
which is ‘best in class’. Ophir’s philosophy is based on the 
fundamental objective of keeping people, the environment 
and our assets safe in order to protect our reputation. 
The values underpinning Ophir define the choices we make 
as corporate citizens. We strive to maximise the benefit to 
stakeholders in an accountable, transparent, responsive manner; 
central to our operations is working effectively with local 
businesses, communities and governments in order to achieve 
success together. 
The Committee is very proud of the top quartile safety record 
achieved by our staff and contractors during 2015. As we look 
to continually improve safety, we recommended the introduction 
of a comprehensive leading indicator KPI system to help predict 
and prevent potential incidents or accidents before they occur; 
this will be operational in 2016. A key improvement was the 
advancement of Ophir’s incident management framework.
Our environmental record in 2015 was excellent, with zero 
recordable spills. Our operations are environmentally compliant 
with local regulations and industry best practice. 
The security and safety of our staff and contractors is strongly 
linked to our Ophir Values and I am pleased to say we 
experienced no Lost Time Incidents and only two minor 
recordable injuries (classed as TRIRs) over the year. 
In 2015 Ophir’s community project efforts expanded in a number 
of areas. We operate these programmes in all jurisdictions and 
are compliant with local requirements. Ophir is well aware of its 
continuing need to maintain its licence to operate as well as the 
importance of supporting sustainable initiatives to increase local 
capacity and opportunities.
Membership and attendance
The members of the Committee, all of whom are independent 
Non-Executive Directors, together with details of their individual 
attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 
2015, are set out below:
Committee members
Meeting 
attendance
Bill Schrader (Committee Chairman) 4/4
Alan Booth 3/4
Vivien Gibney 4/4
Lyndon Powell
1
2/2
1  Lyndon Powell resigned from the Committee on leaving the Board on 20 May 2015 and 
attended two Committee meetings prior to his retirement from the Board. 
On 30 April 2016, Nicholas Smith will retire from the Board and 
will be succeeded by Bill Schrader as Chairman of the Company. 
On that date Bill Schrader will resign as the Chairman of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee but remains a member of 
this Committee. Dr Carol Bell joined the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee on 27 January 2016 and will replace Bill Schrader 
as Chairman with effect from 30 April 2016.
The Company Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Operating Officer have an open invitation to attend all Committee 
meetings as guests. In addition, the Company’s Director of HR, 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, Corporate Responsibility 
Manager and the Director of Security and Surface Risk are invited 
to attend each meeting to present their reports to the Committee. 
Other senior members of staff and external advisors may be invited 
to attend as necessary.
Bill Schrader,  
Corporate Responsibility 
Committee Chairman
54 Ophir Energy plc In March 2015 the acquisition of Salamander Energy was an 
important event for the Company and the integration of the 
Corporate Responsibility systems and procedures of the two 
entities has been one of the major undertakings the Committee 
has overseen in 2015. Immediately following the acquisition, 
Ophir carried out a comprehensive gap analysis covering the 
two organisations. It was evident that Salamander had robust 
Corporate Responsibility systems in place and developed 
noticeable strengths in its social licence to operate. Over the past 
year we have been able to effectively implement Ophir’s business 
ethics and compliance policies and standards across all assets. 
The Committee is pleased to report that the culture of the two 
organisations has been aligned successfully and we will continue 
to focus our efforts in this area to maintain the positive 
momentum we have achieved.
The Committee ensured that Ophir continued to maintain the 
highest ethical performance in its activities during 2015. The Code 
of Conduct was enhanced early in the year and a comprehensive 
employee engagement survey was carried out to help measure 
how well the Ophir values were being applied across the business. 
In order to demonstrate compliance and continuous improvement 
in the areas of Corporate Responsibility, the Committee has 
supported the development and implementation of the highest 
standards measured using meaningful KPIs. To ensure the 
Committee is effective and providing maximum value we 
review our Committee Terms of Reference annually.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to my fellow Committee 
members for their support, commitment and effectiveness over 
the past 12 months. Finally, both the Committee and I would like 
to recognise the significant contribution Lyndon Powell made over 
the last seven years as Chairman of this Committee. Lyndon 
retired in May 2015 and we wish him well for the future.
Bill Schrader  
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman 
9 March 2016
Role and responsibilities of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the 
Group’s policies and systems for managing health and safety, the 
environment, security, community projects and business ethics, including 
human rights and matters relating to equality and diversity and non-
financial risks across the Group’s operations. The Committee’s revised  
full Terms of Reference are available on the Company’s website 
at www.ophir-energy.com/about-us/corporate-governance/
board-committees/corporate-responsibility.
55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Report of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
continued
Corporate Responsibility Committee activities
During 2015, significant progress was made by the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee covering many areas. The Committee’s 
key focus and outcomes are set out below:
Corporate 
Responsibility  
function
2015 
Corporate Responsibility  
Committee highlights
Health  
and Safety 
No major incidents – top quartile TRIR – including 
the safest-ever Ophir drilling campaign (Vantage 
Emerald Driller, Thailand)
Health and safety continuous improvement – 
developed and introduced a leading indicator 
system – to expand and improve how we measure 
HSE performance
Business continuity continuous improvement – 
streamlined and updated incident management 
procedures and training
Successful integration of Southeast Asia assets 
(Salamander and Niko Resources acquisitions)
Environment Zero recordable spills. All operations compliant 
with relevant standards
Security 
 
Zero security incidents – all field operations 
preceded by risk assessment and security plans 
put in place as appropriate
Community  
projects
Supporting successful sustainable initiatives with 
local capacities
Ethics Ophir Values – developed a list of Company Values 
which were communicated throughout the Group
Code of Conduct established and deployed across 
the Company
Employee Engagement – 2015 Employee Survey
In December 2014 Ophir carried out an independent HSE 
management system gap analysis and the results were analysed 
during 2015.
The scope of the study was to carry out a gap analysis of the 
existing HSE management system and how it stands up against 
industry best practice.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee was presented with the 
summary findings:
•  The HSE management is a legislatively-compliant  
management system. 
•  Further Group-wide implementation is required.
•  Efficiencies and continual improvements can be made.
In response to the gap analysis findings, the newly appointed 
Group Head of HSE and Operational Excellence will continue to 
develop and expand corporate-level HSE audit processes. We are 
adopting leading, as well as lagging, indicators this year, and this 
will encourage auditing processes. In addition, Ophir has recently 
acquired a web-based, real-time HSE management system. The roll 
out of this system will greatly help to enforce global standards and 
efficiencies, as well as continuing to ensure all parts of the Group 
work using a single integrated HSE management system.
Further information on the Company’s approach to Corporate 
Responsibility and HSE matters can be found in the Corporate 
Responsibility report on pages 30 to 38.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Reducing energy consumption and associated emissions of 
greenhouse gases remains a priority of the Company. The Group’s 
energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions 
during 2015 are set out on page 32.
56 Ophir Energy plc Report of the  
Nomination Committee
Nicholas Smith, 
Nomination Committee 
Chairman
Membership and attendance
The members of the Nomination Committee, together with details 
of their individual attendance at meetings held during the year 
ended 31 December 2015, are set out below:
Committee members
Meeting 
attendance
Nicholas Smith (Committee Chairman) 3/3
Nick Cooper 3/3
Carol Bell
2
1/1
Ronald Blakely 3/3
Vivien Gibney
2
1/1
Lyndon Powell
1
1/1
1  Lyndon Powell resigned from the Committee on leaving the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
2 Carol Bell and Vivien Gibney were appointed to the Committee on 20 May 2015.
On 30 April 2016, Nicholas Smith will retire from the Board and 
as Chairman of the Committee. Bill Schrader has been chosen to 
succeed him as Chairman of the Company. Bill Schrader joined the 
Nomination Committee on 27 January 2016 and will assume the 
position of Chairman of the Nomination Committee as of 30 April 2016.
The Board considers a majority of the members of the Committee 
who served during the year to be independent, including the 
Chairman of the Board, who was independent on appointment. 
Role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee
During 2015, the Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference  
to ensure they remained appropriate. The Terms of Reference  
of the Committee are available on the Company’s website at  
www.ophir-energy.com/about-us/corporate-governance/board-
committees/nomination and are fully compliant with section 
B.2.1 of the Code.
Report of the Nomination  
Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder
There were three areas of focus for the Nomination Committee 
this year. The addition of a Board member from the Board of 
Salamander Energy plc, the search for my successor as Chairman 
and the commissioning of a Board Effectiveness Review.
I am very pleased that Dr Carol Bell joined us in April 2015 and 
her positive contributions were felt immediately. Further information 
setting out the Chairman succession process run by Ron Blakely 
and Board Effectiveness Review is given on page 46. 
The Board has started the process of recruiting two new 
Non-Executive Directors that will replace Ron Blakely and me, 
and both appointments will hopefully be concluded by 
December 2016. 
I am also pleased that Tony Rouse has joined the Board as 
Chief Financial Officer as per the announcement made on 
27 January 2016. Since joining the Company, Tony has 
demonstrated financial skill and judgement and I am 
confident that he will be a valuable addition to the Board.
Nicholas Smith 
Nomination Committee Chairman 
9 March 2015
57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Chairman succession
As reported last year, the Committee led by Ronald Blakely worked 
with a global executive search agency, in its search for suitable 
candidates to succeed Nicholas Smith as Chairman of the Board. 
The global executive search firm has no other connection with 
the Company.
The Committee undertook a comprehensive search process against 
objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, 
including gender. The role of the global executive search firm was 
to prepare a detailed role specification agreed with the Committee 
and the Senior Independent Director, incorporating the expected 
time commitment and duties to be performed as Chairman of the 
Company. The following key attributes for the role were identified:
• considerable experience working in the oil and gas sector and 
in particular, direct experience working in Africa and Asia;
• understanding of capital markets and established relationships 
with the banking community as well as shareholder relations;
•  possessing a comprehensive knowledge and understanding 
of UK corporate governance practices; and 
•  having sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities 
effectively, acknowledging the role to be their primary 
commitment. 
The search firm produced detailed profiles of prospective 
candidates, which were later reduced to a short-list with briefing 
reports reviewed by the Committee. The candidates identified 
from the search were interviewed by members of the Board. 
The Committee consulted with the Company’s advisors and received 
feedback from its major shareholders concerning the prospective 
successor and took detailed references. Following this rigorous 
selection process, the Committee recommended that Bill Schrader 
be appointed as successor to Nicholas Smith. The Board accepted 
the recommendation and it was announced on 27 January 2016 
that Bill Schrader would succeed Nicholas Smith as Chairman of 
the Board with effect from 30 April 2016.
Bill Schrader met the independence test set out in section B.1.1 of 
the Code on appointment and will be able to dedicate the requisite 
time to the role.
Board composition 
The Committee considers that the Board consists of individuals 
with the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide 
strong and effective leadership of the Company. The majority of the 
Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent Non-Executive 
Directors, and the Board’s collective experience covers a range 
of relevant sectors, as illustrated on pages 40 and 41. In addition to 
possessing a breadth of relevant experience in the oil and gas sector, 
the Board members have personal experience of working in both 
complex organisations and countries relevant to the countries in 
which the Company operates. 
As part of this year’s review, the Committee also evaluated the 
level of financial experience amongst the Board following the 
restructuring of the Board in 2014 and given the complexity of 
the Group following the corporate acquisitions completed this year. 
Following a detailed assessment, the Committee recommended 
that the role of Chief Financial Officer will be elevated to that 
of an Executive Director. Consequently, Tony Rouse became 
an Executive Director on 27 January 2016. 
Following the acquisition of Salamander, the changes in the 
industry and the upcoming Chairman succession, the Committee 
commissioned an independent Board Effectiveness Review in 
November 2015 to consider if the current Board skills matched the 
industry requirements going forward. It was agreed that the Chief 
Financial Officer position should be elevated and a process to recruit 
two new Non-Executive Directors to replace the outgoing Nicholas 
Smith and Ronald Blakely is underway and is expected to be 
concluded during 2016. It is anticipated that one of the new 
appointees will become Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
will hold recent and relevant financial experience and competence 
in accounting as required by section C.3.1 of the Code and section 
7.1.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, respectively.
Report of the 
Nomination Committee  
continued
58 Ophir Energy plc Succession planning
The Committee once again assessed succession planning of 
the Executive Directors including other members of the senior 
management team during 2015, in particular, potential internal 
candidates for senior vacancies which may arise on a crisis, short, 
medium or long-term basis. The Committee agrees that the 
Company has good internal candidates to succeed in more 
senior roles as the Company continues to grow. The formal 
Board Evaluation undertaken in 2015 highlighted the increasing 
importance of succession planning at Board level to ensure the 
Company’s future success and continuity of talent.
Diversity and equality 
The Board and Nomination Committee are committed to equal 
opportunities in recruitment and succession planning policies and 
continue to welcome the current emphasis on diversity in general. 
The Company remains dedicated to encouraging diversity at all 
levels of the business, acknowledging that a more diverse workforce, 
with the right mix of skills, experience, culture, ethnicity, nationality, 
gender and knowledge, can make a valuable contribution to the 
Company. 
A statement of the Company’s policy on diversity is set out in the 
Strategic Report on page 37.
The Committee also has due regard to the benefits of diversity 
on the Board, including gender, but also takes into account other 
aspects of diversity to achieve an appropriate balance. When 
searching for candidates for Board positions, the Committee will 
only use the services of those executive search firms which have 
signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search 
Firms as recommended by Lord Davies’ Report. The overriding 
criterion is always, however, merit.
The Committee stresses that Board appointments are majorly 
based on the contribution each member brings to the Board and 
not to merely satisfy any prescribed quota requirements. As at the 
date of this report, women constitute 22% of the Board. The Board 
hopes to retain or improve this level in the future.
59 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Directors’ Report
Name
Number of
 shares held as 
at 31 December
 2015
% 
holding as at
 31 December
 2015 1
Number of
 shares held as
 at 9 March
 2016
% 
holding as 
at 9 March
 2016 2
SailingStone Capital Partners LLC 85,690,866 12.14 78,567,257 11.13
Hotchkis & Wiley Capital Management LLC 78,561,578 11.13 78,561,578 11.13
Prudential PLC Group of Companies 77,757,214 11.02 79,689,091 11.29
BlackRock Inc. 55,700,884 7.89 55,700,884 7.89
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 43,478,569 6.16 43,478,569 6.16
Standard Life Capital Partners LLC 42,637,020 6.04 42,637,020 6.04
Janus Capital Management 35,280,313 5.00 26,948,592 3.82
Mittal Investments Sarl 25,314,653 3.59 0 0
1 Calculated by reference to the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2015. 
2 Calculated by reference to the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 March 2016.
The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 
and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013.
The report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the requirements of the 
UKLA Listing Rules. Details of the Company’s financial instruments and 
hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk are set 
out in full in Note 26 on pages 128 to 1 32 of the financial statements.
Results for the year ended 31 December 2015
The Company’s results for the financial year are shown in the 
consolidated financial statements on pages 90 to 160.
Directors
Biographical details for the Directors of the Company who held office 
during the year ended 31 December 2015 and at the date of this report 
are set out on pages 40 and 41. Details of Directors’ service contracts 
or letters of appointment, their interests in the ordinary shares of the 
Company and in any of the Company’s long-term incentive and other 
share schemes are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
which can be found on pages 64 to 88. The Directors’ insurance 
and indemnity provisions are set out on page 46.
Substantial shareholders
As at 31 December 2015 and 9 March 2016, being the date of this 
report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial 
holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company 
in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and other 
regulatory requirements, as set out in the table below.
Share capital
The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details 
of shares allotted during the year, is shown in Note 27 to the Group 
financial statements.
Purchase of own shares
The Directors, on behalf of the Company, after assessing the 
near-term capital needs of the business and the discount the 
Company’s shares were trading at in relation to the underlying core 
value of the asset base, approved a share buyback programme of 
up to $100m worth of ordinary shares, in August 2014, following 
prior shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Following the conclusion of the programme on 1 May 2015,  
a total of 41,636,469 shares with an aggregate nominal value of 
£104,091 at a cost of £64.7m ($98.0m), representing 5.58% of the 
share capital, had been purchased at an average price per share, 
including transactions costs, of 161 pence.
60 Ophir Energy plc Shares repurchased under this authority are currently held as 
treasury shares. The shares held in treasury may be used to satisfy 
options under the Company’s various employee share schemes or 
cancelled. During the year, no shares were cancelled and 1,285,868 
shares were used to satisfy option exercises under employee share 
schemes. Accordingly, as at 31 December 2015, 40,350,601 shares 
were held in treasury. 
The general authority to repurchase shares will expire at the 
Company’s 2016 AGM. The Directors presently intend that a 
resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the 2016 AGM. 
Shareholders’ rights
The rights and obligations in the Company’s Articles of Association 
relating to the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the 
Shareholder information on pages 161 to 163. The Articles can 
be found on the Company’s website (www.ophir-energy.com).
Statement of shareholder voting
In relation to the votes cast against the recommended acquisition 
of Salamander Energy plc at this year’s General Meeting held on 
6 February 2015, the Board had continually reviewed the strategic 
rationale and metrics of the transaction against the fall in the oil 
price since the transaction was announced. The Board remains 
of opinion that the transaction makes full strategic sense and 
will create value for shareholders. The Company will continue its 
ongoing consultation with shareholders as we begin to create 
value from our African and expanded Southeast Asian businesses.
Dividend policy
The Directors have not recommended a final dividend for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 and did not declare any interim dividends 
during the year. The Directors do not anticipate that the Company 
will pay dividends in the near future. The Directors envisage that, 
as the Company advances the development of its operations, a 
dividend policy will be determined based on, and dependent on, 
the results of the Company’s operations, financial condition, cash 
requirements, prospects, profits available for distribution and other 
factors deemed to be relevant at the time.
Report on greenhouse gas emissions
The Group’s energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas 
emissions during 201 5 are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 31 
and 32. These figures have been calculated in accordance with the 
guidance provided by the Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs (Defra) and the Department of Energy and Climate 
Change (DECC) and have been classified under the ‘scopes’ set 
out in the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Diversity
A statement of the Company’s policy on diversity is set out in the 
Strategic report on page 37, and the Board policy on diversity is 
summarised on page 59 of the Nomination Committee Report.
Human rights
A statement of the Company’s position on human rights is set out 
in the Strategic Report on page 37.
Employees
The Company is committed to actively communicating with 
employees in many ways, including Town Hall meetings, video 
briefings, team meetings, print and email communications, as well 
as regular training on health and safety, and regulatory matters. 
The Company is an equal opportunities employer and continues 
to have a diverse workforce comprising local employees, contractors 
and expatriates at most sites. The Company provides all its employees 
with the opportunity to identify and engage in training to aid and 
accelerate career development opportunities. As at 31 December 
2015, the Company employed 302 people (2014: 133 people).
Corporate Responsibility, business conduct and ethics 
and political donations
The Company is committed to sound business conduct in 
its relationships with stakeholders (shareholders, employees, 
customers, business partners and suppliers), governments and 
regulators, communities and the environment. The Company seeks 
to conduct its operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and 
with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees 
and, as such, ensures that its Anti-Bribery Policy is fully understood 
and implemented by all employees and other key stakeholders. 
The Board is also fully committed to ensuring that high standards 
of health, safety and environmental practices are implemented 
and maintained by the Company. Further details are set out 
in the Corporate Responsibility review on pages 30 to 38.
61 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Directors’ Report 
continued
The Company has not made any political donations during the year. 
The Company’s policy is not to make political donations; however certain 
socially responsible activities, which may include actions undertaken 
through the Company’s social and community related programmes, 
attendance at conferences and receptions where communicating the 
Company’s views might be vital to its business interests may be inferred 
by some as making political donations as defined in the Companies Act 
2006. The Company does not consider such activities as being political 
donations but, nevertheless, ensures that all such activities described 
in this report have been conducted in compliance with the Company’s 
Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy. An updated version 
of Code of Conduct was published on 20 May 201 5.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors’ responsibility statement is set out on page 89 and the 
Company’s financial statements are included on pages 90 to 160.
Change of control
The Company has entered into a number of commercial contracts 
which might take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of 
the Company. However, none of these is considered to be significant 
in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Company as a 
whole. Details of change of control clauses contained in the Service 
Agreements of the Executive Directors are set out on page 76 of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
All the Company’s share incentive plans contain provisions relating 
to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 88. Generally, 
outstanding awards under the Foundation Incentive Plan, the 2006 
Share Option Plan and the Deferred Share Plan will vest in full 
and become exercisable on or before a change of control. The 
Remuneration Committee may allow outstanding awards under 
the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) to vest to the extent that any 
performance condition is satisfied at the date of that event and, 
unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, such level 
of vesting will be reduced to take account of the fact that the 
award is vesting early. LTIP awards may instead be exchanged 
for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Corporate governance statement
The corporate governance statement on pages 39 to 47, in 
accordance with Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
and Rule 9.8.6 (5) and (6) of the Listing Rules, forms part of this 
Directors’ Report.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to Auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of 
approving the Directors’ Report are listed on pages 40 and 41. 
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Company’s 
Auditor, each of these Directors confirms that:
• To the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there 
is no information (that is information that is needed by the 
Company’s Auditors in connection with preparing their report)  
of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware.
• Each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably 
be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s Auditors are 
aware of that information.
Auditor
Details of the Company’s policy on external Auditor rotation are set out 
on page 51 of the Corporate Governance report. Further to provision 
C.3.7 of the Code, listed companies are expected to put their external 
audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years. In 2013, the Audit 
Committee undertook a review of audit services including a tender by 
suppliers in advance of the 2014 audit, which concluded EY LLP should 
continue as the Company’s Auditor for 2015.
The Audit Committee has also proposed that resolutions to re-appoint 
EY as the Company’s Auditor and to authorise the Directors to set the 
Auditor’s remuneration be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
62 Ophir Energy plc Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position, are set out 
in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 38. The financial position of the 
Group, consisting of cash resources of $614.6 million, its cash flows 
and its liquidity position is described in the financial statements on 
pages 90 to 160. In addition, Note 26 to the financial statements 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk.
In making their going concern assessment, the Directors have 
considered Group budgets and cash flow forecasts. As a result of this 
review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements. 
Viability Statement
The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) has revised the “Code” to 
include a Viability Statement and the Company has included its 
viability statement for the 2015 year end. The full statement can 
be found on page 16. The Viability Statement provides investors 
with an improved and broader assessment of long-term solvency 
and liquidity of the Company. The Directors have agreed that the 
Company can sign the Viability Statement as it has developed a 
robust strategy over the medium term, which includes sufficient 
forecasting that takes account of industry and macro-economic 
factors, such as a low commodity price for oil and gas in addition 
to an improved control over capital expenditure.
Post balance sheet events
A summary of the key post balance sheet events is set out in 
Note 39 to the Group Financial statements.
By order of the Board
Nick Cooper 
Chief Executive Officer  
9 March 2016
Registered office: 
Level 4, 123 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6DE 
Company registered in England and Wales No. 05047425
63 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Chairman’s Annual Statement  
on Remuneration
Vivien Gibney, 
Remuneration Committee  
Chairman
From a people perspective, the integration of new colleagues from 
Salamander Energy presented the opportunity to combine the best of 
our cultures, but with a renewed focus on disciplined capital allocation 
and asset management. This process involved some restructuring of 
our internal workforce, and the nature of individual roles, but it has 
ensured that we are now structured to best support our core objective 
of value creation. This cultural evolution is very much in tune with the 
current challenging E&P environment. 
As a result of the refinement of our strategy, and the cultural 
changes we have implemented during the year, we are seeking 
your approval to better align our Remuneration Policy with our 
strategy for the current financial year. As I will explain in summary 
below, and in detail in the Remuneration Report, this involves 
moving away from a standard UK remuneration model to one 
that is aligned with the successful delivery of the unique value 
proposition at Ophir, as detailed in the Chief Executive’s review. 
Subject to your approval, we will align the entire workforce at 
Ophir in the same remuneration structure, which will only provide 
material rewards if we are successful in delivering our core 
objective, which is value creation as measured based on growth 
in Net Asset Value (NAV) per share.
Given that we are seeking to make a change to our Remuneration 
Policy for the current financial year, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report which follows, is split into two parts:
1.  Our revised Remuneration Policy, which sets out the proposed 
changes we are to make (pages 67 to 77), will be put to a 
binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM; and
2.  Our Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes how our 
previously approved Remuneration Policy was implemented 
in 2015 and how the new Remuneration Policy will, subject 
to the necessary approvals at the AGM, be applied in 2016. 
This will be subject to an advisory shareholder resolution. 
Dear Shareholder
I am delighted to have the opportunity to provide you with an 
overview of the key activities of the Committee during the year 
and outline for you our proposals to better align remuneration 
with strategy.
2015 has been a year of progress at Ophir in what continues 
to be a challenging commercial context for E&P companies. 
We completed the Salamander Energy acquisition and successfully 
integrated the Asian assets and operations into our Company. 
This was a significant step in achieving our longer-term objective 
of becoming a self-financing exploration Company which is 
focused on value creation from our assets. Given the current E&P 
environment, we took a prudent approach to investment and 
made significant progress in de-risking certain assets where it 
made commercial sense to do so. Progress in these areas was 
achieved in line with our planning expectations set at the start 
of the year. As a result of our actions, we have African and Asian 
focused assets that are well positioned with a competitive 
advantage, even at current commodity prices, which with 
minimised drilling commitments continues to offer the 
opportunity for material value creation.
64 Ophir Energy plc Application of Remuneration Policy for 2016
As I noted above, we plan to introduce a new Remuneration Policy 
for 2016 which includes a complete reworking of our current 
remuneration structure. 
We are proposing to move from a standard UK remuneration 
model that has been applied across the vast majority of UK listed 
companies (from general retailers to manufacturing companies), 
to one that is more closely aligned with our long-term business 
model of being a self-funded exploration focused Company. 
In summary, this includes restructuring our remuneration so that 
material rewards are only available when we create value from our 
assets, which, by their nature, have very long-term life cycles (e.g. 
typically well beyond a standard three-year long-term incentive 
cycle). Specifically, this involves:
• Reducing annual bonus opportunity from a maximum of 
150% of salary to 50% of salary for Executive Directors, with 
a balanced scorecard of targets continuing to determine 
individual bonuses.
• Replacing the current Long-T erm Incentive Plan with a scheme 
based on growth in NAV per share. In summary, this would involve:
 –  All Ophir employees participating in the scheme effective 
from 1 January 2016 (subject to shareholder approval at 
our 2016 AGM). 
 –  The scheme only rewarding if we deliver long-term growth 
in NAV per share which is measured based on well-defined 
NAV events. When an event does take place, 12.5% of the 
increase in NAV above the prior Benchmark NAV will be 
used to create a reward pool. 
 –  NAV events will generally be monetisation events such as 
farm-outs and asset sales, which have defined values, and 
the risked value of development assets once a Final 
Investment Decision (FID) is taken or first production 
takes place to ensure NAV events are tangible and 
demonstrably value creating.
 –  The impact of commodity prices is factored out of the 
scheme so that these events are neutral to ensure that the 
reward pool is not artificially inflated or deflated by the 
commodity cycle. Similarly, cash distributions, fundraising 
or capital changes are also factored out of the scheme.
Remuneration Committee key activities in 2015
Performance and Reward
As part of transitioning to the new Remuneration Policy which follows, 
remuneration earned in relation to the 201 5 financial year will pay out 
and be awarded in line with the current remuneration policy. 
In what has been a challenging environment for E&P companies, the 
executive leadership team has performed strongly. In the key areas 
we targeted at the start of the year we have made robust progress. 
In exploration, for example, we broadened our portfolio in a 
responsible way (e.g. completing the low commitment acquisitions 
of five deep-water PSCs in Indonesia), completed a number of seismic 
acquisition programmes (e.g. Myanmar). In addition, where it has 
made commercial sense to do so, we have de-risked assets (e.g. 
Fortuna FLNG with Golar LNG signed on as a Midstream partner). 
From an operational perspective, we have also created a culture 
of strong financial discipline, operating within our targeted levels 
of spend for the year. In terms of positioning for 2016, we are well 
placed from both a financial perspective and continue to high 
grade our exploration portfolio ahead of drilling in 2017. Finally, 
and importantly, we achieved our 2015 successes safely. 
With our annual bonus targets linked to many of the above 
actions, bonuses are to be payable in the region of 0% to 150% 
of the maximum amount payable.
With regards to longer-term performance, the absolute total 
shareholder return performance target that applied to Tranche 1 
of the Chief Executive Officer’s 2012 Exceptional Long-Term 
Incentive Award (tested to 18 June 2015) was not met and so the 
relevant part of this award lapsed during the year under review. 
The Committee is comfortable that the incentive outcomes over the 
relevant performance periods reflect the level of performance achieved 
in what has been a challenging and difficult external environment.
65 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Chairman’s Annual Statement 
on Remuneration 
continued
Shareholder feedback
Following an extensive shareholder consultation in relation to the 
above new scheme, I wanted to take the opportunity to express 
my gratitude, and that of the Company Chairman, to our major 
shareholders and the leading shareholder protection bodies for 
taking the time to enter into constructive dialogue with us around 
our revised Remuneration Policy. We found your input extremely 
helpful in shaping the final design of our scheme. You were right 
to describe the scheme as innovative, but it is our belief that in the 
present low price environment, innovation is required and we look 
forward to receiving your support for our new scheme, and wider 
approach to remuneration, at our AGM. 
The Board and the Committee are committed to maintaining 
an open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders on 
remuneration matters. We continue to engage in appropriate 
dialogue with our major investors on any significant changes to 
the Remuneration Policy and we, and I, welcome any feedback 
you may have.
Vivien Gibney 
Remuneration Committee Chairman  
9 March 2016
 –  When a reward pool is created, it will be distributed with 
the following features to apply to Executive Directors: 
 – Individual rewards are capped;
 – 75% of NAV scheme rewards are delivered as deferred 
shares that vest after three, four and five years with a 
requirement for the total number of after tax shares 
to be retained for a minimum of five years;
 – 25% of rewards are delivered in cash; and
 – recovery and withholding provisions apply to ensure 
that only true value creation is the basis of rewards.
• Tougher share ownership guidelines will apply.
Implementing a revised Remuneration Policy that will only 
reward employees for delivering value-creating events supports 
our culture of empowering employees to act like owners when 
allocating capital and is considered to better align employees with 
our strategy and take full account of the current E&P environment. 
Furthermore, the capping and deferral of the majority of rewards, 
operated with recovery and withholding provisions and tougher 
share ownership guidelines, ensures that the scheme is consistent 
with effective risk management and achieves long-term 
alignment with shareholders. 
In light of the current E&P environment, no increases were 
awarded to base salaries of the Executive Directors. With regard 
to the appointment of Tony Rouse as Chief Financial Officer 
on 27 January 2016, his salary was set at £325,000, which is 
reflective of the market rate for the role having taken into 
account the calibre and experience of the individual.
66 Ophir Energy plc Directors’ Remuneration Policy
In this section we set out our Remuneration Policy, how it supports 
our strategy, how the Committee intends to operate it, the selection 
of performance metrics and why we believe they support our 
strategy and are appropriately stretching and other relevant 
information about the Directors’ service agreements.
The effective date of the Policy is 10 May 2016, which is the date 
shareholder approval is being sought for the revised policy at the AGM.
Under the revised Remuneration Policy, remuneration will continue 
to be structured with two elements: fixed remuneration (consisting 
of base salary, benefits (including non-contributory health insurance 
and life assurance) and pension contributions) and variable 
remuneration (annual bonus scheme and a long-term incentive 
scheme). However, the long-term incentive scheme, as detailed 
below, is to be reworked to better fit with the Company’s strategy 
and the current E&P environment.
Remuneration Policy 
As detailed in the Chief Executive’s review, unlike full cycle E&P 
companies, Ophir’s focus is on becoming a self-financed explorer 
using production assets to fund exploration. As we move to 
achieve this objective, shareholder returns are generated through 
the monetisation of our exploration assets at the appropriate time 
rather than looking to continually increase production.
How successful we are in implementing this ‘Big E, little p’ strategy 
is captured through our success in growing our NAV per share and, 
therefore, the change to our Remuneration Policy from 2016 
primarily relates to the introduction of a new long-term incentive 
scheme, based on growth in NAV per share, to replace our 
conventional Long-Term Incentive Plan.
At the same time as replacing our Long-Term Incentive Plan, we 
are also reducing the emphasis on short-term performance with 
annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors reduced from 
150% of salary to 50% of salary (earned based on performance 
against a balanced scorecard of key performance indicators) 
and toughening our share ownership requirements.
In terms of the replacement long-term incentive scheme, 
participants will no longer benefit from annual awards of shares 
that vest in three years’ time subject to performance targets and 
continued employment. Under the new scheme, opportunity for 
reward only takes place when value is created (measured based on 
NAV per share growth) through the long-term development of our 
assets. Once value is created, reward is payable in a combination 
of cash (25%) and shares (75%) which vest over five years and all 
shares (net of tax) must be retained for a minimum of five years 
from grant. The scheme’s long-term focus is considered entirely 
appropriate for an industry where decisions taken have multi-year 
time horizons. The scheme will ensure clear alignment between 
Executives and shareholders. A full summary of the principal terms 
of the scheme is set out in the Notice of AGM, with summary 
details of the operation of the plan included below: 
• Remuneration will only be earned if we deliver long-term 
growth in NAV per share, which is measured based on 
well-defined NAV events. When an event does take place, 
12.5% of the increase in NAV above the prior Benchmark 
NAV is used to create a reward pool. 
• NAV will be calculated based on the SEC definition of Net 
Present Value at a 10% discount rate (NPV). 
• Every $1 spent on development reduces Benchmark NAV, so 
payouts under the scheme only take place, in principle, when 
there is a return on our investment decisions through value 
creation. There are only certain well defined events that count 
towards testing the prevailing Benchmark NAV, with these 
events potentially triggering a reward if the reduced NAV 
due to development spend has been more than offset by 
the value attributable to the NAV event.
67 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements NAV 
falls with
development
spend
NAV rises:
monetisation,
FID or First
Production
Opening
Benchmark
NAV
New NAV 
Benchmark: 
Reward pool
• NAV events will be monetisation events, which have defined 
values, or the risked value of development assets once a Final 
Investment Decision (FID) is taken. The list of NAV events is 
as follows:
 – f a r m - o u t s; 
 – asset sales; 
 – F ID e v e n t s ;
 – first production; and 
 – a gross sales agreement renegotiation (since this 
effectively revalues the asset). 
• If one of the above events takes place, then a calculation of 
current Group NAV per share will be undertaken to ascertain 
whether the previous Benchmark NAV has been exceeded.
• When testing whether or not a NAV event has resulted in 
the opening Benchmark NAV per share being exceeded and 
thereby creating a reward pool, the historic benchmark will 
be rebased, as appropriate for (i) current forward strip 
commodity prices to ensure that the reward pool is not 
artificially inflated or deflated by the commodity cycle and 
(ii) any cash distributions to shareholders or funds raised from 
shareholders and/or the issue or cancellation of shares so that 
these events are neutral to the operation of the scheme; 
• In the event that a NAV event has triggered a reward, the 
pool would be distributed to all employees, with the following 
features applying to Executive Directors: 
 – The maximum variable pay (annual cash bonus plus 
NAV scheme) that an Executive Director may receive in 
any calendar year has been limited to 500% of base salary 
(i.e. 50% annual cash bonus and 450% NAV scheme). NAV 
events are unlikely to occur regularly in each financial year; 
two (or more) events may occur in any given year, or 
conversely none may occur in any given year. Since there 
are likely to be periods where NAV events do not take place 
in multiple years, but their value when they do has the 
potential to be substantial, if a NAV event occurs in a year 
where there has not been a NAV event in the prior year 
that triggers a reward pool, the maximum variable pay 
(annual cash bonus plus NAV scheme) will be increased 
to 750% of salary in that year;
 – 75% of NAV scheme rewards are delivered as deferred 
shares that vest after three, four and five years for 
Executive Directors. However, the total number of after 
tax shares must be retained for a minimum of five years; 
 – Recovery and withholding provisions apply to ensure that 
only true value creation is the basis of rewards. Trigger 
events for recovery of value overpaid include (i) when 
an FID is taken but the development is subsequently 
cancelled prior to production or (ii) the Company is the 
subject of a lawsuit that is successfully pursued by a third 
party in relation to a NAV event under which a reward 
pool was generated. 
Since the above scheme will apply to all employees in the Group 
(albeit tailored by employee level), a single 10% in 10 years 
dilution limit will operate in relation to the award of shares 
through the scheme.
In addition to the deferral requirements under the NAV scheme, 
tougher share ownership guidelines will apply. These will require 
the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer to move to 
a 200% guideline (from 100% of salary) with the Chief Executive 
Officer continuing to have a 300% of salary guideline.
Transitioning to the new scheme 
The new scheme will operate (subject to shareholder approval) in 
2016. Therefore rewards earned in relation to the 2015 financial 
year will take place in line with current policy with performance 
having been tested against the original targets (i.e. annual 
bonuses and long-term incentive awards as detailed in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 78 to 88 will be paid 
and awarded as per the Remuneration Policy approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM). 
Following the above awards, from the 2016 AGM, all future 
employee share awards will operate in accordance with the new 
policy (i.e. lower annual cash bonuses plus participation in the 
NAV scheme). 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
continued
68 Ophir Energy plc Policy table
The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Director pay:
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance 
Base Salary To provide the core 
reward for the role.
Sufficient level to 
help recruit and 
retain employees.
Reflects role and 
experience of 
individual.
Reviewed annually and effective from 
1 January.
Decision influenced by:
• Role, experience and personal 
performance
• Average change in total workforce 
salary in the location where they 
are based
• Total organisational salary budgets
• Company performance and other 
economic conditions
Salaries are benchmarked periodically 
and are set by reference to companies 
of a similar size and complexity.
Salaries will be eligible for increases during the three-
year period that the Remuneration Policy operates from 
the Effective Date (AGM date). 
During this time, salaries may be increased each year 
(in percentage of salary terms) in line with increases 
granted to the wider workforce where they are based. 
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce 
(in percentage of salary terms) may be awarded in 
certain circumstances such as where there is a change 
in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in 
the scale of the role and/or size, value and/or complexity 
of the Group. 
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been 
placed on a below market rate of pay initially, a series 
of increases above those granted to the wider workforce 
(in percentage of salary terms) may be given over the 
following few years subject to individual performance 
and development in the role.
The Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate 
Committee meeting each year after having due regard to the 
factors noted in operating the salary policy.
Benefits To recruit and 
retain employees.
Directors are entitled to health 
insurance, life assurance, medical 
evacuation insurance, travel 
insurance, holiday pay, sick leave 
and other Group-wide benefits offered 
by the Company. 
Other ancillary benefits including 
relocation expenses may be offered, 
as required.
The value of benefits may vary from year to year 
depending on the cost to the Company from third-
party providers.
n/a
Pension To provide long-
term savings via 
pension provision.
The Company operates a defined 
contribution pension scheme or may 
contribute directly into an Executive 
Director’s personal pension, or pay a 
salary supplement in lieu of pension.
The Executive Directors receive a Company 
contribution into the Group (or their personal) 
pension plan (or a salary supplement in lieu of 
pension) to the greater of the statutory minimum 
and 11% of salary.
n/a
Annual 
Bonus
To incentivise 
the execution of 
business strategy. 
Rewards the 
achievement of 
annual financial 
and strategic 
business targets 
and delivery 
of personal 
objectives.
Targets are renewed annually and 
relate to the business as a whole. 
Bonus level, payable in cash, is 
determined by the Committee 
following the end of the financial year 
and is based on performance against 
targets set at the start of the year.
Recovery and withholding provisions 
apply that enable the Committee to 
recover value overpaid in the event 
of a material misstatement of the 
Company’s results within a two-year 
period (this can be through the 
withholding of variable pay awards 
or requiring a repayment).
The maximum award under the annual bonus 
scheme is 50% of salary (reduced from 150% 
of salary in relation to the year ending 
31 December 2015).
Details of the performance measures used for the current 
year and targets set for the year under review and 
performance against them is provided in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration. The Company’s bonus is based on the 
achievement against a range of business objectives and key 
performance indicators. 
Given the nature of an exploration led business, measures 
and their weightings may change each year reflecting the 
changing business priorities. The key performance measures 
may include (and are not limited to) the following:
• Exploration
• Operations
• Financial strength & returns
• Business model 
• Stakeholder engagement
• Leadership 
The Committee retains discretion to reduce the bonus payment 
in the event of a serious HSE incident or series of incidents. 
For the bonus measures which operate using a sliding scale 
of targets, the proportion of maximum bonus earned for 
achieving threshold performance is set from 0% of that part 
of the bonus with 100% of the maximum opportunity payable 
for superior performance. Bonuses for performance between 
threshold and maximum are determined on a pro-rata basis. 
Some elements of the current bonus structure include a 
subjective assessment of performance as opposed to 
operating on a sliding scale (e.g. bonus earned in relation 
to HSE/CR performance and some personal objectives).
69 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance 
2011 Long-
Term 
Incentive 
Plan
(No further 
awards will 
be granted 
from the 
2016 AGM)
To incentivise 
the achievement 
of business 
strategy over 
the longer term.
The Company’s Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) was approved by 
shareholders in 2011 and amended 
in 2012. 
Annual awards of free shares in the 
form of conditional awards or nil/
nominal cost options are granted 
which vest after three years subject 
to challenging performance targets 
and continued service.
Awards will be determined using the 
weighted average share price for the 
period for the three-month period 
up to the time that the Committee 
normally approves the individual LTIP 
allocations (i.e. normally around 
February). This is considered to result 
in the number of shares comprising 
individual awards to better reflect 
the information presented to the 
Committee at the time of approving 
the awards in principle.
Awards are granted as soon as the 
preliminary results are announced 
(or later if a close period continues 
to apply as of that date).
The normal LTIP performance period 
is three calendar years beginning on 
1 January of the year of grant and 
ending on 31 December of the 
third year.
To the extent that dividends were to 
be paid, a provision would operate 
which would enable dividends to 
accrue on shares at the time of 
vesting. 
Recovery and withholding provisions 
apply that enable the Committee to 
recover value overpaid in the event 
of a material misstatement of the 
Company’s results within a two-year 
period (this can be through the 
withholding of variable pay awards 
or requiring a repayment).
The maximum annual award is 200% of salary, 
although the Committee is able to grant an award 
of up to 300% in exceptional circumstances.
Awards vest based on the Company’s Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) performance over a three-year performance 
period. 
25% of the award vests at median, rising on a straight line 
basis to 100% for upper quartile performance. 
No vesting occurs for below median performance. 
An underpin applies that enables the TSR vesting result 
to be scaled back if the vesting result is not consistent with 
underlying financial performance and/or key operational 
financial metrics have not been achieved. 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
continued
70 Ophir Energy plc Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance 
Long Term 
Value 
Creation 
Plan 2016 
(sole long-
term 
incentive 
plan to 
operate from 
the 2016 
AGM)
To reward for the 
creation of NAV 
per share.
A reward pool comprising 12.5% of 
the growth in NAV is available for 
distribution to all employees following 
a NAV event which takes the NAV per 
share of the Company above the 
previous high watermark Benchmark 
NAV per share.
For Executive Directors following a 
NAV event 25% of an individual share 
of the pool is paid in cash with 75% 
payable in deferred shares. Deferred 
shares vest equally after years three, 
four, and five. A holding period applies 
to vested shares requiring a minimum 
of the after tax number of shares to 
be retained for a minimum period 
of five years from grant.
To the extent that dividends were to 
be paid, a provision would operate 
which would enable dividends to 
accrue on shares at the time of 
vesting (or to the conclusion of 
any holding period). 
Recovery and withholding provisions 
apply in the event that value is 
overpaid as a result of (i) an FID 
is taken but the development is 
subsequently cancelled prior to 
production or (ii) the Company is the 
subject of a lawsuit that is successfully 
pursued by a third party in relation 
to a NAV event under which a reward 
pool was generated.
500% in any calendar year or 750% of salary 
if there was no NAV event in the prior year.
The limits are inclusive of any bonus payments 
relating to the calendar year (e.g. should a bonus 
in respect of the year ending 31 December 2016 
be earned to the maximum of 50% of salary then 
the maximum pay-out under the scheme in relation 
to the same year is limited to 450% of salary).
A high watermark Benchmark NAV is set (either at the outset 
of the scheme or following a NAV event where the previous 
Benchmark NAV is exceeded) and a payment can only become 
payable once the previous high watermark Benchmark NAV 
is exceeded. 
Share 
ownership
To align the 
interests of 
Directors with 
those of the 
Company’s 
shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer has a 
300% of salary holding requirement 
and other Executive Directors are 
required to build up a holding of 200% 
of salary through the retention of 50% 
of the after tax number of shares 
vesting under the Company’s long-
term incentive plans.
n/a n/a
Non-
Executive 
Directors
To provide a 
competitive fee 
which will attract 
high calibre 
individuals with 
the relevant skills 
and experience to 
enhance the 
Board.
The fees for the Company’s Chairman 
and Independent Non-Executive 
Directors are determined by the 
Board as a whole (with the relevant 
individuals absenting themselves from 
discussions relating directly to their 
own remuneration). The Board’s policy 
in relation to the fee payable to the 
Chairman of the Board is that it 
should be set having had regard to 
the median fee payable for Non-
Executive Chairmen of companies 
of a comparable size and complexity. 
Remuneration levels are agreed 
based on external advice and 
give consideration to the time 
commitment and responsibilities 
of the role. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors are not entitled to 
participate in the Company’s 
executive remuneration programmes 
or pension arrangements. 
The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with 
reference to the time commitment of the role and 
market levels in companies of comparable size 
and complexity. 
Fee levels will be eligible for increases during the 
three-year period that the Remuneration Policy 
operates from the Effective Date to ensure they 
appropriately recognise the time commitment of 
the role, increases to fee levels for Non-Executive 
Directors in general and fee levels in companies of 
a similar size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to go above the fee levels set 
at the start of the year if it is necessary to do so to 
appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director 
of an appropriate calibre. 
No benefits or other remuneration are provided to 
Non-Executive Directors although the Company 
may make payments to Non-Executive Directors 
to compensate them on a pre-tax basis for any 
reasonable expenses incurred undertaking 
Company business. 
n/a
71 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Operation of incentive plans
The Committee will operate the Annual Bonus Plan and long-term 
incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance 
with the Listing Rules, and HMRC rules where relevant. The 
Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over 
a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of 
these plans. These include the following (albeit with quantum and 
the operation of those plans restricted to the descriptions detailed 
in the policy table above for Executive Directors):
• who participates in the plans;
• the timing of grant of award and/or payment;
• the size of an award and/or a payment;
• the determination of vesting (which may include making 
appropriative adjustments within the terms of performance 
conditions e.g. determining the treatment of a delisted 
comparator in a TSR peer group);
• discretion required when dealing with a change of control  
(e.g. the timing of testing performance targets) or restructuring  
of the Group;
• determination of a good leaver for incentive plan purposes based 
on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen;
• adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, 
corporate restructuring, events and special dividends); and
• the annual review of performance measures weighting, and 
targets for the incentive plans from year to year.
The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and/or 
set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus 
plan and to adjust targets for long-term incentives if events occur 
(e.g. material divestment of a Group business) which cause it to 
determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the 
amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original 
purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
All historic awards that were granted under any current or previous 
share schemes operated by the Company prior to the 2016 AGM but 
remain outstanding remain eligible to vest based on their original 
award terms.
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting 
The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and 
long-term incentive plans are a subset of the Company’s Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs). 
In terms of annual performance targets, a balanced scorecard  
as per the list on page 69 together with health and safety metrics 
are used. As an upstream oil and gas exploration company, 
commercialisation through portfolio management is important  
in crystallising value at the right time; executives’ strategic choices 
and delivery are appraised and a good health and safety record 
underpins the activities we undertake.
These metrics, which form part of the Company’s KPIs, are aligned 
with the Company’s underlying objective of creating value by 
exploring and appraising oil and gas assets. The precise metrics 
chosen and weighting ascribed to each may vary, as detailed in 
the policy above, in line with the Company’s strategy. 
With regard to long-term performance targets, awards prior to the 2016 
AGM vest as a minimum, subject to relative or absolute TSR conditions 
which measured our performance either against a group of other oil 
and gas companies or in terms of absolute shareholder returns. 
From the 2016 AGM, long-term performance will be assessed based 
on our performance in growing NAV per share, which is our key 
long-term performance metric.
The Committee believes the above measures each achieve 
alignment between shareholders and executives and that executives 
are only rewarded for either outperforming their peers or for 
creating NAV per share.
Other than in the case of NAV per share where a high watermark 
is established that must be exceeded for a pay-out to take place, 
targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal 
planning and external market expectations for the Company. Only 
modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance 
levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance 
of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The targets for awards to be granted under the 2011 LTIP are 
consistent with the policy set out above and are set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration. 
Appropriately challenging performance targets would be set in 
relation to incentives each year as described above.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
continued
72 Ophir Energy plc Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Company, in line with current market practice, does not actively 
consult with employees on Executive Remuneration. The Group has 
a diverse workforce operating in several different countries, with 
various local pay practices, which would make any cost-effective 
consultation impractical. However, when setting the Remuneration 
Policy for Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the 
pay and employment conditions for other employees within the 
Group. This process ensures that any increase to the basic pay of 
Executive Directors is not out of proportion with that proposed for 
other employees.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors 
compared to other employees
As noted above, the Committee is made aware of pay structures 
across the wider Group when setting the Remuneration Policy for 
Executive Directors. The Committee considers the general basic 
salary increase for the broader Group (with specific reference to 
the location where an individual Executive Director is located) when 
determining the annual salary review for the Executive Directors.
Overall, the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is more 
heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees. 
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created 
for shareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive 
Directors as it is the Executive Directors who are considered to 
have the greatest potential to influence Group value creation.
The level of variable pay varies within the Group by level of 
employee and is informed by the specific responsibilities of  
each role and local market practice as appropriate.
73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Recruitment and promotion policy
For Executive Director recruitment and/or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below:
Element Policy Element Policy
Base  
Salary
Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the 
Company’s Remuneration Policy, taking into account 
the experience and calibre of the individual (e.g. typically 
around market rates prevalent in companies of 
comparable size and complexity) or salary levels may be 
set below this level (e.g. if the individual was a promotion 
to the Board). Where it is appropriate to offer a below 
market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the 
desired salary positioning may be given over the next 
few years subject to individual performance and 
development in the role.
Benefits Directors are entitled to health insurance, life assurance, 
medical evacuation insurance, travel insurance, holiday 
pay, sick leave and other Group-wide benefits offered 
by the Company. Where necessary, the Committee may 
approve the payment of relocation expenses to facilitate 
recruitment.
Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at the level 
provided to current Executive Directors as set in the 
policy table.
Annual  
Bonus
The Annual Bonus would operate as outlined for current 
Executive Directors (i.e. to a maximum of 50% of base 
salary), albeit pro-rated for the period of employment 
during the financial year. Depending on the timing and 
responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary 
to set different performance measures and targets initially. 
Any increases in ongoing Annual Bonus opportunity above 
the limit detailed in the policy table above would be 
contingent on the Company receiving shareholder 
approval for an amendment to its approved policy 
at its next AGM.
Long-term 
incentives
New joiners will normally be eligible to participate in the 
Long Term Value Creation Plan 2016 after completion 
of a probationary period.
Buy-out  
awards
In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out 
incentive pay or benefit arrangements (which would be 
forfeited on leaving the previous employer), this would be 
provided for taking into account the form (cash or shares) 
and timing and expected value (i.e. likelihood of meeting 
any existing performance criteria) of the remuneration 
being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted as 
permitted under the Listing Rules.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
continued
74 Ophir Energy plc The amount an Executive Director could earn under the 
remuneration policy
A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance, 
particularly at maximum performance levels. The charts below 
show how much the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer could earn under Ophir’s remuneration policy 
(as detailed above) under different performance scenarios (based 
on their salaries as at 1 January 2016). The following assumptions 
have been made:
Minimum (performance below threshold)
• Fixed pay only with no vesting under any of Ophir’s incentive plans.
In line with expectations
• Fixed pay plus a bonus at the mid-point of the ranges typically 
set (giving 50% of the maximum opportunity of 50% of salary) 
and a NAV event in 2016 triggering an aggregate payment 
(in cash and shares) at 225% of salary.
Maximum (performance meets or exceeds maximum) 
• Fixed pay plus maximum bonus at 50% of salary and a NAV 
event in 2016 triggering an aggregate payment (in cash 
and shares) at 450% of salary.
Fixed pay comprises:
• salaries – salary effective as at 1 January 2016;
• benefits – amount received by each Executive Director 
in the 2015 financial year;
• pension – employer contributions or cash-equivalent 
payments at 11% of base salary.
NAV every year
£620,500
£1,995,500
£3,370,500
£434,575
£1,390,825
£2,347,075
£370,750
£1,183,250
£1,995,750
100%
31%
18%
7%
8%
62%
74%
100%
31%
19%
7%
8%
62%
73%
100%
31%
19%
7%
8%
62%
73%
Nick
Cooper
Bill 
Higgs
Tony
Rouse
£’000s
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
Maximum
In line with
expectations
Minimum
Maximum
In line with
expectations
Minimum
Maximum
In line with
expectations
Minimum
Long T erm Incentives Fixed Pay Annual Bonus
It should be noted that since the analysis above shows what could 
be earned by the Executive Directors in 2016 based on a NAV event 
in the year, if there is no NAV event, then the following year (e.g. 
in 2017 or a later year) there is the potential for remuneration to 
be higher (as described in the table above) allowing for the fact 
that NAV events may be infrequent. The charts below include an 
illustration of the potential remuneration that could be earned in 
this circumstance based on the same assumptions as noted above 
but with the NAV event payments being at 350% of salary where 
performance is in line with expectations and 700% of salary at 
maximum performance levels.
NAV gap year
Long T erm Incentives
£620,500
£2,683,500
£4,745,500
£434,575
£1,868,950
£3,303,325
£370,750
£1,589,500
£2,808,250
100%
23%
13%
5%
6%
72%
81%
100%
23%
13%
5%
6%
72%
81%
100%
23%
13%
5%
6%
72%
81%
Nick
Cooper
Bill 
Higgs
Tony
Rouse
£’000s
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000
Maximum
In line with
expectations
Minimum
Maximum
In line with
expectations
Minimum
Maximum
In line with
expectations
Minimum
Fixed Pay Annual Bonus
The scenarios do not include any share price growth or dividend 
assumptions.
It should also be noted that the final LTIP awards granted in relation 
to 2015 performance (as explained on pages 80 to 88 and to be 
granted in March 2016), when aggregated with a potential NAV 
event in 2016, would fall within the quantum illustrated in the 
second set of scenario charts above.
75 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Service Agreements and loss of office payments
The Executive Directors have rolling term service agreements with the 
Company. The notice period for current Executive Directors is 12 months 
if notice is given by either the executive or the Company. For new hires, 
the Company’s policy is to set notice periods of up to 12 months.
The Executive Directors’ Service Agreements each include the ability 
for the Company, at its discretion, to pay basic salary only in lieu of 
any unexpired period of notice.
Payments may be made as either a lump sum or in equal monthly 
instalments until the end of the notice period at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee. In the case of the Executive 
Directors, the executive will be required to seek alternative income 
during the period in which monthly instalments are paid and notify 
the Company after securing alternative income. Should alternative 
employment be found, the instalment payments shall then be 
reduced by the amount of alternative income or cease if the 
alternative income exceeds the monthly instalment payment.
The Service Agreements contain a provision enabling the relevant 
employer to put the Executive Director on garden leave for up to six 
months at any time after notice to terminate the Service Agreement 
has been given by the Executive Director or the relevant employer 
or the Executive Director has resigned without giving due notice and 
the relevant employer has not accepted the resignation. During the 
garden leave period, the executive will be entitled to receive salary 
and contractual benefits (excluding bonuses). At the end of the 
garden leave period, the Company may, at its sole discretion, pay 
the Executive Director basic salary alone in respect of the balance 
of any period of notice given by the Company or Executive Director. 
These payments will be reduced to the extent alternative income 
is received. For new hires, the same broad policy would apply.
The Service Agreement of Nick Cooper only, provides that if there is 
a change of control, and within three months following the change of 
control, the relevant employer or the Executive Director serve notice to 
terminate employment, Nick Cooper’s employment will be terminated 
with immediate effect and the Company shall pay 12 months’ salary. 
Nick Cooper will not be entitled to any other payment or notice or 
payment in lieu of notice in addition to this payment.
The inclusion of the change of control provisions in Nick Cooper’s Service 
Agreement is now considered a legacy issue by the Committee with 
Executives in post prior to the IPO having consistent provisions in this 
regard. Such provisions did not form part of Bill Higgs’ Service 
Agreement, or Tony Rouse’s Service Agreement, and will not form 
part of any future Service Agreements for Executive Directors.
A summary of the terms of the Service Agreements is set out below. This 
disclosure has been updated from last year to reflect the current Board:
Name
Continuous
employment
Service
Agreement
date
Notice by
Company
Notice by
Executive
Nicholas Cooper
1 June  
2011
26 May 
2011
12 
months
12 
months
Bill Higgs
10 September 
2014
10 September
2014 
12 
months
12 
months
Tony Rouse
1 October 
2014
27 January 
2016
12 
months
12 
months
Copies of the Service Agreements for current Executive Directors, 
together with the Letters of Appointment for the Non-Executive 
Directors detailed above, are available for inspection during normal 
business hours at the Company’s registered office. 
Treatment of incentives
If an individual is (i) under notice at the bonus payment date or 
(ii) not in employment, the default position is that no bonus will 
be payable. However, in certain good leaver circumstances (death; 
retirement; ill-health, injury or disability; redundancy; employment 
ceasing as a result of a sale of a Group company; or for any other 
reason at the Committee’s discretion after taking into account the 
circumstances prevailing at the time), a pro-rata bonus will become 
payable for the period of employment. The Committee, acting fairly 
and reasonably, may decide not to reduce the bonus pro-rata if, in 
the circumstances, it considers it appropriate to do so (for example 
in the case of, but not limited to, death).
The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to 
an Executive Director will be determined based on the relevant plan 
rules. The default treatment will be for outstanding awards to lapse 
on cessation of employment.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
continued
76 Ophir Energy plc In relation to awards granted under the LTIP , awards will lapse on the 
date of cessation of employment unless an executive leaves under 
certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances, such as ill-health, injury, disability, 
redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing company, or any other 
circumstances at the discretion of the Committee (reflecting the 
circumstances that prevail at the time). If treated as a good leaver, the 
default is for the award to vest at the normal vesting date. However, 
the Committee may decide that awards will vest instead on the date of 
cessation. In making a vesting determination, the Committee will assess 
the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved and the 
number of awards that would vest will be reduced pro-rata to reflect 
the proportion of the performance period actually served unless the 
Committee determined otherwise. If treated as a good leaver as a 
result of death, then the award will vest in full on the date of death.
In relation to the Long Term Value Creation Plan 2016 awards will lapse 
on the date of cessation of employment unless an executive leaves 
under certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances such as death, injury, ill-health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of his employer, 
his employing company or the business for which he works being sold 
out of the Company’s Group or in other circumstances at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee (reflecting the circumstances that 
prevail at the time). If treated as a good leaver, then deferred shares, 
having been earned as a result of creating NAV growth per share, 
would ordinarily vest on the dates that they would have vested had the 
individual not ceased such employment. For Executive Directors, they will 
continue to be required to retain the after tax number of vested shares 
for a minimum period of five years from award.
External appointments
With the prior permission of the Board, Executive Directors are 
permitted to accept external directorships and to retain any fees 
payable in respect of those roles.
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment and fees 
Each Non-Executive Director has a Letter of Appointment from 
the Company. The Letters of Appointment do not specifically 
provide for terms of appointment, termination notification periods 
or entitlement to payment on termination, however there is an 
expectation that all independent Non-Executive Directors will 
serve for an initial three-year term. The Company may terminate 
the appointment under each Letter of Appointment if the Non-
Executive Director has committed a serious or repeated breach 
or non-observance of their obligations to the Company.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee remains committed to shareholder dialogue and 
takes an active interest in voting outcomes. The Committee consults 
extensively with our major shareholders when setting the remuneration 
policy. If there are any particular shareholders opposed to our policy, 
members of the Committee would endeavour to meet with them, as 
appropriate, to understand any issues they may have.
77 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Unaudited information 
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules. 
The Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration 
(combined) will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 
2016 AGM. The information on pages 80 to 87 (inclusive) has 
been audited.
Consideration of remuneration matters
Membership and attendance
The members of the Committee during the year ended 31 
December 2015, together with details of their individual attendance 
at Committee meetings held during the year, are set out below:
Committee members
Meeting 
attendance
Vivien Gibney, Committee Chairman 4/5
Ronald Blakely 4/5
Alan Booth 5/5
Lyndon Powell
1
3/3
Bill Schrader
2
2/2
Nicholas Smith
3
4/5
1 Lyndon Powell stepped down from the Board following the 2015 AGM. 
2 Bill Schrader joined the Committee on 20 May 2015.
3 Nicholas Smith will step down from the Committee on 30 April 2016. 
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and all 
of its members are considered to be independent. The Chairman 
of the Company, Nicholas Smith, will step down at the end of 
April 2016, was independent on appointment. Bill Schrader will 
become Chairman of the Company from 30 April 2016.
The Chief Executive Officer and advisors to the Committee may 
also be invited to attend meetings as necessary. During the year, the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Company 
Secretary, Director of Human Resources and representatives from 
New Bridge Street (NBS, part of Aon plc) attended meetings and 
provided guidance and advice as necessary.
Executive Directors and other attendees are not entitled to vote on 
any matter put before the Committee and do not participate in any 
discussion relating to their own remuneration or remit.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee
The role of the Committee is to determine the Remuneration Policy 
of the Company in order to facilitate the recruitment, retention and 
motivation of the Executive Directors and key senior management. 
The policy is reviewed at least annually in order to ensure that it is 
consistent with business strategy. The Committee also monitors 
the overall remuneration structure across the Group to ensure that 
a balanced approach is adopted in relation to all employees. The 
Committee’s full Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, 
are available on the Company’s website at www.ophir-energy.com/
about-us/corporate-governance/board-committees/remuneration.
Advisor to the Committee
NBS is appointed as independent consultants to the Committee 
in relation to advice on remuneration and share incentives. NBS 
provides services to the Company on a ‘called on’ rather than 
retained basis. NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and complies with its code of conduct. Details of the terms 
of engagement for NBS are available on request from the Company 
Secretary. Neither NBS, nor any other Aon plc company, provide 
other services to the Company. The Committee regularly reviews 
the external advisor relationship and is comfortable that NBS’ advice 
remains objective and independent. For the year under review NBS’ 
total fees charged were £128,784.50 as at 31 December 2015 
(excluding VAT).
Other advice provided to the Committee was received from 
Eversheds LLP, who provided technical advice in relation to the 
operation of the Company’s share plans and employment law 
advice in relation to Directors’ Service Agreements.
Annual Report  
on Remuneration
78 Ophir Energy plc Implementation of Remuneration Policy 
for 2016
Base Salaries
The Committee reviews the Executive Directors’ base salaries prior 
to each financial year taking into account individual performance 
and experience, Company performance and economic conditions.
The Committee assessed the above factors and awarded no base salary 
increases to the Chief Executive and the Chief Operating Officer, which 
was in line with the average increase awarded to UK employees. The 
base salaries, effective 1 January 2016, are included in the table below.
Role
Salary as at
1 January
 2016
Salary as at
1 January
 2015 Increase
Chief Executive Officer £550,000 £550,000 0%
Chief Operating Officer
 
  £382,500 £382,500 0%
The Chief Financial Officer’s salary was set at £325,000 on 
appointment which was considered the appropriate market rate for 
the role having taken into account the responsibilities of the role and 
the calibre and experience of the individual. It is the Committee’s 
intention, in line with policy, to review salaries annually effective 
1 January each year. 
Pension and benefits
The Executive Directors receive Company contributions towards 
personal pension plans or salary in lieu of pension at a rate of 11% 
of base salary, or on a pro-rated salary for those Executives who 
were not in post for the full year.
In addition to pension benefits, the Executive Directors also receive 
health insurance, life assurance, holiday pay and sick leave cover.
Annual bonus
The Annual Bonus plan has been designed to provide reward for 
above-average performance. The performance targets for the 
bonus plan, linked to agreed Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), 
are reviewed by the Committee annually.
Subject to approval of the Remuneration Policy presented to shareholders 
for approval at the 201 6 AGM, the bonus opportunity for the year ending 
31 December 201 6 will be limited to 50% of base salary, reduced from 
1 50% of base salary in the year ending 31 December 201 5. 
No bonus is payable for below certain defined performance levels with 
bonuses earned on a sliding scale (where appropriate) based on the 
Committee’s assessment of achievement against the targets set.
For 2016, the Committee is to operate the following KPI targets 
for all Executive Directors. These are the same broad categories 
as those operated in 2015.
Measure
Percentage 
of total bonus
 opportunity
1 
Exploration
Metrics include the capture of high quality exploration 
acreage and drillable prospects 14.67%
Operations
Metrics include leading and lagging HSSE performance, 
capital management and production reliability 16%
Financial strength and returns 
Metrics include optimisation of Ophir’s capital and 
generation of growth in net asset value for key assets 14.67%
Business model
Metrics include level of revenue generation and 
minimise our overall cost of capital  7%
Stakeholder engagement (internal & external)
Metrics include CR targets, employee engagement 
action plans, leadership and capability development 
and nurturing diversity 14.67%
Leadership
Metrics include delivery of agreed Group strategy and 
high levels of governance across the Group 33%
1 The above percentages have been rounded to total 100%. 
The Committee retains discretion to reduce the total bonus 
payment to Executive Directors in the event of a serious HSE 
incident or series of incidents.
The Committee considers that the targets themselves are 
commercially sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on 
a retrospective basis. Details of the targets and actual outturn will 
be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration, save 
where they remain commercially sensitive.
79 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Recovery and withholding provisions will enable the Committee to 
correct the bonus in the event of a material misstatement of the 
Company’s results so that it reflects the value that should have been 
paid had it not been for the misstatement. These provisions, in line with 
the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations, enable 
the withholding of future incentive payments or through the recovery 
of the value overpaid (on a net of tax basis) from the individual.
Long Term Value Creation Plan 2016
As detailed in the Remuneration Policy, the current financial year 
will be the first year in which the Long Term Value Creation Plan 
2016 will operate, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM for 
the revised Remuneration Policy and the new scheme.
A full summary of the principal terms of the scheme explaining 
how it will operate in the current financial year, and future years, 
is included in the Notice of AGM. 
The Committee will include full details of any NAV events taking place 
in the year in the Annual Report on Remuneration with the value of 
any reward pool subject to review by the Company’s Auditors. This will 
be explained in the context of the previous high watermark Benchmark 
NAV which is set out in detail in the Notice of AGM.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The maximum normal annual award limit under the LTIP is 200% of 
salary. When granting awards under the 2011 LTIP, the Committee 
takes into consideration (i) the need to motivate and retain the 
Executive Directors and other participants and (ii) the number of 
shares comprising individual awards when they are expressed as 
a multiple of salary given the share price based on performance 
in the prior financial year.
In relation to the awards to be granted in 2016, in line with the 
policy and practice noted above, a 200% of salary award is to be 
made to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer. 
Granting awards at 200% of salary to these individuals relates to 
their performance in the year ending 31 December 2015. An award 
at 150% of salary will also be made to the Chief Financial Officer 
with his award reflecting the maximum award to which he was 
eligible at the start of the year under review and his award reflecting 
robust performance during the year ending 31 December 2015.
As per awards granted since the 2014 Remuneration Policy, to 
smooth fluctuations in the Company’s share price, the number 
of shares awarded will be based on 87.06p, being the three-month 
average share price over the period from 24 November 2015 to 
23 February 2016.
The Committee believes relative TSR performance against other 
oil and gas companies remains the most appropriate metric for use 
by the Company in relation to LTIP awards for the period prior to 
the introduction of the Long Term Value Creation Plan 2016. 
Awards will vest on a straight line basis relative to the Company’s TSR 
performance over a three-year period compared to a comparator group 
set on grant (with returns converted to US Dollars to reflect the currency 
denomination of oil and gas assets). No vesting occurs for below-median 
performance. At median, 25% of the award vests, with full vesting at the 
upper quartile. In addition, the Committee may reduce the number of 
shares in respect of which an award would otherwise vest based upon 
TSR performance if it considers that the TSR achieved over the three-
year period does not reflect the underlying financial performance of 
the Company or that key operational metrics have not been met.
The constituents of the comparator group were reviewed during 
the year and for the 2016 award. The constituents of the LTIP 
comparator group for the 2016 award are:
Annual Report on Remuneration 
continued
80 Ophir Energy plc Africa Oil Corp Bowleven plc
Cairn Energy plc Chariot Oil & Gas Limited
Circle Oil plc Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
EnQuest plc Faroe Petroleum plc
Genel Energy plc Gulf Keystone Petroleum Limited
JKX Oil & Gas plc Kosmos Energy Ltd
Maurel & Prom. Noble Energy Inc
Petroceltic International plc Premier Oil plc
Rockhopper Exploration plc SOCO International plc 
Tullow Oil plc  Oryx Petroleum
Amerisur Resources
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply that will enable the 
Committee to recover value overpaid in the event of a material 
misstatement of the Company’s results within a two-year period 
in relation to the award vesting. 
Recovery can be achieved through withholding of future incentive 
payments or through seeking repayment of the value overpaid 
(on a net of tax basis) from the individual in line with the 
recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in short or long-term 
incentive plans or to receive any pension from the Group. The fees payable 
to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are as follows:
2016 2015
Chairman £140,000 £140,000
Non-Executive Director basic fee £70,000 £70,000
Committee Chairmanship fee £5,000 £5,000
Audited information
Single Total Figure of Remuneration
The detailed emoluments for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015 are detailed below:
£000
Base 
Salary/Fees Benefits
 1
Pension
2
Bonus
3
Long-term
 incentives
Total 
2015
Executive Directors
Nick Cooper 550 12 61 592 355
7
1,215
Bill Higgs 383 9 42 412 0
6
846
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Nicholas Smith 140 – – – – 140
Carol Bell
4
58 – – – – 58
Ronald Blakely 75 – – – – 75
Alan Booth 75 – – – – 75
Vivien Gibney 75 – – – – 75
Lyndon Powell
5
29 – – – – 29
Bill Schrader 73 – – – – 73
1 Benefits include health insurance, life assurance and income protection cover.
2 Pension comprises an 11% contribution to personal pension plans or cash provided in lieu of pension at a rate of 11%.
3 Annual bonus to be paid in March 2016. Further details set out below on pages 83 and 84.
4  Carol Bell was appointed on 2 March 2015. Carol Bell received £7,730.77 as part of her Non-Executive Director fee from 1 January 2015 to 2 March 2015 from Salamander Energy plc. She also received 
£5,000 as redundancy pay from Salamander Energy plc. 
5 Lyndon Powell stepped down from the Board following the 2015 AGM. 
6 No long-term incentives vested with performance periods ending in the year under review.
7 95% of Nick Cooper’s Long-Term Incentive Plan award granted on 13/04/2012 vested on 13/04/2015. 
81 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements The detailed emoluments for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 are detailed below:
£000
Base 
Salary/Fees Benefits Pension Bonus
1
Long-term
 incentives
2
Payment 
for loss 
of office
Total 
2014
Executive Directors
Nick Cooper 482 9 53 419 2,007 – 2,970
Bill Higgs
3
 115 3 13 100 – – 231
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Nicholas Smith 140 – – – – – 140
Ronald Blakely 75 – – – – – 75
Alan Booth 75 – – – – – 75
Vivien Gibney 75 – – – – – 75
Lyndon Powell 75 – – – – – 75
Bill Schrader 70 – – – – – 70
Former Directors
4
 
Executive Directors
Dennis McShane 344 9 38 279 – 316 986
Lisa Mitchell 353 8 35 247 125 286 1,054
Former Non-Executive Directors
John Lander 
5 
12 – – – – – 12
1,816 29 139 1,045 2,132 602 5,763
1  Full disclosure was included in relation to the 2014 annual bonus targets and actual performance where information was not considered price sensitive. In areas where disclosure was considered price 
sensitive (e.g. in relation to progress with certain organisations in relation to the monetisation of assets), summary details were provided only. It is not considered appropriate to provide disclosures 
beyond those provided in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report in relation to 2014.
2   The long-term incentive values are restated from those included in the Single Figure Table in the Directors’ Remuneration Report last year to reflect the value at vesting for certain awards (as opposed 
to the estimated value at vesting based on the three-month average share price to 31 December 2015). 
3 Bill Higgs joined the Company and was appointed to the Board on 10 September 2014 and his emoluments are for the pro-rata period from his appointment to the year end.
4  Dennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell stood down as Executive Directors on 4 November 2014 and 17 October 2014 respectively and left the Company on 19 November 2014. A full breakdown of the 
above payments was included in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
5 John Lander retired from the Board on 28 February 2014.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
continued
82 Ophir Energy plc Additional information in respect of the single figure table 
Annual bonus plan outturn
For 2015, the Committee set KPI targets for the Executive Directors in respect of: exploration; operations; financial strength and returns; 
business model; stakeholder engagement; and leadership.
Whilst the precise targets are considered to remain price sensitive, an overview of the extent of achievement for each Executive Director 
against their performance objectives is detailed below:
Metric Extent of achievement Percentage of overall target met
Targets applicable to all Executive Directors (pro-rata for the relevant proportion of the financial year served)
Exploration Partially achieved 7% out of a maximum of 23% of salary
Complete first interpretation on all acquired  
seismic within six months 
Key outcomes considered by the Committee include:
• Seismic interpretation completed ahead of schedule;
•  Approved G4/50 drilling programme and matured additional prospectivity 
in Gabon and Indonesia; and
• Did not meet metrics for additions of prospective resources to the portfolio.
Commercially attractive well proposals approved
Add risked additions to the portfolio
Operations Fully achieved 19% out of a maximum of 19% of salary
Introduce a leading indicator system to improve 
safety across the Group
Key outcomes considered by the Committee include:
• Leading indicator system introduced and TRIR target achieved;
• Delivered against budget;
• G&A achieved against target; and
•  Independent security penetration test exercises completed and security assessments 
completed for any major new technologies.
Compliance within approved budget spend,  
cash flow and working capital and G&A (gross)
Complete two independent security penetration  
test exercises
Financial strength and returns Partially achieved 3% out of a maximum of 23% of salary
Divest target Mmboe of LNG Key outcomes considered by the Committee include:
• Partially delivered net G&A targets; and
•  Commercial operating environment created challenges to achieving valuation 
and asset sales goals.
Increase corporate valuation by 10%
Deliver net G&A excluding integration costs
Business model Fully achieved 16% out of a maximum of 16% of salary
Acquire revenue generating production-led  
business or assets that deliver operating cash flow 
at a targeted level and at an appropriate cost
Key outcomes considered by the Committee include:
•  Completion of the Salamander acquisition and integration into Ophir in line 
with planning expectations. 
Internal stakeholder engagement Fully achieved 9% out of a maximum of 9% of salary
Conduct an employee engagement survey to 
measure the climate within the organisation 
Key outcomes considered by the Committee include:
• Survey completed and action plan in place based on results;
• Rebalancing of the Group ensuring the staff team has the skills required;
• Empowering Asset Managers to deliver against strategy;
• Succession plans in place; and
• Diversity standard deployed and strategy defined.
Succession plans for mission critical roles
Diversity strategy and standards
83 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Metric Extent of achievement Percentage of overall target met
External stakeholder engagement Fully achieved 10% out of a maximum of 10% of salary
Asset strategies in place including exit strategies Key outcomes considered by the Committee include:
• All exit strategies reviewed by Operations Committee (OpCom); and
•  Undertook CR programmes in Gabon and Seychelles beyond contractual  
commitments to demonstrate the value of the work
Achieve CR engagement beyond contractual 
expectations
Leadership Majority achieved 43.75% out of a maximum 50% of salary
Deliver on agreed Group strategy Key outcomes considered by the Committee include:
• Clear definition and articulation of Group strategy;
•  Rebalancing of the Group ensuring the staff team has the skills required to achieve  
against strategy and that the Company has fit for purpose decision making processes; 
• Asset Managers have been given increased responsibility to deliver value; 
• Successful integration of Salamander both culturally and operationally; and
•  Roll out of ‘One Ophir’ principles of Asset Management, capital allocation and 
empowerment of staff completed to better align value creation to objectives  
of shareholders.
Deliver “tone from the top” and ensure highest 
professional and corporate standards across  
the Group
Reorganisation of the operations and staff to ensure 
Company is able to deliver on its strategic objectives
Ensure best practice in exploration, portfolio 
management and deal execution
The specific details of progress in those areas remains commercially sensitive and the Board will consider further disclosure in next year’s 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
The extent of achievement detailed in the table above, overall, resulted in bonuses becoming payable at 72% of the maximum of basic 
salary in the case of Nick Cooper and Bill Higgs.
The first Tranche of the Chief Executive Officer’s Exceptional Long-Term Incentive Award was eligible to vest on 19 June 2015. Vesting was 
dependent on the Company delivering a minimum compound TSR growth of 20% per annum over the performance period from a base 
share price of £4.28 (adjusted to take account of the Rights Issue that became effective in March 2013). Actual TSR growth was below the 
minimum requirement and so no vesting took place.
Date of grant Vesting date Lapse date
Number of 
awards granted
Number of 
awards vested
Value of 
vested awards
Nick Cooper
LTIP 19/06/2012 19/06/2015 18/06/2016 277,518 0 £0
Annual Report on Remuneration 
continued
84 Ophir Energy plc Long-T erm Incentive awards granted in the year
The LTIP award levels granted to the other Executive Directors in the year under review (calculated based on the three-month average share 
price for the period from 14 November 2014 to 13 February 2015 (as per the Company’s policy detailed on page 80) of 87.06p, were:
• Chief Executive Officer (Nick Cooper): 200% of salary; 
• Chief Operating Officer (Bill Higgs): 200% of salary.
These awards were in line with the Company’s policy as detailed in the Policy Report.
The awards to the Executive Directors during the year were as follows:
Type of award Basis of award granted
Share price
at date
of grant
(26 March
2015)
Exercise
price
Number
of shares
awarded
Face value
of award
£’000
% of award that 
vests at the 
threshold
performance
 level 
(performance
is measured to
31 December
2017)
Nick Cooper LTIP – Nominal cost option 200% of salary £1.413 – 787,108 1,100
1
25%
Bill Higgs LTIP – Nominal cost option 200% of salary £1.413 – 547,398 765
1
25%
1 Tony Rouse was appointed to the Board 27 January 2016. His 2016 LTIP awards will be outlined in the 2016 Annual Report
The performance targets applying to the 2015 LTIP awards are based on relative TSR against other oil and gas companies. 
Awards vest on a straight line basis relative to the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance over a three-year period compared 
to a comparator group set on grant. No vesting occurs for below median performance. At median 25% of the award vests, with full vesting 
at the upper quartile. In addition, the Committee may reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award would otherwise vest 
based upon TSR performance if it considers that the TSR achieved over the three-year period does not reflect the underlying financial 
performance of the Company or that key operational metrics have not been met.
The LTIP comparator group applicable to the 2015 LTIP award is as per the group set out on page 81 for the 2016 award with the following 
exceptions, Amerisur Resources and Oryx Petroleum added to the comparator group.
Provisions, enabling the recovery and withholding of variable pay, will apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s 
results within a two-year period in relation to the award.
85 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Payments for loss of office
There were no payments for loss of office made in 2015. 
Details of the payments made (or to be made) for loss of office in relation to the 2014 departures of Lisa Mitchell and Denis McShane were 
included in full in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Directors’ interests in shares
Directors’ options and share-based awards as at 31 December 2015: 
Director and Scheme
Date 
of grant
Exercise
 price 
(pence)
Market 
price at 
release
 (pence)
Vesting
date
Shares 
under 
award at 
1 January
 2015
Shares
awarded
Shares 
vested 
in year
Shares 
exercised
Shares
 lapsed/
cancelled 
or 
forfeited
Shares 
under
 award 
at 31
December
 2015
Lapse 
date
Nick Cooper
ESOP
1
01/06/2011 216.20 – 01/06/2013 578,164 – – – – 578,164
2
31/5/2021
Long-Term Incentive Plan 13/04/2012 0.00 – 13/04/2015 373,190 – – – 18,660
3
354,530 1 2/04/2016
Long-Term Incentive Plan 19/06/2012 0.00 – 19/06/2015 277,518 – – – 277,518 0 19/06/201 5
Long-Term Incentive Plan 19/06/2012 0.00 – 19/06/2016 370,025 – – – – 370,025 18/06/201 7
Long-Term Incentive Plan 19/06/2012 0.00 – 19/06/2017 370,025 – – – – 370,025 18/06/2018
Long-Term Incentive Plan 26/03/2015 0.00 – 26/03/2018 0 787,108 – – – 787,108 25/03/2016
Bill Higgs
Long-Term Incentive Plan 26/03/2015 0.00 – 26/03/2018 0 547,398 – – – 547,398 25/03/2016
Save as noted below, further details of the share awards can be found on page 70 of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, pages 84 and 85 relating to Long-Term Incentives awards lapsing and granted in 
the year.
1 Nick Cooper was granted market value options under the 2006 Share Option Scheme and an award under the Long-Term Incentive Plan as part of the terms of his recruitment. 
2 These options have vested.
3  95% of these options vested based on the performance criteria.
Share ownership
To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, Directors are required to build up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Nick Cooper has a guideline equivalent to 300% of salary, to be achieved through retaining 100% of his vested or exercised awards (net of 
taxes) under the long-term incentive share plans until the guideline is met. Other Executive Directors are required to build up shareholdings of 
at least 100% of salary (increased to 200% of salary for Executive Director appointments after 14 November 2014) and are required to retain 
50% of their vested or exercised awards (net of taxes) under share incentive schemes until the guideline is met. Subject to approval of the 
2016 Remuneration Policy at the AGM, the share ownership requirements of the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer will 
increase to 200% of salary.
Nick Cooper has met his share ownership requirements as at 31 December 2015. Bill Higgs, who joined in September 2014, has yet to meet 
his requirement. Tony Rouse, who was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2016, has yet to meet his requirement.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
continued
86 Ophir Energy plc 0
50
100
150
200
250
Value (£)
13 Jul 11 13 Dec 11 13 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 14 31 Dec 15
Ophir
Source: Thomson Reuters
FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Oil and Gas Producers Index
Performance graph (not subject to audit)
The following graph shows the Company’s TSR performance since trading 
of the Company’s shares began on the London Stock Exchange on 
13 July 2011 against the FTSE All Share Oil and Gas Producers Index.
The graph also shows the Company’s TSR performance since trading 
of the Company’s shares began on the London Stock Exchange 
on 13 July 2011 against the FTSE 250. Ophir is a constituent of 
the index and therefore the Committee considers this equity index 
to be appropriate as a comparator.
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of £100 invested 
in Ophir Energy plc on 13 July 2011 (the date of listing on the London 
Stock Exchange) compared with the value of £100 invested in the 
FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index.
Lower shareholding requirements apply for other members of the management team. The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are 
encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline. Details of the Directors’ interests in shares 
are shown in the table below.
Target level
Beneficially
 owned as at
 31 December
2015
Beneficially
 owned as at
 31 
December
2014
Share
 ownership
 guideline
 met as at 
31 December
2014
Outstanding
 long-term
 incentive
 awards
Outstanding
options
 (vested but
 unexercised)
Outstanding
options
 (unvested)
Nicholas Smith n/a 140,000 128,000
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a
Nick Cooper 300% 1,336,531
2
770,001 100% 1,527,158 932,694 0
Bill Higgs 100% 44,258 0
3
0% 0 0 0
Carol Bell
4
n/a 6,870 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Ronald Blakely n/a 47,000 47,000
5
n/a n/a n/a n/a
Alan Booth n/a 125,000 125,000
6
n/a n/a n/a n/a
Vivien Gibney n/a 15,000
7
10,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a
L yndon Powell n/a 33,600
7
33,600 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Bill Schrader n/a 17,700
7
10,200 n/a n/a n/a n/a
T ony Rouse 200% 202,7358 0 n/a n/a n/a n/a
1 Nicholas Smith holds a beneficial interest in 128,000 shares. The legal interest is held by Vestra Nominees Limited.
2   The legal interest is held by Goldman Sachs International. 1,715 shares held by Nick Cooper’s spouse, Alison Nightingale. The legal interest of these shares is held in the name of James Capel (Nominees) Limited.
3  At 10 September 2014, date of appointment to the Board.
4 Carol Bell was appointed on 2 March 2015. 
5  Ronald Blakely and members of his family hold a beneficial interest in 47,000 shares. The legal interest is held by RBC Dominion Securities. 
6  Alan Booth holds a beneficial interest in 125,000 shares. The legal interest is held by TD Direct Investing Nominees (Europe) Ltd.
7 Vivien Gibney, Lyndon Powell (prior to stepping down from the Board on 20 May 2015) and Bill Schrader hold the legal and beneficial interest in the shares registered in their respective names. 
8  Tony Rouse was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2016. Following the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc on 3 March 2015 shares and options held in Salamander Energy plc converted to 
Ophir Energy plc shares. The legal interest of 6,155 share are held by his wife.
9  Nick Cooper had met the 300% of salary share ownership guideline at 27 June 2014 with the number of shares required to be held against the guideline fixed at 653,066.18 shares. Subsequent to this 
a further 682,549 shares has been acquired meaning that he has exceeded the share ownership requirements by 38.60%
Total shareholder returns (TSR)
87 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration table  
(not subject to audit)
The table below details the single total remuneration figure earned 
by the Chief Executive Officer since the Company moved to the 
Official List. Total remuneration has been calculated to be consistent 
with the figures disclosed on pages 81 to 82 and the table also 
details the proportion of annual bonus and LTIP awards payable 
and/or vesting in the relevant year.
Year ending Executive
Total
 remuneration
(£000)
Annual
 Bonus
(% of max)
LTIP
Vesting 
(% of max)
31/12/2015 Nick Cooper 1,215 72% 0%
31/12/2014 Nick Cooper 2,970 58% 95 & 100%
1
31/12/2013 Nick Cooper 1,027 92% n/a
2
31/12/2012 Nick Cooper 970 89% n/a
31/12/2011 Nick Cooper 910
3
83% n/a
1   In the year ending 31 December 2014 performance was established for the LTIPs awarded in 
2011, which vested at 100% on 1 June 2014 and for the award made on 13 April 2012, which 
vested at 95% on 13 April 2015. 
2  The LTIP award and 2006 Share Option Plan awards that vested in 2013 related to 
compensation agreed on joining the Company for awards forfeited at a previous employer. 
Neither award was subject to performance targets and as a result are not included in the Single 
Total Remuneration Figure.
3 Reflects the fact that Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2011.
Percentage change in the remuneration of the 
Chief Executive Officer (not subject to audit)
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration (salary, 
benefits and annual incentive) from 2014 to 201 5 for the Chief Executive 
Officer compared with the average UK Head Office employee.
Chief Executive 
Officer
Average UK 
employee
1
Salary +14.1% +7.8%
Benefits +11.1% 7.4%
Annual Bonus +43.7% 10.8%
1  The comparator group chosen comprises 18 employees who are the Company’s UK based employees, 
excluding the Executive Directors, who were employed continuously from 1 January 2014 to 
31 December 2015. The Committee believes that this group is the most appropriate comparator group 
as these employees are based in the same geographical location as the Chief Executive Officer and 
allows for a like-for-like comparison.
Relative importance of the spend on pay  
(not subject to audit)
2015 2014 % change
Staff costs (£m) 43.6 28.1 55.2%
Distributions to shareholders (£m) 38.4 27.71 10.7%
1 Via the share buyback programme.
Statement of shareholder voting  
(not subject to audit)
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration Report received the 
following votes from shareholders:
Votes in
 favour
Votes
 against
Votes
 withheld
Annual Statement 
and  Annual Report 
on Remuneration
92.35%
(500,136,655)
7.65%
(41,408,470)
n/a
(11,690,690)
By Order of the Board
Vivien Gibney 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
9 March 2015
Annual Report on Remuneration 
continued
88 Ophir Energy plc Responsibility statement of 
the Directors in respect of the 
Annual Report and Accounts
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities in relation to 
the financial statements 
and Annual Report
I confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of their knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report include a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Directors’ statement under the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Approved by the Board on 9 March 2016.
Nick Cooper
Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2016
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 
law and regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements of the Group and the parent Company for each 
financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare 
financial statements under International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group and parent 
Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Group and parent Company for that period. 
In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: 
• present fairly the financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows of the Group and parent Company; 
• select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: 
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 
and then apply them consistently; 
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
• make judgements that are reasonable; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the Group and parent 
Company’s financial position and financial performance; and 
• state whether the Group and parent Company financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Group and parent Company’s and 
enable them to ensure that the Group and parent Company financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Group and parent Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, 
Directors’ Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of 
the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Approved by the Board on 9 March 2016
Nick Cooper
Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2016
89 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Our opinion on the financial statements  
In our opinion:
• Ophir Energy plc’s Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and 
fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the group’s loss for the year 
then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Ophir Energy plc’s financial statements comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015
Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Cash flow statement for the year then ended
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 20 to the financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended
Related notes 1 to 39 including Appendix A to the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation of both the Group and Company Financial Statements 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach
Risks of material 
misstatement
•  Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets (“E&E”), tangible assets and the equity accounted investment held in APICO LLC (“APICO”) 
 The decline in oil and gas prices represents an indicator of impairment, which potentially could impact the carrying values of the 
exploration, development and production assets and the underlying assets in the 27.18% equity-accounted investment held in APICO.
• Estimate of oil and gas reserves 
  Significant judgements and assumptions are applied in determining the reserves and there is a risk that these may be manipulated 
to achieve desired results. This has been linked to other risks of material misstatement identified as part of our audit engagement.
• Acquisitions/business combinations 
  The risk of incorrectly recording business combinations, in particular the valuation of the underlying assets and liabilities in respect 
of the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc.
• Management override 
  There are a number of significant accounting estimates and judgements that are relevant to the financial statements that are  
exposed to potential bias. 
• Special remuneratory benefit (“SRB”) 
 The risk of incorrectly estimating this unique Thailand tax given the wide range of assumptions used to calculate the tax provision.
Audit scope •  We selected 14 out of a total of 53 components within the Group for our audit. We performed an audit of the complete financial 
information of 10 components across London, Thailand and Indonesia and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 
4 components across London and Indonesia. 
•  The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of Revenue and 99% of total  
group equity and group total assets.
Materiality •  Overall Group materiality of $37m (2014: $34 million) which represents 2% of total equity. We agreed with the Audit Committee  
that we would report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.9 million (2014: $1.7 million).
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the 
procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any 
opinion on these individual areas.
90 Ophir Energy plc
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Ophir Energy plc Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded  
to the Audit Committee
Impairment of exploration 
and evaluation assets 
(“E&E”), tangible assets 
and the equity accounted 
investment (“APICO”) 
The significant decline in the 
oil and gas prices represented 
an indicator of impairment, 
which potentially could impact 
the carrying values of Ophir’s 
E&E, development and 
production assets and APICO.
Refer to Note 13 – Exploration 
and Evaluation, Note 14 – Oil 
and Gas Properties and Note 
28 – Investments accounted 
for using the equity method 
(APICO) in the notes to the 
financial statements for 
$879.9m, $662.1m and 
$130.2m held respectively 
in the balance sheet by the 
Group as at 31 December 
2015.
We, in conjunction with our component teams in Bangkok and Jakarta, challenged the 
impairment analysis and assumptions prepared and used by management through a 
combination of audit testing and bench-marking. In addition, we performed journal 
entry testing to ensure that management had recorded an accurate reflection of the 
outcome of the impairment assessment as at the balance sheet date.
For E&E assets: 
•  We checked that Ophir had the right to explore in the relevant exploration licence 
which included obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation such as license 
agreements and or correspondence with relevant government agencies;
•  We checked that management had the intention to carry out exploration and 
evaluation activity in the relevant exploration area which included the review of 
management’s cash-flow forecast models, discussions with senior management 
and Directors as to the intentions and strategy of the Group;
•  We considered whether recent exploration activity in a given exploration licence 
provides negative indicators as to the recoverability of other intangible costs that 
remain capitalised; 
•  We considered whether Ophir has the ability to finance any planned future 
exploration and evaluation activity.
•  We have also assessed the competency of management’s experts, and (where 
applicable), the competency and objectivity of third party experts engaged for the 
purposes of assessing the reserves and resources associated with those exploration 
and evaluation assets.
•  We assessed the commercial viability of the exploration block based on the results 
of exploration and evaluation activities carried out in the relevant licence area; and
For Development and Production assets: 
•  We discussed asset performance, specifically on production and reserves data, and 
future plans with the operations and finance management to assess whether there 
were any other performance-related indicators of impairment.
•  For assets where an impairment indicator was identified, we obtained the relevant 
underlying value-in-use model (e.g. discounted cash-flow model) and fair value 
assessment for the asset from management and compared the higher of these 
to the carrying value of the asset as of the balance sheet date to identify if there 
were any impairment.
•  In assessing the appropriateness of management’s assumptions and inputs 
included in the value-in-use models we engaged our Valuation and Business 
Modelling specialists to assist us in performing industry benchmarking and analysis 
over oil and gas prices (short, medium and long-term), discount rates, foreign 
exchange rates and inflation rates. In respect of oil and gas reserve estimates 
including production profiles, we made inquiries of Ophir’s third party reserve 
engineers, assessing both their competence and objectivity in respect of their 
reserves reporting.
For equity-accounted investment in APICO LLC:
•  We instructed PwC Bangkok to perform a full scope audit over the financial 
statements of APICO.
•  During our site visits to Bangkok, we met with PwC and certain directors of APICO 
appointed by Ophir to inquire of the financial and non-financial performance of the 
company to understand if any impairment indicators exist in respect of assets held 
by APICO.
•  In assessing the carrying value of the equity-accounted investment in APICO in 
Ophir’s financial statements, we have obtained value-in-use models for the 
significant producing and development assets, specifically Sinphuhorm (producing) 
and Dong Mun (development) from management and performed the same audit 
procedures as outlined for the production and development assets outlined above 
to identify if there was an impairment.
•  In assessing the appropriateness of management’s assumptions and inputs 
included in the value-in-use models, we have performed the same procedures for 
which we have outlined in development and production assets discussed above.
Based on our audit 
procedures, which included 
sensitivity analysis, we 
concluded that the oil and 
gas prices, discount rates and 
the other assumptions used 
by management were within 
an acceptable range in light 
of the current market view; 
we did not identify any 
material issues with the 
valuation of assets.
The impairment tests are 
sensitive to both prices 
and discount rates 
We therefore concluded  
that the accuracy of the 
impairment charges and 
the disclosures in respect of 
the E&E, development and 
production assets and the 
investment in APICO included 
in the consolidated financial 
statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 
were appropriate.
91 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded  
to the Audit Committee
Estimate of oil and gas 
reserves – significant 
judgements and assumptions 
are applied in determining 
the reserves and there is a risk 
that these be manipulated 
to achieve desired results.
These estimates have a 
material impact on the 
financial statements, 
particularly: impairment 
testing; depreciation, 
depletion and amortisation 
(DD&A); decommissioning 
provisions; assessment of 
going concern and in 
calculating the purchase price 
accounting for the business 
combination with Salamander 
Energy plc.
Our audit procedures have focused on management’s estimation process, including 
whether bias exists in the determination of reserves.
We carried out procedures to walk through and understand Ophir’s internal process 
and key controls associated with the oil and gas reserves estimation process.
We assessed the competence of both internal and external specialists and objectivity 
of external specialists. We also analysed the report of the external specialists on their 
audit of the reserves for the producing and development Thailand and Indonesian 
assets as at 31 December 2015.
Based on our procedures we 
consider that the reserves 
estimations are a reasonable 
basis for estimating reserves 
in-place for impairment 
testing, calculating DD&A, 
the determination of 
decommissioning dates 
and in the work performed 
over the purchase price 
accounting for the business 
combination with 
Salamander Energy plc. 
Acquisitions/business 
combinations – the risk of 
incorrectly recording business 
combinations, in particular the 
valuation of the underlying 
assets and liabilities 
associated with the business 
combination with Salamander 
Energy plc.
Ophir acquired a 100% interest 
in Salamander Energy plc 
(“Salamander”) on the 3 
March 2015. There is a risk 
that the valuation of the 
assets and liabilities acquired is 
calculated incorrectly leading 
to a material misstatement in 
the financial statements as 
the valuation is subjective 
and judgemental due to the 
complex estimations and 
inputs required.
Refer to Note 10 –Business 
Combinations in the notes 
to the financial statements 
for the amount recognised 
by the Group as at 
31 December 2015.
In order to assess that management’s methodology and calculation of the purchase 
price allocation associated with the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc was within 
an acceptable range and in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 (revised) – 
Business Combinations, we have performed the following procedures: 
•  Inquiries of management outside of the finance function to corroborate the 
assumptions made by finance in the preparation of the PPA, oil and gas reserves, 
impairment tests and decommissioning estimates;
•  We obtained management’s purchase price allocation schedules and supporting 
fair value models (where applicable i.e. for production and development assets) 
and tested and bench-marked, including sensitivity analysis, management’s 
assumptions and estimates in calculating the fair value of the acquired assets and 
liabilities assumed as part of the business combination with Salamander Energy plc. 
With the assistance of our valuation specialists, we specifically analysed and 
benchmarked management’s assumptions in the forecast cash-flow models on discount 
rate, inflation rate, future oil and gas prices, production profiles, operating and capital 
expenditures against industry peers and other market data (where available). 
•  We engaged our London, Bangkok and Jakarta tax specialists to perform an audit 
of the opening taxation position of the acquired company, which included specific 
procedures over assumptions utilised by management in calculating the deferred 
tax and special remuneratory benefit (both current and deferred) as part of the 
business combination with Salamander Energy plc. 
•  We performed testing over journal entries associated with the recording of the 
purchase price allocation to ensure that the amounts recorded accurately reflected 
the outcome of management’s calculations.
On the basis of the 
procedures we have 
performed we consider 
the assumptions and inputs 
used by management in 
calculating the fair values 
of the assets and liabilities 
acquired as part the business 
combination accounting  
and the relevant disclosures 
included in the consolidated 
financial statements for 
Salamander Energy plc to be 
within an acceptable range 
and in accordance with the 
requirements of IFRS 3: 
Business Combinations. 
92 Ophir Energy plc
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Ophir Energy plc 
continued Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded  
to the Audit Committee
Management override – due 
to the number of significant 
accounting estimates and 
judgements that are relevant 
to the financial statements 
that are exposed to potential 
bias. This is specifically with 
reference to:
•  The valuation of assets and 
liabilities acquired as part of 
the Salamander Energy plc 
acquisition;
•  Estimation of oil and 
gas reserves; 
•  Impairment of Exploration 
and Evaluation (E&E) assets, 
tangible assets and the 
equity-accounted investment 
held in APICO LLC.
We have therefore concluded 
that there is a risk that 
management may override 
controls that otherwise appear 
to be operating effectively. 
We performed procedures with a particular focus on those key judgements and 
estimates as communicated in our response to other risks of material misstatement 
included in our report. This includes assessing exploration and evaluation assets, 
tangible assets and the APICO investment for impairment, estimating the fair values 
of the assets and liabilities as part of the purchase price allocation (“PPA”) exercise 
performed following the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc, estimation of the oil 
and gas (O&G) reserves and decommissioning provisions.
We performed the following:
•  Inquiries of management outside of the finance function to corroborate the 
assumptions made by finance in the preparation of the PPA, oil and gas reserves, 
impairment tests and decommissioning estimates;
•  We tested manual and automated journal entries in respect of the other risks 
of material misstatement identified and concluded on in this report.
•  As part of our audit procedures to address this fraud risk, we assessed the overall 
control environment, including the arrangements for staff to “whistle-blow”, and 
interviewed senior management and Ophir’s internal audit function to understand 
whether there had been any reported actual or alleged instances of fraudulent 
activity during the year.
Based on the procedures 
we have performed and the 
inquiries we have made, we 
have not noted any instances 
of management overriding 
controls during the year 
ending 31 December 2015.
Special remuneratory benefit 
(“SRB”) – risk of incorrectly 
estimating this unique Thailand 
tax given the wide range of 
assumptions used to calculate 
the tax provision.
SRB is a complex tax regime. 
The calculation of SRB requires 
a making a number of 
assumptions and estimates 
including:
• future petroleum revenue;
•  future capital expenditure; 
and
•  depreciation from which the 
rate of SRB is applied based 
on cumulative metres drilled.
Given these assumptions and 
estimates, there is a risk that 
the SRB tax charge is calculated 
incorrectly leading to a material 
misstatement of the financial 
statements for the year ending 
31 December 2015.
Refer to Note 11 – Special 
remuneratory benefit in 
the notes to the financial 
statements for the amount 
charged in the income 
statement during the year 
and held in the statement of 
financial position by the Group 
as at 31 December 2015.
In order to address the risk we, in conjunction with our tax specialists in Bangkok and 
London, have audited whether the calculations are arithmetically correct and have 
been prepared in accordance it the Petroleum Act of Thailand.
 
We agreed the future revenues and capital expenditure inputs in the SRB computation 
to the same valuation models that were used to estimate the value-in-use of Thailand 
exploration, development and producing assets (refer to the impairment risk identified 
above) to ensure that the assumptions were reasonable and consistent. 
We have also reviewed the relevant SRB disclosures included in the consolidated 
financial statements to ensure that they are appropriate and understandable and 
in accordance with the requirements of IAS 12.
Based on the procedures 
performed by our tax 
specialists in Bangkok and 
London, we have concluded 
that the calculation of current 
and deferred SRB taxation 
is materially correct and has 
been appropriately disclosed 
in the financial statements 
for the year ended at 
31 December 2015.
93 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to going concern. In the current year, we have 
considered this potential risk and concluded that, in spite of the decline in oil price, the business has been cash generative, maintained a 
positive net asset position and continues to hold a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents as a result of the farm-out of certain 
Tanzanian exploration assets in 2014. We have therefore concluded that this is no longer a risk that is necessary to be included in our report. 
In addition, as a result of the business combination with Salamander Energy plc, which brought production and development assets into 
the Group for the first time, we identified additional risks of material misstatement this year being; impairment of oil and gas assets/
equity-accounted investment, estimate of oil and gas reserves, acquisitions/business combinations and special remuneratory benefit.
The scope of our audit 
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each 
entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account 
size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other 
factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Changes from the prior year 
There have been significant changes in the scope of the audit from prior year as a result of the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc. In the 
previous year, we concluded that there was one full scope audit component located in London which represented the entire group and was 
audited from London. As a result of the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc, which brought producing and development assets in South 
East Asia, we instructed our component teams in Thailand and Indonesia to perform audit procedures in conjunction with the primary team 
in London to ensure adequate coverage over the significant accounts that comprise the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Tailoring the scope
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage 
of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the total 53 components of the Group, we selected 14 (26%) of components across 
London, Thailand and Indonesia.
Of the 14 components selected for our audit, we designated a component as either full scope, specific scope or review scope. Full scope 
components were selected on the basis of their size and or risk characteristics and as such we performed an audit of the complete financial 
information. Specific scope components were selected on the size of their accounts and or risk profile and as such we performed audit 
procedures on specific accounts within that entity that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts 
in the consolidated financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. A summary of the location and split 
of the designated scope of those reporting components in our scope has been summarised in the table below:
 UK Thailand Indonesia Total
Full 5 3 2 10
Specific 3 0 1 4
Review Scope 23 3 13 39
Total 31 6 16 53
94 Ophir Energy plc
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Ophir Energy plc 
continued For the current year, the full scope components contributed 91% (2014: 100%) of the Group’s Equity, 100% (2014: not applicable) of the 
Group’s Revenue and 94% (2014: 99%) of the Group’s Total assets. The specific scope component contributed a further 8% of the Group’s 
Equity and 5% coverage (2014: nil) of the Group’s Total assets, bringing the total coverage of the Group’s Equity to 99% (2014: 100%) and 
Group’s Total Assets to 99% (2014: 99%). The audit scope of these specific scope components may not have included testing of all financial 
statement accounts of that component but will have contributed to the coverage of overall financial statements accounts tested for the 
Group as a whole. Of the remaining 39 components (referred to as review scope above) within the Group, these together represent 1% of 
the Group’s Equity and Group’s Total Assets and none are individually greater than 0.5% of the Group’s Total Equity and Group’s Total Assets.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany 
eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Total Revenue
 Full Scope Components 100%
Total Assets
 Full Scope Components 94%
 Speciﬁc Scope Components  5%
 Other Procedures 1%
Total Equity
 Full Scope Components 91%
 Speciﬁc Scope Components  8%
 Other Procedures 1%
Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken in Thailand 
and Indonesia and by us, as the primary audit engagement team located in London. For full scope and specific scope component work 
performed by our teams in Thailand and Indonesia respectively, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to 
determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current year’s audit cycle, the senior statutory auditor visited both Indonesia and Thailand. Two additional visits to Indonesia and 
Thailand were undertaken by other members of the audit team. These visits involved meeting with local management (including heads of country 
and personnel outside of the finance function) and component teams for planning purposes which included obtaining an understanding of the 
businesses and their operations including current year performance to enable risk identification, discussions around audit timetables, and the scope 
for the audit. The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key 
working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional procedures performed at 
Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
95 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit 
and in forming our audit opinion. 
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our 
audit procedures.
We have used total equity of the Group as the basis for our materiality calculation as we concluded that Total Equity is the most closely 
monitored financial measure for the stakeholders of Ophir Energy plc. Typically we would expect to focus on an income statement based 
measure such as profit before tax when calculating materiality. The Salamander acquisition brings with it income generating/producing 
assets, however the Group’s stated strategy is that the cash-generated by the assets will primarily be used to fund future exploration as part 
of their strategy to remain a “Big E (exploration), little p (production)” company. Therefore we concluded that income statement based 
measures are less relevant where stakeholder value is primarily generated through discovering commercial hydrocarbons. Hence we have 
concluded that total equity provides the most appropriate financial measure that is responsive to the main value driver for the shareholders 
of Ophir Energy plc. This is also consistent with the prior year audit.
Having identified a relevant basis for materiality, we calculated the planning materiality for the group to be $37 million (2014: $34 million), 
which represents 2% (2014: 2%) of total equity. This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment 
procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit 
procedures. 
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the 
probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that 
performance materiality was 50% (2014: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely $18.5m (2014: $17m) to address the risks associated 
with performing an initial audit over the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the Salamander Energy plc business combination. 
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not 
exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken 
based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale 
and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, 
the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $3m to $10m. 
Reporting threshold
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $1.9m (2014: $1.7m), which 
is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other 
relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
96 Ophir Energy plc
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Ophir Energy plc 
continued Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 89, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the annual report 
and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business model and strategy; and whether the annual report 
appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should 
have been disclosed.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Companies Act 2006 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Listing Rules review 
requirements
We are required to review:
•  the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 63, and longer-term viability, set out 
on page 16; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
97 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention 
to in relation to:
•  the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity;
•  the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated;
•  the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material 
uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the 
date of approval of the financial statements; and
•  the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over 
what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as 
to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have 
nothing 
material to  
add or to draw 
attention to.
Paul Wallek  
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
9 March 2016
Notes:
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Ophir Energy plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
98 Ophir Energy plc
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Ophir Energy plc 
continued Consolidated income statement Notes
2015
 $’000
2014
$’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 161,090 –
Cost of sales 5a (128,816) –
Gross profit 32,274 –
Gain on farm-out 5b 245 671,677
Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 28 7,219 –
Other income 6 26
Impairment of oil and gas properties 14 (126,732) –
Impairment of investments accounted for using the equity method (42,117) –
Exploration expenses 5c (183,137) (333,782)
General and administration expenses 5d (31,252) (20,746)
Other operating expenses 5e (25,264) (22,821)
Operating (loss)/profit (368,758) 294,354
Net finance expense 6 (10,662) (5,861)
Other financial gains 7 3,372 –
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations before taxation (376,048) 288,493
Taxation 11 53,596 (233,651)
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations for the year (322,452) 54,842
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (322,452) 54,846
Non-controlling interest – (4)
(322,452) 54,842
Earnings per ordinary share 
Basic – (Loss)/profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 12 (47.1) cents 9.4 cents
Diluted – (Loss)/profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 12 (47.1) cents 9.4 cents
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations for the year (322,452) 54,842
Other comprehensive (loss)/income
Other comprehensive (loss)/ income to be classified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations net of tax (702) 1,784
Other comprehensive (loss)/ income for the year, net of tax (702) 1,784
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax: (323,154) 56,626
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (323,154) 56,630
Non-controlling interest – (4)
(323,154) 56,626
The notes on pages 103 to 139 and pages 158 to 160 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
99 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 201 5 Notes
2015 
 $’000
2014
 $’000
Non-current assets 
Exploration and evaluation assets 13 879,914 764,933
Oil and gas properties 14 662,177 –
Other property, plant and equipment 15 5,140 6,307
Financial assets 16 27,253 17,104
Investments accounted for using the equity method 28 130,200 –
1,704,684 788,344
Current assets
Inventory 17 50,216 23,902
Taxation receivable 22,322 13,424
Trade and other receivables 18 32,071 12,839
Cash and cash equivalents 19 614,569 877,872
Investments 20 – 294,904
719,178 1,222,941
Total assets 2,423,862 2,011,285
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (115,971) (242,148)
Interest-bearing bank borrowings due within one year 22 (37,059) –
Taxation payable (38,056) –
Provisions 25 (47,737) (26,787)
(238,823) (268,935)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing bank borrowings 22 (115,949) –
Bonds payable 23 (106,651) –
Deferred tax liability 11 (245,745) (44,048)
Provisions 25 (67,190) (263)
(535,535) (44,311)
Total liabilities (774,358) (313,246)
Net assets 1,649,504 1,698,039
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 27 3,061 2,474
Reserves 30 1,646,723 1,695,845
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 1,649,784 1,698,319
Non-controlling interest (280) (280)
Total equity 1,649,504 1,698,039
The notes on pages 103 to 139 and pages 158 to 160 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements of Ophir Energy plc (registered number 05047425) on pages 99 to 139 and pages 158 to 160 were 
approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2016.
On behalf of the Board:
Nicholas Smith          Tony Rouse
Chairman           Chief Financial Officer
100 Ophir Energy plc
Consolidated statement of financial position 
As at 31 December 201 5  Called up 
share capital 
$’000
Treasury 
shares
$’000
 Other
1
reserves
$’000
Non-
controlling 
interest
$’000
Total equity
$’000
As at 1 January 2014 2,466 – 1,674,719 (276) 1,676,909
Profit/(loss) for the period, net of tax – – 54,846 (4) 54,842
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – 1,784 – 1,784
Total comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax – – 56,630 (4) 56,626
Purchase of own shares – (59) (44,168) – (44,227)
Exercise of options 8 – 1,847 – 1,855
Share-based payment – – 6,876 – 6,876
As at 31 December 2014 2,474 (59) 1,695,904 (280) 1,698,039
Loss for the period, net of tax – – (322,452) – (322,452)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – (702) – (702)
Total comprehensive (loss), net of tax – – (323,154) – (323,154)
New ordinary shares issued to third parties 587 – 325,545 – 326,132
Purchase of own shares – (99) (56,011) – (56,110)
Exercise of options – 3 – – 3
Share-based payment – – 4,594 – 4,594
As at 31 December 2015 3,061 (155) 1,646,878 (280) 1,649,504
1  Refer to Note 31 of these consolidated financial statements. 
The notes on pages 103 to 139 and pages 158 to 160 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
101 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 201 5 Notes
2015
 $’000
2014
$’000
Cash generated from/(utilised) in operations 32 122,084 (16,394)
Income taxes paid (83,042) (3,226)
Interest Income 2,051 8,307
Net cash flows generated from /(used in) operating activities 41,093 (11,313)
Investing activities
Proceeds from farm-out 2,100 1,329,672
Tax paid on gain on farm-out – (222,411)
Dividend received from investments 5,843 –
Funding provided to investment accounted for using the equity method (3,941) –
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment (44,788) (4,770)
Exploration expenditure (311,120) (521,302)
Purchase of exploration licences, net of cash acquired (18,965) –
Proceeds on disposals of assets – 2
Disposal/(purchase) of inventory – 1,988
Cash returned/(placed) on deposit 294,904 (134,983)
Financial assets returned/(placed) 16 36,580 (12,331)
Net cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (39,387) 435,865
Financing activities
Interest paid (22,521) –
Repayment of interest-bearing bank borrowings (100,910) –
Repayment of convertible bonds 10 (93,959) –
Repayment of unsecured bonds (45,652) –
Proceeds from exercise of share options 3 1,914
Purchase of own shares (56,109) (44,230)
Cash acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 48,827 –
Net cash outflows from financing activities 10 (270,321) (42,316)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year (268,615) 382,236
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 5,312 (11,126)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 19 877,872 506,762
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 19 614,569 877,872
The notes on pages 103 to 139 and pages 158 to 160 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
102 Ophir Energy plc
Consolidated statement of cash flows 
For the year ended 31 December 201 5 1 Corporate information
Ophir Energy plc (the ‘Company’ and ultimate parent of the Group) is a public limited company domiciled and incorporated in England 
and Wales. The Company’s registered offices are located at 123 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6DE. 
The principal activity of the Group is the development of offshore and deepwater oil and gas exploration assets. The Company has an 
extensive and diverse portfolio of exploration interests across Africa and Southeast Asia.
The Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
9th March 2016 and the consolidated statement of financial position was signed on the Board’s behalf by Nicholas Smith and Tony Rouse.
2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board and adopted by the European Union (EU), IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain 
derivative instruments measured at fair value. The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars rounded to the nearest 
thousand dollars ($’000) except as otherwise indicated.
Comparative figures for the period to 31 December 2014 are for the year ended on that date.
Adoption of new accounting policies
The Group has adopted the following relevant new accounting policies as a result of the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc on 
3 March 2015 (the acquisition date and effective date of adoption):
• Commercial reserves – 2.3(a) & 2.4
• Oil and gas properties – 2.3(d) & 2.4
• Derivative financial instruments – 2.3(e)
• Inventories of oil – 2.3(f)
• Provision for decommissioning – 2.3(g) & 2.4
• Revenue recognition: sale of oil and petroleum products – 2.3(m)
• Cost of sales: underlift and overlift – 2.3(n)
• Royalties, resource rent tax and revenue-based taxes – 2.3(u)
New and amended accounting standards and interpretations
The Group has adopted the following relevant new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2015:
• Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle
• Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 cycle
These new and amended standards and interpretations have not materially affected amounts reported or disclosed in the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective 
The following interpretation to existing standards relevant to the Group is not yet effective and has not been early adopted by the Group. 
The Group expects to adopt this interpretation in accordance with the effective date of 1 January 2016.
Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to IAS 1)
The narrow-focus amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements clarify, rather than significantly change, existing IAS 1 
requirements. In most cases the proposed amendments respond to overly prescriptive interpretations of the wording in IAS 1. 
103 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued
The following standards and interpretations, relevant to the Group, have been issued by the IASB, but are not effective for the financial year 
beginning 1 January 2015 and have not been early adopted by the Group:
Effective date for periods 
beginning on or after
IFRS 16 Leases
1
1 January 2019
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts’ 1 January 2018
Amendment to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative
1
1 January 2017
Amendment to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses
1
1 January 2017
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 ‘Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception’ 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Disclosure Initiative’ 1 January 2016
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 27: ‘Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements’ 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: ‘Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation’ 1 January 2016
IFRS 11 Amendment: Accounting for acquisitions of interests in Joint Ventures
1
1 January 2016
1 These standards, amendments and improvements have not yet been adopted by the European Union.
The Group does not currently expect any of these changes to have a material impact on the results, except as outlined below.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
The IASB The IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 in July 2014, which reflects all phases of the financial instruments project. IFRS 9 
introduces new requirements for the classification, measurement and impairment of financial instruments and hedge accounting, and will 
be adopted by the Group when it becomes mandatory in the European Union. The Group is currently reviewing the standard to determine 
the likely impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts’
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’, replaces all existing revenue requirements (IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue, 
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers 
and SIC 31 Revenue – Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services) in IFRS and applies to all revenue arising from contracts with 
customers; The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 15 but currently expects that it will not have a material impact on the Group’s results.
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate 
Financial Statements, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer Plants, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable 
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, and Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle. 
The Group is currently reviewing the above amendments to determine the likely impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements 
from the changes arising from these standards and interpretations. They are not expected to materially affect amounts reported or disclosed 
in the Group’s consolidated financial statements, with the exception of IFRS 16 Leases, the full impact of which is still being considered.
2.2 Basis of consolidation
These financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporates 
the results of its joint ventures and associates using the equity method of accounting, drawn up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries 
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has all of 
the following:
• Power over the investee (i.e. existing voting rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee);
•  Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
•  The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of 
the three elements of control. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains 
control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. 
104 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting 
policies. All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising therefrom, are eliminated.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over 
a subsidiary, it (i) derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary; (ii) derecognises the carrying amount of any non-
controlling interest; (iii) derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity; (iv) recognises the fair value of the consideration 
received; (v) recognises the fair value of any investment retained; and (vi) recognises any surplus or deficit in profit and loss; (vii) reclassifies the 
parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit and loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is 
presented separately within the consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent. 
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. 
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies
(a) Commercial reserves
Commercial reserves are proved and probable oil and gas reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural 
gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be 
recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially viable. Proved and probable reserve estimates 
are based on a number of underlying assumptions including oil and gas prices, future costs, oil and gas in place and reservoir performance, 
which are inherently uncertain. There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more 
than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less. However, the amount 
of reserves that will ultimately be recovered from any field cannot be known with certainty until the end of the field’s life.
(b) Intangible exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation (E&E) expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves 
and resources. The Group applies the successful efforts method of accounting for E&E costs as permitted by IFRS 6 ‘Exploration for and 
Evaluation of Mineral Resources’.
Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs (such as geological, geochemical 
and geophysical costs, exploratory drilling and other direct costs associated with finding mineral resources) are initially capitalised in well, 
field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, pending determination. Costs (other than payments for the acquisition of rights 
to explore) incurred prior to acquiring legal rights to explore an area and general exploration costs not specific to any particular licence 
or prospect are charged directly to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
E&E assets are not amortised prior to the determination of the results of exploration activity. 
Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities
Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence/block are carried forward, until the existence (or otherwise) of commercial reserves 
has been determined, subject to certain limitations including review for indicators of impairment. If, at completion of evaluation activities, 
technical and commercial feasibility is demonstrated, then, following recognition of commercial reserves, the carrying value of the relevant 
E&E asset is then reclassified as a development and production asset (subject to an impairment assessment before reclassification). 
If, on completion of evaluation activities, it is not possible to determine technical feasibility and commercial viability or if the legal right 
to explore expires or if the Group decides not to continue E&E activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful E&E are written off to the 
consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income in the period of that determination.
Impairment
E&E assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of an E&E asset may exceed 
its recoverable amount. The cash generating unit (CGU) applied for impairment test purposes is generally the block, except that a number 
of block interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows of each block are interdependent.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, management will assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the asset or CGU. This review 
includes a status report confirming that E&E drilling is still under way or firmly planned, or that it has been determined, or work is under way 
to determine that the discovery is economically viable. This assessment is based on a range of technical and commercial considerations and 
confirming that sufficient progress is being made to establish development plans and timing. If no future activity is planned, or the value of 
the asset cannot be recovered via successful development or sale, the balance of the E&E costs are written off in the consolidated income 
statement and statement of comprehensive income.
105 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued
Farm-in/farm-out arrangements
The Group may enter into farm-in or farm-out arrangements, where it may introduce partners to share in the development of an asset. 
For transactions involving assets at the exploration and evaluation phase, the Group adopts an accounting policy as permitted by IFRS 6 
such that the Group does not record any expenditure made on its behalf under a ‘carried interest’ by a farm-in partner (the ‘farmee’). 
Where applicable past costs are reimbursed, any cash consideration received directly from the farmee is credited against costs previously 
capitalised in relation to the whole interest with any excess accounted for by the farmor as a gain on disposal. Farmed-out oil and gas 
properties are accounted for in accordance with IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’.
(c) Business combinations 
On an acquisition that qualifies as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 – Business Combinations, the assets and liabilities of a 
subsidiary are measured at their fair value as at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable 
net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill which is treated as an intangible asset. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values 
of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period of acquisition.
A business combination is a transaction in which an acquirer obtains control of a business. A business is defined as an integrated set of activities 
and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends or lower costs or other 
economic benefits directly to investors or other owners or participants. A business consists of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that 
have the ability to create outputs.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest (NCI) in the acquiree. 
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure NCI in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in general and administration expenses. 
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in 
accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the 
separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. Those oil and gas reserves that are able to be reliably measured are 
recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition. Other potential reserves, resources and rights, for which fair values cannot be 
reliably measured, are not recognised separately, but instead are subsumed in goodwill.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree 
is remeasured to fair value as at the acquisition date (being the date the acquirer gains control) in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes 
to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either 
in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is not within the scope of IAS 39, it is measured 
in accordance with the appropriate IFRS. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and subsequent 
settlement is accounted for within equity.
(d) Property, plant and equipment
Oil and gas properties and other property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses. 
Oil and gas properties – cost
Development and production assets are generally accumulated on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves 
discovered and bringing them into production. The initial cost of a development and production asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, 
any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation, the initial estimate of the decommissioning obligation and, for qualifying assets 
(where relevant), borrowing costs. When a development project moves into the production stage, the capitalisation of certain construction/development 
costs ceases, and costs are either regarded as part of the cost of inventory or expensed, except for costs which qualify for capitalisation relating to oil and 
gas property asset additions, improvements or new developments. The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair 
value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset. The capitalised value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Oil and gas properties – depreciation
Oil and gas properties are depreciated/amortised from the commencement of production, on a unit-of-production basis, which is the ratio of 
oil and gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production in the period, 
on a field-by-field basis. Costs used in the unit of production calculation comprise the net carrying amount of capitalised costs plus the estimated 
future field development costs. The production and reserve estimates used in the calculation are on an entitlements basis. Changes in the 
estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
106 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation purposes, 
but are depreciated separately from producing assets that serve other reserves.
Other fixed assets
Property, plant and equipment other than oil and gas properties, is depreciated at rates calculated to write-off the cost less estimated 
residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful economic life of between three and 10 years.
Impairment
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset (or CGU) may be impaired. Management has assessed 
its CGUs as being an individual block, which is the lowest level for which cash flows are largely independent of those of other assets. If any 
indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s (or CGU’s) recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s (or CGU’s) fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD) and value in use (VIU). The recoverable 
amount is then determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets, in which case the asset is tested as part of a larger CGU to which it belongs. Where the carrying amount of  
an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset (or CGU) is considered impaired and written down to its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
(e) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the group’s consolidated statement of financial position when the group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
i. Financial assets
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
or issue of financial assets and liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities through profit or loss) are added to or deducted 
from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose 
terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, 
plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit and loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit and loss’ (FVTPL), ‘held-to-
maturity’ investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and 
purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are 
classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any 
impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition 
of interest would be immaterial.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over 
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees paid or 
received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected 
life of the financial asset.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets are classified as financial assets at FVTPL where the Group acquires the financial asset principally for the purpose of 
selling in the near term, is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent 
actual pattern of short term profit taking as well as all derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments. Financial 
assets at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or 
loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the ‘other financial gains 
and losses’ line item in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income. 
107 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are 
impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial 
asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted. All impairment losses are taken to the consolidated income 
statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Trade receivables are assessed for impairment based on the number of days outstanding on individual invoices. Any trade receivable that is 
deemed uncollectible is immediately written off to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, any subsequent 
recoveries are also taken directly to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income upon receipt of cash collected.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire; or it transfers the financial 
asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
ii. Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised 
in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the ‘other financial gains and losses’ line item in the 
consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income. 
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of 
the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
iii. Cash and short-term deposits
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a 
maturity of three months or less, but exclude any restricted cash. Restricted cash is not available for use by the Group and therefore is not 
considered highly liquid – for example cash set aside to cover rehabilitation obligations. 
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
iv. Short-term investments
Short-term investments in the statement of financial position comprise cash deposits that are made for varying periods of between three 
months and twelve months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term 
investment rate.
v. Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to movements in oil and gas prices, interest rates and foreign 
exchange. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments – at fair value
Gains or losses on derivatives are taken directly to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income in the 
period. The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices. Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash 
flow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option 
pricing models for optional derivatives. Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield 
curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of 
future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
108 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued The estimated fair value of these derivatives is disclosed in trade and other receivables or trade and other payables in the consolidated 
statement of financial position and the related changes in the fair value are included in other financial gains and losses in the consolidated 
income statement and statement of comprehensive income. 
(f) Inventories
Inventories of oil, materials and drilling consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined by using 
weighted average cost method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of transportation and other related expenses.
(g) Provisions
General
A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation. If the effect of the time 
value of money is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Decommissioning liability
The Group recognises a decommissioning liability where it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and 
it is probable than an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
obligation. 
The obligation generally arises when the asset is installed or the ground/environment is disturbed at the field location. When the liability 
is initially recognised, the present value of the estimated costs is capitalised by increasing the carrying amount of the related oil and gas 
assets to the extent that it was incurred by the development/construction of the field. 
Changes in the estimated timing or cost of decommissioning are dealt with prospectively by recording an adjustment to the provision 
and a corresponding adjustment to oil and gas assets. Any reduction in the decommissioning liability and, therefore, any deduction from 
the asset to which it relates, may not exceed the carrying amount of that asset. If it does, any excess over the carrying value is taken 
immediately to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
If the change in estimate results in an increase in the decommissioning liability and, therefore, an addition to the carrying value of the asset, 
the Group considers whether this is an indication of impairment of the asset as a whole, and if so, tests for impairment. If, for mature fields, 
the estimate for the revised value of oil and gas assets net of decommissioning provisions exceeds the recoverable value, that portion of the 
increase is charged directly to expense. Over time, the discounted liability is increased for the change in present value based on the discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments and risks specific to the liability. The periodic unwinding of the discount is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income as a finance cost. The Company recognises neither the deferred 
tax asset in respect of the temporary difference on the decommissioning liability nor the corresponding deferred tax liability in respect of 
the temporary difference on a decommissioning asset.
(h) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group does not operate its own pension plan but makes pension or superannuation contributions to private funds of its employees 
which are defined contribution plans. The cost of providing such benefits are expensed in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
(i) Employee benefits 
Salaries, wages, annual leave and sick leave
Liabilities for salaries and wages, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave expected to be settled 
within 12 months of the reporting date are recognised in respect of employees’ services up to the reporting date. They are measured 
at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled. Liabilities for non-accumulating sick leave are recognised when the 
leave is taken and are measured at the rates paid or payable.
Long service leave
The liability for long service leave is recognised and measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect 
of services provided by employees up to the reporting date using the projected unit credit method.
Consideration is given to the expected future wage and salary levels, experience of employee departures and periods of service. Expected 
future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date on national government bonds with terms to maturity and 
currencies that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
109 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued
(j) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
(k) Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an 
assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys 
a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
The Group has leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset. Such leases are classified 
as operating leases and rentals payable are charged to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income on 
a straight line basis over the lease term.
(l) Interests in joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is an arrangement over which two or more parties have joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing 
of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities (being those that significantly affect the returns 
of the arrangement) require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
i.  Joint operations
A joint operation is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets 
and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. In relation to its interests in joint operations, the Group recognises its:
• Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly
•  Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly
•  Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation
• Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation
•  Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly
ii.  Joint ventures
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets 
of the joint arrangement. The Group’s investment in its joint venture is accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is 
adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the joint 
venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not individually tested for impairment.
The consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the 
joint venture. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint venture are eliminated to the extent 
of the interest in the joint venture.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of the joint venture is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement and 
statement of comprehensive income as part of operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and NCI in the subsidiaries of joint 
venture. The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. When necessary, 
adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the joint venture is impaired. 
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the joint 
venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method’ in 
the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
On loss of joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value. Any difference 
between the carrying amount of the joint venture upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds 
from disposal is recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
(m)  Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received and receivable, excluding discounts, sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies.
110 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued Revenue from the sale of oil and petroleum products is recognised on an entitlement basis when the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership have been transferred, which is considered to occur when title passes to the customer. This generally occurs when the product 
is physically transferred into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism.
Revenue from the production of oil, in which the Group has an interest with other producers, is recognised based on the Group’s working 
interest and the terms of the relevant production sharing contracts.
Gains and losses on derivative contracts and the revenue and costs associated with other contracts that are classified as held for trading 
purposes are reported on a net basis in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
(n) Cost of sales 
Underlift and overlift
Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in certain of the Group’s jointly owned operations are such that each participant may not 
receive and sell its precise share of the overall production in each period. The resulting imbalance between cumulative entitlement and cumulative 
production is ‘underlift’ or ‘overlift’. Underlift and overlift are valued at market value and included within receivables and payables respectively. 
Movements during an accounting period are adjusted through cost of sales such that gross profit is recognised on an entitlements basis.
(o) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest rate method, that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. Interest 
income is included in net finance costs in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
(p) Derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices. Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash flow 
analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing 
models for optional derivatives. Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves 
derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future 
cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
The estimated fair value of these derivatives is included in other creditors or other debtors in the consolidated statement of financial 
position and the related changes in the fair value are included in other financial gains and losses in the consolidated income statement 
and statement of comprehensive income. 
(q) Finance costs and borrowings
Finance costs of borrowings are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount. 
Debt is shown on the consolidated statement of financial position net of arrangement fees and issue costs, and amortised through 
to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income as finance costs over the term of the debt.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit and loss in the period in which they are incurred.
(r) Share-based payments
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted 
and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled 
to the award. Fair value is determined with reference to the market value of the underlying shares using a pricing model appropriate to the 
circumstances which requires judgements as to the selection of both the valuation model and inputs. In valuing equity-settled transactions, 
no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition 
or a non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each consolidated statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated on the basis of the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous consolidated statement of financial position date is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, with a corresponding entry in equity.
111 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based 
on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder 
of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award 
and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in 
the income statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or 
settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the consolidated income statement.
For equity-settled share-based payment transactions with third parties, the goods or services received are measured at the date of receipt 
by reference to their fair value with a corresponding entry in equity. If the Group cannot reliably estimate the fair value of the goods or 
services received, their value is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
(s) Foreign currency translation
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is also the parent company’s functional currency. The functional 
currency for each entity in the Group is determined on an individual basis according to the primary economic environment in which it operates. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date 
of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at 
the statement of financial position date. All exchange differences are taken to the consolidated income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income. Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot 
exchange rate ruling as at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at a revalued amount in a foreign currency 
are translated using the spot exchange rate ruling at the date when the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations whose functional currency is other than that of the presentation currency of the Group are 
translated into the presentation currency, at the rate of exchange ruling at the consolidated statement of financial position date. Income 
and expenses are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the period. The resulting exchange differences are taken directly 
to a separate component of equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that 
particular foreign operation is recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
(t) Income taxes
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based 
on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the consolidated statement of financial position date.
Current income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income 
tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
•  where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not 
a business combination and, at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
•  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
•  deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on acquisitions that are categorised as Business combinations. Deferred tax 
is recognised at acquisition as part of the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired. Any deferred tax is charged and 
credited in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of each reporting period and are recognised to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profit will be available to allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
112 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the 
related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the consolidated statement 
of financial position date.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise deferred 
income tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
In order to account for uncertain tax positions, management has formed an accounting policy, in accordance with IAS 8, whereby the 
ultimate outcome of legal proceedings is viewed as a single unit of account. The results of separate hearings in relation to the same matter, 
such as local tribunals and international arbitration, are not viewed separately and only the final outcome is assessed by management to 
determine the best estimate of any potential outcome. If management viewed the results of individual hearings separately an income 
statement charge could arise due to the differing recognition criteria of assets and liabilities.
(u) Royalties, resource rent tax and revenue-based taxes
In addition to corporate taxes, the Group’s consolidated financial statements also include and recognise as taxes on income, other types 
of taxes on net income such as certain royalties, resource rent taxes and revenue-based taxes.
Royalties, resource rent taxes and revenue-based taxes are accounted for under IAS 12 when they have the characteristics of an income 
tax. This is considered to be the case when they are imposed under government tax authority and the amount payable is based on taxable 
income — rather than physical quantities produced or as a percentage of revenue — after adjustment for temporary differences. For such 
arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of taxation. Obligations arising 
from royalty arrangements and other types of taxes that do not satisfy these criteria are accrued and included in cost of sales. 
(v) Impairment 
The accounting policies for the impairment of intangible exploration and evaluation assets and oil and gas properties is described in more 
detail in 2.3(b), 2.3(d) and 2.4. 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an intangible asset or item of property, plant & equipment may 
be impaired. If any indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset or 
cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying 
amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market 
transactions are taken into account, if available. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. 
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair 
value indicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the 
Group’s CGU’s to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. 
Impairment losses of continuing operations (including impairment on inventories), are recognised in the consolidated income statement 
and statement of comprehensive income in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset. In this case, the 
impairment is also recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous revaluation. Where conditions giving rise 
to the impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed, net of any depreciation that would have 
been charged since the impairment.
2.4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are 
based on management’s experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to 
the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
The Group has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are required. Further information 
on each of these areas and how they impact the various accounting policies are described below and also in the relevant notes to the 
consolidated financial statements.
113 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued
Oil & gas prices
Future oil & gas prices are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within 
the range of available analyst forecasts. Where existing sales contracts are in place, the effects of such contracts are taken into account 
in determining future cash flows.
Commercial reserves
Management is required to assess the level of the Group’s commercial reserves together with the future expenditures to access those 
reserves, which are utilised in determining the amortisation and depreciation charge for the period and assessing whether any impairment 
charge is required. The Group employs independent reserves specialists who periodically report on the Group’s level of commercial reserves 
by evaluating the estimates of the Group’s in house reserves specialists and where necessary referencing geological, geophysical and 
engineering data together with reports, presentation and financial information pertaining to the contractual and fiscal terms applicable 
to the Group’s assets. In addition the Group undertakes its own assessment of commercial reserves, using standard evaluation techniques 
and related future capital expenditure by reference to the same datasets using its own internal expertise. The estimates adopted by the 
Group may differ from the independent reserves specialists’ estimates where management considers that adjustments are appropriate 
in the circumstances. The last assessment by its independent reserves specialist was as at 1 January 2016.
Intangible exploration and evaluation expenditure
The application of the Group’s accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether 
future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploration, development or asset sale, or whether activities have not reached a 
stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves. 
Management is also required to assess impairment in respect of exploration and evaluation assets. The intangible exploration and 
evaluation assets note discloses the carrying value of such assets. The triggering events for impairment are defined in IFRS 6. In making 
the assessment, management is required to make judgements on the status of each project and assumptions about future events and 
circumstances, in particular, whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established. Any such estimates and assumptions 
may change as new information becomes available. 
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made. The assessments require the use of 
estimates and assumptions such as long-term oil prices, discount rates, operating costs, future capital requirements, decommissioning costs, 
exploration potential, and reserves. These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty. Therefore, there is a possibility 
that changes in circumstances will impact these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of assets and/or CGUs.
Oil and gas properties
Management is required to assess impairment in respect of oil and gas property assets at least annually with reference to indicators in 
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. Note 14 to these consolidated financial statements discloses the carrying value of such oil and gas property 
assets. In making the assessment, management is required to estimate the recoverable amount for each asset held and compare that value 
to the net carrying amount of the asset at the balance sheet date. Such a review is done at least annually. This requires estimates to be 
made of in particular: future commodity prices, production volumes, capital/operating expenditure and appropriate pre-tax discount rates. 
Details of the Group’s other property plant and equipment are provided in Note 15 to these consolidated financial statements. 
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made. The assessments require the use of 
estimates and assumptions such as long-term oil prices, discount rates, operating costs, future capital requirements, decommissioning costs, 
exploration potential, and commercial reserves. These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty. Therefore, there is a 
possibility that changes in circumstances will impact these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of assets and/or CGUs.
Provision for decommissioning
Decommissioning costs are uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors, including changes to relevant legal 
requirements, the emergence of new technology or experience at other production sites. The expected timing, extent and amount of 
expenditure may also change. Therefore significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for decommissioning. 
As a result, there could be significant adjustments to the provisions established which would affect future financial results.
The estimated decommissioning costs are reviewed annually by an external expert and the results of this review are then used for the 
purposes of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Provision for environmental clean-up and remediation costs is based on current legal and contractual requirements, technology and price levels.
114 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued Share-based payments
Management is required to make assumptions and use their judgement when determining the inputs used to value share-based payment 
arrangements made during the year. Details of the inputs adopted when valuing share-based payment arrangements can be found in the 
share-based compensation note. Management bases these assumptions on observable market data such as the Group’s share price history 
and risk free interest rates offered on Government bonds.
Recovery of deferred tax assets
Judgement is required to determine which arrangements are considered to be a tax on income as opposed to an operating cost. Judgement 
is required to determine whether deferred tax assets are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position. Deferred tax assets, 
including those arising from unutilised tax losses, require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate sufficient 
taxable profits in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets. Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits 
depend on management’s estimates of future cash flows. These estimates are based on forecast cash flows from operations (which are 
impacted by production and sales volumes, oil and natural gas prices, reserves, operating costs, decommissioning costs, capital expenditure, 
dividends and other capital management transactions) and judgement about the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the 
extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise deferred tax assets 
could be impacted. The Group establishes tax provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax 
authorities of the respective countries in which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience 
with previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority. 
Special remuneratory benefit tax
The Group is subject to a special remuneratory benefit tax in Thailand, the rate for which depends on the annual revenue per cumulative 
metre drilled. Accordingly the tax rate to be applied in calculating the Group’s deferred special remuneratory benefit tax depends on 
management’s forecast of future revenues and drilling activities.
3 Segmental analysis
The Group’s reportable and geographical segments are Africa, Asia and Other. The Other segment includes the corporate centres in the UK, 
Australia and Singapore. 
Segment revenues and results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and assets by reportable segment:
Year ended 31 December 2015
Africa
$’000
Asia
$’000
Other
$’000
Total
$’000
Revenue sales of crude oil – 161,090 – 161,090
Depreciation and amortisation – (80,943) – (80,943)
Impairment of exploration costs (134,640) (14,340) – (148,980)
Impairment of oil and gas properties – (126,732) – (126,732)
Impairment of investments accounted for using the equity method – (42,117) – (42,117)
Share of profit of equity-accounted joint venture – 7,219 – 7,219
Operating (loss)/profit (154,270) (169,029) (45,459) (368,758)
Finance income 405 9,170 964 10,539
Finance expense (383) (18,641) (2,177) (21,201)
Other financial gains – 3,372 – 3,372
Loss before tax (154,248) (175,128) (46,672) (376,048)
Taxation 53,596
Loss after tax (322,452)
Total assets and total liabilities As at 31 December 2015
Total assets 705,430 1,164,134 554,298 2,423,862
Total liabilities (138,529) (628,340) (7,489) (774,358)
Investments accounted for using the equity method – 130,200 – 130,200
Year ended 31 December 2015
Additions to non-current assets 37,016 137,666 – 174,682
115 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 3 Segmental analysis continued
Comparatives for the year ending 31 December 2014 have not been presented because the Group’s only reportable segment under 
IFRS 8 was the exploration and evaluation of oil and gas related projects in Africa.
Non-current operating assets
The non-current operating assets for the UK are $4.0 million. (2014: $4.1 million). The non-UK, non-current operating assets are 
$1,543.1 million (2014: $767.1 million). Included in the non-UK, non-current operating assets is Thailand which makes up $455.7 million 
(2014: nil) and Equatorial Guinea which makes up $547.3 million (2014: $529.1 million).
Revenue from major customers
All sales of crude oil are to a single customer PTT Public Company Limited (PTT). PTT is a Thai state-owned oil and gas company that 
is listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand.
4 Revenue     
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Sales of crude oil 161,090 –
161,090 –
5 Operating (loss)/profit before taxation
The Group’s operating (loss)/profit before taxation included the following items:
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
(a) Cost of sales:
– Operating costs 31,797 –
– Royalty payable 14,548 –
– Depreciation and amortisation of oil and gas properties 80,943 –
– Movement in inventories of oil 1,528 –
128,816 –
(b) Gain on farm-out:
– Gain on farm-out (Note 13) (245) (671,677)
(c) Exploration expenses:
– Pre licence exploration costs 34,157 23,947
– Exploration expenditure written off (Note 13) 148,980 309,835
183,137 333,782
(d) General & administration expenses include:
– Operating lease payments 7,400 4,865
– Corporate transaction expense (Note 10) 8,000 –
– Share-based payment expense 4,594 6,876
19,994 11,741
(e) Other operating expenses:
– Loss/(profit) on disposal of assets 703 (2)
– Depreciation of other property, plant & equipment 4,184 1,955
– Impairment of goodwill – 20,868
– Provision for exiting contract (Note 25) 20,000 –
– Other 377 –
25,264 22,821
116 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 6 Net finance expense
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Interest income on short-term bank deposits 1,673 3,630
Other interest income – 3,419
Interest expense on long term borrowings
1
(17,099) –
Unwinding of discount (Note 25) (1,250) –
Net foreign currency exchange losses 6,014 (12,910)
(10,662) (5,861)
1 Includes interest capitalised using a rate of 6.7%.
7 Other financial gains
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Realisation settlement gains on hedging 17,091
Loss relating to oil derivatives (14,001) –
Gain on bond redemption (Note 23) 282 –
3,372 –
8 Auditors’ remuneration
The Group paid the following amounts to its Auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided 
to the Group.
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
(a) Paid/payable to Ernst & Young LLP
Audit of the financial statements 726 372
Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 362 39
Total audit services 1,088 411
Audit related assurance services 334 57
Corporate finance services 794 544
2,216 1,012
(b) Paid/payable to Auditor if not Ernst & Young LLP
Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 254 5
Taxation services 1,029 810
Corporate finance services 68 804
Other services 582 –
1,933 1,619
4,149 2,631
117 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 9 Staff costs and Directors’ emoluments
a) Staff costs
Employee costs (including payments to Directors) during the year comprised:
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Salaries and wages 51,095 33,574
Social security costs 5,109 3,722
Contributions to pension plans/superannuation funds 3,033 2,095
Share-based payment expense (Note 33) 4,594 6,876
63,831 46,267
(b) Key management
The table below sets out the details of the emoluments of the Group’s key management including Directors:
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Aggregate compensation:
Salaries and wages 6,324 10,531
Social security costs 778 1,602
Contributions to pensions/superannuation funds 346 574
Compensation for loss of office
1
– 1,780
Share-based payment expense (Note 33) 1,478 5,391
8,926 19,878
1 Compensation for loss of office includes payments in lieu of notice of nil (2014: $943,366). 
Key management emoluments above excludes aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options of nil (2014: $1,019,827).
(c) Directors’ emoluments
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
(i) Aggregate compensation:
Salaries and wages 2,223 3,103
Bonuses 781 2,251
Social security costs 392 981
Contributions to pensions/superannuation funds 151 228
Compensation for loss of office
1
– 943
Other benefits 18 44
3,565 7,550
1 Compensation for loss of office includes payments in lieu of notice of nil (2014: $943,366).
Directors’ emoluments above excludes aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options of $nil (2014: $1,019,827).
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
(ii) Share-based payment expense (Note 33) 449 3,444
Number of Directors to whom superannuation or pension benefits accrued during the year 2 4
118 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued (d) Average number of persons employed (full time equivalents):
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
CEO 1 1
Exploration and technical 144 35
Commercial and support 188 91
333 127
10 Business combinations
Acquisition of Salamander Energy plc
On 3 March 2015 (the acquisition date), the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Salamander Energy Plc (‘Salamander’), a 
Southeast Asian focused independent exploration and production company quoted on the London Stock Exchange. The enlarged Group 
enhances Ophir’s operating capabilities in both Africa and Southeast Asia and deepwater expertise across key technical and commercial 
functions. The combined Group provides shareholders with a diversified exposure to 21 production, development and exploration blocks 
in Africa and Southeast Asia.
The Group announced that the scheme of arrangement was approved by Salamander’s shareholders on 6 February 2015 and was 
sanctioned by the Supreme Court in London effective on 2 March 2015. The consideration of $326.1 million was satisfied in full by equity 
by which Salamander shareholders received 0.5719 Ophir ordinary shares for each Salamander ordinary share held.
The acquisition will be accounted for as a single business combination. The fair value assessment of the Salamander identifiable assets and 
liabilities acquired as at the date of acquisition have been reviewed in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 – ‘Business Combinations’. 
Details of the Group accounting policies in relation to business combinations are contained in Note 2 of these consolidated financial 
statements.
The fair values of the assets acquired have been calculated using valuation techniques based on discounted cash flows using forward curve 
commodity prices, a discount rate based on market observable data and cost and production profiles.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Salamander as at the date of acquisition were:
Fair Value
as at
3 Mar 2015
 $’000
Assets
Exploration & evaluation assets 132,000
Oil & gas properties 827,131
Other property, plant & equipment 1,869
Financial assets 46,749
Investments accounted for using the equity method 167,000
Inventory 19,142
Trade and other receivables 68,680
Cash and cash equivalents 48,827
1,311,398
119 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 10 Business combinations continued
Fair Value
as at
3 Mar 2015
 $’000
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (42,216)
Current tax liability (97,375)
Interest-bearing bank borrowings (253,918)
Convertible bonds
2
 (93,959)
Bonds payable (154,835)
Provisions (64,127)
Deferred tax liability (278,837)
(985,267)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 326,131
Goodwill arising on acquisition –
Consideration satisfied by the issue of:
Equity instruments (152,208,612 ordinary shares of parent company 
3
326,131
Total consideration transferred 326,131
326,131
1  The fair value of the trade and other receivables amounts to $68.7 million. None of the trade receivables have been impaired and it is expected that the full contractual amount can be collected.
2 The convertible bonds were redeemed at par value $94.0 million on 30 March 2015. Accrued interest up to the date of redemption $2.35 million was also paid on this date.
3  The Group issued 152,208,612 new shares in consideration for the entire share capital of Salamander. The fair value of the shares is the published price of the shares of the Group at the acquisition 
date. Therefore, the fair value of the share consideration given is $326.1 million.
From the date of acquisition, 3 March 201 5 to 31 December 201 5, Salamander contributed $16 1. 1 million to Group revenue and a loss of 
$1 32.2 million to Group loss after taxation. If the acquisition of Salamander had taken place at the beginning of the year, Salamander contribution 
to Group revenue and loss after taxation for the year ended 31 December 201 5 would be $21 1. 1 million and $147 .7 million respectively.
The corporate costs associated with the transaction amounted to $8.0 million and have been expensed in general and administration 
expenses in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
11 Taxation
(a) Taxation(credit)/charge 
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Current income tax:
UK corporation tax – –
UK corporation tax – adjustment in respect of prior periods – 341
Foreign tax:
Special remuneratory benefit 19,610 –
Other foreign tax 4,719 209,259
Other foreign tax – adjustments in respect of prior periods 297 809
Total current income tax charge 24,626 210,409
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
Special remuneratory benefit (43,603) –
Other foreign tax (34,619) 23,242
Total deferred income tax (credit)/charge (78,222) 23,342
Tax (credit)/charge in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income (53,596) 233,651
Special remuneratory benefit (SRB) is a tax that arises on one of the Group’s assets, Bualuang in Thailand at rates that vary from zero to 
75% of annual petroleum profit depending on the level of annual revenue per cumulative metre drilled. The current rate for SRB for 2015 
was 28% (2014: 48%). Petroleum profit for the purpose of SRB is calculated as revenue less a number of deductions including operating 
costs, royalty, capital expenditures, special reduction (an uplift of certain capital expenditures) and losses brought forward.
120 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued (b) Reconciliation of the total tax (credit)/charge
The tax benefit not recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income is reconciled to the standard 
rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). The differences are reconciled below: 
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
(Loss)/profit on operations before taxation (376,048) 288,493
(Loss)/profit on operations before taxation multiplied by the applicable rate of 36%, being the average weighted 
corporate tax rate for the Group (2014: Based on the UK Corporation tax rate of 21.5%) (138,125) 62,026
Non-deductible expenditure 88,168 6,132
Share-based payments 929 634
Tax effect of SRB (11,997) –
Effect of overseas tax rates – 92,492
Tax effect of equity accounted investments (3,610) –
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 10,742 71,389
Other adjustments – (172)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 297 1,150
Total tax (credit)/charge in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income (53,596) 233,651
(c) Reconciliation of SRB charge to loss from operations before taxation
The taxation charge for SRB for the year can be reconciled to the loss from operations before tax per the consolidated income statement 
and statement of comprehensive income as follows:
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Loss from operations before taxation (376,048) –
Add back losses from operations before taxation for activities outside of Thailand 296,547 –
Loss from operations before taxation for activities in Thailand (79,501) –
Deduct share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method (7,219) –
Loss before taxation for activities in Thailand (86,721) –
Applicable rate of SRB 28% –
Tax at the applicable rate of SRB (24,282) –
Change in average SRB deferred tax rate (37,450) –
Effect of average SRB deferred tax rate compared to current SRB tax rate 28,791 –
Other non deductible costs 8,948 –
Total SRB credit (23,993) –
(d) Deferred income tax
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Deferred tax balances relate to the following:
Corporate tax on fixed asset timing differences (236,247) –
SRB on fixed asset timing differences (9,498) –
Exploration and evaluation assets – (38,048)
Fair value adjustment in respect of exploration expenses – (6,000)
(245,745) (44,048)
121 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 11 Taxation continued
(e) Unrecognised tax losses
The Group has gross tax losses arising in the UK of $192,101,762 (2014: $135,921,762) and Australia $5,884,000 (2014: $7,331,000) that are 
available to carry forward indefinitely to offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose. Deferred tax assets 
have not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is not sufficient certainty that taxable income will be realised in the future due 
to the nature of the Group’s international exploration activities and the long lead times in either developing or otherwise realising exploration 
assets.  
(f) Other unrecognised temporary differences
The Group has other net unrecognised temporary differences in the various African countries where we are active totalling $164,441,000 
(2014: $164,441,000) in respect of provisions and exploration expenditure for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised.
(g) Change in corporation tax rate
Deferred tax has been calculated at the rates substantively enacted at the consolidated statement of financial position date.
The standard rate of UK corporation tax in the year changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Any UK deferred tax that is 
recognised is therefore recognised at the reduced rate of 20%. Deferred tax in Kenya and Tanzania is provided for at the statutory rate of 30% 
(2014: 30%). Deferred tax in Thailand is provided for at the statutory rate of 50%. Deferred tax in Indonesia is provided for at the statutory 
rate of 44%.
12 Earning per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations:
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Earnings 
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share 
(Loss)/profit for the year (322,452) 54,842
Less non-controlling interest – 4
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (322,452) 54,846
Cents Cents
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share (47.1) 9.4
Effect of potentially dilutive share options – –
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share (47.1) 9.4
As at
31 Dec 2015
As at
31 Dec 2014
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of shares 685 578
Potentially dilutive share options and warrants 12 6
697 584
No ordinary shares of 0.25p each have been issued on exercise of options and warrants between the year ended 31 December 2015 and 
the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
122 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 13 Exploration and evaluation assets
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Cost
Balance at the beginning of the year 764,933 1,124,423
Additions
1
131,961 594,340
Acquisition of subsidiary
2
132,000 –
Expenditure written off
3
(148,980) (309,835)
Recovery of costs incurred on farm-out of exploration interests
4
– (643,995)
Balance at the end of the year 879,914 764,933
1  Additions in the period include exploration activities in: Myanmar – Block AD03 ($28.3 million), Thailand – G4/50 ($19.7 million) and Equatorial Guinea – Block R ($18.3 million) and five Indonesian 
PSC licences from Niko Resources Limited ($25.3million). The licences acquired from Niko Resources were accounted for as an asset purchase as they did not meet the definition of a business 
combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
2 Acquisition of subsidiary: Refer to Note 10 of these consolidated financial statements.
3  Expenditure write off for the year ended 31 December 2015 was $149.0 million. The significant write offs included within the $149.0 million are listed below: 
Expenditure write off in respect of Kenya: loss of $62.6 million – Block L9, in respect of Gabon: loss of $12.5 million – Ntsina Block, loss of $17.8 million – Mbeli Block and in respect of three Blocks in 
the Seychelles a loss of $24.4 million. The cash generating unit (‘CGU’) applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the Blocks. The recoverable amounts for each Block was nil. This was   
based on management’s estimate of value in use.
 Expenditure write off of $309.8 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprised of:
  Expenditure write off in respect of Tanzania: loss of $107.3 million – East Pande Block, loss of $80.3 million – Block 7, in respect of Gabon: loss of $62.8 million – Gnondo Block, and in respect of Kenya: 
loss of $59.4 million– Block L9. The trigger for expenditure write off was management’s assessment that no further expenditure on exploration and evaluation of hydrocarbons in the Blocks was 
budgeted or planned within the current licences terms. The cash generating unit (‘CGU’) applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the Blocks. The recoverable amounts for each Block 
was nil, except for Kenya – Block L9 where it was $60.4 million. This was based on management’s estimate of value in use.
4 Recovery of costs incurred on farm-out of exploration interest include:
 The Group’s disposal in 2014 of a 20% interest in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4. The Group received cash consideration of $1,250 million plus a completion adjustment to reflect interest and working capital  
 movements from the effective date of the transaction of 1 January 2014. A further $38.0 million is payable following the final investment decision in respect of the development of Blocks 1, 3 & 4,   
 currently expected in 2016. The total gain on disposal recognised for the year ended 31 December 2014 was $671.7 million.
 The Group also received $77.8 million relating to the farm-out of the Gabonese exploration blocks.
The Group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model. Future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate of 15% (2014: post-tax 10%). 
Adjustments to cash flows are made to reflect the risks specific to the CGU.
14 Oil and gas properties
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Cost
Balance at the beginning of the year – –
Acquisition of subsidiary (Note 10) 827,131 –
Additions 42,721 –
Balance at the end of the year 869,852 –
Depreciation and amortisation
Balance at the beginning of the year – –
Charge for the year (80,943) –
Charge for impairment
1
(126,732) –
Balance at the end of the year (207,675) –
Net book value
Balance at the beginning of the year – –
Balance at the end of the year 662,177 –
1  The 2015 impairment charge of $126.7m related to the Bualuang oil field in Thailand which has a recoverable amount of $387.2m based on management’s estimate of value in use. The discount rate 
used was 15%.
123 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 15 Other property, plant and equipment
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Office furniture and equipment
Cost
Balance at the beginning of the year 11,278 5,786
Foreign currency translation (575) 766
Acquisition of subsidiary (Note 10) 1,869
–
Additions 2,066 4,770
Disposals (3,812) (44)
Balance at the end of the year 10,826 11,278
Depreciation
Balance at the beginning of the year 4,971 2,549
Foreign currency translation (361) 511
Depreciation charge for the year 4,184 1,955
Disposals (3,108) (44)
Balance at the end of the year 5,686 4,971
Net book value
Balance at the beginning of the year 6,307 3,237
Balance at the end of the year 5,140 6,307
16 Financial assets
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Security deposits – Rental properties 6,374 3,646
Security deposits – Exploration commitments
1
2,530 13,458
Other long term receivables 18,349 –
27,253 17,104
1 Floating interest deposits pledged to third parties or banks as security in relation to the Group’s exploration commitments.
17 Inventory
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Oil 1,527 –
Materials and consumables 48,689 23,902
50,216 23,902
124 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 18 Trade and other receivables
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Trade and other debtors 27,471 10,056
Prepayments 4,600 2,783
32,071 12,839
All debtors are current. There are no receivables that are past due or impaired. Trade and other debtors primarily relate to receivables from 
joint operation partners.
Due to the short-term nature of these receivables, their carrying value is assumed to approximate their fair value.
19 Cash and cash equivalents
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Cash 116,060 138,603
Cash equivalents 498,509 739,269
614,569 877,872
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits and other short-term money market deposit accounts that are readily 
convertible into known amounts of cash. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is $614.6 million (2014: $877.9 million).
20 Investments
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Short-term investments – 294,904
Short-term investments consist of cash deposit accounts that are made for varying periods of between three months and twelve months 
depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term investment rates. The fair value 
of short-term investments is nil (2014: $294.9 million).
21 Trade and other payables
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Trade payables 22,310 3,004
Accruals 91,350 221,681
Payables in relation to joint operation partners 2,311 17,463
115,971 242,148
Trade payables are unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
125 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 22 Interest bearing bank loans
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Balance at the beginning of the year – –
Acquisition of subsidiary (Note 10) 253,918 –
Less: amounts repaid during the period (100,910) –
Less: amounts due within one year (37,059) –
Balance at the end of the year 115,949 –
Interest-bearing bank borrowings comprise a $350 million senior reserves based lending facility. The facility has been arranged for a period 
of seven years commencing in December 2012.
The senior reserves based lending facility is secured against certain of the Group’s Thailand and Indonesia development and producing 
assets. There has been no breach of terms on the borrowing facility. The key terms of the facility are:
• Initial facility amount of up to $350 million.
• Financial covenants relating to the ratio of the loan balance outstanding to the net present value of cash flows of the secured assets and 
relating to the ratio of the loan balance outstanding to the net present value of cash flows during the life of the loan of the secured assets.
•  Financial covenants relating to the maximum amount of borrowings of the Group.
•  The Group may draw an amount up to the lower of the facility amount being $350 million as at 31 December 2015 or the borrowing 
base amount as determined by the forecast cash flows arising from the borrowing base assets of $153 million.
• As at 31 December 2015 the facility available is $153 million
•  Interest accrues at a rate of between 3.70% and 4.20% plus LIBOR depending on the maturity of the assets. The borrowing base 
amount is re-determined on a semi-annual basis; with the Group further having the option to undertake two mid-period 
redeterminations in each year should it elect to do so.
• No early repayment penalties.
•  Change of control provisions.
The acquisition of Salamander by Ophir on 3 March 2015 (refer to Note 10 of these consolidated financial statements) constituted a change 
of control under the terms of the facility. Prior to this transaction completing, a waiver was obtained from the lending banks such that the 
terms of the borrowing facility were not impacted at the date of completion.
23 Bonds payable
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Balance at the beginning of the year – –
Acquisition of subsidiary:
9.75% Unsecured, callable bonds at $150 million par value (Note 10) 154,835 –
Redemption – 9.75% Unsecured, callable bonds at $45.2 million par value (45,652)
Gain on redemption (Note 7) (282)
Coupon interest charged 9,510 –
Interest paid (11,760) –
Balance at the end of the year 106,651 –
The unsecured callable bonds were issued by Salamander in December 2013 at an issue price of $150 million. The bonds have a term of 
six years and one month and will be repaid in full at maturity. The bonds carry a coupon of 9.75% and were issued at par. On 5 May 2015, 
bond holders exercised put options at 101% for the redemption of bonds with a par value of $45.2 million.
126 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 24 Net debt
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Amounts Due on Maturity:
Interest bearing bank loans (see Note 22) 153,008 –
Bonds payable (see Note 23) 106,651 –
Total gross debt 259,659 –
Less cash and cash equivalents (see Note 19) (614,569) (877,872)
Total net (cash)/debt (354,910) (877,872)
At the balance sheet date, the bank borrowings are calculated to be repayable as follows:
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at
31 Dec 2014
$’000
On demand or due within one year 37,059 –
In the second year 43,701 –
In the third to fifth year inclusive 178,899 –
After five years – –
Total principal payable on maturity 259,659 –
25 Provisions
Decommissioning 
 and restoration  
 of oil and gas
 $’000
 Litigation and  
 other claims 
 $’000
Other provision
$’000
Total
$’000
At 1 January 2014 24,700 10,908 35,608
Arising during the year – 1,650 76 1,726
Utilised/paid – – (10,000) (10,000)
Foreign exchange revaluation – – (57) (57)
Amounts released – – (227) (227)
At 31 December 2014 – 26,350 700 27,050
Acquisition of subsidiary (Note 10) 64,127 – – 64,127
Arising during the period 1,956 – 22,792 24,748
Utilised/paid – – – –
Unwinding of discount (Note 6) 1,250 – – 1,250
Foreign exchange revaluation – – (179) (179)
Amounts released (143) – (1,926) (2,069)
At 31 December 2015 67,190 26,350 21,387 114,927
Balance at the end of the year
 Current – 26,350 21,387 47,737
 Non-current 67,190 – – 67,190
67,190 26,350 21,387 114,927
Balance at the beginning of the year
 Current – 26,350 437 26,787
 Non-current – – 263 263
– 26,350 700 27,050
127 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 25 Provisions continued
Decommissioning and restoration of oil and gas assets
The provision outstanding at 31 December 2015 is expected to fall due from 2035 onwards.
Litigation and Other Claims
Litigation and other claims consist of separate legal matters, including claims arising from trading activities, in various Group companies 
and at various stages of negotiation. The majority of any cash outflow from these matters is expected to occur within the next 12 months, 
although this is dependent on the development of the various legal claims. In the Directors’ opinion, after taking appropriate legal advice, 
the amounts provided at 31 December 2015 represent the best estimate of the expected loss.
Other provisions
Amounts provided at 31 December 2015 comprise:
• $20.0 million provision representing the unavoidable, least net cost of exiting a contract. The cost is expected to be incurred within 
the next 12 months; and
• $1.4 million provision in respect of redundancy costs, expected to be incurred within the next 12 months.
26 Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group are able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to 
stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes 
the interest bearing bank loans and bonds payable as disclosed in Notes 22 and 23 of these consolidated financial statements, cash 
and cash equivalents as disclosed in Note 19 of these consolidated financial statements, and equity attributable to equity holders of the 
Company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 27, 30 and 31 of these consolidated financial 
statements and in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. This is further discussed in the Principal risks section of these 
Annual Report and Accounts.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares for cash, engage in active portfolio management, or other such 
restructuring activities as appropriate.
Gearing Ratio 
Management reviews the capital structure on a continuing basis. The gearing ratio is defined as net debt divided by equity attributable 
to equity holders of the Company plus net debt. At the year-end it was calculated as follows:
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Net (cash)/debt (see Note 24) (354,910) –
Equity plus net debt 1,294,594 –
Gearing ratio (27.4)% –
Significant Accounting Policies
Details of significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which the income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument 
are disclosed in the statement of accounting policies.
128 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued Financial assets and liabilities
Current assets and liabilities
Management consider that due to the short term nature of current assets and liabilities, the carrying values equates to their fair value. 
Non-current assets and liabilities
The carrying value and fair values of non-current financial assets and liabilities are shown in the following tables:
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
   
 Carrying value
 Estimated fair  
 value  Carrying value
 Estimated fair  
 value
Financial assets:
Security deposits 8,904 8,797 17,104 16,899
Financial liabilities:
Interest bearing bank loans (153,008) (144,539) – –
Bonds payable (106,651) (108,400) – –
Financial risk management
The Group’s principal financial assets and liabilities comprise of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term 
investments and trade and other payables, interest bearing bank loans and bonds payable, which arise directly from its operations. 
Details are disclosed in Notes 18 to 23 of these consolidated financial statements. The main purpose of these financial instruments 
is to manage short-term cash flow and provide finance for the Group’s operations.
The Group’s senior management oversees the management of financial risk and the Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee 
to assist in the identification and evaluation of significant financial risks. Where appropriate, consultation is sought with an external advisor 
to determine the appropriate response to identified risks. The Group does not trade in derivatives for speculative purposes.
The main risks that could adversely affect the Group’s financial assets, liabilities or future cash flows are commodity, credit, interest rate, 
foreign currency and liquidity risks.
(a) Commodity Price Risk
The Group’s policy is to consider oil and gas price hedging when and where it is economically attractive to lock-in prices at levels that 
protect the cash flow of the Ophir Energy Group, its business plan and debt related coverage ratios. All hedging transactions to date have 
been related directly to expected cash flows and no speculative transactions have been undertaken.
For 2015, the Group’s oil production was all sold at prices relative to the spot market. 2015 production was hedged with swaps for 
1,200bopd with an average swap price of $103.33 per barrel. There were no open positions at the end of 2015. Therefore, the Group 
had no exposure to commodity price risk at 31 December 2015.
(b) Credit risk 
Credit risk refers to the risk that a third party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk of third parties is the aggregate of the carrying value of its security deposits, cash and cash equivalents, 
short-term investments and trade and other receivables. 
In respect of the Group’s trade sales, the Group manages credit risk through dealing with, whenever possible, either international energy 
companies or state owned companies based in Thailand and Indonesia and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate. The Group 
consistently monitors counterparty credit risk. The carrying value of financial assets recorded in these financial statements represents the 
Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at the year-end without taking account of any collateral obtained. In addition, the Group’s 
operations are typically structured via contractual joint venture arrangements. As such the Group is reliant on joint venture partners to 
fund their capital or other funding obligations in relation to assets and operations which are not yet cash generative. The Group closely 
monitors the risks and maintains a close dialogue with those counterparties considered to be highest risk in this regard.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and as such collateral is not requested nor is it the Group’s policy 
to securitise its trade and other receivables.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s experience of bad debts has not 
been significant. 
129 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 26 Financial instruments continued
Credit quality of financial assets
Equivalent S&P rating
1
 Internally rated
A-1
and above
$’000
A-2 
and above
$’000
A-2 
and below
$’000
No default
 customers
$’000
Total
$’000
Year ended 31 December 2015
Current financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 371,616 239,801 3,111 41 614,569
Trade and other receivables – – – 13,003 13,003
371,616 239,801 3,111 13,044 627,572
Non-current financial assets
Security deposits 2,530 – 6,374 – 8,904
2,530 – 6,374 – 8.904
1  The equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial asset itself.
Equivalent S&P rating
1
 Internally rated
A-1
and above
$’000
A-2 
and above
$’000
A-2 
and below
$’000
No default
 customers
$’000
Total
$’000
Year ended 31 December 2014
Current financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 877,776 – 47 49 877,872
Trade and other receivables – – – 23,626 23,626
877,776 – 47 23,675 901,498
Non-current financial assets
Security deposits 13,458 3,288 – 358 17,104
13,458 3,288 – 358 17,104
1  The equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial asset itself.
Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments is managed by limiting the term of deposits to periods of less than twelve 
months and selecting counterparty financial institutions with reference to long and short-term credit ratings published by Standard & Poor’s.
(c) Interest rate risk 
The Group is exposed to interest rate movements through its interest bearing bank loans, bonds payable, cash and cash equivalent deposits 
and short-term investments, which are at rates fixed to LIBOR.
The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the Group’s exposure to an interest rate movement and is prepared assuming 
the amount of the net debt outstanding at the balance sheet date were outstanding for the whole year.
For net debt, if interest rates had been 0.5% higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s loss after tax for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 would have decreased by $1.8 million (2014: Profit increase $5.9million) or increased by $1.8 million (2014: Profit 
decrease $5.9million) respectively. This is attributable to the Group acquiring the borrowings of Salamander Group in March 2015 as 
described in Note 10 of these consolidated financial statements.
The sensitivity in 2015 was maintained at 0.5% as interest rate volatilities remain similar to those in the prior period.
130 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued (d) Foreign currency risk
The Group has currency exposures arising from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and transactions executed 
in currencies other than the respective functional currencies.
The Group, with the exception of Ophir Services Pty Ltd, have adopted US Dollars as their functional and reporting currencies as this 
represents the currency of their primary economic environment as the majority of the Group’s funding and expenditure is US Dollars. 
Ophir Services Pty Ltd has adopted the Australian Dollar as its functional currency.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is managed by holding the majority of its funds in US Dollars, as a natural hedge, with 
remaining funds being held mainly in Pounds Sterling (GBP), Australian Dollars (AUD), Euros (EUR) and Thailand Baht (THB) to meet 
commitments in those currencies. 
As at 31 December 2015, the Group’s predominant exposure to foreign exchange rates related to cash and cash equivalents held in 
Pounds Sterling by companies with US Dollar functional currencies. 
At the statement of financial position date, the Group’s net debt had the following exposure to GBP, THB and AUD foreign currency that 
is not designated in cash flow hedges:
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
AUD 1,303 3,858
GBP 4,228 143,743
THB 15,572 –
OTHER 641 1,016
21,744 148,617
Net Exposure 21,744 148,617
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable possible changes in GBP, AUD and THB against the US Dollar exchange rates 
with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s (loss)/profit before tax and equity (due to the foreign exchange translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities).
Loss before tax
Higher/(lower)
Equity
 Higher/(lower)
2015
$’000
2014
$’000
2015
$’000
2014
$’000
US Dollar to GBP +5% (2014: +5%) 1,448 7,059 1,448 7,059
US Dollar to GBP -5% (2014: -5%) (1,448) (7,059) (1,448) (7,059)
US Dollar to AUD +5% (2014: +5%) (72) 160 (72) 160
US Dollar to AUD -5% (2014: -5%) 72 (160) 72 (160)
US Dollar to THB +5% 901 – 901 –
US Dollar to THB -5% (901) – (901) –
Significant assumptions used in the foreign currency exposure sensitivity analysis include:
• Reasonably possible movements in foreign exchange rates were determined based on a review of the last two years’ historical 
movements and economic forecaster’s expectations.
•  The reasonably possible movement was calculated by taking the US Dollar spot rate as at balance date, moving this spot rate by the 
reasonably possible movements and then re-converting the US Dollar into the respective foreign currency with the ‘new spot rate’.  
This methodology reflects the translation methodology undertaken by the Group.
131 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 26 Financial instruments continued
(e) Liquidity risk
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash and cash equivalents, and borrowing facilities to meet its forecast short, 
medium and long-term commitments. The Group continually monitors its actual and forecast cash flows to ensure that there are adequate 
reserves and banking facilities to meet the maturing profiles of its financial assets and liabilities.
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturities for its non-derivative financial liabilities. The tables have been 
drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date the Group was required to pay at the 
balance sheet date. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
As at 31 December 2015
 Within 1 year
$’000
 1-2 years
$’000
2-3 years
$’000
3-4 years
$’000
4-5 years
$’000
Greater than
five years
$’000
Total
$’000
Non-interest bearing (93,420) – – – – – (93,420)
Variable interest rate instruments (38,727) (47,634) (47,273) (36,106) – – (169,740)
Fixed interest rate instruments:
– Bond payable – – – – (149,111) – (149,111)
Total (132,147) (47,634) (47,273) (36,106) (149,111) – (412,271)
As at 31 December 2014
Within 1 year
$’000
1-2 years
$’000
2-3 years
$’000
3-4 years
$’000
4-5 years
$’000
Greater than
five years
$’000
Total
$’000
Non-interest bearing (198,987) – – – – – (198,987)
Variable interest rate instruments – – – – – – –
Fixed interest rate instruments:
– Bond payable – – – – – – –
Total (198,987) – – – – – (198,987)
Additionally, Notes 34 and 35 of these consolidated financial statements sets out the Group’s outstanding financial commitments at the 
year end.
(f) Disclosure of fair values
The carrying value of security deposits and borrowings are disclosed in the financial statements as at 31 December 2015. The fair value 
of these assets and liabilities are disclosed in the table of financial assets and liabilities on page 129 of these consolidated financial 
statements. 
Fair value hierarchy 
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
Level 1  quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2   other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly  
or indirectly; and
Level 3   techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable  
market data.
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Level 1 (108,400) –
Level 2 – –
Level 3 (135,742) 16,899
(244,142) 16,899
There were no transfers between fair value levels during the year. 
132 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 27 Share capital
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
(a) Authorised 
2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 7,963 7,963
(b) Called up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.25p each
In issue at the beginning of the year 593,810,795 (2014: 591,961,422) 2,474 2,466
Issued on exercise of share options during the year Nil (2014: 1,849,373) – 8
Issued during the year 152,208,612
1 
(2014: Nil ) 587 –
In issue at the end of the year 746,019,407 (2014: 593,810,795) 3,061 2,474
1  152,208,612 ordinary shares issued in consideration for the Salamander acquisition on 3 March 2015. The market value of the Company’s shares on this date was: £1.39 ($2.14).
The balances classified as called up; allotted and fully paid share capital represents the nominal value of the total number of issued shares 
of the Company of 0.25p each. 
Fully paid shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
28 Investments accounted for using the equity method
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Company
APICO LLC 27.18%
APICO (Khorat) Holdings LLC 27.18%
APICO (Khorat) Limited 27.18%
The investments in the jointly controlled entities have been classified as joint ventures under IFRS 11 and therefore the equity method 
of accounting has been used in the consolidated financial statements.
APICO is a limited liability company formed in the State of Delaware, USA. APICO LLC wholly owns APICO (Khorat) Holdings LLS a limited 
liability company formed in the State of Delaware, USA. APICO (Khorat) Holding LLC wholly owns APICO (Khorat) Limited which is a Thai 
limited company that was incorporated and has its principal place of business in the Kingdom of Thailand. 
The Group’s primary business purpose is the acquisition, exploration, development and production of petroleum interests in the Kingdom 
of Thailand.
The Group’s share of the results of its joint venture and the Group share of its assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015 are shown 
in the tables below: 
Results for the period 3 March 2015 to 31 December 2015 $’000
Sales and other operating revenues 16,658
Profit before interest and taxation 11,979
Net finance costs (160)
Profit before taxation 11,819
Taxation (4,600)
Profit for the period 7,219
133 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued
Summarised financial information of APICO LLC
Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 $’000
Sales and other operating revenues 61,288
Profit before interest and taxation 44,073
Net finance costs (589)
Profit before taxation 43,484
Taxation (16,924)
Profit for the period 26,560
Group share of assets and liabilities $’000
Non-current assets 48,267
Current assets 5,888
Total assets 54,155
Current liabilities (6,562)
Non-current liabilities (2,529)
Total liabilities (9,091)
Net assets 45,064
The following table shows the movement in investments in the jointly controlled entities:
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Balance at the beginning of the year –
Acquisition of subsidiary (Note 10) 167,000
Additions 3,941
Impairment (42,117)
Share of profit of investments 7,219
Dividends received (5,843)
Balance at the end of the year 130,200
29 Treasury shares
Ordinary shares of 0.25p each held by the Group as treasury shares
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Balance at the beginning of the year 14,910,114 (2014: nil) 59 –
Acquired during the year 26,114,403 (2014: 15,522,066) 99 62
Disposed of on exercise of share options during the year 797,379 (2014: 611,952) (3) (3)
Balance at the end of the year 40,227,138 (2014: 14,910,114) 155 59
Treasury shares represents the cost of shares in the Company purchased in the market and held by the Company to satisfy options under 
the Group’s employee incentive share option plans (refer to Note 33 of these consolidated financial statements). On 14 August 2014, the 
Company announced that the Board had approved a share buyback programme of up to $100 million of ordinary shares (the ‘Programme’). 
During the year, the Company purchased shares under the Programme for a total consideration of $56.1 million (2014: $44.2 million), 
including costs of $0.3 million (2014: $0.3 million). The remaining facility as at 31 December 2015 was $nil (2014: $56.1 million).
134 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 30 Reserves
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Treasury shares (Note 29) (155) (59)
Other reserves (Note 31) 1,646,878 1,695,904
1,646,723 1,695,845
Non-controlling interest
1
(280) (280)
1,646,443 1,695,565
1 The non-controlling interest relates to Dominion Uganda Ltd, where the Group acquired a 95% shareholding during 2012.
31 Other reserves
Share
premium
 1
$’000
Capital
 redemption
 2
 reserve
$’000
Options
 premium
 3
 
reserve 
$’000
Consolid-
ation
 4
reserve
$’000
Merger
 5
reserve
$’000
Equity
component
on
convertible
bond
 6
$’000
Foreign
currency
translation
 7
reserve
$’000
Accum-
ulated
 losses
$’000
Total other
 reserves
$’000
As at 1 January 2014 805,580 – 43,338 (500) 1,218,239 669 4,456 (397,063) 1,674,719
Loss for the period,  
net of tax – – – – – – – 54,846 54,846
Other comprehensive income, net of 
tax – – – – – – 1,784 – 1,784
Total comprehensive loss, net of tax – – – – – – 1,784 54,846 56,630
Purchase of own shares
8
– 62 – – – – – (44,230) (44,168)
Exercise of options 1,847 – – – – – – 1,847
Share-based payment – – 6,876 – – – – – 6,876
Transfers within reserves
5
– – – – (876,447) – – 876,447 –
As at 1 January 2015 807,427 62 50,214 (500) 341,792 669 6,240 490,000 1,695,904
Profit for the period, net of tax – – – – – – – (322,452) (322,452)
Other comprehensive income, net of 
tax – – – – – – (702) – (702)
Total comprehensive income, net of 
tax – – – – – – (702) (322,452) (323,154)
New ordinary shares issued to third 
parties – – – – 325,545 – – – 325,545
Purchase of own shares
8
– 98 – – – – – (56,109) (56,011)
Exercise of options – – – – – – – – –
Share-based payment – – 4,594 – – – – – 4,594
As at 31 December 2015 807,427 160 54,808 (500) 667,337 669 5,538 111,439 1,646,878
1 The share premium account represents the total net proceeds on issue of the Company’s shares in excess of their nominal value of 0.25p per share less amounts transferred to any other reserves.
2 The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares transferred following the Company’s purchase of them.
3 The option premium reserve represents the cost of share-based payments to Directors, employees and third parties. 
4 The consolidation reserve represents a premium on acquisition of a minority interest in a controlled entity.
5  During the year the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Merger Relief (s612 and s613) were applied to the Salamander Energy plc acquisition (refer to Note 10 of these consolidated 
financial statements). The non-statutory premium arising on shares issued by Ophir as consideration has been recognised in the Merger reserve, by virtue of Ophir acquiring in excess of 90% of all 
classes of the acquiree’s issued share capital.
  In 2014, following the completion of the Group’s farm out of 20% of its interest in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4, wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company redeemed the preference shares that had been 
acquired by the Company. This allowed the Company to realise $876.4 million of the Merger Reserve to accumulated profits/(losses) as the redemption of the preference shares was considered 
to be performed with qualifying consideration. 
6  This balance represents the equity component of the convertible bond, net of costs and tax as a result of the separation of the instrument into its debt and equity components. The bond was 
converted into 21,661,476 ordinary shares of 0.25p each on 21 May 2008.
7  The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record unrealised exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of entities within the Group that have a functional 
currency other than US Dollars.
8  On 14 August 2014, the Company announced that the Board had approved a share buyback programme of up to $100 million of ordinary shares (the ‘Programme’). During the year, the Group 
purchased 26,114,403 shares (31 December 2014: 15,522,066) under the Programme for a total consideration of $56.1 million (31 December 2014: $44.2 million), including costs of $0.3 million  
(31 December 2014: $0.3 million). The remaining facility as at 31 December 2015 was nil (31 December 2014: $56.1 million). 
135 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 32 Consolidated cash flow analysis
The following table shows the reconciliation of the (loss)/profit before tax to cash flows generated from/(utilised in) operations:
Notes
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Operating activities
(Loss)/profit before taxation (376,048) 288,493
Adjustments to reconcile profit/(loss) before tax to net cash flows:
Gain on farm-out 5b (245) (671,677)
Interest income 6 (1,673) (7,049)
Interest expense 6 18,348 –
Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method (7,219) –
Foreign exchange (gains)/ losses 6 (6,014) 12,910
Other financial gains 7 13,719 –
Impairment of oil and gas properties 126,732
Depreciation and amortisation 5 85,127 1,955
Impairment of goodwill 5e – 20,868
Loss/(profit) on disposal of assets 5e 703 (2)
Provision for employee entitlements (2,105) (207)
Provision for redundancy costs 2,792 –
Provision for exiting contract 5e 20,000 –
Share-based payment expense 5d 4,594 6,876
Exploration expenditure – pre licence costs 5c 34,157 23,947
Exploration expenditure – written off 5c 148,980 309,835
Impairment of equity accounted investments 42,117 –
Working capital adjustments
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (7,172) –
Decrease in trade and other payables (52) (4,409)
Decrease in trade and other receivables 25,343 2,066
Cash generated from/(utilised) in operations 122,084 (16,394)
33 Share-based compensation
(a) Employee incentive share option plans 
Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme
On 12 May 2004 the Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme was established shortly after the formation of the Company to 
attract new employees on start up. The plan provided for a total of 1,450,000 options to acquire ordinary shares at 1p per share to be issued 
to eligible employees. The Scheme was terminated on 24 November 2005 and all options issued under the scheme have fully vested.
Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan 
On 5 April 2006 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Company Limited 2006 Share Option Plan. Any employee of the Company 
or any Subsidiary or any Director of the Company or any subsidiary who is required to devote substantially the whole of his working time to 
his duties is eligible to participate under the Plan. At the grant date the Board of Directors determine the vesting terms, if any, subject to the 
proviso that no more than one half of the options become exercisable on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant and any 
performance conditions are satisfied. Options have an exercise period of 10 years from the date of grant.
Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan 
On 26 May 2011 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan. This was introduced to give 
awards to Directors and senior management subject to outperforming a comparator group of similarly focused oil and gas exploration 
companies in terms of shareholder return over a three year period. The Plan awards a number of shares to Directors and senior 
management based on a multiple of salary. However, these shares only vest after a three year period and the full award is made 
only if Ophir has performed in the top quartile when compared against a selected peer group of upstream oil and gas companies. 
136 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued Ophir Energy plc 2012 Deferred Share Plan 
On 19 June 2012 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy plc Deferred Share Plan 2012 (‘DSP’). The plan was introduced to 
provide executive management with a means of retaining and incentivising employees. The structure of the DSP will enable a portion 
of participants’ annual bonuses to be deferred into options to acquire ordinary shares in the capital of the Company. All options issued 
to date vest after a three year period. Options have an exercise period of 10 years from the date of grant. 
The DSP operates in conjunction with the Ophir Energy plc Employee Benefit Trust. The Trust will hold ordinary shares in the Company 
for the benefit of its employees and former employees, which may then be used, on a discretionary basis, to settle the DSP Awards as 
and when they are exercised. No shares have been acquired by the Trust.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices (‘WAEP’) of, and movements in, share options during 
the period for the above schemes. These are denominated in Pounds Sterling and have been translated to US Dollars using the closing 
exchange rate for presentation purposes.
2015
Number
2015
WAEP
 2014
Number
WAEP
2014
Outstanding options at the beginning of year 8,201,313 $1.39/£0.90 10,111,578 $1.50/£0.96
Granted during the year 6,362,409 0.37c/0.25p 2,052,911 $0.30/£0.19
Exercised during the year (797,419) 0.37c/0.25p (2,461,325) $0.71/£0.46
Expired during the year (1,031,033) $0.16/£0.11 (1,501,851) $3.06/£1.97
Outstanding options at the end of year 12,735,270 $0.97/£0.65 8,201,313 $1.39/£0.90
Exercisable at end of year 4,035,068 $2.90/£1.96 3,885,282 $3.28/£2.11
The weighted average exercise price of options granted during the year was $0.0037 (2014: $0.30). The range of exercise prices for 
options outstanding at the end of the year was $0.0037 to $8.14 (2014: $0.00 to $8.55) with a remaining exercise period in the range 
of one to nine years.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 
31 December 2015.
  2006 Share Option Plan   Long Term Incentive Plan  2012 Deferred Share Plan
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Dividend yield (%) N/A – – – – –
Exercise Price N/A $4.29/£2.60 0.37c/0.25p nil 0.37c/0.25p nil
Share Volatility (%) N/A 50% 50% 41% 50% 50%
Risk-free interest rate (%) N/A 1% 0.5% 0.94% 0.5% 1%
Expected life of option (years) N/A 2–10 0–4 0–5 0–3 1–3
Weighted average share price N/A $4.06/£2.46 $1.05/£0.71 $4.06/£2.46 $2.10/£1.42 $4.06/£2.46
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected 
volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not be the actual outcome.
(b) Share-based payments to Directors 
During the year a total of 1,334,506 (2014: 552,522) nil cost options to acquire ordinary shares were granted to Directors under the 
Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Plan. 
During the year no options were granted to Directors under the Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan. (2014: nil).
137 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 34 Operating lease commitments
At 31 December 2015 the Group was committed to making the following future minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases 
over land and buildings with the following lease termination dates:
As at
2015
 $’000
As at 
2014
$’000
Due within one year 18,909 1,877
Due later than one year but within five years 67,088 8,982
Due later than five years 58,269 4,792
144,266 15,651
35 Capital commitments – Exploration
In acquiring its oil and gas interests the Group has pledged that various work programmes will be undertaken on each permit/interest. 
The exploration commitments in the following table are an estimate of the net cost to the Group of performing these work programmes:
As at
2015
 $’000
As at 
2014
$’000
Due within one year 39,010 63,328
Due later than one year but within two years 30,350 28,600
Due later than two years but within five years 17,680 6,630
87,040 98,558
36 Contingent Liabilities
An individual has commenced claims against the Group relating to the evaluation and subsequent disposal of an interest that was held in 
exploration blocks within the portfolio. Preliminary court hearings for applications relating to the claims have been held, and, to date, no 
material rulings have been made. The Group is awaiting the schedule for the full trials and it is not practicable to state whether any payment 
obligation may arise. The Group has taken the view that the actions are without merit and accordingly has estimated that no liability will 
arise as a result of proceedings and therefore no provision for any liability has been made in these financial statements.
37 Subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and material joint operations
Subsidiary undertakings
A complete list of Ophir Energy plc Group companies at 31 December 2015, and Group’s percentage of share capital (to the nearest whole 
number) are set out in Appendix A to these consolidated financial statements on pages 158 to 160. All of these subsidiaries have been 
included in these consolidated financial statements on pages 99 to 139. 
Material joint operations
The following joint operations are considered individually material to the Group as at 31 December 2015. 
Asset Principal place of business Activity
Block R
1
Equatorial Guinea Exploration
Block 1
2
Tanzania Exploration
Block 4
3
Tanzania Exploration
Bankanai (Kerendan)
4
Indonesia Exploration and production
1 This concession is operated by the Group and it has a 80% interest.
2 This concession is operated by BG Group in which the Group has a 20% interest.
3 This concession is operated by BG Group in which the Group has a 20% interest.
4 This concession is operated by the Group and it has a 70% interest.
Capital commitments relating to these projects are included in Note 35 of these consolidated financial statements. There are no contingent 
liabilities associated with these projects. Refer to Note 2.3(l) of these consolidated financial statements for the Group’s accounting policy for 
jointly controlled assets and liabilities.
138 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 38 Related party disclosures
(a) Identity of related parties
The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (refer to Note 6 of the Company financial statements), joint ventures (refer 
to Note 21 and Note 37 of these consolidated financial statements) and its Directors. 
Recharges from the Company to subsidiaries in the year were $13,228,862 (2014: $25,872,984). Transactions between the Company and 
its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
(b) Other transactions with key management personnel
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors) is disclosed in Note 9(b) of these consolidated financial statements.
39 Events after the reporting period
On 1 March 2016, Ophir acquired a 40% non-operated interest in Block 2A, Malaysia, for a consideration of $6.2 million. 
On 9 March 2016, the Group acquired a 50% operated interest in Block CI-513, Cote d’Ivoire, for a consideration of $16.9 million.
139 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Notes
2015
 $’000
2014
 $’000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 4,026 4,538
Investments in subsidiaries 6 1,139,524 542,445
Financial assets 7 2,202 6,942
1,145,752 553,925
Current assets
Inventory 8 6,655 6,067
Trade and other receivables 9 3,363 4,330
Cash and cash equivalents 10 533,630 769,939
Investments 11 – 294,904
543,648 1,075,240
Total assets 1,689,400 1,629,165
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 12 (6,468) (14,499)
Taxation payable (25) (25)
(6,493) (14,524)
–
Total liabilities (6,493) (14,524)
Net assets 1,682,907 1,614,641
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 14 3,061 2,474
Treasury shares 15 (155) (59)
Reserves 16 1,680,001 1,612,226
Total equity 1,682,907 1,614,641
The notes on pages 143 to 160 form part of these Company financial statements. 
The Company financial statements of Ophir Energy plc (registered number 05047425) on pages 140 to 160 were approved by the Board 
of Directors on 9 March 2016.
On behalf of the Board:
Nicholas Smith          Tony Rouse
Chairman           Chief Financial Officer
140 Ophir Energy plc
Company statement of financial position 
As at 31 December 201 5 Called up 
share capital 
$’000
Treasury 
shares
$’000
Other
1
reserves
$’000
Total equity
$’000
As at 1 January 2014 2,466 – 1,866,705 1,869,171
Loss for the period, net of tax – – (219,034) (219,034)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – – 
Total comprehensive income, net of tax – – (219,034) (219,034)
Purchase of own shares – (59) (44,168) (44,227)
Exercise of options 8 – 1,847 1,855
Share-based payment – – 6,876 6,876
As at 31 December 2014 2,474 (59) 1,612,226 1,614,641
Loss for the period, net of tax – – (206,353) (206,353)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – – 
Total comprehensive income, net of tax – – (206,353) (206,353)
New ordinary shares issued to third parties 587 325,545 326,132
Purchase of own shares – (99) (56,011) (56,110)
Exercise of options – 3 – 3
Share-based payment – – 4,594 4,594
As at 31 December 2015 3,061 (155) 1,680,001 1,682,907
1    Refer to Note 16 of these Company financial statements
The notes on pages 143 to 160 form part of these Company financial statements. 
141 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 201 5 Notes
2015 
 $’000
2014
 $’000
Operating activities
Loss before taxation (206,353) (219,009)
Adjustments to reconcile loss before tax to net cash flows:
Interest income (1,624) (27,915)
Interest expense – 7,291
Foreign exchange losses/(gains) 3,776 (14,840)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5 2,714 1,167
Provision for employee entitlements – (227)
Share-based payment expense 4,594 6,876
Allowance for impairment of investment in subsidiaries 6 158,204 215,912
Working capital adjustments
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (8,029) 9,292
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 966 (1,918)
Cash flows used in operating activities (45,752) (23,371)
Income taxes paid – –
Interest income 1,624 65,190
Interest expense – (7,291)
Net cash flows used in operating activities (44,128) (34,528)
Investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 5 (2,202) (4,391)
Increase in inventory (588) (4,224)
Investment in subsidiaries 6 (246,877) (20,000)
Proceeds from the redemption of preference shares 6 – 1,079,450
(Loans to)/repaid by subsidiaries 6 (182,276) 508,869
Cash returned/(placed) on deposit 11 294,904 (294,904)
Security deposits returned/(placed) 4,740 (3,847)
Net cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (132,299) 1,260,953
Financing activities
Share issue costs – –
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares – –
Proceeds from of exercise of share options 3 1,914
Purchase of own shares (56,109) (44,230)
(Repayment of)/proceeds from loans and borrowings – (540,630)
Net cash flows (used in)/from financing activities (56,106) (582,946)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year (232,533) 712,535
Net effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (3,776) (11,785)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 769,939 69,189
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 10 533,630 769,939
The notes on pages 143 to 160 form part of these Company financial statements. 
142 Ophir Energy plc
Company statement of cash flows 
For the year ended 31 December 201 5  1 Corporate information
Ophir Energy plc (the Company) is a public limited company domiciled and incorporated in England and Wales. The Company’s registered 
offices are located at 123 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6DE. 
The Company’s business is the development of offshore and deepwater oil and gas exploration assets. The Company has an extensive 
and diverse portfolio of exploration interests across Africa and Southeast Asia.
The Company’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
9 March 2016 and the Statement of Financial Position was signed on the Board’s behalf by Nicholas Smith and Tony Rouse.
2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
and adopted by the European Union (EU), IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for revaluation of certain derivative instruments measured at 
fair value. The financial statements are presented in US Dollars rounded to the nearest thousand dollars ($’000) except as otherwise indicated.
The Company is the ultimate parent entity of the Group. The Company’s financial statements are included in the Ophir Energy plc 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. As permitted by the section s408 of the Companies Act 2006 
the Company has not presented its own income statement and statement of comprehensive income and related notes.
Comparative figures for the period to 31 December 2014 are for the year ended on that date.
New and amended accounting standards and interpretations
The Company has adopted relevant new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2015. These are detailed in Note 2 
of the Group financial statements.
2.2 Significant accounting policies
(a) Investment in subsidiaries
The Company holds monetary balances with its subsidiaries of which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable 
future. Such balances are considered to be part of the Company’s net investment in its subsidiaries. 
The carrying values of investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
(b) Financial instruments
i. Cash and short-term deposits
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short term deposits with a maturity 
of three months or less, but excludes any restricted cash. Restricted cash is not available for use by the Company and therefore is not 
considered highly liquid – for example cash set aside to cover rehabilitation obligations. For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash 
and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
ii. Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and 
recoverable amount. Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost. Allowance is made when there 
is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to recover balances in full. Evidence on non-recoverability may include indications 
that the debtor or group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or default 
or delinquency in repayments. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote. The amount of the 
impairment loss is the receivable carrying amount compared to the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original 
effective interest rate.
iii. Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are carried at amortised cost. They represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Company prior 
to the end of the financial year that are unpaid and arise when the Company becomes obligated to make future payments in respect 
of the purchase of those goods and services. The amounts are unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
143 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued
iv. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective  
interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.  
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
(c) Inventories
Inventories which comprise drilling consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined by using 
weighted average cost method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of transportation and other related expenses.
(d) Property, plant and equipment
Cost
Property, plant and equipment, which comprises furniture and fittings and computer equipment, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment calculated using the straight line method at rates to write off the cost, less 
estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the statement of financial position date, of each asset over expected useful lives 
ranging from three to 10 years.
(e) Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an 
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation. If the effect 
of the time value of money is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount 
is recognised as a finance cost.
(f) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Company does not operate its own pension plan but makes pension or superannuation contributions to private funds of its employees 
which are defined contribution plans. The cost of providing such benefits are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
(g) Employee benefits 
Salaries, wages, annual leave and sick leave
Liabilities for salaries and wages, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave expected to be settled 
within 12 months of the reporting date are recognised in respect of employees’ services up to the reporting date. They are measured at 
the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled. Liabilities for non-accumulating sick leave are recognised when the leave 
is taken and are measured at the rates paid or payable.
(h) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
(i) Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an 
assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement 
conveys a right to use the asset.
The Company has leases where the Lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset. Such leases are classified 
as operating leases and rentals payable are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
(j) Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably 
measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received and receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other 
sales taxes or duty.
144 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued (k) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest rate method, that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
(l) Share-based payments
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted 
and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled 
to the award. Fair value is determined with reference to the market value of the underlying shares using a pricing model appropriate to the 
circumstances which requires judgements as to the selection of both the valuation model and inputs. In valuing equity-settled transactions, 
no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition 
or a non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated on the basis of the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement 
in cumulative expense since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding 
entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost 
based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over 
the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value 
of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is 
recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in 
the income statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation 
or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
For equity-settled share-based payment transactions with third parties, the goods or services received are measured at the date of receipt 
by reference to their fair value with a corresponding entry in equity. If the Company cannot reliably estimate the fair value of the goods 
or services received, their value is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
(m)  Foreign currency translation
The functional currency of the Company is determined on an individual basis according to the primary economic environment in which  
it operates. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date 
of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the 
statement of financial position date. All exchange differences are taken to the income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured 
at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rate ruling as at the date of the initial transaction. Non-
monetary items measured at a revalued amount in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rate ruling at the date 
when the fair value was determined.
145 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued
(n) Income taxes
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based 
on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date. 
Current income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income tax 
is recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
•  where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not 
a business combination and, at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
•  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
•  deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of each reporting period and are recognised to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profit will be available to allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the 
related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial 
position date.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise deferred 
income tax is recognised in the income statement.
(o) Impairment 
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an intangible asset or item of property plant & equipment 
may be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for is required, the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs to sell and its value 
in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 
asset. In determining fair value less costs to sell, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available. If no such transactions can 
be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for 
publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair value indicators.
The Company bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each 
of the Company’s CGU’s to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period 
of five years. For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to projected future cash flows after the fifth year.
Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the income statement in expense 
categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset, except for a property previously revalued and the revaluation was taken 
to other comprehensive income. In this case, the impairment is also recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of 
any previous revaluation.
146 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 2.3 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Company financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the Company financial statements and reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based 
on management’s experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. However, actual outcomes can differ from these estimates.
The Company has used estimates and assumptions in deriving certain figures within the financial statements. Such accounting estimates 
may not equate with the actual results which will only be known in time. The key areas of estimation are detailed in Note 2.4 of the Group 
financial statements.
3 Loss attributable to members of the parent company 
The loss attributable to the members of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 is $206.4 million (2014: $219.0 million).
4 Share-based compensation
(a) Employee incentive share option plans 
Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme
Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme was established on 12 May 2004 shortly after the formation of the Company to 
attract new employees on start up. The plan provided for a total of 1,450,000 options to acquire ordinary shares at 1p per share to be 
issued to eligible employees. The Scheme was terminated on 24 November 2005 and all options issued under the scheme have fully vested.
Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan 
On 5 April 2006 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Company Limited 2006 Share Option Plan. Any employee of the Company 
or any Subsidiary or any Director of the Company or any subsidiary who is required to devote substantially the whole of his working time 
to his duties is eligible to participate under the Plan. At the grant date the Board of Directors determine the vesting terms, if any, subject 
to the proviso that no more than one half of the options become exercisable on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant 
and any performance conditions are satisfied. Options have an exercise period of 10 years from the date of grant.
Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan 
On 26 May 2011 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan. This was introduced to give 
awards to Directors and senior management subject to outperforming a comparator group of similarly focused oil and gas exploration 
companies in terms of shareholder return over a three year period. The Plan awards a number of shares to Directors and senior 
management based on a multiple of salary. However, these shares only vest after a three year period and the full award is made 
only if Ophir has performed in the top quartile when compared against a selected peer group of upstream oil and gas companies. 
Ophir Energy plc 2012 Deferred Share Plan 
On 19th June 2012 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy plc Deferred Share Plan 2012 (DSP). The plan was introduced to provide 
executive management with a means of retaining and incentivising employees. The structure of the DSP will enable a portion of participants’ 
annual bonuses to be deferred into options to acquire ordinary shares in the capital of the Company. All options issued to date vest after 
a three year period. Options have an exercise period of 10 years from the date of grant. 
The DSP operates in conjunction with the Ophir Energy plc Employee Benefit Trust. The Trust will hold ordinary shares in the Company for 
the benefit of its employees and former employees, which may then be used, on a discretionary basis, to settle the DSP Awards as and when 
they are exercised. No shares have been acquired by the Trust.
147 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 4 Share-based compensation continued
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during 
the period for the above schemes. These are denominated in Pounds Sterling and have been translated to US Dollars using the closing 
exchange rate for presentation purposes.
2015
Number
2015
WAEP
2014
Number
2014
WAEP
Outstanding options at the beginning of the year 8,201,313 $1.39/£0.90 10,111,578 $1.50/£0.96
Granted during the year 6,362,409 0.37c/0.25p 2,052,911 $0.30/£0.19
Exercised during the year (797,419) 0.37c/0.25p (2,461,325) $0.71/£0.46
Expired during the year (1,031,033) $0.16/£0.11 (1,501,851) $3.06/£1.97
Outstanding options at the end of the year 12,735,270 $0.97/£0.65 8,201,313 $1.39/£0.90
Exercisable at end of year 4,035,068 $2.90/£1.96 3,885,282 $3.28/£2.11
The weighted average exercise price of options granted during the year was $0.0037 (2014: $0.30). The range of exercise prices for options 
outstanding at the end of the year was $0.0037 to $8.14 (2014: $0.00 to $8.55) with a remaining exercise period in the range of three 
to nine years.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The table below lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 
31 December 2015. 
2006 Share Option Plan Long Term Incentive Plan 2013 Deferred Share Plan
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Dividend yield (%) N/A – – – – –
Exercise Price N/A $4.29/£2.60 0.37c/0.25p nil 0.37c/0.25p nil
Share Volatility (%) N/A 50% 50% 41% 50% 50%
Risk-free interest rate (%) N/A 1% 0.5% 0.94% 0.5% 1%
Expected life of option (years) N/A 2–10 0–4 0–5 0–3 1–3
Weighted average share price N/A $4.06/£2.46 $1.05/£0.71 $4.06/£2.46 $2.10/£1.42 $4.06/£2.46
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected 
volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not be the actual outcome.
(c) Share-based payments to Directors
During the year 1,334,506 (2014: 552,522) nil cost options to acquire ordinary shares were granted to Directors under the Ophir Energy Long 
Term Incentive Plan.
 During the year no options were granted to Directors under the Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan (2014: nil). 
148 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 5 Property, plant and equipment
Year ended
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Office furniture and equipment
Cost
Balance at the beginning of the year 6,414 2,023
Additions 2,202 4,391
Disposals – –
Balance at the end of the year 8,616 6,414
Depreciation
Balance at the beginning of the year 1,876 709
Disposals – –
Depreciation charge for the year 2,714 1,167
Balance at the end of the year 4,590 1,876
Net book value
Balance at the beginning of the year 4,538 1,314
Balance at the end of the year 4,026 4,538
6 Investments in subsidiaries
On 3 March 2015 (the acquisition date), the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Salamander, a Southeast Asian focused 
independent exploration and production company quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group announced that the scheme of arrangement was approved by Salamander’s shareholders on 6 February 2015 and was 
sanctioned by the Supreme Court in London effective on 2 March 2015. The transaction has therefore closed and the entire issued ordinary 
share capital of Salamander is now owned by Ophir. The consideration of $326.1 million was satisfied in full by the issuing of 0.5719 Ophir 
ordinary share for each Salamander ordinary share held.
The enlarged Group enhances Ophir’s operating capabilities in both Africa and Southeast Asia and deepwater expertise across key technical 
and commercial functions. The combined Group provides shareholders with a diversified exposure to 21 production, development and 
exploration blocks in Africa and Southeast Asia.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a single business combination in the consolidated financial statements on pages 99 to 139. 
The fair value assessment of the Salamander identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as at the date of acquisition have been reviewed 
in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 – Business Combinations. Details of the Group accounting policies in relation to business 
combinations are contained in Note 2.3(c) on page 106.
The fair values of the assets acquired have been calculated using valuation techniques based on discounted cash flows using forward curve 
commodity prices, a discount rate based on market observable data and cost and production profiles.
149 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 6 Investments in subsidiaries continued
The following table shows the movement in the investment in subsidiaries during the year
Year ended
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Balance at the beginning of the year 978,375 2,546,692
Additions during the year
Salamander Energy plc 593,011 –
Ophir Holdings Limited 128,238 174,699
Ophir Services Pty Limited – 18,659
Ophir Asia Limited 62,126 341
Ophir Ventures (Jersey) No. 2 Limited 2 20,000
Dominion Petroleum Limited 6,645 81,917
Other 9,013 20,885
Repayments during the year
Ophir Holdings Limited – (800,000)
Ophir Ventures (Jersey) Limited – Preference share redemption – (241,893)
Ophir Ventures (Jersey) No. 2 Limited – Preference share redemption – (837,557)
Ophir Services Pty Limited (20,781) –
Other (22,971) (5,368)
Balance at the end of the year 1,733,658 978,375
Foreign exchange translation gains and losses 26,625 26,625
Allowance for impairment
Balance at the beginning of the year (462,555) (246,643)
Additional allowance (158,204) (215,912)
Balance at the end of the year (620,759) (462,555)
Net book value
At the beginning of the year 542,445 2,300,049
At the end of the year 1,139,524 542,445
Loans to subsidiaries are unsecured, interest free and form part of the Company’s investments in subsidiaries. The loans are denominated 
in US Dollars and have no particular repayment terms. The Company has indicated that it does not intend to demand repayment in the 
foreseeable future. The allowance for impairment charge primarily relates to a reduction in value of the subsidiaries associated with the 
write off of exploration expenditure.
A complete list of Ophir Energy plc Group companies at 31 December 2015, and Group’s percentage of share capital (to the nearest whole 
number) are set out in Appendix A to these financial statements on page 158. All of these subsidiaries have been consolidated in the Group 
financial statements on pages 99 to 139. 
7 Financial assets
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Non-current
Security deposits – Rental properties 2,202 3,642
Security deposits – Exploration commitments
1
 – 3,300
2,202 6,942
1    Floating interest deposits pledged to third parties or banks as security in relation to the Group’s exploration commitments. 
150 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 8 Inventory
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Drilling consumables 6,655 6,067
9 Trade and other receivables
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Other debtors 2,110 1,707
Prepayments 1,253 2,623
3,363 4,330
All debtors are current. There are no receivables that are past due or impaired. 
Due to the short-term nature of these receivables, their carrying value is assumed to approximate their fair value.
10 Cash and cash equivalents
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Cash 35,121 30,687
Cash equivalents 498,509 739,252
533,630 769,939
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits and other short-term money market deposit accounts that are readily 
convertible into known amounts of cash. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is $533.6 million (2014: $769.9 million).
11 Investments
As at
31 Dec 2015
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
Short-term investments – 294,904
Short-term investments consist of cash deposit accounts that are made for varying periods of between three months and twelve months 
depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term investment rates. The fair value 
of short-term investments is nil (2014: $294.9 million).
12 Trade and other payables
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Trade creditors 922 893
Accruals 5,546 13,606
6,468 14,499
Trade payables are unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
151 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 13 Financial instruments
The Company utilises the same financial risk and capital management as the Group. Refer to Note 26 of the Group financial statements for 
further details.
(a) Credit quality of financial assets
Equivalent S&P rating
1
 Internally rated
A-1
and above
$’000
A-2 
and above
$’000
A-2 
and below
$’000
No default
 customers
$’000
Total
$’000
Year ended 31 December 2015
Current financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 533,623 – – 7 533,630
Trade and other receivables – – – 3,363 3,363
533,623 – – 3,370 536,993
Non-current financial assets
Security deposits – 2,202 – – 2,202
– 2,202 – – 2,202
1 The equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial asset itself.
Equivalent S&P rating
1
 Internally rated
A-1
and above
$’000
A-2 
and above
$’000
A-2 
and below
$’000
No default
 customers
$’000
Total
$’000
Year ended 31 December 2014
Current financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 769,297 – – 12 769,939
Investments 294,904 – – – 294,904
Trade and other receivables – – – 4,330 4,330
1,064,831 – – 4,342 1,069,173
Non-current financial assets
Security deposits 3,300 3,288 354 6,942
3,300 3,288 354 6,942
1 The equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial asset itself. 
Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and short term investments is managed by limiting the term of deposits to periods of less than twelve 
months and selecting counterparty financial institutions with reference to long and short-term credit ratings published by Standard & Poor’s.
Fair values
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the fair value of security deposits and receivables. Collateral is not held as security.
The fair values and carrying values of non-current receivables of the Company are as follows:
As at 31 Dec 2015 As at 31 Dec 2014
Carrying
 amount
$’000
Fair value 
$’000
Carrying 
amount
$’000
Fair value 
$’000
Year ended 31 December
Security deposits 2,202 2,202 6,942 6,837
2,202 2,202 6,942 6,837
152 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued The fair values are based on cash flows discounted at a rate reflecting current market rates adjusted for counter party credit risk. The fair 
values of all other financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying values.
(b) Interest rate risk
As of 31 December 2015, the Company has no external borrowings (2014: nil) so interest rate risk is limited to interest receivable on deposits 
and bank balances. 
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rate relates primarily to the Company’s cash assets held in short-term  
cash deposits. 
The Board monitors its cash balance on an ongoing basis and liaises with its financiers regularly to mitigate the risk of a fluctuating interest 
rate. The benchmark rate used for short-term deposits is US LIBOR. 
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Financial assets
Security deposits 2,202 6,942
Cash and cash equivalents 533,630 769,939
Investments – 294,904
535,832 1,071,785
Financial liabilities
Loans from subsidiary undertakings – –
Net exposure 535,832 1,071,785
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant,  
of the Company’s loss before tax (through the impact on floating rate deposits and cash equivalent).
Increase/decrease in interest rate
Effect on loss 
31 Dec 2015
$’000
Effect on loss 
31 Dec 2014
$’000
+0.5% 2,679 5,359
-0.5% (2,679) (5,359)
The sensitivity in 2015 was maintained at 0.5% as interest rate volatilities remained similar to those in the prior period.
(c) Foreign currency risk
The Company adopts the same policies to manage foreign currency risk as the Group. Refer to Note 26(d) of the Group financial statements 
for further details.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s predominant exposure to foreign exchange rates related to cash and cash equivalents held in 
Pounds Sterling. 
153 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 13 Financial instruments continued
At the statement of financial position date, the Company had the following exposure to GBP, THB, MYR and EUR foreign currency that is not 
designated in cash flow hedges:
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 
EUR 1 1
GBP 29,088 73,580
29,089 73,581
Investments
GBP – 69,904
Security deposits
GBP 2,202 3,642
31,291 147,127
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
AUD (200) (18)
THB (151) –
MYR (23) –
EUR (85) (86)
GBP (3,851) (4,949)
(4,310) (5,053)
Net exposure 26,981 142,074
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable possible changes in currencies against the US Dollar exchange rates with all other 
variables held constant, of the Company’s loss before tax and equity (due to the foreign exchange translation of monetary assets and liabilities).
Loss before tax higher/(lower)
2015
$’000
2014
$’000
US Dollar to GBP Sterling +5% (2014: +5%) 1,372 7,109
US Dollar to GBP Sterling -5% (2014: -5%) (1,372) (7,109)
Significant assumptions used in the foreign currency exposure sensitivity analysis include:
• Reasonably possible movements in foreign exchange rates were determined based on a review of the last two years’ historical 
movements and economic forecaster’s expectations.
• The reasonably possible movement was calculated by taking the US Dollar spot rate as at balance date, moving this spot rate by the 
reasonably possible movements and then re-converting the US Dollar into the respective foreign currency with the ‘new spot rate’. 
This methodology reflects the translation methodology undertaken by the Company.
154 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued (d) Liquidity risk
The Company has a liquidity risk arising from its ability to fund its liabilities. This Company utilises the same policies to mitigate liquidity 
risk as the rest of the Group. Refer to Note 26(e) of the Group financial statements for further details.
All of the Company’s trade creditors and other payables (Refer to Note 12 of these Company financial statements) are payable in less than 
six months. 
The Company did not make use of derivative instruments during the year or during the prior year.
(e) Disclosure of fair values
The carrying value of security deposits and financial liabilities disclosed in the financial statements as at 31 December 2015 approximate 
their fair value. 
Fair value hierarchy 
The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
Level 1  quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2   other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable,  
either directly or indirectly; and
Level 3   techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable  
market data.
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Level 1 – –
Level 2 – –
Level 3 2,202 6,942
2,202 6,942
There were no transfers between fair value levels during the year.
14 Share capital
Year ended
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
Year ended
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
(a) Authorised
2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 7,963 7,963
(b) Called up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.25p each
In issue at the beginning of the year; 593,810,795 (2014: 591,961,422) 2,474 2,466
Additions
Issued on exercise of share options during the year; Nil (2014: 1,849,373) – 8
Issued during the period; 152,208,612
1
 (2014: Nil) 587 –
In issue at the end of the year; 746,019,407
 
(2014: 593,810,795) 3,061 2,474
1 152,208,612 ordinary shares were issued in consideration for the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc on 3 March 2015. The market value of the Company’s shares on this date was £1.39 ($2.14).
The balances classified as called up; allotted and fully paid share capital represents the nominal value of the total number of issued shares 
of the Company of 0.25p each. Fully paid shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
155 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements 15 Treasury shares
Ordinary shares of 0.25p each held by the Group as treasury shares
Year ended
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Balance at the beginning of the year ; 14,910,114 (2014: nil) 59 –
Acquired during the year; 26,114,403 (2014: 15,522,066) 99 62
Disposed of on exercise of share options during the year; 797,379 (2014: 611,952) (3) (3)
Balance at the end of the year; 40,227 ,138 (2014: 14,910,1 14) 155 59
Treasury shares represents the cost of shares in the Company purchased in the market and held by the Company partly to satisfy options 
under the Group’s employee incentive share option plans (refer to Note 4 of these Company financial statements). On 14 August 2014, the 
Company announced that the Board had approved a share buyback programme of up to $100 million of ordinary shares (the Programme). 
During 2015 $56.1 million of shares were purchased (2014: $44.2 million including costs of $0.3 million).
16 Other Reserves
Share
 premium
1
$’000
Capital
redemption
2
 reserve
$’000
Options
premium
3
reserve
$’000
Merger
4
 reserve
$’000
Equity
5
component
 on
 convertible
 bond
$’000
Foreign
6
currency
translation
reserve
$’000
Accum-
ulated
 profits/
(losses)
$’000
Total 
other
 reserves
$’000
At 1 January 2014 805,580 – 43,338 1,218,239 669 11,839 (212,960) 1,866,705
Loss for the period, net of tax – – – – – – (219,034) (219,034)
Other comprehensive income  
net of tax – – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income  
net of tax – – – – – – (219,034) (219,034)
Purchase of own shares – 62 – – – – (44,230) (44,168)
Exercise of options 1,847 – – – – – – 1,847
Share-based payment – – 6,876 – – – – 6,876
Transfers within reserves
4
 – – – (876,447) – – 876,447 –
As at 1 January 2015 807,427 62 50,214 341,792 669 11,839 400,223 1,612,226
Loss for the period, net of tax – – – – – – (206,353) (206,353)
Other comprehensive income  
net of tax – – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income  
net of tax – – – – – – (206,353) (206,353)
New ordinary shares issued  
to third parties
4
– – – 325,545 – – – 325,545
Purchase of own shares – 98 – – – – (56,109) (56,011)
Exercise of options – – – – – – – –
Share-based payment – – 4,594 – – – – 4,594
As at 31 December 2015 807,427 160 54,808 667,337 669 11,839 137,761 1,680,001
1 The share premium account represents the total net proceeds on issue of the Company’s shares in excess of their nominal value of 0.25p per share less amounts transferred to any other reserves.
2 The share capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares transferred following the Company’s purchase of them.
3 The option premium reserve represents the cost of share-based payments to Directors, employees and third parties. 
4  During the year the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Merger Relief (s612 and s613) were applied to the Salamander Energy plc acquisition (refer to Note 10 of these consolidated 
financial statements). The non-statutory premium arising on shares issued by Ophir as consideration has been recognised in the Merger reserve, by virtue of Ophir acquiring in excess of 90% of all 
classes of the acquiree’s issued share capital.
 In 2014, following the completion of the Group’s farm out of 20% of its interest in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4, wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company redeemed the preference shares that had been   
  acquired by the Company. This allowed the Company to realise $876.4 million of the Merger Reserve to accumulated profits/(losses) as the redemption of the preference shares was deemed to be   
performed with qualifying consideration. 
5 This balance represents the equity component of the convertible bond, net of costs and tax as a result of the separation of the instrument into its debt and equity components. The bond was   
 converted into 21,661,476 ordinary shares of 0.25p each on 21 May 2008.
6  The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record unrealised exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of entities within the Group that have a functional 
currency other than US Dollars.
156 Ophir Energy plc
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 17 Operating lease commitments   
At 31 December 2015 the Company was committed to making the following future minimum lease payments in respect of operating 
leases over land and buildings with the following lease termination dates:
As at
31 Dec 2015 
 $’000
As at 
31 Dec 2014
 $’000
Due within one year 1,307 855
Due later than one year but within five years 5,216 7,885
Due later than five years 3,867 4,792
10,390 13,532
18 Related party transactions
(a) Identity of related parties
The Company has related party relationships with its subsidiaries and its Directors (refer to Note 6 of these Company financial statements). 
A complete list of Ophir Energy plc Group companies at 31 December 2015, and the Group’s percentage of share capital (to the nearest 
whole number) are set out in Appendix A to these financial statements.
(b) Other transactions with key management personnel
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors) is disclosed in Note 9 of the Group financial statements.
19 Contingent Liabilities
An individual has commenced action against the Group relating to an evaluation of an interest that was held in exploration blocks within 
the portfolio. Interim hearings in relation to costs of the claim were held on 12 February and 23 February 2015. A trial date has not been 
set and therefore it is not practicable to state the timing of any payment. The Group has taken the view that the action is without merit 
and accordingly has estimated that no liability will arise as a result of proceedings and no provision for any liability has been made in these 
financial statements.
20 Events after reporting period
There are no events after the reporting period that require disclosure by the Company. 
157 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Subsidiary companies
This is a complete list of Ophir Energy plc Group companies at 31 December 2015, and Group’s percentage of share capital to the nearest 
whole number. All of these subsidiaries have been included in the consolidated financial statements on pages 99 to 139. 
Country of
incorporation
Location 
of operation
Principal
Activity
Holding
31 Dec 2015
Ophir Services Pty Limited * Australia Australia Group Services 100%
Ophir Holdings Limited * Jersey C.I. Jersey C.I. Holding 100%
Ophir Asia Limited * Jersey C.I. Jersey C.I. Holding 100%
Ophir Asia Services Limited Thailand Thailand Services 100%
Ophir Ventures (Jersey) Limited * Jersey C.I. Jersey C.I. Holding 100%
Ophir Ventures (Jersey) No.2 Limited * Jersey C.I. Jersey C.I. Holding 100%
Dominion Petroleum Limited * Bermuda Bermuda Holding 100%
Salamander Energy plc *
England
 & Wales
England
 & Wales Holding 100%
Ophir Gabon (Gnondo) Limited Jersey C.I. Gabon Exploration 100%
Ophir Gabon (Manga) Limited Jersey C.I. Gabon Exploration 100%
Ophir Gabon (Mbeli) Limited Jersey C.I. Gabon Exploration 100%
Ophir Gabon (Ntsina) Limited Jersey C.I. Gabon Exploration 100%
Ophir Gabon (Nkouere) Limited Jersey C.I. Gabon Exploration 100%
Ophir Gabon (Nkawa) Limited Jersey C.I. Gabon Exploration 100%
Ophir Equatorial Guinea (Block R) Limited Jersey C.I.
Equatorial
Guinea Exploration 100%
Ophir Equatorial Guinea (Holdings) Limited Jersey C.I.
Equatorial
Guinea Exploration 100%
Ophir JDZ Limited Jersey C.I. Jersey C.I. Exploration 100%
Ophir New Ventures Limited Jersey C.I. Jersey C.I. Holding 100%
Ophir Seychelles (Area 1,2 and 3) Limited Jersey C.I. Seychelles Exploration 100%
Ophir Myanmar (Block AD-3) Limited Jersey C.I. Myanmar Exploration 100%
Ophir East Africa Holdings Limited Jersey C.I. Jersey C.I. Holding 100%
Ophir Tanzania (Block 1) Limited Jersey C.I. Tanzania Exploration 100%
Ophir Tanzania (Block 3) Limited Jersey C.I. Tanzania Exploration 100%
Ophir Tanzania (Block 4) Limited Jersey C.I. Tanzania Exploration 100%
Ophir East Africa Ventures Limited Jersey C.I. Tanzania Exploration 100%
Ophir Pipeline Limited Jersey C.I. Tanzania Exploration 100%
Ophir Gas Marketing Limited Jersey C.I. Tanzania Exploration 100%
Ophir LNG Limited Jersey C.I. Tanzania Exploration 100%
Ophir Energy Company Nigeria (JDZ) Limited Nigeria Nigeria Exploration 100%
Ophir Energy Indonesia (Aru) Limited Cyprus Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Energy Indonesia (Halmahera-Kofiau) 1 Limited Cyprus Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Energy Indonesia (Kofiau) 1 Limited Cyprus Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Energy Indonesia (West Papua IV) 1 Limited Cyprus Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Energy Indonesia (North Ganal) Limited Cyprus Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (Halmahera-Kofiau) 2 LLC Delaware Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (Kofiau) 2 LLC Delaware Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (West Papua IV) 2 LLC Delaware Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (Bontang II) Limited
England
 & Wales Indonesia Exploration 100%
Dominion Investments Limited Tanzania Tanzania Exploration 100%
158 Ophir Energy plc
Appendix A – Subsidiary companies Country of
incorporation
Location 
of operation
Principal
Activity
Holding
31 Dec 2015
Dominion Acquisitions Limited
British Virgin
 Islands
British Virgin
 Islands Holding 100%
Dominion Uganda Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Uganda Exploration 95%
Dominion Somaliland Limited
British Virgin
 Islands
British Virgin
 Island Exploration 100%
Dominion Oil & Gas Limited
British Virgin
 Islands
British Virgin
 Islands Holding 100%
Dominion Oil & Gas Limited (Tanzania) Tanzania Tanzania Exploration 100%
Dominion Petroleum Acquisitions Limited Bermuda Bermuda Holding 100%
DOMPET Limited Bermuda Bermuda Holding 100%
Dominion Petroleum Administrative Services Limited
England
 & Wales
England
 & Wales Holding 100%
Dominion Tanzania Limited Tanzania Tanzania Exploration 100%
Dominion Kenya Holdings Limited
England
 & Wales
England
 & Wales Holding 100%
Dominion Petroleum Kenya Limited Kenya Kenya Exploration 100%
Dominion Petroleum L15 (Kenya) Limited Kenya Kenya Exploration 100%
PHT Partners LP
United States
 of America Thailand Holding 100%
Salamander Bualuang & Kambuna Holdings Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (Bangkanai) Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Bengara) limited
England
 & Wales
England 
& Wales Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Bontang) Pte Ltd Singapore Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Bualuang Holdings) Limited
England
 & Wales Thailand Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Canada) Limited Canada Canada Holding 100%
Ophir Indonesia (Central Kalimantan) Limited Belize Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (E&P) Limited
England
 & Wales
England
 & Wales Holding 100%
Salamander Energy (Glagah Kambuna Holdings) Limited
England
 & Wales
England
 & Wales Holding 100%
Salamander Energy (Glagah Kambuna) Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Thailand Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Kerendan) Limited Mauritius Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (Kutai) Limited
England
 & Wales Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Lao) Company Limited Lao PDR Lao Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Malaysia) Limited
British Virgin 
Islands Malaysia Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (North East Bangkanai) Limited
British Virgin 
Islands Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (North Sumatra) Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Nurul) Pte Ltd Singapore Singapore 100%
Salamander Energy (Philippines) Limited
England
 & Wales Philippines Exploration 100%
159 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements Country of
incorporation
Location 
of operation
Principal
Activity
Holding
31 Dec 2015
Salamander Energy (S.E. Asia) Limited
England
 & Wales 100%
Ophir Indonesia (S.E. Sangatta) Limited
England
 & Wales Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Simenggaris) Limited
England
 & Wales Indonesia Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (South Sokang) Limited
England
 & Wales Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Thailand) Co., Ltd Thailand Thailand Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy (Vietnam) Limited
England
 & Wales Vietnam Exploration 100%
Ophir Indonesia (West Bangkanai) Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Indonesia Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy Group Limited
England
 & Wales
England
 & Wales Holding 100%
Ophir Malaysia (Block 2A) Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Malaysia Exploration 100%
Ophir Cote d’Ivoire (CI-513) Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Cote d’Ivoire Exploration 100%
Ophir Thailand (Bualuang) Limited
British Virgin
 Islands Thailand Exploration 100%
Salamander Energy Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Singapore Holding 100%
Salamander Energy (Holdco) Limited
England
 & Wales
England
 & Wales Holding 100%
Ophir Energy Indonesia Limited 
England
 & Wales Indonesia Holding 100%
Ophir Indonesia (JS) Limited
England
 & Wales Indonesia Exploration 100%
* Shares held directly by Ophir Energy plc.
All shares are ordinary shares.
160 Ophir Energy plc
Appendix A – Subsidiary companies 
continued Registered and other offices
The Company’s registered office and head office is:
Level 4
123 Victoria Street
London SW1E 6DE
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7811 2400
Fax: +44 (0)20 7811 2421
Website: www.ophir-energy.com 
Other offices are located in:
Jakarta 
15th floor, Indonesian Stock Exchange Building
#15-02 Tower II
Jl Jenderal Sudirman Kav 52-53
Jakarta 12190
Indonesia
Telephone: +62 21 5291 2900
Fax: +62 21 3000 4020
Bangkok
28th Floor, Unit 2802
Q House Lumpini Building
1 South Sathorn Road
Tungmahamek
Sathorn District
Bangkok 10120
Thailand
Telephone: +66 2620 0800
Fax: +66 2620 0820
We also have smaller offices in Equatorial Guinea, Gabon,  
Kenya, Malaysia, Myanmar and Tanzania
Registrars
The Company has appointed Equiniti Limited to maintain its register 
of members. Shareholders should contact Equiniti using the details 
below in relation to all general enquiries concerning their shareholding:
Equiniti Limited* 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0371 384 2030**
International callers: +44 121 415 7047
*  Equiniti Limited and Equiniti Financial Services Limited are part of the Equiniti group of companies. 
Company share registration, employee scheme and pension administration services are provided 
through Equiniti Limited, which is registered in England & Wales with No. 6226088. Investment 
and general insurance services are provided through Equiniti Financial Services Limited, which is 
registered in England & Wales with No. 6208699 and is authorised and regulated by the UK 
Financial Conduct Authority.
**    Lines are open Monday – Friday from 8.30am – 5.30pm (UK time), excluding UK public holidays.  
2016 Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting   10 May 2016
Half year results announcement 15 September 2016
Full year results announcement 9 March 2017
Trading market and shareholder profiles
Ophir Energy plc’s shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange 
with ticker OPHR. The Company’s SEDOL number is B24CT19 and 
ISIN number is GB00B24CT194.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is required by law to make its share register available 
on request to unconnected organisations. As a consequence, 
shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including mail from 
unauthorised investment firms. If you wish to limit the amount  
of unsolicited mail received, please contact the Mailing Preference 
Service, an independent organisation whose services are free 
for consumers.
Further details can be obtained from: 
Mailing Preference Service
MPS Freepost LON 20771
London W1E 0ZT
Website: www.mpsonline.org.uk
Investment fraud warning
Shareholders are increasingly receiving unsolicited phone calls 
regarding different investment matters which have implied a 
connection with Ophir. These calls are typically from people claiming 
to be brokers, offering shares in US or UK investment schemes. 
As part of their ongoing campaign to raise awareness the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) have recently launched “Be ScamSmart” 
(http://scamsmart.fca.org.uk/)which is specifically targeted at the 
tell-tale signs of a scam.
Further information on share fraud and unauthorised investment 
firms targeting UK investors (‘boiler room scams’) may be 
obtained from the website of the Financial Conduct Authority:  
www.fca.org.uk/scams. 
 
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
161 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Shareholder information Shareholder profile by size of holding as at 31 December 2015
Range No. of holders % of total
Shares held
 31.12.2015 % of total
1 – 1,000 538 37.26% 230,860 0.03%
1,001 – 10,000 473 32.76% 1,504,989 0.20%
10,001 – 100,000 210 14.54% 7,777,144 1.04%
100,001 – 1,000,000 147 10.18% 50,861,455 6.82%
1,000,001 – 10,000,000 56 3.88% 167,500,664 22.45%
10,000,000+ 20 1.38% 518,144,295 69.46%
1,444 100.00% 746,019,407 100.00%
Shareholder profile by category as at 31 December 2015
Category No. of holders % of total
Shares held
 31.12.2015 % of total
Private shareholders 609 42.17% 1,889,006 0.25%
Nominees and other institutional investors 835 57.83% 744,130,401 99.75%
1,444 100.00% 746,019,407 100.00%
It should be noted that many private investors hold their shares through nominee companies and therefore the percentage of shares held by private shareholders may be higher than that shown.
Shareholders’ rights
The following section summarises the rights and obligations in the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles) relating to the ordinary 
shares of the Company. The Articles can be found on the Company’s website.
Voting: At a general meeting, subject to any special rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares: (a) on a show of hands, every 
member present in person and every duly appointed proxy present shall have one vote; (b) on a show of hands, a proxy has one vote for  
and one vote against the resolution if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution  
and the proxy has been so instructed; and (c) on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by 
him. Unless the Directors resolve otherwise, no member shall be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right  
in relation to general meetings if any call or other sum due from him to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Transfer of shares: Transfers of certificated shares must be effected in writing, and signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, except in  
the case of fully paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee. The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name 
of the transferee is entered in the register of members in respect of those shares. The Directors may decline to register any transfer of a 
certificated share, unless (a) the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, (b) the instrument of transfer is lodged at  
the transfer office, duly stamped if required, accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s) or other evidence reasonably required by  
the Directors to show the transferor’s right to make the transfer or, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on the 
transferor’s behalf, the authority of that person to do so, and (c) the certificated share is fully paid up. The Directors may refuse to register  
an allotment or transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Directors’ powers: The Directors shall manage the business and affairs of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company  
other than those that are required by the Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) or by the Articles to be exercised by the Company at the 
general meeting. The Directors may delegate any of their powers or discretions, including those involving the payment of remuneration 
or  the conferring of any other benefit to the Directors, to such person or committee and in such manner as they think fit. Any such person 
or committee shall, unless the Directors otherwise resolve, have the power to sub-delegate any of the powers or discretions delegated to them.
Dividends: The Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare final dividends to be paid to its shareholders. However, no dividend shall be 
declared unless it has been recommended by the Directors and does not exceed the amount recommended by the Directors. If the Directors 
believe that the profits of the Company justify such payment, they may pay dividends on any class of share where the dividend is payable 
on fixed dates.
162 Ophir Energy plc
Shareholder information 
continued Advisors
Auditors:
Ernst & Young LLP
One More London Place
London SE1 2AF
United Kingdom
Solicitors:
Linklaters
One Silk Street
London EC2Y 8HQ
United Kingdom
Bankers:
HSBC Bank plc
70 Pall Mall
London SW1 5EY
United Kingdom
They may also pay interim dividends on shares of any class in amounts and on dates and periods as they think fit. Unless the share rights 
otherwise provide, all dividends shall be declared and paid according to the amounts paid up on the shares on which the dividend is paid, 
and apportioned and paid pro-rata according to the amounts paid on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect  
of which the dividend is paid. Any unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise applied for the benefit of the Company until they  
are claimed. Any dividend unclaimed for 12 years from the date on which it was declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited  
and shall revert to the Company. The Directors may, if authorised by ordinary resolution, offer to ordinary shareholders the right to elect  
to receive, in lieu of a dividend, an allotment of new ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
Borrowing powers: The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage 
or charge its undertaking, property, assets (present and future) and uncalled capital, and to issue debentures and other securities whether 
outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Financial PR advisors:
Brunswick Group LLP
16 Lincoln’s Inn Fields
London WC2A 3ED
United Kingdom
Corporate brokers:
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London, EC4V 3BJ
Morgan Stanley
20 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London, E14 4AD
RBC Capital Markets
Thames Court
One Queenhithe
London, EC4V 3DQ
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
163 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 $
Throughout the report figures are stated in 
US Dollars
Appraisal well
A well drilled to follow up a discovery and 
evaluate its commercial potential
BBbbl 
Billion barrels
bbl
Barrel(s) of oil or condensate
bcf
Billion cubic feet
bcm
Billion cubic metres
boe
Barrel of oil equivalent
Capex
Capital expenditure
CDP
Carbon Disclosure Project
Company
Ophir Energy plc
C&P
Contracts and Procurement
Contingent resource
Quantities of resources estimated, at a given 
date, to be potentially recoverable from 
known accumulations by the application 
of development projects, but not currently 
considered to be commercially recoverable 
due to one or more contingencies
CR
Corporate Responsibility
DST
Drill Stem Test
E&A
Exploration and Appraisal
E&P
Exploration and Production
EG
Equatorial Guinea
EIA
Environmental Impact Assessment
Exploration well
A well drilled to explore a potential discovery
Farm-in
To acquire an interest in a licence from 
another party
Farm-out
To assign an interest in a licence to 
another party
FEED
Front end engineering and design
FID
Final Investment Decision
FLNG
Floating LNG technology
GSA
Gas Sales Agreement
G&A
General & Administration expenses
Group
The Company together with its subsidiaries
GRI
Global Reporting Initiative
HoA
Heads of Agreement
HSE
Health, safety and environment
HSSE
Health, safety, security and environment
IAS regulation
International Accounting Standards
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards
IFRIC
International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee
IPO
Initial Public Offering
IRR
Internal Rate of Return
JV
Joint Venture
LNG
Liquefied natural gas
LoI
Letter of Intent
LTI
Lost Time Incident
LTIF
Lost Time Incident Frequency
LTIP
Long-Term Investment Plan
Mbtu
Million British thermal units
mmbbl
Million barrels
mmtpa
Millions of tonnes per annum
mmscfd
Million standard cubic feet of gas per day
MoU
Memorandum of Understanding
NAV
Net Asset Value
NGO
Non-Governmental Organisation
NOC
National Oil Company
OGP
Oil and Gas Producers
PSA
Pooling and sharing agreement
PSC
Production Sharing Contract
RFT
Request for Tender
Spud
To commence drilling a well
TCF
Trillion cubic feet
TCFe
Trillion cubic feet equivalent
TPDC
Tanzania Petroleum Development 
Corporation
WTI
West Texas Intermediate
2C
Best estimate of contingent resources
164 Ophir Energy plc
Glossary Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 
99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Galerie Satin, a paper containing 15% recycled fibre and 85% virgin fibre sourced from 
well managed, responsible, FSC® certified forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental 
chlorine free (ECF) process.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay 
Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.sampsonmay.com Ophir Energy plc
Registered office:
Level 4
123 Victoria Street
London
SW1E 6DE
United Kingdom
T +44(0)20 7811 2400
F +44(0)20 7811 2421
www.ophir-energy.com
Company registered in England and Wales No. 05047425
