 Oxford Instruments plc
Report and Financial Statements 2015
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
Empowering science 
and industry Oxford Instruments plc is a leading provider  
of high technology tools and systems for  
industry and research.
01 
Strategic Report 
We discuss developments 
and the global issues that 
have had an impact on 
our business
30 
Governance 
Read about how we 
manage our company and 
maintain high standards
Board of Directors 30
Report of the Directors 32
Corporate Governance 35
Audit and Risk Committee Report 43
Remuneration Report 48
Chairman’s Statement 01
Our Business 02
Highlights 04
Chief Executive’s Review 05
Business Model 08
Key Performance Indicators 10
Strategy Context 11
Our Strategy 12
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 14
Operations Review 16
Financial Review 20
Corporate Responsibility 24
67 
Financial statements 
See how we are 
performing in light 
of developments 
in the past year
Directors’ Responsibilities 67
Independent Auditor’s Report 68
Accounting Policies 71
Consolidated Statement of Income 78
Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income 80
Consolidated Statement  
of Financial Position 81
Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity 82
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 84
Notes to the Financial Statements 85
Parent Company Balance Sheet 112
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 113
Historical Financial Summary 118
119 
Company information
Shareholder Information 119
Oxford Instruments Directory 122
Advisers 125
Cover image: A transmission Kikuchi 
diffraction orientation map of a deformed 
aluminium alloy, collected using the 
Oxford Instruments AZtec microanalysis 
system by Morgan Tort (Melbourne University) 
and Pat Trimby (The University of Sydney). Strategic Report
01 Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   
The Group delivered revenues of £386 million 
(2014: £360 million) and an adjusted 
profit before tax of £35.6 million 
(2014: £47.1 million). Whilst this was 
consistent with the guidance given in 
our January trading statement, it fell 
short of our expectations at the 
beginning of the year.
The outcome reflects a testing year for 
Oxford Instruments plc. In the first half 
of the year, despite overall increases in orders 
and revenues, progress was adversely 
impacted by weaker demand in Japan and 
tough trading conditions for our Plasma 
Technology business. We were therefore 
cautious about the outlook. As reported in 
our January trading update, in the second 
half we encountered a combination of 
headwinds that unexpectedly put our short 
term performance projections off-course. 
Three factors were primarily at play: the 
sudden tightening of trade sanctions for 
sales to Russia, a slower-than-expected 
recovery in Japanese markets, and weaker 
trading in our Industrial Analysis business. 
In response to the downturn in trading 
conditions, we rapidly implemented 
a wide-ranging programme to bring 
our cost base in line with our trading 
environment and to secure efficiencies 
that will deliver a fast turnaround in our 
performance. I am pleased to report that 
as a consequence of these actions, we are 
on track to deliver a higher level of cost 
savings in the current financial year than 
we had previously anticipated. 
Our team has rallied to the challenge and 
I want to thank all our staff for responding 
so vigorously and for retaining their 
enthusiasm and creativity despite the 
difficult conditions. 
In addition to our focus on restructuring 
the Group, we have taken positive strategic 
steps that will help drive future growth. 
We have increased our investment in R&D 
to underpin future organic growth. Since 
the year end, we have announced the 
acquisition of Medical Imaging Resources, 
and the formation of a joint venture 
between our Omicron business and 
Scienta Scientific AB. 
During the year, we added new talent 
to our Board. Professor Sir Richard Friend 
joined the Board of Oxford Instruments 
on 1 September 2014. Richard brings 
with him strong technical capability and 
valuable contacts in the worldwide academic 
community. Professor Sir Mike Brady 
stood down from the Board on 
9 September 2014 after serving as 
a Non-Executive Director since 1995. 
I would like to thank Mike for his 
immense contributions over many years 
and we welcome Richard to the Group.
The Directors are proposing a final 
dividend of 9.3 pence per share 
(2014: 9.04 pence), a 2.9% increase, 
bringing the total for the year to 
13.0 pence (2014: 12.4 pence). This 
represents the fifth consecutive year 
of dividend growth.
With these strategic moves made and the 
streamlined cost base in place, the Group 
looks forward to a period of solid growth.
Nigel Keen
Chairman
05
Our Chief Executive, 
Jonathan Flint, summarises 
our year on page 5
“ We have increased 
our investment in R&D 
to underpin future 
organic growth.”
Chairman’s Statement  
Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 02
At the forefront of 
technological innovation
Our Business
Research and academia
Our target market sector includes research 
into nanotechnology applications, new 
materials, Quantum Information Processing 
and other developments.
Semiconductors/IT
This includes semiconductor electronics, 
Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS), 
compound semiconductor materials, 
thin film and particle analysis.
Life sciences
A growing sector that includes the support 
and service of magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) and computed tomography (CT) imaging 
equipment as well as new opportunities driven 
by the convergence of physics and biology.
Energy
We have been involved in the search for 
sustainable energy, solar technologies, oil and 
gas exploration and superconductor materials.
Metals/construction
We are supporting global industries including 
metals, alloy manufacturing, steel foundries 
and scrap recycling.
Environment
This includes greener production, recycling 
and detection of hazardous substances in 
soil, agriculture and food.
Nanotechnology Tools
High technology tools to characterise, 
analyse, manipulate and fabricate 
at the nano scale
Industrial Products
Developing and manufacturing tools 
and components for industrial applications
Services
Supplying knowledgeable support services, 
training and refurbishment 
Our global market is comprised of six areas:
Our business is structured around three segments 
that reflect our expertise and business objectives:
As one of the world’s first university spin-out companies, 
we have been at the forefront of technological innovation 
for more than fifty years. We use innovation to turn smart 
science into world-class products that support research and 
industry to address the great challenges of the 21st century. Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   03
Revenue from 
external customers 
by destination
Germany
£25.8m
Rest of World
£13.3m
Rest of Europe
£51.4m
Rest of Asia
£44.2m
Japan
£31.8m
UK
£37.0m
USA
£126.6m
China
£55.4m
Strategic Report Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 04
The Group remains confident in the 
execution of our Nanotechnology 
strategy despite the challenges 
we faced this year.
Highlights
The integration of Andor Technology continues to progress well, and we met our targets in the 
full first year of reporting. However, our Plasma Technology business suffered as a result of trade 
sanctions placed on exports to Russia during the year and the decrease in demand for High Brightness 
Light Emitting Diodes (HBLED). As a Group we have also been impacted by the slower-than-expected 
recovery in our Japanese markets. We have therefore accelerated a cost reduction programme in 
response to a downturn in trading conditions. This has resulted in the loss of approximately 160 staff, 
or 7% of our workforce, and the closure of 6 of our smaller sites. 2014/15 saw the completion 
of our service contract with Siemens that had run for 17 years. This contract will not be renewed. 
Despite this, we had a strong performance in our service sector and post period end completed 
the acquisition of service business Medical Imaging Resources (MIR), better placing us to capitalise 
on the opportunities that arise from the Affordable Healthcare Act in the USA. Also since year end 
we have formed an exciting joint venture between our Omicron business and Scienta Scientific AB 
to create the world’s largest player in the highly specialised ultra high vacuum (UHV) surface 
science field. We continue to focus on our evolution strategy to produce the tools that can 
exploit the ongoing convergence of science.
2015 385.5
2014 360.1
Revenue (£m)
£385.5m
+7.1%
2015 48.2
2014 67.7
Adjusted earnings per share* (p)
48.2p
-28.8%
2015 35.6
2014 47.1
£35.6m
-24.4%
Adjusted profit before tax* (£m)
2015 13.0
2014 12.4
13.0p
+4.8%
Dividend per share (p)
2015 386.6
2014 342.2
£386.6m
+13%
Orders (£m)
*  Adjusted numbers are stated to 
give a better understanding of the 
underlying business performance. 
Details of adjusting items are given in 
Note 1 of these financial statements. 
Highlights include: 
• Orders grew by 13.0% to £386.6 million  
(2014: £342.2 million)
• Adjusted profit before tax* of £35.6 million  
(2014: £47.1 million), reflecting macro headwinds 
in Japan and Russia, and weaker trading 
than expected in Industrial Analysis
• Andor Technology acquisition has integrated 
well and is performing strongly
• Cost reduction programme accelerated 
and delivering greater than planned savings
• Investment in future organic growth: R&D spend 
increased to £35.2 million (2014: £27.9 million)
• Proactive portfolio management to deliver 
long term shareholder value: acquisition of MIR, 
joint venture to combine Oxford Instruments plc’s 
Omicron business with Scienta Scientific AB
A full discussion of our 
financial performance 
during the year can 
be found in the 
Financial Review. 
Read more 
page 20 Strategic Report
05
We use innovation to turn our smart 
science into commercial tools and 
systems that analyse and manipulate 
matter at the nano scale.
Chief Executive’s Review
In the year, Group orders grew by 13.0%. On a constant 
currency organic basis, order intake was flat. Market conditions 
demonstrated a mixed picture around the world. In Europe, 
orders grew by 9.6%, supported by a strong contribution 
from Andor Technology. On a constant currency organic 
basis, European orders fell by 4.3%. In North America, where 
demand for our Nanotechnology Tools is particularly strong, 
we saw orders grow by 23.8%. On a constant currency 
organic basis, growth was 2.6%. In Asia, we saw order 
growth of 8.9% or 1.5% on a constant currency organic basis.
Reported sales grew by 7.1%. On a constant currency organic 
basis, sales fell by 5.4%. Part of this decline was due to 
the completion of the ITER contract in the previous year 
and the decline in the Siemens MRI service business explained 
in the Operations section. Excluding these one-off factors, 
underlying sales were 4.1% lower, reflecting in particular 
the issues in our Plasma Technology and Industrial Analysis 
businesses as described below, and weaker trading in Japan. 
Developments in the second half
In Russia, we had anticipated that we would see increased 
revenues in the second half, as a number of large contracts 
were due for delivery. However, the delicate political situation 
in Russia led to an unexpected tightening of European Union 
export sanctions. This resulted in existing export licences 
being withdrawn and, as a consequence, previously booked 
orders had to be cancelled. It is currently unclear when further 
export licences will be approved. We saw little revenue 
from Russia during the second half and we have assumed 
no resumption in sales to Russia in the current year. This 
issue particularly affected our Plasma Technology business. 
In Japan, our forecast of market recovery has proved slower 
than expected. While we have seen some pick up in the 
order run rate, this came too late to generate the level 
of sales forecast for the second half of the year. 
In addition to these macroeconomic headwinds, and 
the anticipated impact of adverse currency movements 
throughout the year, we experienced weaker trading 
in our Industrial Analysis business. This is a short lead-time 
operation and sales in the second half fell short of expectations, 
partly due to a delay in introducing our new handheld 
X-ray fluorescence analysers, which did not start shipping 
until the end of the year. 
Summary:
• Group orders grew by 13.0%. Reported sales 
grew by 7.1%
• We saw little revenue from Russia and in Japan, 
our forecast of market recovery has proved 
slower than expected
• The Group accelerated a wide-reaching cost 
reduction programme aimed at improving 
our long term efficiencies and margins
• On 1 May 2015 Oxford Instruments announced 
the acquisition of Medical Imaging Resources 
(MIR); on 28  May 2015, we announced a joint 
venture with Scienta Scientific AB
Jonathan Flint, Chief Executive Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 06
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Developments in the second half continued
Recognising the weaker trading environment, the Group 
accelerated a wide-reaching cost reduction programme 
aimed at improving our long term efficiency and margins. 
This programme originally targeted cost savings of £6 million 
which were expected to flow through to operating profit 
from financial year 2015/16 onwards. Through a rigorous 
and targeted pursuit of efficiencies, the anticipated savings 
are now estimated to be in the region of £8 million in 
the current financial year. This has been achieved through 
structural changes which have been embedded in the cost 
base of our businesses. As a result, it should benefit our 
performance in the current financial year and beyond. 
The headcount reduction has resulted in a loss of 
approximately 160 staff, representing 7% of our workforce. 
This has been achieved through a combination of voluntary 
and involuntary redundancies. Importantly, despite this 
level of restructuring, our efficiency savings have been 
achieved whilst retaining the key skills that we need 
to drive future innovation and growth. 
The drive for efficiencies has also involved the closure 
of six of our smaller sites, to be completed by the half year: 
Mannheim, Germany; Cowfold, UK; Dallas, USA; one of 
our Tokyo sites; one of our sites in Taunusstein, Germany; 
and one of our sites in Beijing, China. 
Strategic progress
Our focused efforts to restructure our cost base and drive 
through efficiencies have not distracted us from pursuing 
strategic actions that will deliver future growth and profitability. 
The Group has increased its spend on R&D to further exploit 
the opportunities that our technologies offer. Total cash 
spend on R&D in the year was £35.2 million or 9.1% 
of sales, up from 7.7% in the prior year. 
In addition, since year end, the Group has announced 
an acquisition and a joint venture.
On 1 May 2015, Oxford Instruments announced the 
acquisition of Medical Imaging Resources Inc. (MIR). 
MIR specialises in the build, lease and service of mobile 
medical imaging labs. These labs are built in MIR’s factory 
incorporating MRI and CT systems from Siemens, GE, 
Phillips and Toshiba. These mobile labs are leased to 
customers across the USA. Customers include hospitals 
and clinics that need additional capacity or wish to trial 
MRI or CT machines without committing to the infrastructure 
associated with a permanent unit. MIR forms a part of OI 
Healthcare, within the Group’s Service sector, our business 
which already services GE MRI and CT machines in the USA.
On 28 May 2015, we announced a joint venture with 
Scienta Scientific AB in the area of surface science. The joint 
venture will see a combination of Oxford Instruments plc’s 
Omicron business and Scienta’s surface science business. 
The combined organisation will use the strength of each of 
the partners to better address the specialist high technology 
surface science market niche. The combination of key 
technologies from Omicron and Scienta will create the 
dominant player in this growing market segment. Combining 
the two businesses also creates a number of operational 
synergies. Oxford Instruments plc owns 47% of the joint 
organisation and has the right to appoint two of the five 
Board members.
Strategic direction
Across the world, people are focused on addressing the 
great challenges of the 21st Century. Constant advances 
are needed to keep pace with our rapidly evolving world. 
With finite resources, we need to achieve more with a 
dwindling supply of raw materials. Oxford Instruments plc 
offers the means for customers to address these challenges 
at the atomic and molecular level. We use innovation to 
turn our smart science into commercial tools and systems 
that analyse and manipulate matter at the nano scale. 
“ Our efficiency savings have 
been achieved whilst retaining 
the key skills that we need 
to drive future innovation 
and growth.”
The Andor iXon Ultra 
camera is a tool used in 
both the life and physical 
science arenas. Application 
areas include super-resolution 
microscopy and astronomy. Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   07
The continued expansion of our capabilities and expertise 
allows us to address our customers’ needs in a wide variety 
of markets that have an interest in working at the very 
small scale. 
Our staff deploy a high level of technical skill and deep 
understanding of technology trends to convert our intellectual 
property into new tools using the latest nanotechnology 
techniques. We enjoy a high Vitality Index measured 
by the proportion of revenues coming from products 
introduced in the last three years. This stands at 41%. 
Our Voice of the Customer programme constantly 
calibrates emerging customer requirements against 
available technology to ensure our R&D activities are 
focused on the most commercially attractive areas.
We adopt a business model whereby the Group sells 
tools to customers who wish to exploit the opportunities 
offered by nanotechnology. This model enables us to 
generate revenues from emerging industries which need 
to utilise nanotechnology without the Group incurring 
undue exposure to any one application or market. The 
Oxford Instruments plc brand is well recognised and valued, 
particularly in the research and academic communities.
Advances in information technology, new materials, imaging 
and quantum physics, have transformed physical science 
in recent years. Oxford Instruments plc is a leading tool 
provider for the advancement of physical science. These same 
advances are now beginning to transform the life sciences. 
Last year we announced the evolution of our strategy to 
exploit the current convergence of the sciences, especially 
at the nano scale, which is driving increased demand for 
nanotechnology tools. “Convergence” is an increasingly 
important aspect of scientific research where the merging 
of previously distinct areas of research and technology into 
a unified discipline creates new scientific and commercial 
opportunities. Convergence gives the Group an opportunity 
to take the technical tools and the disciplined design 
approach traditional to engineering and physics, and apply 
them to life science research. This provides the Group with 
an opportunity to access a new set of customers who 
are working at the molecular scale. Oxford Instruments’ 
acquisitions of Asylum Research in 2012 and Andor 
Technology in 2014 support this strategy of extending 
our reach into analysis tools for nano-bio research.
Current trading and outlook 
It has been a slow start in the first two months of the year; 
however we expect to see a return to organic growth in 
the remainder of the year as recently launched products 
and improved routes to market gain traction. This, together 
with the benefit of announced cost savings, means that 
our expectations for the current year are unchanged. The 
benefit of our leaner structure, ongoing cost savings and 
more favourable currency rates combined with our high 
gross margins offer the potential for a continuing improvement 
in our return on sales in the medium term. 
Nanotechnology, applied to both the physical sciences and 
life sciences, will continue to yield long term structural 
growth in demand for high technology tools. Our strategy 
is focused on growing the business in our core markets of 
physical and materials science, and exploiting convergence 
to expand into life sciences.
Jonathan Flint
Chief Executive
9 June 2015
Our tools-based development model
Global markets
Research and academia — Life sciences — Semiconductor/IT
Energy — Metals and construction — Environment
New scientific discoveries
Key growth technologies
Repeatable fabrication and analysis tools
Oxford Instruments 
tools and systems are 
used by customers at 
all levels
– fundamental research
–  development of new 
technologies
–  commer cialisation and 
manufacture 08 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015
High technology tools and systems 
that analyse and manipulate 
matter at the nano scale
Business Model
The Group sells tools to customers who wish to 
exploit the opportunities offered by nanotechnology 
to perform groundbreaking research and make 
better, safer and greener products.
How it works:
New discoveries
To make better use of finite resources 
researchers and manufacturers are working 
at ever smaller scales and therefore require 
advanced nanotechnology tools.
Innovation
We use our high level of technical skills 
and understanding of technology trends 
to create new tools using the latest 
nanotechnology techniques.
Convergence
Through the convergence of the sciences, 
the tools traditional to engineering and physics 
can now be applied to life science research.
Global markets
We generate revenues from a broad range 
of geographies and industries, thus the Group 
does not incur undue exposure to any one 
application or market.
Read more  
Turn to page 11 Strategic Report
09 Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   
Tools for customers
In the research field our high 
technology products are used 
to advance the frontiers of 
science. We help our 
customers break new ground, 
enabling them to make 
advancements previously 
thought impossible.
Within industry our tools are 
used for quality control, 
environmental monitoring 
and compliance testing. 
We produce reliable, robust, 
accurate and efficient tools to 
help others develop the most 
efficient production processes 
and innovative products.
We help our customers 
remain operational and give 
them peace of mind by 
offering maintenance service 
contracts, spare parts and 
refurbished systems.
Research: cutting-edge 
tools
Industry: industrial-scale 
tools
Support
Innovation  
approach
Product 
application 
insight
Return on R&D investment
Recurring revenue
Customer  
base Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 10
Key Performance Indicators
The key performance indicators are presented below:
Financial goal:
To deliver shareholder return through growth in turnover and margin.
Strategic priorities:
Revenue growth (%)
Cash conversion from profit
2
 (%)
Net Promoter Score
®3
 (%)
Net return on sales
1
 (%)
Proportion of revenue coming from 
products launched in the previous 
three years (%)
2015 7.1
2014
4.0 2013
2012
2.7
28.6
2015 80.8
2014 51.1
2013
2012
85.4
110.5
2015 62
2014 66
2013
2012
62
64
2015 1.36
2014 1.51
2013
2012
1.54
1.49
11.1
14.0
14.1
2015
2014
2013
2012 12.5
2015 41
2014 42
2013
2012
41
44
Tracks our performance on our 
growth strategy
Monitors our use of fixed assets, 
working capital and R&D
Measures customer feedback
Tracks our performance on our 
profitability strategy
Measures the effectiveness of our 
R&D programmes
Measures efficiency
Liberating cash
Realising the brand
Inventing the future
Adding personal value
1  Calculated as adjusted operating profit 
divided by revenue.
2  Cash conversion is defined as the ratio 
of cash generated to adjusted operating 
profit (see Consolidated Statement of 
Income). Cash generated is calculated as 
adjusted operating profit plus depreciation 
on property, plant and equipment, and 
amortisation on research and development, 
minus capital expenditure on property, 
plant and equipment, and research and 
development, and adjusted for movements 
in working capital.
3  The Net Promoter Score is a metric which 
is compiled by asking customers whether 
they would recommend Oxford Instruments 
to a friend or colleague. Customers give 
a score between zero and ten. Those 
customers who score nine or ten are 
promoters, those customers who score 
seven or eight are neutral and customers 
who score six or less are detractors. 
The Net Promoter Score is the difference 
between the numbers of promoters and 
the number of detractors (both expressed 
as a percentage of the number of replies 
received). The score can range between 
-100 (no customers are promoters) and 
+100 (all customers are promoters). 
A positive score indicates that the 
Company has fewer detractors 
than promoters. 
The Group uses a range of 
measures to monitor progress 
against its strategic plans.
“Value Add” – (adjusted operating 
profit + employment costs)/
employment costs (%) Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   11
 
Engineering
nm
Chemistry
Physics and material science
Biology
1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 2060
1
10
100
1,000
10,000
100,000
Systems  
and  
devices
Accelerated  
scientific discovery 
and innovation
Nano Micro Macro
Integrated 
exploitation 
Biological principles
Physical laws
Chemical properties
Cognitive sciences
Strategy Context
Convergence allows us to offer products 
to an ever-widening pool of researchers 
and high tech manufacturers who want 
to operate at the nano scale.
Convergence is the merging of previously distinct areas 
of research and technology into a unified discipline that 
creates new scientific and commercial opportunities. 
The tools that were once restricted to one discipline are 
now being utilised across a number of areas, exposing us 
to a larger addressable market and a new set of customers 
needing to work at the atomic and molecular level.
We continue to build on our strategy to grow our business 
in our core markets of physical and material science, 
while exploiting scientific convergence to expand into life 
sciences. The use of techniques previously associated with 
the physical sciences, where the Group has great strength, 
in the biological sciences produces an important area of 
growth. Oxford Instruments plc’s acquisitions of Asylum 
Research in 2012 and Andor Technology in 2014 support 
this strategy of extending over reach into analysis tools 
for nano-bio research. 
Nanotechnology has been our focus over the past five years 
and, as demand in this area has not slowed, we continue 
to look for exciting opportunities that will allow us to 
further strengthen our market presence. As a result of 
finite resources people are challenged to do more with less 
and to generate more value from the same raw materials; 
this is why nanotechnology continues to be so important. 
As a result, researchers are operating at the smaller scale, 
using tools that are more advanced; our aim is to ensure 
these are Oxford Instruments plc tools.  Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 12
Our Strategy
Process 
development
Market 
development
People  
development
Product 
development
1 2
3 4
Exploiting 
the convergence 
of sciences 
Long-term demand
Increased addressable market
Maximised shareholder value
Oxford Instruments plc continues 
to provide tools to those wishing to 
explore new frontiers at the nano scale.
As well as seeking opportunities in growing markets, we also aim to increase our addressable markets as new customers 
and new applications for our tools and services result from the ongoing convergence of the sciences. Four key themes 
underpin our plan for delivering on this strategy while maximising customer and shareholder value.  Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   13
 1 People development
Our employees are key to our continued growth and success, 
bringing high levels of technical skill and a deep understanding 
of technology trends. We build on the talents and skills in 
the business through extensive training and development 
programmes and look to enhance our skill base further 
through concentrated recruitment. 
We focus on the following areas: 
• Adaptability 
• Engagement 
• Calibre 
• Skill 
We benchmark staff engagement externally and measure 
our progress through regular employee surveys. Our most 
recent staff survey took place in January 2015. Our overall 
engagement score is 78%.
 3 Market development
We continue to focus on our strategy to grow organically 
and through strategic acquisition in both our existing 
physical science markets and by exploiting the current 
convergence of the sciences that is increasing the demand 
for nanotechnology tools. 
Our goals are: 
• To target fast growing markets 
• To expand our portfolio of techniques 
• To expand into attractive adjacent markets 
One measure of our success is the growth in our addressable 
markets and we continue to chart this throughout the year. 
 4 Processes development
Continual improvements in our operational excellence forms 
an important part of our strategy. Through problem solving, 
teamwork and effective leadership we continue to make progress 
here. We work hard to ensure our processes deliver the benefits 
of economies of scale as the business grows and we consider 
operational excellence to be the cornerstone of overall excellence. 
We build on the strong fundamentals of ISO standards to achieve 
organisational excellence and set ourselves apart from others.
We aim to: 
• Promote a culture of continual improvement 
• Establish a vision of business excellence 
We measure the value and success of operational excellence 
through the Value Add Index. This shows the value each employee 
adds to the business. Value Add = (adjusted operating profit 
+ employment costs)/employment costs. Our 2015 Value Add 
Index is 1.36.
 2 Product development
We are driven to provide customers with the latest high technology 
tools, building on our customer relationships to understand the 
long term market trends. We utilise our resources to retain our 
high level of innovation and to push the boundaries of our 
technology to develop tools for the future. 
Our focus is on: 
• R&D that is strategic and market driven 
• The alignment of development with a long term vision
• The creation of a delivery-enabled environment
• The production of market-leading, high margin tools 
We monitor our progress through the Vitality Index, a measure 
of the proportion of revenues coming from new products introduced 
in the last three years. Our 2015 Vitality Index is 41%. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 14
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Specific risk Context Risk Possible impact Associated strategic priorities Mitigation
Technical  
risk
The Group provides high technology 
equipment and systems to its customers.
Failure of the advanced technologies  
applied by the Group to produce  
commercial products, capable of being 
manufactured and sold profitably.
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Negative impact on 
the Group’s reputation.
Realising the brand: Using “Voice of the Customer” 
to drive rapid new product development.
Liberate cash: Supporting and developing our employees 
to maximise their value add.
The Group has moved away from large scale, single 
customer development programmes towards more 
commercially orientated products.
The New Product Introduction programme that any new R&D 
projects must pass through provides a framework within which 
the commercial viability of projects are scrutinised and assessed.
Economic 
environment
Government spend on R&D 
has been constrained.
Demand for the Group’s products 
may be lower than anticipated.
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand in existing 
and developing markets.
Delivering shareholder value: Focusing on balanced 
and attractive global markets.
The Group has a broad spread of customers, applications 
and geographical markets.
Acquisitions
Part of the growth of Oxford Instruments 
is planned to come from acquisitions 
which provide the Group with 
complementary technologies.
Appropriate acquisition targets may 
fail to provide the planned value.
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Management focus 
taken away from 
the core business 
in order to manage 
integration issues.
Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand in existing 
and developing markets.
Inventing the future: Using “Voice of the Customer” 
to drive rapid new product development.
Adding personal value: Supporting and developing 
our employees.
Extensive financial and technical due diligence is undertaken  
by the Group during any acquisition programmes.
Each transaction has a comprehensive post acquisition 
integration plan which is reviewed at the highest level.
Foreign 
exchange 
volatility
A significant proportion of the Group’s  
profit is made in foreign currencies. 
Most costs are in Sterling.
The Group’s profit levels are exposed 
to fluctuations in exchange rates. 
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Delivering shareholder value: Focusing on balanced 
and attractive global markets.
Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global supply 
base that supports our growth.
The Group seeks to mitigate the exposure to transactional risk 
by the use of natural hedges wherever possible.
The remaining transactional foreign exchange risk in any year  
is mitigated through the use of forward and non-premium  
based option exchange contracts. 
Outsourcing
The Group’s strategic plan includes 
the outsourcing of a significantly higher 
proportion of the costs of its products 
to benefit from economies of scale 
and natural currency hedges. 
Failures in the supply chain  
impacting sales.
Disruption to customers.
Negative impact on 
the Group’s reputation.
Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global supply base 
that supports our growth.
Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand in existing 
and developing markets.
Relationships with outsourcing businesses are monitored closely 
and any potential issues are acted upon swiftly to avoid disruption.
Where practical dual sources are used for key components and services.
Pensions
The Group’s calculated pension 
deficit is sensitive to changes  
in the actuarial assumptions.
Movements in the actuarial assumptions  
may have an appreciable effect on the 
reported pension deficit.
Additional cash required 
by the Group to fund 
the deficit.
Reduction in net assets.
Delivering shareholder value: Focus on balanced 
and attractive global markets.
Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global supply 
base that supports our growth.
The Group has closed its defined benefit pension schemes in the UK 
and US to future accrual. 
The Group has a funding plan in place to reduce the pension deficit 
over the short to medium term.
People
A number of the Group’s employees  
are business critical.
The employee leaves the Group. Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Adding personal value: Supporting and developing 
our employees.
Inventing the future: Providing an environment for inventing 
and innovation.
The Group undertakes a regular employee survey and implements 
and reviews resulting action plans.
A comprehensive succession planning process is in place, together with 
a talent network which identifies and manages contacts with people who 
could provide external succession for critical current and future roles.
A management development programme provides exposure to key skills 
needed for growth. Regular individual performance reviews take place.
Routes 
to market
In some instances the Group’s products  
are components of higher level systems  
and thus the Group does not control 
its route to market.
The systems integrator switches supplier 
denying the Group’s route to market.
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Inventing the future: Developing products that offer the best 
technical solution.
Realising the brand: Ensuring that end customers appreciate 
the benefits of Oxford Instruments’ technology.
Use of the stage gate process and “Voice of the Customer” to make 
sure that the Group’s products are the best in the market.
Co-marketing with system integrators to promote the merits of the 
Group’s products to end customers.
Seeking to increase the number of integrators supplied by the Group. Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   15
Specific risk Context Risk Possible impact Associated strategic priorities Mitigation
Technical  
risk
The Group provides high technology 
equipment and systems to its customers.
Failure of the advanced technologies  
applied by the Group to produce  
commercial products, capable of being 
manufactured and sold profitably.
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Negative impact on 
the Group’s reputation.
Realising the brand: Using “Voice of the Customer” 
to drive rapid new product development.
Liberate cash: Supporting and developing our employees 
to maximise their value add.
The Group has moved away from large scale, single 
customer development programmes towards more 
commercially orientated products.
The New Product Introduction programme that any new R&D 
projects must pass through provides a framework within which 
the commercial viability of projects are scrutinised and assessed.
Economic 
environment
Government spend on R&D 
has been constrained.
Demand for the Group’s products 
may be lower than anticipated.
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand in existing 
and developing markets.
Delivering shareholder value: Focusing on balanced 
and attractive global markets.
The Group has a broad spread of customers, applications 
and geographical markets.
Acquisitions
Part of the growth of Oxford Instruments 
is planned to come from acquisitions 
which provide the Group with 
complementary technologies.
Appropriate acquisition targets may 
fail to provide the planned value.
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Management focus 
taken away from 
the core business 
in order to manage 
integration issues.
Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand in existing 
and developing markets.
Inventing the future: Using “Voice of the Customer” 
to drive rapid new product development.
Adding personal value: Supporting and developing 
our employees.
Extensive financial and technical due diligence is undertaken  
by the Group during any acquisition programmes.
Each transaction has a comprehensive post acquisition 
integration plan which is reviewed at the highest level.
Foreign 
exchange 
volatility
A significant proportion of the Group’s  
profit is made in foreign currencies. 
Most costs are in Sterling.
The Group’s profit levels are exposed 
to fluctuations in exchange rates. 
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Delivering shareholder value: Focusing on balanced 
and attractive global markets.
Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global supply 
base that supports our growth.
The Group seeks to mitigate the exposure to transactional risk 
by the use of natural hedges wherever possible.
The remaining transactional foreign exchange risk in any year  
is mitigated through the use of forward and non-premium  
based option exchange contracts. 
Outsourcing
The Group’s strategic plan includes 
the outsourcing of a significantly higher 
proportion of the costs of its products 
to benefit from economies of scale 
and natural currency hedges. 
Failures in the supply chain  
impacting sales.
Disruption to customers.
Negative impact on 
the Group’s reputation.
Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global supply base 
that supports our growth.
Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand in existing 
and developing markets.
Relationships with outsourcing businesses are monitored closely 
and any potential issues are acted upon swiftly to avoid disruption.
Where practical dual sources are used for key components and services.
Pensions
The Group’s calculated pension 
deficit is sensitive to changes  
in the actuarial assumptions.
Movements in the actuarial assumptions  
may have an appreciable effect on the 
reported pension deficit.
Additional cash required 
by the Group to fund 
the deficit.
Reduction in net assets.
Delivering shareholder value: Focus on balanced 
and attractive global markets.
Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global supply 
base that supports our growth.
The Group has closed its defined benefit pension schemes in the UK 
and US to future accrual. 
The Group has a funding plan in place to reduce the pension deficit 
over the short to medium term.
People
A number of the Group’s employees  
are business critical.
The employee leaves the Group. Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Adding personal value: Supporting and developing 
our employees.
Inventing the future: Providing an environment for inventing 
and innovation.
The Group undertakes a regular employee survey and implements 
and reviews resulting action plans.
A comprehensive succession planning process is in place, together with 
a talent network which identifies and manages contacts with people who 
could provide external succession for critical current and future roles.
A management development programme provides exposure to key skills 
needed for growth. Regular individual performance reviews take place.
Routes 
to market
In some instances the Group’s products  
are components of higher level systems  
and thus the Group does not control 
its route to market.
The systems integrator switches supplier 
denying the Group’s route to market.
Lower profitability 
and financial returns.
Inventing the future: Developing products that offer the best 
technical solution.
Realising the brand: Ensuring that end customers appreciate 
the benefits of Oxford Instruments’ technology.
Use of the stage gate process and “Voice of the Customer” to make 
sure that the Group’s products are the best in the market.
Co-marketing with system integrators to promote the merits of the 
Group’s products to end customers.
Seeking to increase the number of integrators supplied by the Group. Nanotechnology Tools headline figures
Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 16
Our Group reports in three 
sectors: Nanotechnology Tools, 
Industrial Products and Service.
Operations Review
Nanotechnology Tools
The Nanotechnology Tools sector produces our highest 
technology products primarily to research customers 
(85% of its revenues come from research and academia). 
Our customers in this sector provide a unique insight into 
emerging trends in public and privately funded research, 
thus informing our approach to innovation and product 
application. In the research field, our tools are used to advance 
the frontiers of science. We count many Nobel laureates 
amongst our customers. 
This sector delivered a mixed performance in 2015, benefiting 
from the inclusion of a full year of Andor Technology, which 
has performed well, but suffering from trading difficulties 
at Plasma Technology as a result of the sanctions on exports 
to Russia, and a decrease in orders from Japan. 
Our NanoAnalysis business produces leading-edge 
tools that enable materials characterisation and sample 
manipulation at the nano scale. Its products are used 
on electron microscopes and ion-beam systems in academic 
institutions and industrial applications including 
semiconductors, renewable energy, mining, metallurgy 
and forensics. We launched our new AZtec Feature tool 
providing a solution for in-factory analysis including 
cleanliness of high technology manufactured parts. Within 
AZtec we introduced improvements, beyond our already 
class-leading performance, for the analysis of low energy 
X-rays. This benefits research into biological and other 
fragile sample types that are studied at low microscope 
power to avoid sample damage. Record orders were 
received in America, while Europe also saw a performance 
improvement on last year. However, there was a reduction 
in orders in Japan and this impacted the full year results.
Andor Technology is a global leader in the design and 
manufacture of high performance scientific imaging cameras, 
spectroscopy solutions and microscopy systems for research 
and industrial markets. A number of key products were 
launched during the year that will continue to drive revenue. 
The iXon Ultra 888 is the most flexible high performance 
camera for those working in areas such as live cell imaging 
and super resolution microscopy. The sensitivity of the camera 
enables customers to image more detail in cell structures 
than ever before. This allows them to better understand 
such biological processes as cancer cell behaviour and the 
molecular mechanisms that go wrong in conditions such 
2015 211.2
2014 180.6
Revenue
1
 (£m)
£211.2m
+16.9%
2015 20.7
2014 21.2
£20.7m
-2.4%
Operating profit (£m) 1  Underlying growth: -8.2% 
excludes FX, acquisitions and completed contracts.
Highlights
• Nanotechnology Tools benefited from the 
inclusion of a full year of Andor Technology.
• Improvements in our Industrial products 
portfolio and distribution network are now 
in place and cause us to be optimistic about 
future trading. 
• Our Service sector continues to perform 
well in all territories. Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   17
as Parkinson’s or Alzheimer’s diseases. Our customers 
continue to make scientific advancements using our products. 
Our world class Imaris software has recently been used 
by researchers to visualise how the Ebola virus infected cells, 
allowing scientists to try different potential treatments. 
In physical science, two iKon M cameras have made over 
one billion measurements of the most luminous objects 
in the universe, allowing scientists to identify previously 
undiscovered objects including stars and galaxies.
Asylum Research is the technology leader in atomic force 
and scanning probe microscopy for both materials and 
bioscience applications. Asylum Research saw good returns 
from two of our high performance atomic force microscopes 
(AFM): the Cypher and the MFP-3D Infinity. An AFM uses 
an ultra-fine stylus to mechanically image objects at the 
nano-scale. Orders for the Cypher are increasing as it offers 
market leading resolution at the atomic scale. There is also 
good traction for Infinity, which offers the most comprehensive 
selection of accessories for materials and life science research, 
making it an ideal tool for customers who want to use it 
for a variety of applications.
Plasma Technology provides processes and platforms 
to customers in research laboratories and specialised 
semi-conductor fabrication facilities who are developing 
new materials, nano-devices and products. The business 
experienced a challenging year, primarily due to the 
cancellation of orders to Russia. In addition there was 
continued weakness in the demand for High Brightness 
Light Emitting Diodes (HBLED). As a result we have refocused 
Plasma Technology on its core competence of designing 
tools for research into advanced materials and we have 
terminated certain product developments that were not 
in line with this strategy. This resulted in a restructuring 
cost (including write-offs of inventory, development costs 
and fixed assets) and enabled us to right-size the business. 
We continue to develop market leading solutions in the 
research markets. For example this year we introduced the 
NanoFab 1200 for the growth of graphene and other 2D 
materials. In the Specialised Production market, we introduced 
an enhanced deposition process for Power Semiconductor 
applications that will improve the performance of advanced 
semi-conductor devices. 
NanoScience designs, manufactures and supports 
market-leading research tools that enable quantum 
technologies, new materials and device development 
in the physical sciences. Our latest product, the Optistat 
Dry, was designed for low temperature optical 
spectroscopy applications including device development 
for telecommunications. As it does not use costly liquid 
helium there has been particular interest in China and India, 
where the availability of helium and budget constraints 
can impact the extent of their research abilities. At a time 
when quantum computing is evolving rapidly, the launch 
of the Triton XL offers higher cooling powers and more 
sample space, allowing scientists to perform multiple 
operations in parallel, increasing the processing power 
of the devices. The recent advancements we have made 
with superconducting magnet systems include the 
development of novel methods for coil design, stored 
energy and quench management. With growing interest 
in graphene and other 2D material properties in ultra high 
magnetic fields, we are well placed as a world leader in 
such systems delivering significant reductions in running 
costs compared to traditional techniques which do not 
use these high power superconducting magnets.
Omicron Nanotechnology is a world leader in the 
specialised field of ultra-high vacuum (UHV) surface 
science, combining thin film deposition techniques with 
leading edge surface analysis techniques such as scanning 
probe microscopy and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy 
(XPS). We have a strong position in the global academic 
research market, selling to leading universities from China 
to the USA. Customers are using our products to research 
into the properties of materials using ultra high vacuum 
to ensure extreme sample purity. The microscopes can 
image and move individual atoms, allowing the observation 
and manufacture of nanostructures and this is used in 
applications such as research into next generation 
computer storage and processing devices.
Post period end, we announced a joint venture to merge 
Omicron with Scienta Scientific AB, creating the largest 
player in the growing UHV surface science market. The 
joint venture provides excellent opportunities to enhance 
product development, cut production costs and broaden 
the product range, whilst extending market reach and 
strengthening customer relationships. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 18
Operations Review continued
Industrial Products
Our Industrial Products sector sells more mature, though 
still technically advanced, products primarily to industrial 
customers (59% of its revenues come from industrial 
customers). The tools and systems produced by this sector 
enable us to benefit from the economies of scale offered 
by trading in the larger industrial markets, thereby maximising 
the returns from our R&D programmes. In the industrial 
field, our tools are used to improve production efficiency, 
ensure high standards of quality control and demonstrate 
compliance with environmental legislation.
Revenues were lower than last year as a result of the 
successful completion of the ITER order which produced 
revenues of £3 million in the first quarter of 2014. In addition, 
the launch of the new, premium priced X-MET8000 handheld 
analyser came late in the year and could not therefore 
compensate for falling sales of our preceding product, 
which had encountered increased market competition.
Industrial Analysis designs and sells a range of spectrometers 
for industrial markets. The recently launched X-MET8000 
supports the regulatory compliance screening of consumer 
goods. It will help our customers prevent costly rejects, 
identifying hazardous elements before they enter the 
manufacturing process. A new distribution network has 
been established in North America to better reach and 
support the market and there has been additional focus on 
building the distribution channels in China. The integration 
of the two acquisitions made in the prior year, RMG and 
Roentgenanalytik, is near completion. Production of the 
revolutionary mPulse LIBS analyser, which uses a laser 
to cost effectively identify materials, is now proceeding 
well after an extensive period of production engineering. 
The Maxxi 6, a new tool for coating thickness measurement 
and materials analysis, was released in early 2015 and 
is the first fully developed product to result from our 
Roentgenanalytik acquisition. Whilst these improvements 
in product portfolio and distribution network are now in 
place and cause us to be optimistic about future trading, 
their implementation happened late in the year and as a 
result the Industrial Analysis business under-performed 
against its objectives for the year as a whole.
Industrial Components comprises our Superconducting 
Wire, Austin Scientific and X-ray Technology businesses. 
The Industrial Components division experienced a mixed 
year. In our Superconducting Wire business the demand 
for wire for MRI scanners continued to be steady. The 
successful completion of the ITER order in the first quarter 
of 2014 meant that revenues were lower than in the 
previous year. There was continued success internationally, 
with diversification in China to work with new customers 
who have developed MRI capabilities. X-ray Technology 
continues to be successful, but it was a difficult year for 
our Austin Scientific business with a key customer, GTAT, 
filing for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 
in the USA. 
The X-MET8000 
series of handheld 
X-ray fluorescence 
(XRF) analysers 
deliver the speed and 
performance required in even 
the most demanding applications. 
This includes mining and regulatory 
compliance screening.
Industrial Products headline figures
2015 107.1
2014 114.7
Revenue
1
 (£m)
£107.1m
-6.6%
2015 6.3
2014 15.6
£6.3m
-59.6%
Operating profit (£m) 1  Underlying growth: -4.1% 
excludes FX, acquisitions and completed contracts. Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   19
Service sector headline figures
2015 68.6
2014 66.4
Revenue
1
 (£m)
£68.6m
+3.3%
2015 15.7
2014 13.5
£15.7m
+16.3%
Operating profit (£m)
1  Underlying growth: 7.1% 
excludes FX, acquisitions and completed contracts.
Service
The Service sector comprises the Group’s maintenance 
service contracts, spare part sales of Oxford Instruments plc 
equipment and the servicing of third party MRI and CT 
machines, under the Oxford Instruments Healthcare brand. 
The complexity and uniqueness of our products mean 
our customers increasingly purchase multi-year service 
contracts. This sector performed well. A good performance 
in the USA was driven largely by the ongoing success of 
our MRI and CT scanner servicing business. There was also 
an increase in refurbished turnkey systems and spare parts. 
However, this year saw the completion of our nationwide 
maintenance contract with Siemens (c. £4 million revenue 
in 2014/15) after 17 years and this will not be renewed. 
While business remains strong in Japan, with an increase 
in billable servicing and spare part sales, the negative impact 
of the exchange rate is reflected in the revenue reported. 
Our service business in China experienced a strong year. 
Elsewhere, Andor Technology contributed to the ongoing 
success of the sector in its first full year of reporting. Post 
period end we successfully completed the acquisition of 
Medical Imaging Resources (MIR), which specialises in the 
build, lease and service of mobile MRI, CT and PET-CT. MIR 
will become part of Oxford Instruments Healthcare and 
positions us well to maximise the opportunities made 
available to us through the Affordable Healthcare Act, 
which seeks to provide more cost effective healthcare 
solutions in the USA.
People
During the year, some of our valued friends and colleagues 
left the Group as part of the cost reduction programme. 
In order to hear from our staff about how these changes 
have affected them, our Management Board has been 
taking part in a number of listening sessions with our 
staff around the world. These small group discussions have 
proved beneficial for us all, allowing us to communicate 
the Oxford Instruments strategy and discuss suggestions 
for the future. This has resulted in a number of actions 
that support the continued engagement of our people 
and will further drive the business forward.
We are now focused on rebuilding the momentum in 
our business and taking advantage of the many exciting 
opportunities in our markets. Our people remain the most 
important part of our differentiation and innovation that 
is so valued by our customers. The Board thanks everyone 
for their hard work and effort during what has been a 
challenging year and recognises the valuable contribution 
all our staff have made, and continue to make, to our 
ongoing success. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 20
Adjusting items
The Directors believe that adjusted profit before tax gives a clearer indication of the underlying performance 
of the business. A reconciliation of reported profit before tax to adjusted profit before tax is given below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit before income tax (9.7) 24.0
Reversal of acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory 0.2 3.7
Acquisition-related costs 2.2 7.8
Restructuring costs 9.9 —
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 21.7 14.7
Contingent consideration – further amount deemed payable 6.8 —
Contingent consideration deemed no longer payable (1.4) —
Unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration 1.1 0.9
Mark to market loss/(gain) in respect of derivative financial instruments 4.8 (4.1)
Settlement loss on US pension scheme — 0.1
Adjusted profit before income tax 35.6 47.1
Share of taxation (8.1) (8.7)
Adjusted profit for the year 27.5 38.4
Financial Review
Trading performance
Orders in the period were up 13.0% to £386.6 million 
(2014: £342.2 million). Including inter-segment trade, the 
split between sectors was: Nanotechnology T ools £213.1 million, 
up 28.1%; Industrial Products £105.5 million, down 4.1%; 
and Service £69.2 million, up 2.5%. At the end of the year 
the Group order book for future deliveries stood at 
£125.9 million (2014: £126.1 million). 
Revenues in the year grew by 7.1% to £385.5 million 
(2014: £360.1 million). The increase in revenues due 
to acquisitions made in 2013/14 was £54.8 million. 
Adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements 
reduced reported sales by £10.7 million. 
In Nanotechnology Tools, revenues grew 16.9% as a result 
of a full year’s contribution from Andor Technology, an 
acquisition made in January 2014. On a constant currency 
organic basis revenues fell by 8.2% due primarily to a decline 
in our NanoAnalysis business in Japan and a marked decline, 
particularly in Russia, for our Plasma Technology business. 
In Industrial Products, revenues reduced by 6.6%. Part of 
this decline was due to the completion of the ITER contract 
in the first quarter of the previous year. Excluding ITER, 
foreign exchange effects and the growth in sales from the 
RMG and Roentgenanalytik acquisitions that were made 
in the third quarter of the previous year, sales fell by 4.1%. 
This was due to increased competition in the hand held 
XRF market where our outgoing X-MET7000 range struggled 
against newer models from competitors and a steady 
market for superconducting wire for MRI applications.
Service revenues increased by 3.3%. This was despite a 
£2.0 million decline in our business that services Siemens 
MRI machines in North America. We believe that this business, 
which had sales of approximately £4.0 million in 2014/15, 
will cease in 2015/16. Excluding the Siemens effect, foreign 
Kevin Boyd, Group Finance Director Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   21
exchange and acquisitions we saw underlying growth 
of 7.1%. This was due to good growth in the servicing 
of Oxford Instruments’ equipment in Asia and the 
continued growth of OIHealthcare.
Adjusted Group gross margins reduced from 45.4% to 44.4% 
due to adverse currency movements and the operational 
gearing effect of reduced sales in Plasma Technology 
and Industrial Analysis.
Adjusted operating expenses rose by £16.3 million reflecting 
an increase of £20.0 million spend due to the inclusion of 
the acquired businesses, a £2.7 million benefit from foreign 
exchange rate movements and a saving of £1.0 million 
in underlying costs. 
Adjusted operating profit decreased from £50.3 million to 
£42.7 million which equates to an adjusted operating profit 
margin of 11.1% (2014: 14.1%). The interest charge increased 
to £7.1 million (2014: £3.2 million) primarily as a result of 
the increased debt due to the Andor acquisition in the prior 
year. As a result adjusted profit before tax fell from £47.1 million 
to £35.6 million. This compares with a reported loss before 
tax of £9.7 million (2014: profit of 24.0 million). The adjusting 
items table on page 20 provides reconciliation.
Financial income and expenditure
Within financial income and expenditure, the cost of 
interest on loans and overdrafts and the commitment fee 
for our revolving credit facility, offset by deposit interest, 
rose to £5.2 million (2014: £1.2 million) due to the increased 
borrowing that financed the Andor Technology acquisition. 
The interest charge on net pension scheme liabilities was 
£1.9 million, in line with the prior year.
The Group uses derivative products to hedge its exposure 
to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. It is Group policy 
to have in place at the beginning of a financial year hedging 
instruments to cover 80% of its forecast transactional exposure 
for that year. 
In common with a number of other companies, the Group 
has decided that the additional costs of meeting the extensive 
documentation requirements of IAS 39 to apply hedge 
accounting to these foreign exchange hedges cannot 
be justified. Accordingly the Group does not use hedge 
accounting for these derivatives. 
Net movements on marking to market such derivatives 
at the balance sheet date are disclosed in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income as financial expenditure and excluded 
from our calculation of adjusted profit before tax (Note 1). 
The mark to market loss in respect of derivative financial 
instruments was £4.8 million (2014: £4.1 million gain). 
The Group also uses derivative products to hedge its 
exposure to fluctuations in the price of copper, a major 
component for the Superconducting Wire business. 
Given the small number of contracts involved, we apply 
hedge accounting for these transactions and consequently 
the results of marking to market are excluded from the 
Consolidated Statement of Income.
Taxation
The Group’s weighted average statutory tax rate was 30% 
(2014: 29%). The underlying rate on the profit before tax 
for the Group before adjusting items was 23% (2014: 18%). 
This difference is due to prior year adjustments, tax incentives 
relating to income earned from technology assets and 
manufacturing activities and tax efficient financing.
In the year ended March 2011, due to the improved 
performance of the Group’s UK businesses, we recognised 
a deferred tax asset of £11.3 million in respect of brought 
forward tax losses in the UK and a corresponding credit 
to the Consolidated Statement of Income. We believe 
that this was exceptional both in nature and quantum 
and therefore excluded it from our calculation of adjusted 
earnings per share. In order to be consistent we have, 
over time, excluded the reversal of this asset from the 
calculation of adjusted earnings per share. During the 
current year as a result of the restructuring the Group 
made a loss in the UK before tax. Consequently no part 
of the deferred tax asset reversed during 2015. We now 
expect the final £1.2 million to reverse in the year ending 
31 March 2016.
Earnings
After a tax credit of £3.4 million (2014: charge of £5.8 million), 
the reported net loss for the financial year was £6.3 million 
(2014: profit of £18.2 million). With a weighted average 
number of shares of 57.1 million (2014: 56.8 million), 
the reported basic earnings per share were (11.1) pence 
(2014: 32.1 pence).
Adjusted profit before tax (Note 1) fell by £11.5 million 
to £35.6 million which equates to adjusted earnings 
per share of 48.2 pence (2014: 67.7 pence).
Dividends
In 2011 the Group moved to a progressive dividend 
policy, whereby we seek to raise dividends as adjusted 
earnings per share rise, although not necessarily in the 
same proportion. In recommending the dividend, the 
Directors take account of the perceived need for cash 
to expand the business both organically and through 
acquisition. For the year just ended, the proposed final 
dividend of 9.3 pence per share (2014: 9.04 pence), 
payable on 22 October 2015 to Shareholders who are on 
the register on 25 September 2015, gives a total dividend 
for the year of 13.0 pence per share (2014: 12.4 pence). 
Dividend cover for the underlying business before adjusting 
items was 3.7 times (2014: 5.5 times). Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 22
Financial Review continued
Balance sheet
Net assets fell from £140.2 million to £125.5 million 
in the year.
Net working capital (excluding derivative financial instruments, 
contingent consideration and tax payable/receivable) fell 
from £41.0 million to £37.1 million.
Inventory turns increased by 0.1 to 3.0 while debtor days 
increased from 45 days to 52 days.
Net debt at the year end was £118.9 million 
(2014:£124.3 million). During the year the Group 
renegotiated its committed revolving credit facility 
to extend the tenor of the facility by just over a year to 
February 2020. At the same time the Group increased 
the amount of the facility to include a US Dollar tranche 
totalling $37 million.
In addition to the revolving credit facility which totals 
£100 million plus US$37 million, the Group has a 
£44.5 million fixed rate loan from Pricoa Capital which 
matures in 2021 and a £25.0 million fixed rate loan 
from the European Investment Bank that matures in 2020. 
The Group has overdraft facilities totalling £16.3 million.
We continue to operate well within our banking covenants. 
Debt covenants are net debt/EBITDA less than 3.5 (until and 
including 31 March 2016), 3.0 thereafter and EBITDA/debt 
interest greater than 4.0 for the year under review, net 
debt/EBITDA was 2.3 and EBITDA/debt interest was 10.0.
Acquisitions and disposals
Post year end, on 1 May 2015, the Group acquired 
Medical Imaging Resources, Inc. (MIR), a US company 
specialising in the build, lease and service of mobile medical 
imaging labs. Consideration comprised an initial $10.4 million 
(c. £6.7 million) plus a further $10.1 million (c. £6.5 million) 
earn-out payment, payable one year later. MIR had $3.0 million 
(c. £2.0 million) net debt at completion.
MIR will form a part of OIHealthcare, within the Group’ s Service 
sector. The acquisition was funded from existing facilities.
On 28 May 2015 the Group entered into a joint venture 
with GD Intressenter AB of Sweden (GDI) to create the 
world’s largest player in the highly specialised ultra high 
vacuum surface science field. The joint venture comprises 
Oxford Instruments plc’s Omicron Nanotechnology GmbH 
and GDI’s Scienta Scientific AB.
In consideration for new shares in Scienta, 
Oxford Instruments plc has transferred all of its shares 
in the capital of Omicron to Scienta. Oxford Instruments 
holds a 47% interest in the share capital of Scienta 
and GDI holds 53%. 
In the 12 months to 31 March 2014, Omicron generated 
revenue of £28.5 million and a loss before tax of £0.6 million. 
Scienta generated revenue of SEK279 million (approximately 
£24.6 million) and a profit before tax of SEK25 million 
(approximately £2.2 million). Oxford Instruments has provided 
a term loan of SEK40 million (approximately £3.1 million) 
to the joint venture. The transaction will result in no profit 
or loss on the carrying value of Omicron for Oxford Instruments.
Pensions
The Group has defined benefit pension schemes in the UK 
and the USA. Both have been closed to new entrants since 
2001 and closed to future accrual from July 2010. The total 
deficit, before tax, under IAS 19 on these pension schemes 
grew in the year by £7.2 million to £53.5 million. There is 
a corresponding deferred tax asset of £11.2 million.
Assets of the schemes at 31 March 2015 were £238.6 million 
(2014: £196.6 million), while liabilities increased from 
£242.9 million to £292.1 million.
Investment in research and development (R&D)
Total cash spend on R&D in the year was £35.2 million or 9.1% of sales (2014: £27.9 million, 7.7%).
A reconciliation between the amounts charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income and the cash spent 
is given below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
R&D expense charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income 30.8 25.1
Less: depreciation of R&D related fixed assets (0.9) (0.8)
Add: amounts capitalised as fixed assets 2.0 2.1
Less: amortisation of R&D costs capitalised as intangibles (4.7) (3.9)
Add: amounts capitalised as intangible assets 8.0 5.4
Total cash spent on R&D during the year 35.2 27.9
The net book value of capitalised development costs at the end of the financial year was £16.1 million 
(2014: £14.1 million). Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   23
The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the UK scheme 
was carried out as at 31 March 2012 and resulted in an 
actuarial deficit of £48.8 million. A long-term plan for 
recovering the deficit over eight years has been agreed 
between the Company and the Pension Trustee. Under 
the deficit recovery plan, payments will increase for the 
three years to March 2015 by the greater of 10% or the 
percentage increase in dividend per share. Thereafter, the 
payment will increase by 3.05% per annum. The payment 
in 2014/15, the third year of the new plan, was £6.3 million. 
An actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2015 will be carried 
out in the current year.
Cash
Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA) decreased by 10.5% to £53.0 million. 
There was a working capital outflow of £5.1 million. 
Cash generated from operations was £38.9 million 
(2014: £28.4 million). The ratio of operating cash to 
operating profit, which is one of our key performance 
indicators, was 80.8% (2014: 51.1%).
Employees
The average number of people employed during the year 
was 2,420, an increase of 370 over the prior year, due 
primarily to the inclusion of Andor Technology in the 
Group for the full year. 
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position, are set out in the Performance and Strategy and 
Operations sections. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in this Financial Review.
The diverse nature of the Group, combined with its financial 
strength, provides a solid foundation for a sustainable business. 
The Directors have reviewed the Group’ s forecasts and flexed 
them to incorporate a number of potential scenarios relating 
to changes in trading performance. The Directors believe 
that the Group will be able to operate within its existing debt 
facilities. This review also considered hedging arrangements 
in place. The Directors believe that the Group is well placed 
to manage its business risks successfully.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis, based on the Directors’ opinion, after making 
reasonable enquiries, that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements. 
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and 
information available to the Company during the preparation 
and up to the publication of this document. By their very 
nature, these statements depend upon circumstances 
and relate to events that may occur in the future thereby 
involving a degree of uncertainty. Therefore, nothing 
in this document should be construed as a profit forecast 
by the Company.
Restructuring
In January 2015 the Group announced that it was embarking on a restructuring programme to reduce its cost 
base. The programme included a number of redundancies, the closure of six sites across the Group and the costs 
of Plasma Technology exiting the high volume production semiconductor market. The costs of the programme 
are recognised as non-recurring adjusting items as summarised below:
2014/15
£m
2015/16
£m
Total
£m
Consolidated Statement of Income 9.9 1.4 11.3
Cash 1.2 7.4 8.6
The savings as a result of the programme are expected to be £8.0 million in 2015/16. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 24
We are committed to the 
following guiding principles 
of corporate responsibility:
Corporate Responsibility
Oxford Instruments’ brand and reputation are some of its key 
assets. As a leading supplier of high technology tools and 
systems we set ourselves the highest standards of integrity, 
personal conduct and fairness.
We believe that it is important for a sustainable business 
to focus on the needs of employees, customers and other 
stakeholders through shared goals and trusted relationships.
While the Group is accountable to our Shareholders, we take 
into account the interest of all our stakeholders, including our 
employees, our customers and our suppliers, as well as the 
local communities and environments in which we operate.
Our stakeholders
Investors
In line with stock exchange and other relevant requirements, 
the Group ensures that investors receive regular and 
transparent communications on all matters that are material 
to an understanding of the performance and future prospects 
of the organisation. It aims to protect investors’ funds, 
and manage risks appropriately. 
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director allocate 
a significant proportion of their time to investor meetings, 
and host regular site visits for both analysts and investors. 
In 2014/15, interaction with investors increased with site 
visits, one to one meetings and telephone conferencing. 
Of particular note was a site visit to newly acquired 
Andor Technology in Belfast in September 2014.
The Investor pages of the Oxford Instruments plc website 
provide a comprehensive overview of the Group  
(www.oxford-instruments.com/investors).
Customers
Oxford Instruments plc believes that effective customer 
relationships are built on mutual trust, respect and integrity, 
and that this principle should govern all aspects of the 
business. We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships 
and provide the standards of product and service that are 
expected. We also focus on the safety and quality of our 
products and services.
The continued focus on the “Voice of the Customer” in any 
new product introduction or current product development 
helps put customer needs are at the core of our business. 
•  To establish and maintain long term, effective 
stakeholder relationships
•  To offer all our people an excellent 
employment experience 
•  To strengthen our business through diversity 
and inclusion
•  To operate in an ethical, sustainable 
and environmentally responsible manner
Inclusive 
We listen and engage with 
customers, colleagues, Shareholders 
and partners for mutual success 
Trusted
We build long term relationships 
based on integrity, trust and respect
Innovative and progressive
We bring skill, experience and 
openness to new ideas to address 
the needs of the 21st century
Wholehearted 
We approach what we do with 
passion, with care and with pace
Our values Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   25
The success of new products introduced in 2014/15 supports 
this focus. The percentage of revenue that is made up of 
products launched or acquired in the last three years is a key 
indicator of the vitality of our new product development 
and was at 41% for the financial year 2014/15. 
Externally, the Group makes extensive use of social media 
platforms to keep all stakeholders, and the media, up to 
date and informed of news, product launches and events. 
The Group websites are mobile responsive.
Employees
Our highly skilled employees are vital to our continued growth 
and success. We aim to provide careers, opportunities and 
working environments in which our people can achieve 
their potential. We do this through safe, modern working 
environments, recognition of the value of culture and diversity, 
managing and developing talent, employee incentive 
and engagement activities, and regular, informative, 
two-way communication.
Training and development
The Maximising Potential programme initiated in 2014 
has been running very successfully, with a strong focus 
on developing high potential people identified throughout 
Oxford Instruments plc. Recognising the different training 
needs of our staff internationally we have tailored our 
global training to offer bespoke management development 
programmes in the USA and China. Highlighting the positive 
impact our focus on training has had, nearly three-quarters 
of our staff told us in our recent employee survey that they 
are confident they will receive training if a need is identified. 
We have also seen an increase in the number of employees who 
felt their managers communicated difficult information well, 
Claire Flint, Group HR Director
Dawn Brooks, Group Service Director
demonstrating the skills our managers have developed 
throughout their training. We continue to focus on developing 
high potential technical and people leaders at all levels in 
the business.
Diversity and inclusion
We believe diversity promotes innovation and effective 
decision making. The Group’s aim is to ensure there are 
equal opportunities for all employees and that we create 
an inclusive culture where differences are valued and 
people are given the environment in which they can do 
their best work. Decisions regarding recruitment, selection 
and access to training and promotion are based on merit. 
Selection, promotion and succession planning processes 
ensure that we recruit, train and promote the best candidates 
based on suitability for the job. Our Code of Conduct 
and Ethics requires that all employees are treated fairly 
and no one suffers harassment or intimidation.
Our Diversity Champion is Dawn Brooks, Group Service 
Director. Dawn has been responsible for leading a full 
programme of diversity and inclusion awareness and 
engagement sessions to all parts of the business. 
We have embedded diversity and cross cultural awareness 
in our Group-wide development programmes, fostering 
a shared understanding of our position and ambitions 
in regard to developing our diverse global talent pool. 
The Group has a proud track record of encouraging 
flexible working. Our recent employee survey reflects 
our efforts with the majority of our staff recognising 
our commitment to treating employees equally.
Highest qualification achieved by employees (%)
 
 PhD 9.28
 Masters 13.98
 Degree 30.75
 Diploma 20.30
 Vocational 16.49
 School 9.20
* Based on an employee population of 1,359.
Management Development Programme
Strengthening the core skills of management
17 separate MDP groups up to 2014/15
8% of staff (190)
11% promoted after completing course
Senior Leadership Programme
Encouraging collaborative and transformative 
leadership to drive growth
Five courses since introduction in June 2013
48 senior leads have completed the course Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 26
Our stakeholders continued
Employees continued
Diversity and inclusion continued
Our Management Board, which is responsible for 
delivering the Group’s strategy, consists of six male 
directors and two female directors. Oxford Instruments is 
actively engaged with the BIS Women on Boards initiative. 
Claire Flint, Group HR and Brand Director, participates on 
the National Nuclear Laboratory Board as part of the 
Government’ s Women on Boards Future Directors programme. 
Dawn Brooks is also supporting BIS as an inspirational 
speaker at government events, for example a Ministerial 
Recognition Event for Further Education and Sixth Form 
College Chairs. Dawn has also contributed to a recent BIS 
publication, Inspirational Women in Business. We wish to 
continue our focus on developing an organisation which 
mirrors the diversity of our customers and employees 
globally. Our aim over the next year will be that at the end 
of that time, each level of Executive Management continues 
to reflect approximately the same gender balance as exists in 
the Company overall.
Workforce gender diversity
Oxford Instruments
Board
Management Board
Managers
Employees
 Female  Male
21%
14%
25%
21%
21.5%
79%
86%
75%
79%
78.5%
Corporate Responsibility continued
Voice of the Customer case study
At Oxford Instruments plc we recognise the importance of learning what our 
customers need, want and expect from our products. During the development 
of our new Cryofree cryostat for optical spectroscopy applications, such as 
device development and the development of new semiconductor materials, 
we used Voice of the Customer (VOC) throughout.
At the start of our project we undertook an online questionnaire to help identify 
our target segments within the spectroscopy market. This also gave us some 
initial guidance on what our product offerings might need to be.
We undertook more detailed VOC interviews with a large number of customers 
to help develop the market requirement specification, which defined the key 
features and benefits they required from these products. We also gathered 
further feedback from a smaller number of customers during the beta testing 
stage and built this into the design of the final production version of our new 
Optistat Dry product. 
The Optistat Dry is the most user-friendly, easy to set up instrument available 
on the market. It allows low temperature spectroscopy down to 3 Kelvin without 
using inconvenient and expensive liquid cryogens. Since the launch of this product 
customer feedback has been extremely positive and we have already taken many 
orders for the cryostats.
Introducing OptistatDry
Communication
We recognise that information about business strategy 
and performance, and regular opportunities for a two 
way dialogue with our employees are important and this 
is reflected in the way we communicate with our people. 
We have a regular communications programme that 
informs all employees on strategy, divisional and Group 
business performance, operational changes and initiatives, 
as well as examples of best practice and success stories. 
Employees can access our intranet to obtain this and other 
general information on the Group, and we make use of 
video, blogs and Company meetings where appropriate. 
We invite feedback and suggestions at every opportunity 
and we listen and act on their feedback.
The engagement of our employees is a leading indicator 
of being a great place to work and we use an employee 
engagement survey to measure our progress. Our most 
recent Group-wide survey was undertaken in January 2015, 
prior to the trading update of 22 January 2015 and 
subsequent cost reduction programme. The survey 
questions covered a wide spectrum of the work experience 
at Oxford Instruments and therefore the majority of the 
feedback is still relevant after this programme. We also 
conducted a series of Group-wide listening sessions in 
April 2015. All employees were given an opportunity to 
put questions and ideas to a member of the Management 
Board. This was used to update the views provided in 
the employee survey. The final results of the survey and 
listening sessions will be fed back to our employees. Graduate programme case study
Tuomas Pylkkänen started on the graduate programme not long after joining 
Oxford Instruments plc as an XRF scientist in Finland. Initially only expecting 
lectures about business fundamentals, he was pleasantly surprised by the strong 
focus on people skills. The programme offered Tuomas exposure to different 
functions in the business, building his understanding about how the Company 
works and where his role fits in. 
As part of the programme, Tuomas had the opportunity to come to the UK 
on secondment to NanoAnalysis. This allowed him to gain practical project 
management and communication skills, but he also felt it improved his 
confidence and motivation, giving him an appreciation of the differences 
in working cultures between the UK and Finland.
Towards the end of the graduate programme, Tuomas was promoted to a 
technical team leader role. He feels the skills he learned on the programme 
helped him achieve this promotion. Tuomas found the programme to be 
much more valuable than he first anticipated and has learned the people 
across the businesses are ultimately motivated by the same things; to use 
the best technology and processes to make great products for our customers. 
Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   27
The overall results show positive responses in the 
following areas:
• Oxford Instruments plc’s commitment to treating 
employees equally;
• employees’ feelings of accountability for what they 
do and achieve;
• employees’ sense that their jobs are important 
and worthwhile; and 
• employees’ desire for career progression within 
Oxford Instruments.
However
• Understanding the business strategy was lower 
than in the previous survey at 67%. The senior 
management team will be focusing on providing 
more clarity and accessibility to this for all staff.
Feedback groups met in May 2015 to put together action 
plans and we will conduct pulse surveys over the coming 
months to track our progress.
Reward and recognition
The Group believes it is important that our highly skilled 
and educated workforce receive a share in the success of 
the business. In addition to the regular management bonus 
and sales commission schemes, we operate a Gain Share 
scheme for all non-management employees. This plan is 
linked to achievement of our strategy and aligns employees’ 
interest with that of our Shareholders. In addition, through 
our Extra Intranet site, we offer employees extra benefits 
such as discounts on certain local activities, merchandise, 
insurance, and health and dental cover.
Generally, employees are encouraged to suggest ways 
to improve performance and efficiency. Local reward 
and recognition schemes exist to support this. 
Suppliers/partners
The Group works hard to establish trust, respect and 
mutually beneficial relations with its business partners, 
including suppliers, banks and collaborative associates.
There is a Group supplier management process in place 
that promotes a common supply chain strategy split by 
commodity, driving the business towards fewer high level 
suppliers. Regular inspections and audits are conducted 
and strategic reviews are in place for key suppliers. In 
accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, only quality 
approved organisations are used.
Local communities
We encourage our local businesses to support their 
communities through charity and community activities. 
The Group also sponsors a number of international 
and national science based awards and events including 
the prestigious Sir Martin Wood Prize through the 
Millennium Science Forum in Japan, which was presented 
in 2014 to Dr Masamitsu Hayashi for his work in effective 
field measurements and spin torque dynamics in magnetic 
nanostructures. A new award recognising young 
nanotechnology scientists was launched in India during 
2014. The recipient was Prof Arindam Ghosh, who was 
presented with his prize in April 2015 in recognition 
of his outstanding contribution to nanoscience in India 
and for his research on nano scale materials.
Ethics
We work ethically, openly, responsibly and inclusively. 
We strive for maximum transparency; do not tolerate 
any form of bribery, corruption or fraud and do not make 
political donations. We have in place a Business Conduct 
and Ethics Code, which all employees are made aware 
of at the time of joining the Company and through 
subsequent exposure on the Company intranet 
and corporate website.
Tuomas Pylkkänen 28 Oxford Instruments plc  Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Responsibility continued
Ethics continued
We have a zero tolerance attitude towards bribery and 
corruption and perform regular due diligence on our agents, 
distributors and suppliers to minimise the risk of any 
unethical behaviour. 
Suppliers are required to prove they do not employ workers 
under the age of 15 or, in those countries subject to the 
developing country exception of the ILO Convention 
138, employ no children under the age of 14.
Our Code is supported by a range of policies that are 
regularly monitored by the Board and updated and added 
to whenever necessary. Each policy gives detailed information 
on how to manage sensitive issues once an assessment 
of risk has been identified. This includes a global business 
malpractice policy.
Health, safety and environment
Health and Safety within Oxford Instruments plc is managed 
at the Executive level by Charles Holroyd, Group Business 
Development Director, who is assisted by the Group 
Health, Safety and Environment Manager, Dave Wales. 
Each site has a nominated Health, Safety and Environment 
Manager or representative responsible for ensuring that 
day-to-day activities are carried out safely. All large sites 
are audited annually by the Group auditing team. 
Accidents reduced for the fifth consecutive year 
There has again been substantial progress on reducing 
accidents within the Group. In 2014/15 we reduced 
the total number of accidents to 71, a 35% reduction 
on the previous year.
Globally there were two serious accidents reported during 
the year. This marks a 50% reduction on the previous year. 
For reporting purposes, global serious accidents were 
normalised using the UK definition of over seven days’ 
absence from work.
As a result of our sustained focus on health and safety 
issues, we have reduced accidents by 67% from 217 in 
2011 to 71 in 2015. We have been particularly successful 
at our Oxford Superconducting Technology site, as detailed 
in the case study below.
Environment
Our environmental priorities are the efficient use 
of energy and waste minimisation, and we seek to 
continuously improve these areas. Each business has an 
Energy Champion responsible for the day-to-day issues 
of environmental compliance and energy management. 
This includes the monitoring of energy use, waste streams, 
recycling and emissions to air, water and land.
• The total global consumption of energy during 
the year fell to 58.34 MWh/£million of revenue from 
60.79 MWh/£million in the previous year, this is a reduction 
of 4.3% against a reduction target of 3.0%.
• In accordance with our Energy and Environmental Policies 
the business is committed to improving its efficiency in 
relation to energy use and we are investing in energy 
reducing technologies such as upgrading some sites 
to low energy LED lighting.
• Oxford Instruments plc is a full participant in the UK 
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme 
(CRC) and purchases carbon allowances to cover its UK 
energy use when necessary. We have forward purchased 
carbon allowances to cover our 2014/15 UK emissions, 
which totalled 4,066 tonnes of CO
2
. These will be 
surrendered in September 2015 to settle our 
obligations to the CRC.
Oxford Superconducting Technology case study
Our Oxford Superconducting Technology (OST) site produces superconducting wire, which is used in MRI scanners; 
the wire has also been supplied to the ITER project in Europe, which is researching into nuclear fusion. 
Three years ago OST had a problem with the number of accidents that were occurring within the site. The Senior 
Management team was reorganised and a Health and Safety Director appointed. This prompted the formation 
of a Health and Safety Management Team who were tasked with focusing on the safe working practices at the 
site and they implemented a program of Job Safety Analysis for all hazardous tasks within the production process. 
In addition to the Job Safety Analysis the team encouraged the employees to record every near miss that occurred 
in order to try and prevent them turning into accidents. They changed the “near miss” classification to “near hits”.
The results of the increased focus and extra work were dramatic. The total number of accidents reduced from 
80 in 2011/12 to just nine in 2014/15; this is a terrific performance by the team and all employees.
In addition to the above, the team was successful in gaining certification to the OHSAS18001 Health and Safety 
Management System Standard.
Total accidents 2010/15
236 2010/11
217 2011/12
162 2012/13
109 2013/14
71 2014/15 Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   29
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 
Oxford Instruments plc is a global business with operations in many parts of the world and has been monitoring 
energy use and carbon emissions since 2008. Emissions from 26 of the Company’s sites are monitored and are 
reported on below; some small sales offices where energy consumption is less than 0.01% of the Group’s total 
energy consumption are omitted. The amount of recorded hydro-fluorocarbons is below 5kg globally and has 
therefore been omitted from the figures.
Emissions 
Emissions from purchased electricity, emissions from fuel burned on site for heating or process purposes (gas and oil) 
and fugitive emissions from process gases are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO
2
e).
Region
Purchased
electricity
Secondary
fuel
Fugitive
emissions Total
UK 3,775 444 — 4,219
North America 3,673 445 — 4,118
Europe 388 70 — 458
Asia 240 — — 240
Total 8,076 959 — 9,035
Intensity ratio
The Company’s declared intensity ratio for Greenhouse  
Gas Reporting is tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent (tCO
2
e)  
per £million of revenue. With revenues for the year  
at £385.6 million and total declared carbon dioxide  
equivalent of 9,035 tonnes, this gives an intensity  
ratio as follows: 
• Oxford Instruments plc also measures the energy 
equivalent of employee air travel for the UK and 
USA operations. During the 2014/15 financial year 
UK and USA air travel equated to 2,302 tCO
2
e.
• The Group complies with all legislation in countries 
where we operate including European Directives such 
as the Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment (WEEE) 
Directive, the Restriction on use of Hazardous Substances 
(RoHS) Directive and the Registration, Evaluation, 
Authorisation of Chemicals (REACh) Directive. 
Greenhouse gas reporting
As part of the UK Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ reports) Regulations 2013, Oxford Instruments plc 
has a mandatory duty to report greenhouse gas emissions.
In addition to the mandatory greenhouse gas reporting, the 
Company will also make a voluntary report to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) on our emissions. The CDP is an 
international, not-for-profit organisation providing the only 
global system for companies to measure, disclose, manage 
and share environmental information. In addition to the 
mandatory greenhouse gas reporting, the Company will 
also make a voluntary report to the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) on our emissions. The CDP is an international, 
not-for-profit organisation providing the only global system 
for companies to measure, disclose, manage and share 
environmental information.
Summary
We will maintain the focus on corporate social responsibility 
in the way we run Oxford Instruments plc. We will continue 
to meet our customer needs through advanced technology 
and premium service, and we will maintain a wholehearted 
commitment to all our stakeholders to conduct our business 
in an ethical and sustainable manner.
Jonathan Flint 
Chief Executive
9 June 2015
tCO
2
e 
Revenue
=
  23.43 tCO
2
e 
/£million revenue 30 Oxford Instruments plc  Report and Financial Statements 2015 30
Board of Directors
Nigel Keen
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed to the Board
February 1999
Committee membership
Nomination, Chairman 
Remuneration
Background
Nigel holds an engineering degree 
from Cambridge University and has 
been involved in the formation and 
development of high technology 
businesses for more than 30 years. 
He is a fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants and the 
Institution of Engineering 
and Technology.
External appointments
Chairman of: 
Bioquell Plc  
Deltex Medical Group Plc  
Syncona Partners LLP 
(a Wellcome Trust company)
Chairman/Trustee of: 
The David Shepherd 
Wildlife Foundation  
ISIS Innovation Ltd (an Oxford 
University company)  
Oxford Academic Health 
Science Network
Previous experience
Chairman of: 
Laird PLC  
Axis-Shield Plc
Jonathan Flint, CBE
Chief Executive
Kevin Boyd
Group Finance Director
Professor Sir Richard Friend
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board
April 2005
Committee membership
None
Background
Jonathan holds a BSc in Physics 
from Imperial College and an MBA 
from Southampton University. He is 
a fellow of the Institute of Physics, 
the Royal Academy of Engineering 
and the Institution of Engineering 
and Technology. He was awarded 
the CBE in the 2012 New Year’s 
Honours for services to science 
and business.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director of:
Cobham plc
Previous experience
Senior management positions within:
Vislink plc 
BAE Systems 
GEC Marconi 
Matra-Space Systems
Appointed to the Board
August 2006
Committee membership
None
Background
Kevin holds a BEng in Electronic 
and Information Engineering and 
is a Chartered Engineer, Chartered 
Accountant and a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
and the Institution of Engineering 
and Technology.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director of:
Guidance Ltd (to March 2014) 
EMIS Group plc (from May 2014)
Member of:
London Stock Exchange’s Primary 
Markets Group
Previous experience
Group Finance Director of:
Radstone Technology plc
Finance Director of:
Siroyan Ltd
Senior finance positions within:
TI Group (now Smiths Group plc)
Appointed to the Board
September 2014
Committee membership
Audit 
Remuneration 
Nomination
Background
Richard is Cavendish Professor of Physics 
and a Fellow of St. John’s College at 
the University of Cambridge, a Fellow 
of the Royal Society and of the Royal 
Academy of Engineering and a Foreign 
Member of the US National Academy 
of Engineering.
External appointments
Council member of:
The Engineering and Physical 
Sciences Research Council 
Non-Executive Director of:
Eight19 Limited 
Azuri Technologies Limited Governance
31 Report and Financial Statements 2015  Oxford Instruments plc 
Jock Lennox
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board
April 2009
Committee membership
Audit, Chairman 
Remuneration 
Nomination
Background
Jock holds a law degree from 
Edinburgh University and is qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant with the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland.
External appointments
Chairman of:
Tall Ships Youth Trust
Non-Executive Director of:
Dixons Retail plc  
EnQuest PLC  
Hill & Smith Holdings PLC  
A&J Mucklow Group PLC
Previous experience
Senior Audit Partner at:
EY (formerly Ernst & Young)
Thomas Geitner
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Jennifer Allerton
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
 Susan Johnson-Brett
Company Secretary
Appointed to the Board
January 2013
Committee membership
Remuneration, Chairman 
Audit  
Nomination 
Background
Thomas has extensive international 
experience in the technology and 
engineering sectors, having spent 
over 30 years in businesses operating 
across the globe.
External appointments
Chairman of:
Bibliotheca RFID Library Systems 
AG Switzerland
Non-Executive Director of:
Supervisory Board of Haniel&Cie 
GmbH Duisburg
Previous experience
Non-Executive Director of:
BBC Worldwide Ltd 
Singulus Technologies AG 
Supervisory Board of Constantia 
Flexibles GmbH Vienna
Executive Director of:
Vodafone Group Plc 
Henkel AG & Co. KGaA 
RWE AG
Appointed to the Board
June 2013
Committee membership
Audit 
Remuneration 
Nomination
Background
Jennifer holds a BSc from Imperial 
College and an MSc from the 
University of Manitoba, Canada. 
She is a Cost and Management 
Accountant. She has extensive 
international experience beginning her 
career with Unilever and has worked 
in the UK, Brazil, the US, Switzerland, 
Canada, Italy and Asia.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director of:
AVEVA Group PLC 
Iron Mountain Inc 
Sandvik AB
Previous experience
Chief information Officer at:
F.Hoffmann-La Roche, Pharma 
Division, Switzerland
Technology Director of:
Barclaycard
Chief Operating Officer of:
ServiceNet, USA
Chief Information Officer of; 
BOC (now Linde)
Committee membership
Secretary to:
Audit 
Remuneration 
Nomination
Background
Susan holds a BA from the University 
of Keele and has previously worked 
in the Secretariats of St Modwen 
Properties plc and Hydro Agri 
(UK) Limited. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 32
Report of the Directors
The Directors present their Report and the Financial 
Statements of Oxford Instruments plc for the year 
ended 31 March 2015.
Principal activity and business reviews
The Company is the ultimate holding company of a group 
of subsidiary undertakings (“the Group”) engaged in the 
research, development, manufacture, sale and service of high 
technology tools and systems. The Company is required to 
set out in this report a true and fair view of the business of 
the Group during the financial year ended 31 March 2015, 
the position of the Group at the end of the financial year 
and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group. The information which fulfils these 
requirements includes a business and financial review 
on pages 5 to 23 and Corporate Responsibility Review 
on pages 24 to 29, which are incorporated in this report 
by reference. The Business Review, the Strategic Review, 
the research and development activities and likely future 
prospects of the Group are reviewed in the Strategic 
Report on pages 1 to 23.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income on page 78. The Directors recommend 
a final dividend of 9.3p per ordinary share, which together 
with the interim dividend of 3.7p per ordinary share makes 
a total of 13.0p per ordinary share for the year (2014: 12.4p). 
Subject to Shareholder approval, the final dividend will 
be paid on 22 October 2015 to Shareholders registered 
at close of business on 25 September 2015.
Risks and uncertainties
The Board exercises proper and appropriate corporate 
governance for the Group. It ensures that there are 
effective systems of internal controls in place to manage 
Shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets, including 
the assessment and the management of the risks to which 
the businesses are exposed, and to monitor and manage 
the compliance with all the legal requirements that affect 
the Group’s worldwide business activities. However, such 
systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Executive Directors report to the Board on changes 
in the business and in the external environment which 
may affect the risks which the Group faces. The Executive 
Directors also provide the Board with monthly financial 
information. Key performance indicators are reviewed 
by the Board quarterly.
There are a number of risks and uncertainties which may 
have a material effect on the Oxford Instruments Group. 
These are described in Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
on pages 14 and 15.
Directors
Biographies of all the Directors at the date of this report, 
including the Non-Executive Directors, appear on pages 30 and 
31. During the year, Professor Richard Friend was appointed 
as Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2014 and at the 
conclusion of the AGM held on 9 September 2014 Professor 
Mike Brady retired as a Non-Executive Director.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 
allows Directors of public companies to authorise conflicts 
and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate. Only 
Directors with no interest in the matter under consideration 
may participate in the relevant decision and in doing so 
they must act in a way which they consider in good faith 
will be most likely to promote the Company’s success. 
A conflicts policy has been drawn up and a register 
of conflicts and potential conflicts is maintained.
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the Company’s 
share capital, all in fully paid up shares at 31 March 2015, 
are shown below.
Details of share options for the Executive Directors are shown 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 66.
2015
Shares
2014
Shares
Jennifer Allerton 1,000 1,000
Kevin Boyd 93,975 91,611
Jonathan Flint 206,167 205,803
Richard Friend — —
Thomas Geitner — —
Nigel Keen 126,580 126,580
Jock Lennox 3,500 3,500
No Director was beneficially interested in the shares 
of any subsidiary company at any time during the year. 
In the year to 31 March 2015 no Director had a material 
interest in any contract of significance with the Company 
or any of its subsidiaries other than as described in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 48. Since the 
year end, there have been no changes to the above 
shareholdings apart from for Jonathan Flint, together 
with his wife, and Kevin Boyd, who participate in the 
Oxford Instruments Share Incentive Plan and since 
the year end have each increased their beneficial 
shareholding by 61 and 46 shares respectively. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   33
Insurance cover and Directors’ indemnities
For a number of years the Group has purchased insurance 
to cover its Directors and Officers against their costs in 
defending themselves in legal proceedings taken against 
them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting 
from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings. In 
addition, to the extent permitted by UK law, the Group 
indemnifies its Directors and Officers for liabilities arising 
from such proceedings.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover 
for situations where the Director has acted fraudulently 
or dishonestly.
Share capital
The Company only has one class of share capital which 
comprises ordinary shares of 5p each. All shares forming 
part of the ordinary share capital have the same rights 
and carry one vote each. There are no unusual restrictions 
on the transfer of a share. The full rights and obligations 
attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, as well as 
the powers of the Directors, are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association, a copy of which is available on 
the Company’s website. These can also be obtained from 
Companies House or by writing to the Company Secretary.
During the year to 31 March 2015 the issued share 
capital was increased by 0.1% with the issue of 40,501 
ordinary shares (2014: 334,005) following the exercise 
of options under the Company’s share option schemes. 
At 31 March 2015, the issued share capital of the Company 
was therefore 57,291,336 ordinary shares of 5p each. 
In connection with the Company’s equity incentive plans, 
a separately administered trust held 183,145 ordinary shares 
at 31 March 2015 (representing 0.3% of the total issued 
share capital of the Company). No shares in the Company 
were acquired by the Company during the year (2014: nil). 
Details of the share capital and options outstanding as at 
31 March 2015 are set out in Notes 11 and 21 respectively 
of the Financial Statements.
At this year’s Annual General Meeting (AGM), the Directors 
propose to: 
a)  renew the authority granted to them at last year’s AGM 
to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal 
value of one-third of the Company’s issued share 
capital and, where full pre-emption rights are applied, 
up to an aggregate nominal value of two-thirds of the 
Company’s issued share capital; 
b)  allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value 
of 5% of the Company’s issued share capital without 
first offering them to existing Shareholders; and 
c)  buy back up to 10% of the Company’s issued 
share capital. 
Shareholders will be requested to renew these authorities 
at the AGM and details of these resolutions are set out in 
the notice of the meeting.
Substantial shareholdings
The following are beneficial interests of 3% or more (where the holding is direct) or of 5% or more (where the 
holding is indirect) of which the Directors have been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital, the only class of voting capital, at 2 June 2015:
Direct/
indirect
Shares 
000
% of 
total
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Indirect 5,902,349 10.3
Ameriprise Financial Indirect/direct 4,983,663 8.7
Sir MF and Lady KA Wood Direct 3,105,530 5.4
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited Indirect 3,068,362 5.4
Allianz Global Investors GmbH Direct 2,923,663 5.1
Baillie Gifford & Co Indirect 2,917,516 5.1 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 34
Report of the Directors continued
Payment of suppliers
The Group does not follow a standard payment practice 
but agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions 
with each of its suppliers. Payment is then made in accordance 
with these terms. At 31 March 2015 trade creditors of the 
Company and the Group’s UK subsidiaries were equivalent 
to 22 days (2014: 32) and 66 days (2014: 72) of purchases 
respectively, based on the amounts invoiced by suppliers 
during the year and the amounts owed to trade creditors 
at the end of the year.
Charitable donations
During the year, the Group made charitable donations 
of £1,575 (2014: £2,596). There have been no political 
donations during the year.
Fixed assets
Whilst the market value of some fixed assets may differ 
from book value, the Directors believe that the differences 
are not material. 
Disclosure of information to auditor
Pursuant to Section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006 
the Directors who held office at the date of approval 
of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are 
each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditor is unaware; and each Director has 
taken all the steps that he or she might reasonably have 
been expected to have taken as a Director to make 
himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware 
of that information.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of the AGM to be held on 8 September 2015 
is set out in a letter to Shareholders together with explanatory 
notes relating to the resolutions.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and 
to authorise the Directors to set its remuneration will 
be proposed at the AGM.
Change of control arrangements
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter 
or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover, such as banking agreements and 
company share plans. On a change of control, the Company’ s 
committed credit facilities may be cancelled by lenders by 
giving not less than three days’ notice. It is also possible 
that pension plan funding arrangements would need 
to be changed following a change of control if that 
resulted in a weakening of the employer covenant.
Corporate governance
The Board reviews its work on corporate governance 
in the Corporate Governance section on pages 35 to 42.
Financial risk management
Details of the Group’s financial risk management objectives 
and policies, including the exposure to price, credit and liquidity 
risk are set out in Note 19 to the Financial Statements.
Diversity and inclusion
The Board recognises that its employees are fundamental 
to the Group’s success. The Group’s aim is to ensure there 
are equal opportunities for all employees and that there 
is an inclusive culture where differences are valued and 
people are given the environment in which they can do 
their best work. The Corporate Responsibility Review on 
page 24 further describes how diversity and inclusion 
is managed within Oxford Instruments.
Greenhouse gas emissions
To meet the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
(strategic and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 CO
2
 
emissions are reported on as part of our reporting on 
greenhouse gas emissions in the Corporate Responsibility 
Review on page 24.
Material events
There were no material events since 31 March 2015 
to report other than the acquisition of Medical Imaging 
Resources Inc and the joint venture with GD Intressenter 
AB involving Omicron NanoTechnology GmbH as reported 
in Note 31.
By order of the Board
Susan Johnson-Brett
Company Secretary
9 June 2015 Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   35
Corporate Governance
Board constitution
In late 2010 the Nomination Committee reviewed its Board 
Development programme and put in place a multi-year 
plan to allow for an orderly refreshing of its Non-Executive 
Directors over this extended period. This programme is 
under annual review. The Board Development programme 
ensures that the constitution of the Board is compliant 
with the Governance Code. 
In line with the programme, Professor Sir Richard Friend 
joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
in September 2014 and Professor Mike Brady stepped 
down from the Board at last year’s AGM. 
Resolutions for the election of Directors will be put to 
Shareholders at the Company’s forthcoming AGM. This will 
continue to deliver a Board that meets the requirements 
of Provision B.1.2 of the Governance Code.
Compliance
The Board considers that, throughout the period under 
review, the Group has complied with the provisions 
recommended in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Preservation of value
The basis on which the Group generates and preserves 
value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering 
the objectives of the Group are to be found in the 
Strategic Report.
Board of Directors and management structure
Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four 
Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. 
The Directors’ biographies and details of length of service 
are shown on pages 30 and 31. All the Directors have written 
letters of appointment that have been approved by the 
Board and which are available for inspection at the 
Company’s AGM.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board 
and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role. 
The division of responsibilities between the role of 
Chairman and the Chief Executive has been set out 
in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board has delegated Group responsibility for the 
management of health, safety and the environment 
to Jonathan Flint and he reports to the Board on these 
matters at each meeting.
Management Board
The Board delegates management of the business to 
the Chief Executive. To assist in this, the Chief Executive 
has created a Management Board that consists of the 
Executive Directors, senior managers with Group-wide 
functional responsibilities, and the heads of the principal 
businesses of the Group’s activities.
The Management Board meets monthly either physically 
or by video or telephone conference and focuses on 
Group-wide performance, strategy and risk management.
The Board is committed to ensuring that 
high standards of corporate governance 
are maintained by the Group.
The Board endorses the main and supporting principles 
and the provisions set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Governance Code”).
The Board’s policies and procedures are documented 
in the Board Reference File that sets out the roles 
and delegated authorities applying to the Directors, 
the Board and the Board Committees. The Board 
Reference File is reviewed annually by the Board as 
part of the annual governance review undertaken 
by the Chairman. 
Changes in the Board
Joined the Board
 Richard Friend 
  Independent Non-Executive Director 
Joined: 1 September 2014
Retired from the Board
 Mike Brady 
 Non-Executive Director 
 Retired: 9 September 2014
Board members’ length of service
Nigel Keen
Jonathan Flint
Kevin Boyd
Jock Lennox
Thomas Geitner
Jennifer Allerton
Richard Friend
16 years
10 years
9 years
6 years
2 years
2 years
1 year
 Read more in the 
Strategic Report 
Turn to pages 
11 to 13 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 36
Corporate Governance continued
Board of Directors and management structure 
continued
Operation of the Board
The Board is responsible to Shareholders for delivering 
sustainable incremental Shareholder value through 
entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of controls 
for managing risk. The Board sets the Group’s strategy, 
maintains the policy and decision making framework 
in which this strategy is implemented, verifies that the 
necessary financial and human resources are in place 
to meet strategic aims, monitors performance against 
key financial and non-financial indicators, oversees the 
system of risk management and sets values and standards 
in governance matters.
The details of the way the Board operates, including 
a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, 
are set out in the Board Reference File.
The Board retains control over strategy, investments 
and capital expenditure, and limits the decisions which 
can be taken by management in the areas of strategic 
and financial management and reporting, capital structure, 
corporate actions, mergers and acquisitions, major contracts 
and other commitments, litigation and regulatory proceedings, 
remuneration and share incentive plans.
Where the Board delegates authority to management 
it is on a structured basis, which requires that proper 
management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
The Board meets on a regular basis, at least nine times 
a year, and otherwise as required. Of the nine regular 
meetings, typically six are held at Group locations and 
the remaining three are held by telephone conference. 
Other Board meetings are held on an as needed basis. 
The Board also held two off-site meetings specifically to 
discuss the Company’s strategic direction during the year.
Board meetings involve reviews of financial and business 
performance against the plan approved by the Board. 
Risk management review, both at Group level and 
also for each of the business units, is embedded in the 
reporting system. On a rotating basis, the Board receives 
presentations from the business units and key functional 
areas enabling it to explore specific issues in more detail. 
Any matter requiring a decision by the Board will be supported 
by a pre-circulated paper analysing all relevant aspects 
of the proposal and recommending a course of action.
Board papers are distributed in advance of the relevant 
meeting in sufficient time to allow the Directors to prepare 
for meetings. Minutes of Committee meetings are circulated 
to the relevant Directors. In the very few instances when 
a Director has not been able to attend Board or Committee 
meetings, his comments on the papers to be considered 
at the meeting are communicated in advance to the 
relevant Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive 
Directors at least annually, with the Chairman leading 
these meetings. The Non-Executive Directors also meet 
annually without the Chairman in attendance. The Senior 
Independent Director chairs these meetings.
The Company Secretary and the Company Secretary’s Office 
are responsible for implementing Board procedures and for 
advising the Board on corporate governance matters. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   37
Board balance and independence
The Governance Code requires the Board should 
be of sufficient size that the balance of skills and 
experience is appropriate for the requirements 
of the business and that there is a balance of 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors such that 
no individual or small group of individuals can 
dominate the Board’s decision making. The 
composition of the Board and the combination 
of diverse backgrounds and expertise of the 
Non-Executive Directors meet these principles.
Nigel Keen, Chairman, has been a member of 
the Board since February 1999. He has a degree in 
engineering from Cambridge University, is a Fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and of the 
Institute of Engineering and Technology and has been 
involved in the formation and development of high 
technology businesses for more than 30 years. He 
fulfilled the independence criteria at the time of his 
appointment as set out in the Governance Code. 
Nigel Keen also serves as Chairman of Oxford Instruments 
Pension Trustee Limited, the Trustee of the Company’s 
UK defined benefit pension scheme.
The Board of the Company and the Board of the Trustee 
to the Pension Scheme have each independently 
considered whether it is appropriate to have the 
Chairman of the Company as Chairman to the Board 
of the Trustee of the Pension Scheme, notwithstanding 
the potential conflicts of interest inherent in the same 
person holding both these positions, and they each 
have unanimously confirmed that they believe that 
it is in the interest of all parties for this to continue.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
and a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
Richard Friend was appointed to the Board as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2014. 
Richard is a Fellow of the Royal Society and Fellow of 
the Royal Academy of Engineering and he is Cavendish 
Professor of Physics and a Fellow of St. John’s College 
at the University of Cambridge. 
His research encompasses the physics, materials science 
and engineering of semiconductor devices made with 
carbon-based semiconductors. His research advances 
have shown that these materials have significant 
applications in LEDs, solar cells, lasers, and electronics. 
He was knighted for “services to physics” in the 
Queen’s Birthday Honours List in 2003. He has also 
been directly involved in the commercialisation of 
technology through several spin-out companies 
from the University of Cambridge. 
Richard is a member of the Audit and Risk, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. 
Jennifer Allerton was appointed to the Board as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director on 11 June 2013. 
Jennifer is a graduate of Imperial College, London and 
has a masters degree in physics from the University 
of Manitoba and is a chartered engineer.
She has extensive international business experience 
which strengthens the skills and expertise of the Board. 
Jennifer is a member of the Audit and Risk, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. 
Thomas Geitner was appointed to the Board as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director on 15 January 2013. 
He is a graduate of the Technische Universität München 
and holds an INSEAD MBA. 
Thomas has extensive international experience in 
the technology and engineering sectors, having spent 
more than 30 years in businesses operating across the 
globe. Having worked in a number of global companies 
he understands the importance of remuneration 
connecting with strategy to appropriately incentivise 
the Executive team.
The Board believes that his skills, experience and 
knowledge make Thomas well suited to chair the 
Remuneration Committee. Thomas is also a member 
of the Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees. 
Jock Lennox was appointed to the Board as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2009 
and has been Senior Independent Director since 2013. 
Prior to that he was a Senior Audit Partner at EY where 
he gained extensive experience advising clients in a 
variety of industries on financial reporting, financing, 
transactions and international expansion.
The Board believes that Jock’s skills, experience and 
knowledge enhance and maintain an effective Board 
and provide a well qualified Chairman of the Audit and 
Risk Committee. Jock is Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee and is a member of the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
In the opinion of the Board, Jock Lennox, Thomas Geitner, 
Jennifer Allerton and Richard Friend are independent.
The Board considers that they are each independent in 
character and judgement and do not have relationships 
which are likely to affect their judgement. This opinion 
is based on current participation and performance 
on both the Board and Board Committees including 
consideration of the length of service at 
Oxford Instruments plc. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 38
Corporate Governance continued
Board development and evaluation
Board development
On appointment, Directors undertake an induction process 
which is designed to develop knowledge and understanding 
of the Group’s businesses through visits to various Group 
operating sites, discussion of relevant technology, as well 
as product demonstrations, briefings from management 
and familiarisation with investor perceptions of the Group. 
This induction is supported by briefing papers prepared by 
the Company Secretary. 
The operating business units’ senior management teams 
present to the Board on a regular basis. Non-Executive 
Directors are encouraged to meet individual members 
of the senior management team and have done so 
during the year under review.
Throughout the year, Non-Executive Directors attend Oxford 
Instruments’ events, exhibitions and award presentations.
The Company Secretary and her office act as advisers to 
the Board on matters concerning governance and ensure 
compliance with Board procedures. All Directors have access 
to this advice and a procedure also exists for Directors to 
take independent professional advice at the Group’ s expense. 
No such advice was sought during the year. The appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the 
Board as a whole.
Board evaluation
In light of the provisions of Section B.6.2 of the Governance 
Code which expects that an externally facilitated evaluation 
of the Board be carried out at least triennially, Colin Mayer, 
the Peter Moores Professor of Management Studies at 
Said Business School, University of Oxford, and a Board 
Member of the European Corporate Governance Institute, 
carried out a thorough review of the way the Board operates. 
In particular, he considered the barriers inherent within 
the Company to it meeting its aspirations for growth. 
To facilitate his work, Professor Mayer reviewed Board 
and Company papers, attended Board and committee 
meetings, consulted with the Board and other members 
of senior management, employees and external stakeholders 
including institutional investors, legal counsel and bankers. 
He formally presented the result of his review to the Board. 
Professor Mayer determined that Oxford Instruments is 
well governed, well run and a successful company that 
comfortably fulfils the requirements of the Governance Code 
in terms of the structure and conduct of its governance. 
The formal governance and procedures are significantly better 
than in most companies of a similar size. Professor Mayer 
suggested a number of areas in which the Company’s 
governance could be strengthened with a view to promoting 
its development from a successful medium-sized firm 
to a truly global company of international significance.
Board balance and independence continued
Term of appointment of Non-Executive Directors
Each Non-Executive Director was appointed for an 
initial term of three years. In line with provision B.7.1 
of the Governance Code, the Board has determined 
that all Directors of the Board are to be subject to 
annual re-election by Shareholders and accordingly 
the appropriate resolutions will be put to Shareholders 
at the Company’s forthcoming AGM. 
Composition of the Board: 
Independent vs. non-independent
67%*
Independent members 
of the Board
 
 Independent (4)
 Non-independent (2)
*  In line with the Governance Code  
the Chairman is excluded from these numbers. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   39
Attendance at meetings
No one other than the Committee Chairman and members is entitled to be present at a meeting of the Audit and Risk, 
Nomination or Remuneration Committee, but others may attend by invitation of the Committee. No Director votes on 
matters where he has a conflict of interest. Further details of the individual Committees’ activities are described below.
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, Board and principal Board Committee meetings 
for the year to 31 March 2015:
Main 
Board
Audit and Risk 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Number of meetings held 11 7 7 3
Nigel Keen 11 7 ¹ 7 3
Jonathan Flint 11 7 ¹ 4 ¹ 3 ¹
Kevin Boyd 11 7 ¹ 1 ¹ 3 ¹
Mike Brady² 4 4 ¹ 4 ¹ 3
Jock Lennox 11 7 7 3
Thomas Geitner 11 7 7 3
Jennifer Allerton 11 7 7 3
Richard Friend³ 8 4 3 —
Note:
1 Attended by invitation. 
2 Mike Brady resigned on 9 September 2014.
3 Richard Friend was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014.
Board committees
The Board has formed the following Committees: Audit 
and Risk, Nomination, Remuneration, and Administration.
Membership of Board Committees, which is set out on 
pages 30 and 31, is determined by the Board and is reviewed 
regularly. The written terms of reference of the Board 
Committees are reviewed annually by each Committee 
and the Board and are available on the Company’s website 
at www.oxford-instruments.com/investors and from the 
Company on request. They will be on display at the AGM.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises all the  
Non-Executive Directors, under the chairmanship of 
the Chairman of the Board. The Nomination Committee 
is responsible for assisting the Board in the formal selection 
and appointment of Directors and considers succession 
planning for the Board. It considers potential candidates 
and recommends appointments of new Directors to the 
Board. The appointments are based on merit and against 
objective criteria including time available and the commitment 
that will be required of the potential Director.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for 
the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to the 
Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to 
the Nomination Committee. Each appointment process 
begins with an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience existing on the Board that is effected through 
a series of one-on-one meetings between the Committee 
Chairman and Directors. The Nomination Committee takes 
external advice when considered appropriate.
During the year, a sub-committee, established by the 
Nomination Committee to evaluate the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board and to identify 
appropriate candidates for Non-Executive Director positions 
on the Board, has continued its work. Accordingly, using 
information it has gathered, taking into account both 
diversity within the Board and the balance of skills on the 
Board, it has drawn up descriptions of the role and desired 
capabilities for candidates to help in the search of new 
Non-Executive Directors. With the help of executive search 
consultants Korn/Ferry, the Committee developed shortlists 
of qualifying candidates. Candidates met with the Chairman 
and the Deputy Chairman and a final selection of potential 
appointees met several Directors individually. Following these 
meetings, the Nomination Committee considered each 
Director’s feedback and made a final recommendation 
to the Board concerning any further appointment. 
Following this process, the Committee has during the year 
recommended the appointment of Professor Sir Richard Friend 
to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director with 
a strong scientific background. His appointment to the 
Board commenced 1 September 2014.
The Nomination Committee, taking into account the 
performance of each individual, has considered whether 
each of the Non-Executive Director’s appointments should 
be renewed and has confirmed that they should. 
The Nomination Committee has also carried out its annual 
review of the performance of the Chief Executive and 
succession planning within the business. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 40
Corporate Governance continued
Board committees continued
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises all the Independent 
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board. 
Thomas Geitner is the Chairman of the Committee. 
The Board considers that Thomas, with his experience 
of working at senior levels in global companies, including 
high technology companies, has an appropriate blend of 
skills to make a successful Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. The members of the Committee are 
appointed by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
recommending to the Board the remuneration packages 
for Executive Directors and the bonus and share option 
strategy for the Group’s executive management.
Independent professional advice is sought when considered 
necessary. The Chairman and the Executive Directors are 
responsible for fixing the remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Remuneration Committee is responsible 
for fixing the remuneration of the Chairman. No Director is 
involved in the process that sets his/her own remuneration.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend Remuneration 
Committee meetings as deemed appropriate, for example 
when consideration is being given to the performance of 
other Executive Directors and on significant Group-wide 
changes in salary structure and terms and conditions 
affecting other employees at senior executive level. 
Audit and Risk Committee
During the year the Audit Committee was re-designated 
as the Audit and Risk Committee and the remit of the 
Committee was enlarged to include review of certain 
of the non-financial risks to which the Group is exposed 
which had previously been monitored by the Board itself. 
The objective of this change is to allow the Board to have 
more time to focus on strategic matters important to the 
Group. The Audit and Risk Committee comprises all the 
Independent Non-Executive Directors and its Chairman 
is Jock Lennox. Other members of the Board, senior 
management and the external auditor are invited to attend 
all or part of any meetings. The Board has determined that, 
as a Chartered Accountant and former senior audit partner 
at EY, Jock Lennox is the designated financial expert.
The Audit and Risk Committee’s main responsibilities are 
focused on financial reporting, external audit, internal 
audit, internal controls and risk management. 
Full details of the operation and the work of the Audit 
and Risk Committee are included in the Audit and Risk 
Committee Report set out on pages 43 to 47.
Administration Committee
The Administration Committee consists of a minimum 
of two Directors and deals with items of a routine and 
administrative nature. The Board receives a summary 
outlining all matters decided by the Administrative 
Committee since the previous Board meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM is an opportunity for the Board to meet 
Shareholders. At its AGM, the Group complies with 
the provisions of the Governance Code relating to the 
disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions 
and the attendance of Committee Chairmen. The Group 
arranges for the Annual Reports and Financial Statements 
and related papers to be posted on its website and, where 
Shareholders have elected to receive paper copies, posted 
to Shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working days 
for consideration prior to the AGM. The next AGM will 
be held on 8 September 2015 at the Group’s offices 
in Tubney Woods, Oxfordshire.
Investor relations
The Group places considerable importance on regular 
communications with its Shareholders with whom it has 
an ongoing programme of dialogue. All Shareholders 
are encouraged to participate in the AGM at which the 
Chairman and Chief Executive present an overview of 
the Group’s business and review the results and make 
comments on strategy and current business activity.
The Non-Executive Directors meet informally with Shareholders 
both before and after the AGM and respond to Shareholder 
queries and requests. The Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director make themselves available to 
meet Shareholders, as required.
All Group announcements are posted on the Group website, 
www.oxford-instruments.com/investors, as soon as they 
are released. The Investor Relations section of the website 
provides financial and other information on the Group 
and the website itself carries additional information on 
the Group’s products, services and markets. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   41
Risk management
Within the Group there is an ongoing embedded process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the Group. Day-to-day management of this 
process has been delegated by the Board to the Executive 
Directors. Detail of the process is set out in the Audit and 
Risk Committee Report on pages 43 to 47. This process 
has been in place for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements. It is regularly reviewed by the Board of 
Directors and accords with the Turnbull principles.
Details of all major risks identified and the mitigating 
actions in place are reported to and reviewed by the Board. 
The Principal Risks and Uncertainties section (pages 14 and 
15) gives an overview of the major risks and uncertainties 
faced by the Group. A standard process is in place throughout 
the Group that requires the senior management of each 
business to identify significant business risks and to classify 
them both as to probability and potential impact. Once 
identified, mitigating action, where possible, is formulated 
and responsibility within the management team assigned. 
On a regular basis each business reviews and updates its 
risk summary which is then reported to the Chief Executive. 
If a material risk changes or arises, the Managing Director 
of the business reports this in writing to the Chief Executive 
at which time there is a discussion on the adequacy of the 
mitigating actions taken.
In addition, the Board considers risks to the Group’s 
strategic objectives which are not addressed within the 
Group’s businesses and develops appropriate actions 
to manage and mitigate these risks.
Internal audit and assurance
The Group’s Internal Audit function has responsibility for 
independently assessing the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the management of significant risk areas and acts as 
a third line of defence behind operational management’s 
front line and own assurance activities. Further details 
of this are set out in the Audit and Risk Committee 
Report on pages 43 to 47.
Internal control
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving 
the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated 
by the Group, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management. The management of each 
business is responsible for risk management and control 
within their business and, through the Management 
Board, implementing Board policies on risk and control. 
The internal control framework includes central direction, 
oversight and risk management of the key activities within 
the Group. As part of this framework there is a financial 
planning process which includes a three year planning 
model and the preparation of an annual budget approved 
by the Board. The results of the business units are reported 
monthly and compared with the budget. Forecasts are 
also prepared monthly. 
Control activities include policies and practices covering 
appropriate authorisation and approval of transactions, 
the application of financial reporting standards and reviews 
of significant judgements and financial performance. 
Financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures 
and risk activities across the Group are reviewed by the 
Group’s assurance function.
The internal control framework complies with the Turnbull 
guidance and has been designed to manage rather than 
eliminate material risks to the achievement of strategic and 
business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and 
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or 
loss. Because of inherent limitations, internal controls over 
financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. 
There has been no material change to the Group’s internal 
control framework during the period covered by this 
Annual Report. 
The key components designed to provide effective internal 
control within the Group are as follows:
• there is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the 
Board for decision; other than these matters, the Board 
delegates to the Chief Executive and reviews the delegation 
of authorities throughout the management structure;
• the Group’s management structure is headed up 
by the Management Board. Its membership comprises 
the Executive Directors, senior managers with Group-wide 
functional responsibilities and the heads of the principal 
businesses of the Group’ s activities. Day-to-day responsibility 
for the management of the Group is delegated to the 
Management Board. The responsibility is based on the 
identification of separate businesses for each of the Group’ s 
activities for which there are clearly defined lines of 
management responsibilities at all levels up to and 
including the Group Board and the Group’s accounting 
and reporting functions reflect this organisation;
Read more about 
principal risks 
and uncertainties  
Turn to pages 
14 and 15 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 42
Corporate Governance continued
Internal control continued
• financial executives within Group businesses report 
to their own operational head but there is also a well 
established and acknowledged functional reporting 
relationship through to the Group Finance Director;
• the Board reviews strategic issues and options formally 
once a year during the annual strategic planning process 
and during the year as appropriate. In addition the 
Executive Directors maintain a five year planning 
model of the Group and its individual businesses;
• annual budgets are prepared for each of the Group’s 
businesses which include monthly figures for turnover, 
profit, capital expenditure, cash flow and borrowings. 
The budgets are reviewed through the Group management 
structure and result in a Group financial budget which 
is considered and approved by the Board;
• the businesses prepare monthly management accounts 
which compare the actual operating result with both 
the budget and the prior year. The businesses also 
prepare rolling reforecasts for orders, turnover, operating 
profit and cash. Both are reviewed by the Board monthly;
• the Board approves all acquisition and divestment 
proposals and there are established procedures for the 
planning, approval and monitoring of capital expenditure;
• for all major investments the performance of at least 
the first 12 months against the original proposal 
is reviewed by the Board;
• each Group site, except for representative sales offices, 
is required to submit a self-assessment internal control 
questionnaire annually;
• internal audit is carried out through a system of regular 
reviews of the financial and non-financial internal 
controls at each site and this is further reported on in 
the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 43 to 
47. These reviews are coordinated by the Group Audit 
and Risk Manager;
• the Board receives regular updates on pensions, 
corporate social responsibility, business ethics and 
health and safety and the Audit and Risk Committee 
regular updates on treasury, tax, insurance and litigation;
• authorisation limits are set at appropriate levels throughout 
the Group; compliance with these limits is monitored 
by the Group Finance Director and the Group Audit 
and Risk Manager;
• all requests to quote for substantial fixed price contracts 
are reviewed by the Chief Executive and/or the Group 
Finance Director to assess both technical and financial 
risk and to fix an appropriate balance between risk 
and reward. However, no procedure can guarantee 
the avoidance of losses on fixed price contracts 
of a technical nature; and
• with respect to the UK pension scheme, the Group 
nominates half of the trustee directors of the corporate 
trustee to the pension scheme, involves as necessary 
its own independent actuary with whom actuarial 
assumptions are reviewed, agrees the investment policy 
with the trustee, works with the trustee on its investment 
sub-committee to deal with day-to-day investment 
matters and to act as a co-ordinator between the 
investment advisers, investment managers and the 
trustee, ensures there is an independent actuarial 
valuation every three years and agrees funding levels 
to provide adequate funding to meet the benefit 
payments of the members as they fall due.
Susan Johnson-Brett
Company Secretary
9 June 2015 Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   43
Audit and Risk Committee Report
Dear Shareholder,
During the year, as discussed further on page 38, 
Professor Colin Mayer undertook an external review 
of the workings of the Board and its Committees. 
One of his recommendations was to extend the brief 
of this Committee to include non-financial assurance 
thereby reducing the governance burden on the Board.
The recommendation has been adopted and accordingly this 
Committee has been renamed the Audit and Risk Committee. 
The scope of the Committee has also been extended to 
include, inter alia, the approval and oversight of Group policies 
for insurance, litigation, tax and treasury and the non-financial 
assurance audits of human resources, information technology, 
operations and new product innovation.
In addition to these internal changes, the Committee has 
been mindful of the risk management and other governance 
changes which will impact our responsibilities going forward.
Based on these changes and the more significant events 
in the year, the Committee has given particular focus to:
• revising the terms of reference to embrace 
appropriately the new responsibilities; the updated 
terms of reference are on the website;
• reviewing the method of oversight of the risk management 
process with an eye on the prospective requirement 
of “monitoring”;
• considering the implications of the reduced profit 
expectations announced in January 2015 on asset 
values, restructuring plans and compliance with 
debt covenants;
• receiving presentations from management on 
implementation progress on the new ERP system 
and IT and cyber security risks; particular attention 
being paid to risk mitigation plans; and
• visiting Andor Technology as part of the Board visit in 
the summer of 2014 where we received a presentation 
on the control environment, the progress on financial 
integration with Oxford Instruments and the plans 
of the financial management team.
I present our report, which describes the role of the Committee 
and the way in which our structured programme of activities 
enables us to discharge our responsibilities. The programme 
not only supports the key events in the Group’s financial 
reporting cycle, but also enables us to monitor the 
effectiveness of the internal financial control and risk 
management systems and to monitor the activities and 
performance of both our internal and external auditors. 
Our report also highlights the significant matters that 
we dealt with in 2014/15 and how we satisfied ourselves 
that they had been dealt with appropriately. 
As the size and complexity of Oxford Instruments continues 
to grow we will continue to direct our activities to ensure 
the Group’s governance and control mechanisms keep step.
I look forward to seeing you at the AGM. In the meantime 
if you have any questions or comments I should be delighted 
to be of assistance. 
Jock Lennox
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
9 June 2015
Jock Lennox, Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
Composition of the Audit and Risk Committee
Chairman
Jock Lennox
Members
Jennifer Allerton 
Richard Friend 
Thomas Geitner Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 44
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued
Composition 
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are 
Jock Lennox (Chair), Jennifer Allerton, Richard Friend 
and Thomas Geitner. The composition of the Committee 
changed during the year with the appointment of 
Richard Friend to the Board and the Committee in 
September 2014. The Chairman of the Board, Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit and 
Risk Manager and the external auditor, KPMG, are invited 
to attend all or part of any meetings at the discretion 
of the Audit Committee. The Company Secretary acts as 
secretary to the Committee. Other relevant people from 
the business are also invited to attend certain meetings 
in order to provide a deeper level of insight into key issues 
and developments. Each meeting attended by the external 
auditor, KPMG, allows time for the Committee to speak 
with the external auditor without the presence of the 
executive management. 
The Board has determined that, as a Chartered Accountant, 
Audit Committee Chairman of certain other public companies 
and former senior audit partner of EY, Jock Lennox is 
deemed to be independent and have recent and relevant 
financial experience.
Role
The remit of the Committee is summarised below and is 
detailed in full in the terms of reference, a copy of which 
can be found on our website at www.oxford-instruments.
com/investors. The main responsibilities of the Committee 
are focused on the following five areas:
Financial reporting 
• Reviewing our financial results announcements 
and Financial Statements and monitoring compliance 
with relevant statutory and listing requirements.
• Advising the Board on whether the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for Shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model, strategy and risks.
• Reviewing and challenging significant financial 
reporting judgements and accounting policies 
and compliance with accounting standards.
External audit
• Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor.
• Monitoring and reviewing auditor independence and 
objectivity and evaluating the effectiveness of the 
audit process.
• Reviewing and approving the annual audit plan 
and audit findings.
• Making recommendations to the Board for the 
appointment or re-appointment of the external auditor.
• Reviewing and monitoring the non-audit services policy 
and the level of non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor.
Internal audit 
• Monitoring the role, resources and effectiveness 
of the Group Internal Audit function.
• Approving an annual programme of internal audit 
work (covering financial and non-financial areas 
of activity) and reviewing the results of such work.
Internal controls and risk management
• Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the internal financial control environment.
• Reviewing the operation of the Group’s internal 
control and risk management processes.
Business malpractice 
• Reviewing the Group’s procedures for detecting 
fraud and for the prevention of bribery.
• Reviewing the adequacy and security of the Group’s 
whistle-blowing arrangements and matters reported 
to the whistle-blowing hotline.
The Committee periodically reviews its terms of reference 
and its effectiveness and recommends to the Board any 
changes required as a result of such review.  Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   45
Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2015
The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities developed from its terms 
of reference and agreed with the Committee Chair at the start of the financial year. A summary of the items discussed 
in each meeting is set out in the table below:
Agenda item
April
 2014
June
2014
July
2014
September 
2014
November
 2014
January
 2015
March
 2015
Review the integrity of the draft Financial 
Statements, appropriateness of accounting policies 
and going concern assumption (reports received 
from management and KPMG)
  
Review and recommend for approval the half-year 
and year end announcements, interim management 
and AGM statements and the Annual Report
  
External audit tender process

Assess the effectiveness of the external audit process

Approve the external audit plan and fee proposal

Review and approve the non-audit services policy

Consider the independence and objectivity 
of external auditor

Review internal management representation letters

Agree the internal audit plan 
 
Review the output of the internal audit work
   
Re-evaluate the effectiveness of the internal 
audit function 

Review the internal control framework

Review the risk management process

Annual review of the whistle-blowing 
arrangements

Discuss the Audit Committee effectiveness survey 
and review the Committee composition and terms 
of reference

In addition to its usual business as described above the Committee met individual business managers in order to gain 
a deeper insight into areas relevant to the Committee’s work and to provide an opportunity to discuss specific areas of 
interest. These included progress updates on the Group-wide Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) project, Project Connect, 
and a presentation on IT security including an overview of the cyber security threat posed to the Group. In addition, as 
part of the Group’s regular programme of visiting the businesses, in July 2014 the Committee received a presentation 
from the financial management at Andor on the status of the financial integration with Oxford Instruments and the 
control environment. These visits afford the opportunity for the Committee to meet the key members of the financial 
community beyond the Group team.
Following the publication of the revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board requested that the 
Committee advise it on whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 46
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued
Significant matters related to the Financial Statements
The Committee reviews all significant issues concerning 
the Financial Statements. The principal matters considered 
concerning the 2015 Financial Statements were:
Impairment of intangible assets
The Group balance sheet contains acquired intangible 
assets amounting to £212.3m. These have arisen through 
the acquisitions made by the Group in pursuit of its strategy. 
The most significant element relates to Andor at £128.4m. 
As explained in Note 15 to the financial statements, the 
carrying amounts have been assessed for impairment 
and the sensitivity to change in the assumptions has been 
considered. The Committee received an analysis from 
management that considered the need for impairment 
and concluded that no impairment is required. The external 
auditors have agreed with this conclusion in their report to 
the Committee. The Committee is satisfied that the analysis 
has been rigorously prepared and that the conclusions are 
appropriately supported.
Provisions for product warranty and related matters
While the level of provision is relatively small, the 
Committee is conscious that as a growing technology 
company it is likely that the potential for product claims 
(for example, relating to product quality or intellectual 
property infringement) of various amounts can arise. 
Accordingly the Committee has received an analysis from 
management that considers this area and has received 
commentary from the auditor as part of its report. 
The Committee recognises that this area does require 
judgement and believes the conclusions presented 
by management are appropriate.
Revenue recognition
The nature of the commercial relationship with customers 
together with the capital nature of certain of the Group’s 
sales means that judgement can be required in assessing the 
timing of recognition of revenue. This is particularly relevant 
in the Nanotechnology Tools segment. The Committee 
receives commentary from management on the cut-off 
of revenue and an explanation of any particular sales where 
judgement has been required. Whilst there is always an 
element of judgement required in determining revenue 
to be recognised around the year end, this year the 
auditor did not report any material audit differences 
that required adjustment.
Adjusted profit and EPS
As explained in Note 2 to the financial statements, the 
Group applies adjustments to the statutory definition of 
profit and EPS to present adjusted profitability and earnings 
as the Board believes they present a clearer picture of the 
financial performance of the Group. In the current year 
as a result of the first full year of the amortisation of the 
acquisition intangible assets connected with Andor and 
the impact of the restructuring announced in January at 
the time of the announced reduction in profit expectations, 
the adjustments are significant at £33.8m after tax.
The Committee has received a detailed analysis from 
management to demonstrate that the Group’ s definitions 
have been consistently applied and that the impact of the 
restructuring has been reported fairly. The auditor has 
commented on these aspects to the Committee. These 
items involve careful judgement and the Committee is 
satisfied that they have been rigorously considered by 
management and reasonably presented.
Misstatements
Management reported to the Committee that they were 
not aware of any material misstatements or immaterial 
misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular 
presentation. The auditor reported a schedule of unadjusted 
audit differences to the Committee. Following discussion 
with management and the auditor, the Committee were 
satisfied that the adjustments were not material to the 
financial statements and therefore remained unadjusted. 
The Committee concluded that it was satisfied that the 
auditor had fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence and 
professional scepticism.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from 
management, and after consulting, where necessary, 
with the external auditor the Committee was satisfied 
that the Financial Statements appropriately addressed the 
critical judgements and key estimates (both in respect to 
the amounts reported and the disclosures). The Committee 
was also satisfied that the significant assumptions used 
for determining the value of assets and liabilities, including 
the pension commitments of the Group, had been 
appropriately scrutinised and challenged.
External auditor
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the 
performance, objectivity and independence of the external 
auditor, recommending the appointment of the external 
auditor to the Board and approval of its fees. At the Committee 
meeting in January 2015 the external auditor, KPMG, provided 
the Committee with its plan for undertaking the external 
audit. This highlighted the proposed approach, scope and 
planned materiality of the audit for the coming year and 
identified the key risks and areas of audit focus, including 
the approach for these areas in detail. The Committee 
reviewed and, as appropriate, challenged the basis for 
these before agreeing the plan.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit 
process in addressing these matters through the reporting 
received from KPMG at the half year and year end and 
through feedback from key stakeholders at all levels 
across Oxford Instruments.
As reported last year the external audit was tendered and 
KPMG were re-appointed. The new rules for audit tendering 
and rotation come into force in June 2016. The Group’ s policy 
is to conform to these new rules. Under the transitional 
arrangements that means KPMG will be replaced as auditor 
not later than 31 March 2021. A tender process will be 
arranged to meet this requirement when appropriate. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   47
Auditor independence 
In its assessment of the independence of the auditor the 
Committee receives confirmation of any relationships 
between the Group and KPMG that may have a bearing 
on its independence and receives confirmation that it is 
independent of the Group.
To further safeguard the objectivity and independence 
of the external auditor firm becoming compromised, the 
Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement 
of the external auditor to provide non-audit services. 
No change to this policy has been made during the year. 
All non-audit related engagements over £50,000 require 
formal advance approval by the Committee. The details 
of the audit fees for the year, together with fees for 
non-audit services, are set out in Note 4 (page 88) to the 
Financial Statements. In the year ended 31 March 2015, 
audit fees paid to KPMG were £407,000 and non-audit 
fees were £60,000. This represents a non-audit to audit 
fee ratio of 15%.
Internal audit
Internal Audit plays an important role in assessing the 
effectiveness of internal controls. This is achieved through 
an audit programme that includes rotational site visits providing 
core assurance over the Group’s financial processes and 
risk-based reviews to provide assurance that controls over 
certain key risks are operating effectively. During the year, 
the Group Audit and Risk Manager carried out internal 
audit visits at a number of the Group’s sites including visits 
to the Group’s federal offices in the US, China and India 
and to some of the operating sites at Plasma Technology, 
Nanoscience, NanoAnalysis and Industrial Analysis. In addition 
time has been spent, together with management, developing 
the risk management process and extending the scope of 
the Committee’s work to embrace the non-financial areas 
of assurance.
The Committee has assessed the internal audit plan so that 
it provides appropriate coverage over the internal control 
environment and provides a balanced overview across the 
Group, taking into account the level of risk, other assurance 
activities and previous coverage. Reports from the Group 
Audit and Risk Manager include updates on audit activities, 
progress against the audit plan, and the results of the 
audit work and status of any control remediation plans. 
The Group Audit and Risk Manager has direct access and 
a reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and meets independently with him during the year. The 
Committee monitors the resources and scope of work of 
the Internal Audit function to ensure that its development 
is commensurate with the increasing scale and complexity 
of the business. 
Internal control and risk management
As we continue to expand and increase our global footprint 
it is recognised that the management of risk continues to 
be ever more important to the Group achieving its key 
strategic plans and objectives. This year the Group has 
continued to develop its risk management process to ensure 
that the Group continues to effectively identify and respond 
to the risks it faces. The Group’s risk management process 
is underpinned by business risk reports and a reporting 
framework that escalates risks to the appropriate stakeholders. 
Annually the business risk reports are consolidated into the 
Group Risk Register and reviewed by executive management 
before being reported to the Board. Towards the end of 
the year, the Committee and the Board have considered 
what reporting is best addressed by the Committee as 
part of its new extended remit of risk. 
Internal Audit provides assurance on the risk management 
processes as part of its audit work and utilises the output 
of the business risk reporting to identify the risk-based 
reviews to be included within its audit plan.
The Committee reviewed the system of internal financial 
control on behalf of the Board and satisfied itself that the 
Group is meeting the required standards both for the year 
ended 31 March 2015 and up to the date of approval 
of this Annual Report. No concerns were raised with the 
Committee in the year about possible improprieties 
in matters of financial reporting.
In coming to these conclusions the Committee reviewed 
reports from internal audit and external audit on internal 
control findings, received in-depth reviews into the control 
environment and risk management process, and had regard 
for the other assurance activity performed by the Group 
functional heads over operations, health and safety, research 
and development, human resources and IT. The Committee 
noted the Group’s move to more detailed policies, the 
implementation of minimum financial control standards 
and a related programme of self-assessment.
Whistle-blowing
The Group’ s Business Malpractice Policy comprises an internal 
process that has been communicated directly to all employees 
by which employees can raise a concern, including concerns 
relating to fraud, bribery and/or corruption, damage to the 
environment, criminal activity or danger to health and safety, 
in the knowledge that it will be taken seriously, treated 
as confidential and that no action will be taken against 
the employee raising the concern. There is also provision 
within the policy for employees to raise concerns directly 
with the Senior Independent Director. This policy is reviewed 
annually by the Committee. No serious matters were 
reported during the year. 
Summary
The Committee has concluded that, as a result of its work 
during the year, it has acted in accordance with its terms 
of reference and fulfilled its responsibilities. The Chairman 
of the Committee will be available at the AGM to answer 
any questions on the work of the Committee.
Read more about 
principal risks 
and uncertainties  
Turn to pages 
14 and 15 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 48
Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2014/15.
In accordance with the Directors’ remuneration 
reporting regulations our Remuneration Report has 
been split into two parts. The Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy, which was approved by Shareholders at last 
year’s AGM, sets out our remuneration policy for 
2014/15 and beyond and, for ease of reference, is 
included again in this year’s report. The Annual Report 
on Remuneration, which sets out the remuneration 
paid to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
in respect of 2014/15 and how our policy will be 
implemented in 2015/16, will be put to an advisory 
Shareholder resolution.
Summary of main remuneration policy 
decisions during the year 
The Remuneration Committee carried out a full remuneration 
review in 2013/14 prior to seeking shareholder approval 
for its remuneration policy at September 2014’s AGM. 
Over 98% of votes cast supported the binding resolution 
approving the policy. During the year, the Committee 
considered whether the current policy remains appropriate 
for 2015/16. It concluded that the policy remains appropriate 
and provides a competitive level of pay whilst ensuring 
that variable pay remains aligned to shareholder returns. 
One of the Committee’s objectives in designing the current 
policy was to arrive at a policy that would endure for the 
three year policy period and I am pleased to confirm that 
we are not proposing changes to the remuneration policy 
for 2015/16. 
Corporate performance and remuneration for 2014/15
As explained in our Operations Review on pages 16 to 19 
it has been a testing year for Oxford Instruments. In the 
first half we saw increases in orders and revenues. In the 
second half we encountered a combination of headwinds 
that unexpectedly put our short term performance 
projections off course. Three factors were primarily at 
play: the sudden tightening of trade sanctions for sales 
to Russia; a slower-than-expected recovery in Japanese 
markets; and weaker trading in our Industrial Analysis 
business. As a consequence, we reported in January that 
the outcome for the year would fall short of expectations.
As in previous years the Committee set stretching 
performance targets for the annual bonus which are 
clearly linked to the strategy and financial performance 
of the Group. The financial targets were not met and the 
part of the bonus determined by those targets has not 
paid out. In addition the Committee carefully reviewed 
performance against the strategic objectives set for the 
annual bonus which are critical to laying the foundations for 
future growth. The Committee determined that performance 
against the strategic targets was strong but also noted 
the disappointing financial performance of the Group in 
determining the level of vesting of the strategic element 
of the bonus resulting in 50% out of the maximum 15% 
of salary available being paid in respect of Jonathan Flint 
and 45% of the maximum being paid in respect of 
Kevin Boyd. This results in a payout of 7.5% of salary 
as bonus for Jonathan Flint and 6.75% for Kevin Boyd.
Thomas Geitner, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
Chairman
Thomas Geitner
Members
Jennifer Allerton 
Richard Friend  
Nigel Keen 
Jock Lennox  Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   49
The performance conditions for the share awards made 
to the Executive Directors under the Executive Share Option 
Scheme (ESOS) in December 2012 and Senior Executive 
Long Term Incentive Scheme (SELTIS) in December 2011 
and for which the performance periods ended during the 
year were not met and these awards have now lapsed. 
Further details about the targets set for the variable pay 
awards referred to above and performance against them 
is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
Implementation of policy in 2015/16 
• The Executive Directors will receive a base salary increase 
of 3% effective from 1 July 2015 which is in line with 
average workforce increases in the UK of 3%.
• The maximum annual bonus each Executive Director 
may earn is 100% of salary. This is at the same level 
as 2014/15. Targets for the 2015/16 annual bonus 
are considered by the Committee to be commercially 
sensitive and will be disclosed retrospectively in next 
year’s Annual Report (to the extent they are not 
commercially sensitive at that time).
• PSP awards will be made to a value of 150% of salary 
for each Executive Director. Vesting of the awards 
occurs after three years. The criteria for vesting will 
be determined 50% by EPS performance and 50% 
by relative total shareholder return performance against 
the FTSE 250 Index (excluding financial companies).
Summary
I hope that you will be supportive of the resolution 
to be proposed at our AGM. If you have any queries 
in the meantime I will be pleased to engage with you 
either at the AGM or beforehand.
Yours sincerely
Thomas Geitner
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 June 2015
Part A: Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This part of the Remuneration Report sets out the Group’s remuneration policy for its Directors. The policy 
was put to a binding Shareholder vote at the AGM in September 2014 and took effect from that date and, 
unless changed with Shareholders’ prior agreement, will stay in place until September 2017.
Policy overview
The remuneration policy promotes the delivery of the Group’ s 
strategy and seeks to align the interests of Directors and 
Shareholders. The Committee regularly reviews the link 
between incentive structure and strategy to ensure that 
remuneration packages are appropriate to attract, motivate 
and retain the high calibre Executives who are needed 
to deliver the Group’s strategy. 
The Company has an incentive driven policy that seeks 
to reward Executives fairly and responsibly based on 
Group performance and their individual contribution. 
The Company has a strategy aimed at delivering significant 
growth and it is important for motivation and retention 
that the remuneration of the Executives reflects its 
sustainable, profitable growth and the increasing 
complexity of the business. 
The Committee considers carefully the motivational 
effects of the incentive structure in order to ensure that 
it is effective and does not have any unintentionally 
negative impact on matters such as governance, 
environmental or social issues. More generally, the 
Committee ensures that the overall remuneration policy 
does not encourage inappropriate risk taking. 
Other matters taken into consideration 
in determining policy 
The Committee reviews the Executive Directors’ packages 
annually taking account of the level of remuneration paid 
for comparable positions in similar companies. Comparative 
pay data is used carefully, recognising the potential for an 
upward ratchet in remuneration caused by over reliance 
on such data. 
In determining the remuneration of the Group’s Directors, 
the Committee also takes into account the general trends 
in pay and conditions across the Group as a whole. The 
Committee seeks to ensure that the underlying principles 
that form the basis for decisions on Directors’ pay are 
consistent with those on which pay decisions for the rest 
of the workforce are taken. Employees are not currently 
consulted on Executive pay. However, the Committee will 
keep this under review.
The Remuneration Committee considers feedback from 
Shareholders received at each AGM and any feedback from 
additional meetings, as part of any review of Executive 
remuneration. In addition, the Remuneration Committee 
engages proactively with Shareholders and will ensure that 
Shareholders are consulted in advance, where any material 
changes to the remuneration policy are proposed.  Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 50
Remuneration Report continued
Part A: Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Remuneration policy table
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity 
Base salary
• To provide a competitive and 
appropriate level of basic fixed pay 
to recruit and retain superior talent 
and avoid excessive risk taking that 
might otherwise result from an 
over-reliance on variable remuneration.
• Reflects the experience, performance 
and responsibilities of the individual.
• Reviewed annually with any increase 
usually effective 1 July.
• Takes account of experience, 
performance and responsibilities 
as well as the performance of the 
Company, the complexity of the role 
within the Group and salary increases 
for employees generally. 
• Set with regard to market data for 
comparable positions in similar companies  
in terms of size, internationality, business 
model, structure and complexity, 
including within the industry. 
• There is no maximum or maximum 
annual increase.
• Higher increases than the average 
percentage for the workforce may be 
appropriate, for example, where an 
individual changes role, where the 
complexity of the Group changes, where 
an individual is materially below market 
comparators or is appointed on a below 
market salary with the expectation that 
his/her salary will increase with 
experience and performance. 
• Current salary levels are disclosed 
on pages 56 and 57.
Benefits
• Provided on a market-competitive 
basis, aids retention and follows 
reward structure for all employees.
• Currently include but are not limited to:
• life assurance;
• private medical; and
• company car benefit.
• The benefits provided may be subject 
to amendment from time to time by 
the Committee within this policy.
• Relocation costs may be provided 
as necessary and reasonable.
• Benefits are not part of 
pensionable earnings.
• The value of benefits varies from year 
to year depending on the cost to the 
Company and is not subject to a specific 
cap. Benefit costs are monitored and 
controlled and represent a small element 
of total remuneration costs. 
Pension
• To provide a market-competitive 
benefit for retirement.
• Company contributions to a money 
purchase pension scheme; or 
• Salary supplement where HMRC annual 
or lifetime allowances are exceeded.
• 14% of base salary.
Annual bonus
• Drives and rewards the successful 
achievement of short term targets 
set at the start of the year.
• Paid annually in June.
• Performance targets based on the key 
performance indicators and strategic 
objectives of the business. 
• At least 70% of the bonus based on 
financial metrics and the balance on 
non-financial strategic metrics.
• Clawback applies for financial years 
commencing 2013/14 for misstatement, 
error or misconduct.
• 75% of salary at year end payable 
at target performance.
• 100% of salary at year end payable 
for maximum performance.
• Bonuses start to be earned from 
0% of salary for achieving 
threshold performance. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   51
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity 
Long term 
incentives
• T o incentivise the Executives and reward 
them for meeting stretching targets 
in the long term which accrue 
substantial value to and align the 
Directors’ interests with Shareholders.
• Facilitates share ownership to provide 
further alignment with Shareholders.
• Annual awards aid retention.
• Annual awards under the 2014 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) of 
performance shares (or nil cost options) 
with vesting subject to achievement of 
performance targets. Both the vesting 
and performance period will be over 
a minimum of three years but may 
be up to five years at the discretion 
of the Committee.
• It is the Committee’ s intention to set relative 
TSR targets for 50% of the award and 
for the other 50% absolute EPS growth 
targets although the Committee will 
review the performance conditions each 
year prior to awards being made.
• 25% of the awards will vest at 
threshold performance under each 
performance condition.
• Clawback may be applied for 
misstatement, error or misconduct.
• The maximum limit under the plan 
rules is 250% of salary (value of shares 
at date of grant). The Committee will 
not increase the amount of the award 
above the 2014 award levels of 150% 
of salary without prior consultation 
with major Shareholders. 
• Dividend equivalents may accrue on the 
PSP awards over the vesting period and 
be paid out either as cash or as shares 
on vesting and in respect of the number 
of shares that have vested.
All-employee 
share 
schemes
• To encourage employee 
share participation.
• The Company may from time to time 
operate tax-approved share schemes 
(such as the HMRC-approved Share 
Incentive Plan) for which Executive 
Directors could be eligible.
• The SIP is open to all UK permanent 
staff employed for at least six months.
• The schemes are subject to the limits 
set by tax authorities.
Shareholding 
guideline
• To further align Executive Directors’ 
interests with Shareholders.
• The Committee has established 
shareholding guidelines which encourage 
the Executive Directors to build and retain 
a holding of Company shares equivalent 
to a multiple of base salary, as determined 
by the Committee. The guideline 
and current shareholdings of the 
Directors are set out in the Annual  
Report on Remuneration.
• Until the guideline is met in full, Executive 
Directors are expected to retain or acquire 
shares equivalent to the value of 50% of 
the net amount realised from exercise/ 
vesting of share awards as appropriate 
after allowing for tax payable.
• Not applicable.
Non-
Executive 
Director fees
• To remunerate the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors.
• Reviewed annually.
• For the Non-Executive Directors agreed 
by the Executive Directors and Chairman.
• For the Chairman agreed by the 
Remuneration Committee.
• Determined and reviewed taking into 
account time commitment, experience, 
knowledge and responsibilities of the role 
as well as market data for similar roles in 
other companies of a similar size and/or 
business to Oxford Instruments.
• There is no prescribed maximum 
or maximum annual increase. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 52
Remuneration Report continued
Part A: Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Differences in the remuneration policy of the 
Executive Directors and the general employees
There are no material differences in the structure of 
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and 
senior management population, aside from quantum and 
participation levels in incentive schemes, which reflect the 
fact that a greater emphasis is placed on performance-related 
pay for Executive Directors and the most senior individuals 
in the management team. Outside the senior management 
team, the Company aims to provide remuneration structures 
for employees which reflect market norms. 
Choice of performance measures and approach 
to setting targets
The Committee selects financial and strategic measures 
(such as sales, profit, cash generation) for the annual bonus 
that are key performance indicators for the business over 
the short term. For the long term incentives the Committee 
will select a combination of measures that provide a good 
focus on the outcomes of the Company strategy together 
with sustainable improvements in long term profitability. 
The Committee sets appropriate and demanding targets 
for variable pay in the context of the Company’s trading 
environment and strategic objectives. The targets for the 
annual bonus plan will be set each year with reference 
to the Company’s budget and business and strategic plan. 
The Committee will review the performance conditions 
and targets for awards under the PSP each year prior 
to awards being made taking account of the Company’s 
internal financial planning, market forecasts and the business 
environment (e.g. to determine whether the TSR peer 
group continues to remain appropriate, whether the range 
of EPS performance targets remains appropriate and, more 
generally, in light of the Company’s long term strategy 
and growth aspirations). Should there be a material change 
in the Company’s performance conditions (e.g. introducing 
an additional performance metric) appropriate dialogue 
with the Company’s major Shareholders would take place 
along with a full explanation in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration to support any such change.
The metrics for awards granted under this policy are set 
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Discretions retained by the Committee in operating 
its incentive plans
The Committee operates the Group’s various incentive 
plans according to their respective rules and in accordance 
with HMRC rules where relevant. To ensure the efficient 
administration of these plans, the Committee may apply 
certain operational discretions. These include the following:
• select the participants in the plans;
• determine the timing of grants and/or payments;
• determine the quantum of grants and/or payments 
(within the limits set out in the policy table above);
• determine the extent of vesting based on the 
assessment of performance;
• determine “good leaver” status and where relevant 
extent of vesting in the case of the share-based plans;
• where relevant determine the extent of vesting in the 
case of share-based plans in the event of a change 
of control;
• make the appropriate adjustments required in certain 
circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring 
events, variation of capital and special dividends); and
• the annual review of weighting of performance measures, 
and set targets for annual bonus plan and discretionary 
share plans from year to year.
The Committee may adjust the targets and/or set different 
measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan 
and share-based awards only if an event occurs which 
causes the Committee to reasonably consider that the 
performance conditions would not without alteration 
achieve its original purpose and the varied conditions 
are no less difficult to satisfy than the original conditions. 
Any changes and the rationale for those changes will 
be set out clearly in the Annual Report on Remuneration 
in respect of the year in which they are made.
Legacy arrangements
In approving this Directors’ Remuneration Policy, authority 
is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered 
into with current or former Directors (such as the payment 
of a pension or the vesting or exercise of past share awards) 
that have been disclosed to and approved by Shareholders 
in previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments 
to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration as they arise. This will include all subsisting 
awards granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme 
(ESOS) and the Senior Executive Long Term Incentive 
Scheme (SELTIS) details of which are disclosed in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   53
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
The charts below show the level of remuneration potentially payable to Executive Directors under different performance 
scenarios for the financial year 2015/16 (see notes for assumptions):
Assumptions for the charts above:
1.  Fixed pay comprises salary levels as at 1 July 2015, pension contribution of 14% and the value of benefits received 
in 2014/15.
2. The on-target level of bonus is 75% of the maximum opportunity, i.e. 75% of salary. 
3.  The on-target level of vesting under the annual PSP is taken to be 50% of the face value of the award at grant, 
i.e. 75% of salary.
4.  The maximum level of bonus and vesting under the PSP is 100% of the bonus opportunity and 100% of the face 
value of the PSP award at grant, i.e. 100% and 150% of salary respectively.
5. No share price appreciation has been assumed for the PSP awards and for simplicity SIP awards are excluded.
Recruitment and promotion policy for Executive Directors
In setting total remuneration levels and in considering quantum 
for each element of the package for a new Executive Director, 
the Committee would take into account the skills and 
experience of the individual, the market rate for a candidate 
of that experience and the importance of securing the 
relevant individual.
The Company would seek to align the remuneration package 
with the remuneration policy approved by Shareholders, 
including the maximum plan limit for the long term incentives 
and an annual bonus entitlement in line with that of the other 
Executive Directors. Currently, this would facilitate annual 
bonus and PSP awards of no more than 100% and 250% 
of base salary respectively (not including any arrangements 
to replace forfeited deferred pay). Salary would be provided 
at such a level as required to attract the most appropriate 
candidate. For new appointments base salary and total 
remuneration may be set initially at below normal market 
rates on the basis that it may be increased once expertise 
and performance has been proven and sustained.
Specific variable remuneration performance targets could 
be introduced for an individual where necessary for the 
first year of appointment if it is appropriate to do so to 
reflect the individual’s responsibilities and the point 
in the year in which he or she joined the Board.
Flexibility is retained to offer additional cash and/or 
share-based payments on appointment in respect of 
deferred remuneration or benefit arrangements forfeited 
on leaving a previous employer. The Committee would 
look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as 
closely as possible and, in doing so, will take account 
of relevant factors including the nature of the deferred 
remuneration, performance conditions, attributed expected 
value and the time over which they would have vested 
or been paid. Such awards may be made under the terms 
of the PSP or as permitted under the Listing Rules.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable 
pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be 
allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as 
relevant to take into account the appointment. In addition, 
any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior 
to appointment may continue. 
For external and internal appointments, the Committee 
may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation, 
legal and any other incidental expenses as appropriate. 
On-target
Chief Executive
Minimum
100%
£562,236
44%
28%
28%
£1,278,336
32%
27%
41%
£1,755,736
100%
£378,828
44%
28%
28%
£856,233
32%
27%
41%
£1,174,503
Maximum On-target
Finance Director
Minimum Maximum
0
£250,000
£500,000
£750,000
£1,000,000
£1,250,000
£1,500,000
£1,750,000
£2,000,000
PSP
Annual bonus
Fixed pay Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 54
Remuneration Report continued
Part A: Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Executive Directors’ service contracts and policy on cessation
Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors, available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
and at the Company’s AGM, are as follows:
Contract date Unexpired term of contract
Jonathan Flint 21 February 2005 Rolling contract
Kevin Boyd 9 May 2006 Rolling contract
Details of contractual terms and the policy on cessation of employment are summarised in the table below.
Contractual provision Detailed terms
Notice period 12 months by the Company or by the Director.
Termination  
payment
A Director’s service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further 
payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, in the event 
of gross misconduct. If the Company terminates the employment of an Executive Director in 
other circumstances, compensation is limited to base salary due for any unexpired notice period. 
The Company has a right to pay 12 months’ salary in lieu of notice if it so determines.
In addition, any statutory entitlements in connection with the termination would be paid 
as necessary.
Remuneration 
entitlements 
Pro-rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with vesting 
for outstanding share awards (in certain circumstances – see below).
Change of control No Executive Director’s contract contains additional provisions in respect of a change of control. 
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Company’s share plans will be determined based 
on the relevant plan rules. The default treatment for existing awards is that any unvested awards lapse on cessation of 
employment. However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, injury, ill health, disability, retirement or other 
circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, “good leaver” status may be applied. For good leavers, under the 
ESOS awards will vest at cessation to the extent the performance condition is satisfied, but with the Committee having 
discretion to vest on the normal vesting date if appropriate and to waive the performance condition. In the case of the 
SELTIS, awards continue on their normal terms. Under the 2014 PSP , awards to good leavers will vest on the normal 
vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions at that time and be scaled back to reflect 
the proportion of the performance period actually served. The Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to 
disapply time pro-rating and/or to measure performance to and vest awards at the date of cessation. Vesting at cessation 
would be the default position where a participant dies.
In the event of a takeover:
• under the ESOS awards vest at that time to the extent the performance condition is satisfied (with no scaling back);
• under the SELTIS awards continue on their normal terms; and
• under the 2014 PSP , awards vest to the extent the performance condition is satisfied and are scaled back to reflect 
the actual period of service with the Committee having the discretion in exceptional circumstances not to scale back. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   55
External appointments
The Board encourages Executive Directors to accept 
appropriate external non-executive appointments provided 
the aggregate commitment is compatible with their duties 
as Executive Directors. The Executive Director concerned 
may retain fees paid for these services, which will be 
subject to approval by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors 
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive 
Director, the fee arrangement would be in accordance with 
the approved remuneration policy in place at the time.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but 
are appointed under letters of appointment for an initial 
period of three years with subsequent reviews. With the 
introduction in the UK Corporate Governance Code of 
annual re-election of all Directors, Non-Executive Director 
appointments are now renewed for periods of one year. 
Their appointment can be terminated without notice and 
with no compensation payable on termination, other than 
accrued fees and expenses.
Chairman 
Under an arrangement between the Company and 
Imperialise Limited, Nigel Keen is retained to act as 
Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Trustee 
to the Oxford Instruments Pension Scheme via Imperialise 
Limited. His current term of appointment commenced on 
25 February 2015 and is for one year. This arrangement 
can be terminated by either party at any time by the giving 
of six months’ notice.
Date of last appointment Notice period
Nigel Keen 25 February 2015 Six months
Jennifer Allerton 11 June 2013 None
Richard Friend 1 September 2014 None
Thomas Geitner 15 January 2013 None
Jock Lennox 1 April 2015 None
Mike Brady retired from the Board on 10 September 2014.
PART B: Annual Report on Remuneration 
The financial information in this part of the report has been audited where indicated.
The Remuneration Committee (unaudited)
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) is 
responsible for recommending to the Board the remuneration 
packages for Executive Directors and has oversight of the 
bonus and share incentive strategy for the Group’s executive 
management. The Chairman and the Executive Directors 
are responsible for determining the remuneration of the 
Non-Executive Directors, and the Remuneration Committee 
is responsible for determining the remuneration 
of the Chairman.
The role of the Committee includes:
• considering and determining the remuneration policy 
for the Executive Directors;
• within this agreed policy, considering and determining 
the total remuneration packages of each Executive 
Director of the Company;
• approving the design and performance targets for all 
performance-related plans for Executives as well as the 
overall total annual payments made under such plans;
• reviewing and noting remuneration trends across 
the Group; and
• determining the policy for pension arrangements, 
service agreements and termination payments 
to Executive Directors.
The members of the Committee are appointed by the 
Board and during the year comprised all the Independent 
Non-Executive Directors: Thomas Geitner, Jennifer Allerton, 
Jock Lennox, Richard Friend; and the Chairman of the Board, 
Nigel Keen. Thomas Geitner is the Chairman of the Committee. 
Richard Friend joined the Board and the Committee 
on 1 September 2014.
The Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and other 
executives are invited to attend Committee meetings 
as deemed appropriate. For example the Chief Executive 
is able to make a significant contribution when considering 
the performance of other Executive Directors and to discuss 
the wider Group remuneration policy and structure and 
terms and conditions affecting other employees. However, 
no Executive Director is present when the Committee 
is determining his or her remuneration.
The Committee acts within its agreed written terms of 
reference (which are published on the company’s website: 
www.oxford-instruments.com/investors) and complies 
with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code 
regarding remuneration. 
The performance of the Committee is reviewed at least 
once a year as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
During the year the Committee fulfilled its duties, 
as laid down in the Committee’s terms of reference.  Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 56
Remuneration Report continued
PART B: Annual Report on Remuneration continued
The Remuneration Committee (unaudited) continued
New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited 
and part of Aon plc) (NBS) is the Committee’ s independent 
remuneration consultants. NBS was appointed by the 
Committee to provide advice on all aspects of Executive 
remuneration as required by the Committee. 
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of 
Conduct and has confirmed to the Committee that it adheres 
to the Code. During the year NBS met with the Committee 
Chairman to discuss remuneration matters which are of 
particular relevance to the Company and how best it can 
work with the Company to meet the Committee’s needs.
Fees are charged predominately on a “time spent” basis. 
The total fee paid to NBS for the advice provided to the 
Committee during the year was £54,455. 
During the year in question no other services were provided 
to the Company by the Aon plc group however a subsidiary 
of Aon plc was appointed to act as both Scheme Actuary 
and Scheme Administrator to the Company’s UK defined 
benefit pension scheme. The Scheme Actuary also provided 
the Company with its IAS 19 pension calculations. The 
Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received from 
NBS is objective and independent.
Directors’ remuneration (audited)
The remuneration paid to the Directors during the year under review and the previous year is summarised in the tables below:
£000
Salary 
and fees Benefits 
2
Pension 
3
Annual
bonus 
4
Long term 
incentive 
awards 
5
Other 
6
Total
Executive
Jonathan Flint
1
2015 460 18 65 35 — 1 579
2014 423 18 59 68 605 1 1,174
Kevin Boyd 2015 307 16 43 21 — 1 388
2014 284 16 40 45 418 1 804
Total 2015 767 34 108 56 — 2 967
2014 707 34 99 113 1,023 2 1,978
1  In 2010 the Company and Jonathan Flint purchased a house in joint ownership with the Company contributing £300,000. Jonathan Flint bought a further proportion 
of the house owned by the Company and Jonathan Flint by paying £99,900 to the Company in each of the years to 31 March 2012, 31 March 2013 and 
31 March 2014 and a further £300 in April 2014. These proportions were recalculated based on the original purchase price. Independent valuations have 
established that the price paid by Jonathan Flint was in excess of the market value of the house at the time of each payment. The Company is no longer 
a co-owner of the house. Jonathan Flint lives in the house and during the period where it was co-owned with the Company paid a full commercial rent 
amounting to £60 (2014: £757) for the month of April 2014 for use of the Company asset.
2 “Benefits” comprise provision of a car or car allowance, health insurance and life assurance. 
3  Contractually, each Executive Director receives a contribution to a money purchase pension scheme worth 14% of salary. Where the contractual pension 
contribution exceeds the annual allowance, any balancing payment is made by the Company in a cash allowance.
4 “Annual bonus” represents cash bonus payments. 
5  “Long term incentive awards” are those awards where the vesting is determined by performance periods ending in the year under report under both the SELTIS 
and ESOS and therefore reports the value of the SELTIS option granted in December 2011 and the ESOS option granted in December 2012. Further details of 
how these sums are arrived at are set out below. The prior year has been restated using the share price on the date of vesting for the ESOS options being 
£11.42 per share rather than the three month average ending 31 March 2014 of £15.45 used last year. 
6  The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which is open to all UK permanent staff employed for at least six months. “Other” includes the value 
of matching SIP shares attributable to the year. The Executive Directors all participate in the SIP to the maximum extent permitted by HMRC. The Company 
offers a 1:5 match for partnership shares purchased by employees. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   57
£000
Salary 
and fees Benefits Pension
Annual 
bonus
Long term
 incentive 
awards Total
Non-Executive
Nigel Keen
1
2015 183 — — — — 183
2014 183 — — — — 183
Jock Lennox 2015 50 — — — — 50
2014 45 — — — — 45
Thomas Geitner 2015 50 — — — — 50
2014 43 — — — — 43
Jennifer Allerton 2015 43 — — — — 43
2014 32 — — — — 32
Richard Friend
2
2015 26 — — — — 26
2014 — — — — — —
Mike Brady
3
2015 23 — — — — 23
2014 45 — — — — 45
Total 2015 375 — — — — 375
2014 348 — — — — 348
1   Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Nigel Keen is retained to act as Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Trustee 
to the Oxford Instruments Pension Scheme and he must account to Imperialise Limited for his services. Imperialise Limited is paid fees for Nigel Keen’s services 
together with a sum equivalent to the employer’s national insurance contributions on these fees as it is responsible for the cost of national insurance on payments 
to Nigel Keen, whereas national insurance contributions in respect of the other Non-Executive Directors are made direct to the UK Inland Revenue. For the year 
to 31 March 2015, Nigel Keen’s fees as Chairman were £161,000 (2014: £161,000) and as Chairman to the Trustee were £25,000 (2014: £25,000) for his 
services for which he must account to Imperialise Limited. In addition, Imperialise Limited has been paid a sum equivalent to the national insurance on both 
these fees of £25,668.
2  Richard Friend was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2014.
3  Mike Brady retired from the Board on 9 September 2014.
External appointments (unaudited)
The Board encourages Executive Directors to accept 
appropriate external commercial non-executive appointments 
provided the aggregate commitment is compatible with 
their duties as Executive Directors. The Executive Director 
concerned may retain fees paid for these services, which 
will be subject to approval by the Board.
Jonathan Flint is a Non-Executive Director of Cobham plc 
and received fees of £57,500 during the year. He also 
received fees of £510 from the Science and Technology 
Funding Council.
Kevin Boyd was a Non-Executive Director of Guidance Limited 
until 26 March 2014 and in the year to 31 March 2015 
received deferred fees in the form of 26,660 shares in the 
company with value at date of transfer of £11,197. He is a 
member of the London Stock Exchange’s Primary Markets 
Group and was appointed a Non-Executive Director of 
EMIS Group plc on 9 May 2014 for which he received 
fees of £32,083 during the year.
External appointments
Jonathan Flint
Cobham plc
Kevin Boyd
Emis Group plc 
London Stock Exchange 
Primary Markets Group Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 58
Remuneration Report continued
PART B: Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Details of variable pay earned in year (audited)
Bonus 
As explained in our Operations Review on pages 16 to 19, it has been a testing year for Oxford Instruments. 
As in previous years the Committee set stretching performance targets for the annual bonus which are clearly linked to the 
strategy and financial performance of the Group. The financial targets were not met and the part of the bonus determined 
by those targets has not paid out. The Committee carefully reviewed performance against the strategic objectives set for 
the annual bonus which are critical to laying the foundations for future growth. The Committee determined that performance 
against the strategic targets was strong but also noted the disappointing financial performance of the Group in determining 
the level of vesting of the strategic element of the bonus. 
% of salary
Performance required
Threshold On-target Maximum 
Threshold On-target Maximum Actual Payout % 
Measure CEO/GFD CEO/GFD CEO/GFD £m £m £m £m of maximum
Adjusted PBT 12% 20% 45% 50.0 52.9 55.5 35.6 0%
Organic sales 12% 20% 20% 420.0 438.1 — 385.5 0%
Cash generation 0% 20% 20% 34.0 — — 13.3 0%
Strategic objectives 0% 15% 15% See below See below
The strategic objectives set by the Committee for each of the Executive Directors at the beginning of the year included 
objectives in the areas of succession planning, integration of acquisitions and the development of the Company’s 
strategic plan.
The on-target and maximum bonus potentials for the Executive Directors as well as the amount actually payable 
for the year ended 31 March 2015 are set out below. 
On-target 
bonus 
(% of salary)
Maximum 
bonus 
(% of salary)
Actual bonus 
payable for 
2014/15 
(% of salary
1
)
Actual bonus
 payable for
 2014/15 
(£000)
Jonathan Flint 75% 100% 7.50% £34,762
Kevin Boyd 75% 100% 6.75% £20,857
1 Bonus is calculated on salary as at 31 March 2015.
Long Term Incentive Plans (audited)
The performance conditions and the resulting payout in respect of the long term incentive awards where vesting is determined 
by a performance period ending in the year under report were as follows: 
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) 
The performance conditions which applied to the 19 December 2012 award (vesting date 19 December 2015), for the 
performance period which came to end in the year under review (ending 31 March 2015) and actual performance achieved 
against these were as follows:
Performance level EPS growth over CPI performance required % of award that will vest
Below threshold Less than 5% per annum over three years 0%
Threshold 5% per annum over three years 33.3%
Between threshold and maximum 5% to 10% per annum over three years 33.3%–100%
Maximum 10% per annum and above over three years 100%
Actual achieved over the period No EPS growth 0% Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   59
The performance condition was not met and thus no shares vested for the Directors. 
Total number 
shares subject 
to option
Percentage 
of award 
vesting
Number of 
shares that 
will vest
Exercise 
price
Value of 
shares that 
will vest 
(£000)
Jonathan Flint 60,500 0% — £13.88 Nil
Kevin Boyd 40,750 0% — £13.88 Nil
Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Scheme (SELTIS) 
The performance conditions which applied to the 14 December 2011 award (vesting date 14 December 2014), for the 
performance period which came to an end in the year under review and actual performance achieved against these were 
as follows:
TSR relative to FTSE 250 (excluding certain sectors)
1
Performance level Performance required % of total award vesting
Below threshold Below median 0%
Threshold Median 33.3% 
Between threshold and stretch Between median and upper quartile 33.3%–100%
Stretch or above Upper quartile 100%
Actual achieved Upper quartile TSR = 66.5% 
Oxford Instruments’ TSR = 23.5%
0%
1  Sectors excluded within the FTSE Industry classification of “Financials” (namely, banks, equity investment instruments, finance services, life insurance, 
non-life insurance, real estate investment trusts and real estate investment and services sectors).
The performance condition was not met and thus no shares vested for the Directors. 
Total 
number shares 
granted
Percentage 
of award 
vesting
Number of 
shares vesting
Value of 
shares vesting 
(£000)
Jonathan Flint 17,600 0% — Nil
Kevin Boyd 12,100 0% — Nil 
Awards made in the year and outstanding share incentive awards (audited)
Annual awards under the ESOS and SELTIS were in the past made around early December following the Company’ s half yearly 
announcement. The 2013/14 awards were not made at the usual time because the Company was in a close period due 
to the acquisition of Andor Technology. No awards were therefore made within the year 2013/14. The Board determined 
that these awards should therefore be made in the next 42 day grant window following the announcement of preliminary 
results in June 2014. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 60
Remuneration Report continued
PART B: Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Long Term Incentive Plans (audited) continued
Awards made in the year and outstanding share incentive awards (audited) continued
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) 
Awards made under the ESOS on 13 June 2014 were as follows:
Total number
 shares subject 
to option
Percentage 
of salary
1
Exercise 
price
Initial 
vesting date
Jonathan Flint 51,250 200% £14.15 13/06/2017
Kevin Boyd 34,500 200% £14.15 13/06/2017
1  Value determined using the annual basic salaries of Jonathan Flint and Kevin Boyd in December 2013 and the average share price for the month of December 2013, 
this being the time at which the awards would have been made. As at December 2013, the basic salaries of Jonathan Flint and Kevin Boyd were £420,000 
and £283,000 respectively and the average share price of Oxford Instruments shares during December 2013 was £16.39.
These awards are subject to an earnings per share (EPS) growth target over three financial years commencing 1 April 2013 
as set out below.
Performance level EPS annualised compound growth over CPI performance required % of award that will vest
Below threshold Less than 5% per annum over three years 0%
Threshold 5% per annum over three years 33.3%
Between threshold and maximum 5% to 10% per annum over three years 33.3%–100%
Maximum 10% per annum and above over three years 100%
1  The performance period for these awards is measured over the three years commencing 1 April 2013 being the performance period which would have applied 
had the awards been made in December 2013. 
Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Scheme (SELTIS) 
Awards made under the SELTIS on 13 June 2014 were as follows:
Total number 
shares granted
Percentage 
of salary
1
Initial 
vesting date
Jonathan Flint 12,800 50% 13/06/2017
Kevin Boyd 8,600 50% 13/06/2017 
1  Value determined using the annual basic salaries of Jonathan Flint and Kevin Boyd in December 2013 and the average share price for the month of December 2013, 
this being the time at which the awards would have been made. As at December 2013, the basic salaries of Jonathan Flint and Kevin Boyd were £420,000 
and £283,000 respectively and the average share price of Oxford Instruments shares during December 2013 was £16.39.
These awards are subject to a total shareholder return (TSR) performance condition measured over a three year performance 
period commencing 1 April 2013 as set out below.
TSR relative to FTSE 250 (excluding certain sectors)
1
Performance level Performance required % of total award vesting
Below threshold Below median 0%
Threshold Median 33.3% 
Between threshold and stretch Between median and upper quartile 33.3%–100%
Stretch or above Upper quartile 100%
1  Sectors excluded within the FTSE Industry classification of “Financials” (namely, banks, equity investment instruments, finance services, life insurance, 
non-life insurance, real estate investment trusts and real estate investment and services sectors).
2  The performance period for these awards is measured over the three years commencing 1 April 2013 as this is the performance period which would have 
been measured had it been possible to grant the award in December 2013. 
In line with the resolution passed by Shareholders at the 2014 AGM, awards were made to the Executive Directors 
for the 2014/15 year under the 2014 Performance Share Plan. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   61
2014 Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Awards made under the PSP on 8 October 2014 were as follows:
Total number of 
shares granted
Percentage 
of salary
1
Share price 
on day before 
award date
Initial 
vesting date
Jonathan Flint 72,195 150% £9.63 08/10/2017
Kevin Boyd 48,130 150% £9.63 08/10/2017 
The awards are subject to two performance conditions. One half of each award is subject to a performance condition 
based on the Company’s compound annualised earnings per share (EPS) growth. The other half of each award is subject 
to a performance condition based on the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the TSR of the members 
of a comparator group of companies.
50% of the award will vest as follows provided EPS measured over a three year performance period starting 1 April 2014 
is at least:
Performance level EPS growth required % of award that will vest
Below threshold Less than 7% per annum over three years 0%
Threshold 7% per annum over three years 25%
Between threshold and maximum 7% to 12% per annum over three years 25%–100%
Maximum 12% per annum and above over three years 100%
50% of the award will vest as set out below with TSR being measured over a three year performance period starting 
1 April 2014:
TSR relative to FTSE 250 (excluding certain sectors)
1
Performance level Performance required % of total award vesting
Below threshold Below median 0%
Threshold Median 25% 
Between threshold and stretch Between median and upper quartile 25%–100%
Stretch or above Upper quartile 100%
1  Sectors excluded within the FTSE Industry classification of “Financials” (namely, banks, equity investment instruments, finance services, life insurance, 
non-life insurance, real estate investment trusts and real estate investment and services sectors). Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 62
Remuneration Report continued
PART B: Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Long Term Incentive Plans (audited) continued
Adjustment to EPS performance targets for change in accounting rules for pensions
During the year the Committee reviewed the potential impact on the earnings per share (EPS) performance targets set for the Group’s long term 
incentive awards caused by changes to the accounting rules for pensions. The Committee agreed that management should not be advantaged 
or disadvantaged by the changes in pensions accounting rules which are not reflective of business performance and therefore agreed that the 
EPS performance measure will be adjusted as disclosed in the Company’s Reports and Financial Statements for all relevant awards. 
As at the 31 March 2015, the outstanding options for Jonathan Flint and Kevin Boyd under the ESOS and SELTIS schemes and the 2014 PSP were 
as follows:
Movements during the year
Share price 
on date 
of grant
Date of 
grant
Date for
earliest
exercise
Date for
latest
exercise Name Scheme
March 
2015 Granted Exercised
1
Lapsed 
March
2014
Exercise
price
Jonathan Flint
2
ESOS 51,250 51,250 — — — £14.55 £13.95 13/06/14 13/06/17 12/06/24
ESOS 60,500 — — — 60,500 £13.88 £14.08 19/12/12 19/12/15 18/12/22
ESOS 70,700 — — — 70,700 £9.90 £9.87 14/12/11 14/12/14 13/12/21
SELTIS 12,800 12,800 — — — Nil £13.95 13/06/14 13/06/17 12/06/21
SELTIS 15,100 — — — 15,100 Nil £14.08 19/12/12 19/12/15 18/12/19
SELTIS — — — 17,600 17,600 Nil £9.87 14/12/11 14/12/14 13/12/18
PSP 72,195 72,195 — — — Nil £10.12 08/10/14 08/10/17 07/10/24
Kevin Boyd ESOS 34,500 34,500 — — — £14.55 £13.95 13/06/14 13/06/17 12/06/24
 ESOS 40,750 — — — 40,750 £13.88 £14.08 19/12/12 19/12/15 18/12/22
ESOS 48,700 — — — 48,700 £9.90 £9.87 14/12/11 14/12/14 13/12/21
ESOS — — 2,127 — 2,127 £7.05 £7.02 07/01/11 07/01/14 06/01/21
SELTIS 8,600 8,600 — — — Nil £13.95 13/06/14 13/06/17 12/06/21
SELTIS 10,150 — — — 10,150 Nil £14.08 19/12/12 19/12/15 18/12/19
SELTIS — — — 12,100 12,100 Nil £9.87 14/12/11 14/12/14 13/12/18
PSP 48,130 48,130 — — — Nil £10.27 08/10/14 08/10/17 07/10/24
1  During the year Kevin Boyd exercised ESOS options on 1 July 2014 when the mid-market closing price on the date of exercise was £13.08. The gain yielded on the exercise of options during 
the year for Jonathan Flint and Kevin Boyd was Nil and £12,825 respectively.
2  Jonathan Flint’ s wife, an employee of the Company, holds as at 31 March 2015 ESOS options over 47,500 shares with exercise prices ranging from £9.90 to £14.55.
The market price of the shares at 31 March 2015 was £8.36 (2014: £12.67) and the range during the year was £6.87–£14.41 (2014: £12.09–£18.14). 
Performance conditions outstanding for awards are described below: 
Date of award ESOS SELTIS
14 December 2011 EPS growth – CPI + 5% p.a. (33.3% vesting) to 10% p.a. 
(100% vesting)¹
TSR v FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding certain sectors²) – 
median (33.3% vesting) to upper quartile (100% vesting)
19 December 2012 EPS growth – CPI + 5% p.a. (33.3% vesting to 10% p.a. 
(100% vesting)¹
TSR v FTSE 250 Index (excluding financial companies
2
) 
– median (33.3% vesting) to upper quartile 
(100% vesting) 
13 June 2014 EPS growth – CPI + 5% p.a. (33.3% vesting to 10% p.a. 
(100% vesting)¹
TSR v FTSE 250 Index (excluding financial companies
2
) 
– median (33.3% vesting) to upper quartile 
(100% vesting) 
PSP 50% of award 50% of award
08 October 2014 EPS growth – 7% p.a. (25% vesting to 12% p.a. 
(100% vesting)
TSR v FTSE 250 Index (excluding financial companies
2
) 
– median (25% vesting) to upper quartile (100% vesting)
1  For employees who are not Executive Directors, ESOS options become exercisable in full for achieving the threshold level.
2   Sectors excluded – banks, equity investment instruments, finance services, life insurance, non-life insurance, real estate investment trusts and real estate investment services. Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   63
Achievement of performance conditions (unaudited)
The calculation of the TSR performance conditions are independently measured. EPS performance conditions are measured 
using the audited accounts of the Company. All performance conditions are then verified by the Remuneration Committee. 
Dilution limits (unaudited)
The ESOS, SELTIS and PSP provide that overall dilution through the issuance of new shares for employee share schemes 
should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10% of the Company’s issued share capital over a ten year period. Awards 
made under the SELTIS scheme prior to 2009 and shares required by the SIP are satisfied by market purchased shares. 
The SIP scheme only uses market purchased shares.
The Committee monitors the position prior to the making of any award under these share option schemes to ensure that 
the Company remains within this limit. As at the date of this Report, the Company’s headroom position remains within 
the 10% limit. 
Shareholding requirements (audited)
The Executive Directors are required to build and retain a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to 100% of 
basic salary. Until the requirement is met, whenever ESOS or SELTIS options are exercised Executive Directors are expected 
to retain or purchase shares equivalent to the value of 50% of the net amount realised from exercise of the options after 
allowing for tax payable. 
Executive Directors’ shareholdings as at 31 March 2015 are shown in the table below.
Legally owned 
Percentage of 
salary held in 
shares under share 
holding guideline
1
Guideline 
met as at 
31 March 2015
LTIP options 
vested but 
unexercised
Subject to 
performance 
conditions under 
the LTIP unvested 
Jonathan Flint
2
201,337 363% Yes 70,700 211,845
Kevin Boyd 93,975 254% Yes 48,700 142,130
1 Shares valued using the market price of the shares on 31 March 2015: £8.36.
2 In addition, Jonathan Flint’s wife holds 4,831 Oxford Instruments shares.
Executive Director Pension Arrangements (audited)
Under the terms of their service contracts Executive Directors can ask the Company to contribute to a pension plan of their 
choice. The Company contributes a maximum of 14% of base salary if matched by a contribution of 10% by the Director 
or, if lower, a contribution by the Director which brings the total pension contribution to the annual allowance (the maximum 
tax relieved pension contribution allowable per tax year). Only base salary is pensionable and contributions are not included 
in the calculation of bonus and share award entitlements. Where the Company’s pension contribution exceeds the annual 
allowance a balancing payment is paid by the Company to the Director which is taxed as income. 
During the year the Company contributed £40,000 (2014: £39,999) into a personal defined contribution pension plan 
in respect of Jonathan Flint and £40,000 (2014: £39,818) into a personal defined contribution plan in respect of Kevin Boyd. 
Balancing payments to 14% of base salary were paid as cash.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
On 9 September 2014, having served 19 years on the Board, Professor Mike Brady stepped down from the Board. 
Professor Brady received fees to 9 September 2014 and no payment was made for loss of office. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 64
Remuneration Report continued
PART B: Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Performance graph and CEO’s remuneration (unaudited)
The graph below shows for the six years ended 31 March 2015 the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) on a holding of the 
Company’ s ordinary shares compared with a hypothetical holding of shares made up of shares of the same kind and number 
as those by reference to which the FTSE 250, FTSE Techmark and FTSE Electronic and Electrical Equipment indices are 
calculated. These indices have been chosen as they are considered to be the most appropriate comparator groups for 
the Company. TSR has been calculated by reference to the relevant share price for each constituent company assuming 
dividends are reinvested.
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in Oxford Instruments plc on 31 March 2009 compared 
with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250, FTSE Techmark and FTSE Electronic and Electrical Equipment indices. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
The total remuneration of the CEO over the last six years is shown in the table below. The annual bonus pay-out and LTIP 
vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity is also shown.
Year ending 31 March
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration (£000) 939 2,596 3,464 2,348 1,179 579
Annual bonus outcome (%) 100% 100% 100% 69.1% 15% 7.5%
ESOS vesting (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 0%
SELTIS vesting (%) 50% 50% 100% 100% 100% 0%
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer (unaudited)
The table below shows the percentage change in each of the CEO’s salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus earned 
between 2013/14 and 2014/15, compared to that for the average UK based employee of the Group (on a per capita basis). 
Jonathan Flint, CEO Average employee
1
£000 2014/15 2013/14 % change 2014/15 2013/14 % change
Salary
3
460.0 422.5 8.9% 39.0 37.8 3.2%
Benefits 18.3 18.3 0% 1.6 1.7 (5.9)%
Bonus
2
34.8 67.5 (48.4)% 0.7 1.0 (30)%
1  Average employee includes all UK employees in service on 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2015 but excludes those who were on maternity or long term sick leave.
2  The value of the average employee bonus for the year ended 31 March 2015 (to be paid at the end of June 2015) was not known at the time the Report 
and Financial Statements were approved and has been subsequently included.
3  In 2012 investors agreed a two stage salary increase for the Executive Directors, the second part of which was to have been made on 1 July 2013. In 2013 
the Executive Directors asked for this increase to be deferred until 1 March 2014. This deferred increase is included in 8.9% change in salary disclosed above. 
The actual annual increase awarded and made on 1 July 2014 for the CEO was 3%. 
31 March 2015 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 31 March 2010
Oxford Instruments plc
Source: Thomson Reuters
31 March 2009
Value (£)
0
100
300
200
400
600
700
500
800
900
1,000
1,200
1,100
1,300
1,400
1,500
1,600
1,700
FTSE Techmark
FTSE E&EE
FTSE 250 Governance
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   65
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The following table shows the Group’s employee costs relative to dividends and share buybacks:
Year ended 
31 March 
2015
Year ended 
31 March 
2014 % change
Employee costs (£m) 117.5 98.5 19.3%
Dividends (£m) 7.1 6.4 10.9%
Share buybacks (£m) — — —
Statement of Shareholder voting (unaudited)
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report and Annual Report on Remuneration received the following 
votes from Shareholders:
Resolution  Shares for 
Shares 
discretionary
Shares 
against
%
for
%
against
Shares marked 
as abstain
To approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy 37,933,491 3,201,930 493,802 98.8 1.2 861,498
To approve the Annual Report 
on Remuneration 38,328,863 3,201,930 153,805 99.6 0.4 866,123
How the policy will be applied in 2015/16 (unaudited)
Base salaries
In line with the general workforce, the Executive Directors will receive salary increases of 3% for 2015/16 effective 
from 1 July 2015. The Chief Executive Officer’s salary as a result of the increase will be £477,400 and the Group 
Finance Director’s will be £318,270.
Benefits and pension
These will be made in accordance with the approved policy.
Annual bonus
The maximum opportunity under the annual bonus plan for 2015/16 will be 100% of base salary for both 
the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director.
A combination of financial (85%) and non-financial strategic (15%) metrics will be used to determine the level of payment 
under the annual bonus and as detailed in the table below:
Weighting as a % of opportunity
Measure CEO GFD
Organic sales (£m) 20% 20%
Profit (£m) 45% 45%
Cash generation (£m) 20% 20%
Strategic objectives 15% 15%
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include 
items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive. Retrospective disclosure of the performance against them 
will be made in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration to the extent the targets are not commercially sensitive 
at that time. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 66
Remuneration Report continued
PART B: Annual Report on Remuneration continued
How the policy will be applied in 2015/16 (unaudited) continued
Long term incentives in respect of the 2015/16 financial year
The 2015/16 PSP awards will be over shares with a market value at grant of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Finance Director. Vesting will be subject to the performance condition as set out below, to be achieved over 
three financial years commencing with the 2015/16 financial year:
Half of the award Half of the award
EPS growth – 7% p.a. (25% vesting) to 12% p.a. 
(100% vesting)
TSR v FTSE 250 Index (excluding financial companies) –  
median (25% vesting) to upper quartile (100% vesting) 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
1
2015/16 2014/15 % increase
2
Board Chairman £161,000 £161,000 0%
Additional fee for Deputy Chairman
3
£5,000 £5,000 0%
Basic fee £44,000 £44,000 0%
Additional fee for Senior Independent Director
3
£5,000 £5,000 0%
Additional fee for Committee Chairman
3
£7,500 £7,500 0%
1 The fees shown for 2014/15 and 2015/16 are the annualised rates as at 1 July 2014 and 1 July 2015 respectively.
2 Fees for Non-Executive Directors were last increased on 1 July 2014.
3 Only one additional fee is paid to any Non-Executive Director.
Approval
This report was adopted by the Committee on 9 June 2015 and has been approved subsequently by the Board 
for submission to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 September 2015.
Thomas Geitner
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 June 2015 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   67
Directors’ Responsibilities 
in relation to the Report and Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that law they are 
required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company 
Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company Financial Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the 
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, directors’ remuneration 
report and corporate governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Strategic Report, included in this annual financial report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for Shareholders to assess the company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Jonathan Flint Kevin Boyd
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
9 June 2015 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 68
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Oxford Instruments plc only 
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Oxford Instruments plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 71 to 117. In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2015 
and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended; 
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit 
were as follows:
Revenue recognition in the Nanotechnology Tools segment (Revenue: £210.9 million, Adjusted operating profit: £20.7 million)
Refer to page 43 (Audit committee report), page 71 (accounting policy) and pages 85 to 111 (financial disclosures)
Risk – There is a risk that revenue is recognised on sales of individual products produced by the Group’s Nanotechnology Tools segment before 
the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed. This is because these products require considerable technical expertise to manufacture, 
they can be of individually high value, and customer specifications vary. As such there is a risk that particular terms of sale (for example, the shipping 
term and product specification) may not be met and, as a result, revenue may be recognised in the incorrect period. Consequently this is one 
of the key areas our audit is focused on.
Our response – Our procedures in this area included assessing the effectiveness of internal controls regarding the recognition of revenue such 
as matching a sample of sales invoices recognised to sales orders and dispatch notes. We also tested, on a sample basis, whether specific revenue 
transactions around the year end had been recognised in the appropriate period on the basis of the terms of sale within the associated contracts, 
such as whether shipping terms had been met, goods received notes completed and, or, customer acceptance of the product received. We considered 
whether a sample of credit notes issued after the year end should reduce revenue in the period and challenged those that were not recorded 
by obtaining evidence and rationale for significant reversals.
We also assessed the ageing and post year end realisation of accrued income, customer deposits and installation balances with respect to the 
agreed terms of sale, any of which may indicate the associated revenue has been recognised in the incorrect period. In addition we assessed 
whether there was any evidence of management bias by forming an expectation of the current year revenue profile, with reference to historical 
trends, and comparing to actual. We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of revenue and the related estimates 
and judgements in the financial statements (see section (r) of Accounting Policies).
Recoverability of acquired intangible assets (£213.3 million)
Refer to page 43 (Audit committee report), page 71 (accounting policy) and pages 85 to 111 (financial disclosures)
Risk – The Group balance sheet includes a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets that have arisen as a result of 
acquisitions, particularly in respect of the Andor cash generating unit. There is a risk that below forecast performance of the business, or the cash 
generating unit to which the assets are allocated will result in impairment. This is particularly the case this year as the Group’s operating profit has 
significantly reduced. This could be due to weaker than forecast demand, product obsolescence, or other factors. Furthermore, there is inherent 
uncertainty and complexity involved in estimating future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates that are the basis for the assessment 
of recoverability and, as such, this is one of the key judgement areas our audit is focused on.
Our response – In this area our audit procedures included performing our own assessments of the key estimates and assumptions used to estimate 
recoverable amount such as forecast cash flows, long-term growth rates and the discount rate applied with reference to externally and internally derived 
data including, but not limited to, industry growth rates, historical performance of similar lines of business and market interest rates. We compared 
the sum of the discounted cash flows to the value derived from the group’s market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows. 
We also performed sensitivity analysis in relation to the key assumptions and considered whether the Group’s disclosures regarding the valuation 
of goodwill and intangible assets appropriately reflected the sensitivity, headroom and assumptions made in preparing the valuations. Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   69
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
Completeness of provisions in respect of product related claims
Refer to page 43 (Audit committee report), page 71 (accounting policy) and pages 85 to 111 (financial disclosures)
Risk – The Group designs and builds customised, high technology products, notably in the NanoTechnology Tools segment, and as such there 
is a risk that products are subject to customer claims in respect of deficiencies in design or performance. In addition, since the Group’s products 
incorporate specific design features and intellectual property that are critical to ensuring the product meets its marketed, or customer specific, 
performance specifications, there is a risk that the Group inadvertently infringes the intellectual property belonging to third parties. This could 
result in a material unrecorded, or understated, provision for compensation required to be paid to customers or third parties respectively, 
or alternatively for the cost of rectification, should the Group be required to recall or rework previously supplied products.
Our response – Our procedures in this area included making enquiries of the Group regarding the existence of any previously unidentified product 
related claims and inspecting the Group’s litigation register for any ongoing or potential patent litigation. Where product related claims arise, or 
are brought forward from previous periods, we consider the specific circumstances by inspecting correspondence between the Group and other 
parties, such as legal advisors, and challenge the reasonableness of the key assumptions made by the Group to our own expectations based 
on our historical knowledge, experience, and understanding. We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about the degree 
of estimation involved in arriving at any provision. 
In our audit report for the year ended 31 March 2014 we included Valuation of acquired intangible assets as one of the risks of material 
misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit. We considered this risk to be less significant in the current year as there have been 
no acquisitions during the year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at £1.3 million (2014: £2.1 million). This has been determined with reference to a 
benchmark of group loss before tax adjusted for the items disclosed in Note 1 to the financial statements, excluding amortisation and impairment 
of acquired intangibles, and normalised by averaging over the last five years due to fluctuations in the business cycle, of £25.7 million, of which it 
represents 5.0% (2014: group profit before tax, adjusted for the items in Note 1, excluding amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles, 
6.5%). Materiality represents 6.2% of the group loss before tax, normalised over the same period (2014: group profit before tax, 8.8%).
We report to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding £50,000, in addition to other identified misstatements 
that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Of the Group’s 39 reporting components, we subjected 21 to audits for Group reporting purposes and 18 to reviews to component materiality. 
These procedures covered 95% of Group revenue, 88% of Group loss before taxation and 96% of Group total assets. For the remaining components, 
we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement 
within these. The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from £0.01 million 
to £0.8 million, having regard to the size and risk profile of the Group across the components. 
The Group audit team visited 24 component locations in the UK, United States and China. Telephone conference meetings were also held 
with the component auditors in Germany, Japan and Finland. At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team 
were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements; and 
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 35 to 42 with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.  Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 70
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the Members of Oxford Instruments plc only 
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued
5 We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other 
information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement 
of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ statement that they 
consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for Shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit and Risk Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 23, in relation to going concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 35 to 42 relating to the company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and 
• certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. 
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 67, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements 
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
This report is made solely to the Company’ s members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should 
be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Greg Watts (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
9 June 2015 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   71
Accounting Policies
Oxford Instruments plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP; 
these are presented on pages 112 to 117.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group Financial Statements.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in 
the Performance and Strategy section on pages 1 to 19. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 23.
The relatively diverse nature of the Group together with its current financial strength provides a solid foundation. The Directors have reviewed the 
Group’s forecasts and flexed them to incorporate a number of potential scenarios relating to changes in trading performance and believe that the 
Group will be able to operate within its existing debt facilities which expire between February 2020 and March 2021. This review also considered 
hedging arrangements in place. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis based on the Directors’ opinion, after making reasonable enquiries, 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Financial Statements were authorised for issuance on 9 June 2015.
(a) New accounting standards
The following standards and interpretations are applicable to the Group and have been adopted as they are mandatory for the year ended 
31 March 2015.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: This new standard provides a single model to be applied in the control analysis for all investees, 
including entities that currently are SPEs in the scope of SIC-12. The adoption of this standard has had no impact on the Financial Statements.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: This new standard contains the disclosure requirements for entities that have interests 
in subsidiaries, joint arrangements (i.e. joint operations or joint ventures), associates and/or unconsolidated structured entities.
Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets: The amendments reverse the unintended 
requirement in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to disclose the recoverable amount of every cash-generating unit to which significant goodwill 
or indefinite-lived intangible assets have been allocated. Under the amendments, recoverable amount is required to be disclosed only when 
an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed. The adoption of this standard has had no significant impact.
Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: The amendments clarify the offsetting criteria, specifically when 
an entity currently has a legal right of set off and when gross settlement is equivalent to net settlement. The adoption of this standard has 
had no significant impact.
There are no other new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations mandatory for the first time for the year ending 31 March 2015.
(b) Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest £0.1m and are prepared on the historical cost basis except 
as described on page 73 under the heading “Financial Instruments”.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form 
the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. The most significant judgements and estimates made in applying 
the Group accounting policies relate to:
Fair value measurements on business combinations
The measurement of fair values on a business combination requires the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities. The key judgements involved are the identification and valuation of intangible assets which require the estimation of future 
cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate (see Note 15). 
Impairment of intangible assets (including goodwill) and tangible assets
Goodwill is held at cost and tested annually for impairment and amortised intangibles and tangible assets are tested for impairment where there 
are indications of impairment. These impairment tests require the Group to make an estimate of the expected cash flows and to select suitable 
discount rates. These require an estimation of the value in use of these assets (see Note 15). Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 72
Accounting Policies continued
(b) Basis of preparation continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past expectations 
or events which can be reasonably estimated. The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances 
which can be subject to change. Amounts provided represent the Group’s best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when, in the opinion of the Group, the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer. The complex 
technical nature of the Group’s products means that the application of judgement is required in determining whether those risks and rewards 
have passed, notably in determining whether shipping terms have been met or customer acceptance of the product received. 
The following other significant judgements and estimates were made in applying the Group accounting policies:
Measurement of defined benefit scheme liabilities
The Group recognises and measures costs relating to defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. In applying 
IAS 19 the costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries. This requires the exercise of judgement in relation 
to the estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, expected returns on plan assets and the selection of suitable 
discount rates. Further detail is provided in Note 23.
Contingent purchase consideration 
Contingent purchase consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and tested annually against the criteria for payment, with 
movements in fair value being recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The key judgements involved are the estimation of future cash flows 
and profitability of the acquired business and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
Capitalised development costs
Capitalised development costs involve judgements around the future economic benefits that will flow from the associated development activity 
and in particular the Group’s assessment of the technical and commercial feasibility of the product to be developed.
Deferred tax assets
A deferred tax asset is recognised in the period if it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. 
This requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the estimation of future taxable profit.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the 
period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. The key areas where estimates have been used 
and assumptions applied are in the calculation of provisions, the valuation of acquired intangible assets, the impairment testing of goodwill 
and the estimation of defined benefit pension plan liabilities. 
(c) Basis of consolidation
The Group Financial Statements include the accounts of Oxford Instruments plc and its subsidiary companies adjusted to eliminate intra-group 
balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its investment 
with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The results of subsidiary companies are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into Sterling 
at exchange rates ruling at the end of the reporting period. Income statements and cash flows of foreign operations are translated into Sterling 
at average quarterly exchange rates which approximate foreign exchange rates at the date of the transaction. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate translation reserve.
The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
(d) Foreign currency
An individual entity’s transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in profit or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   73
(e) Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
(i)  Derivative financial instruments of the Group are used to hedge its exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and commodity pricing risks arising 
from operational, financing and investment activities. The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Derivatives comprising 
interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options and metal futures contracts are classified as “fair value through profit and loss” 
under IAS 39, unless designated as hedges. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value and gains or losses on the 
settlement of such derivatives are recognised in operating expenses. Where such derivatives relate to the following year’s exposure, any gains 
or losses resulting from the change in fair value are taken to the mark to market gains/losses line within financial income or expense.
(ii)  Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity to the extent that the 
hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge accounting 
is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs. 
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when 
it is recognised. In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Statement of Income in the same period 
that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
(iii)  The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes. Those quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future 
cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the measurement date.
(iv)  The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their market price at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date, being the present 
value of the forward price. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value of forward exchange contracts is recognised immediately in the 
Consolidated Statement of Income.
(v)  Contingent purchase consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently carried at fair value, with movements 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
(vi)  Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing 
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in profit or loss over the 
period of the borrowing on an effective interest basis.
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment (see accounting policy l) and depreciation which, 
with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on a straight-line basis over each asset’s estimated economic life. 
Depreciation is provided based on historical cost less estimated residual value. The principal estimated economic lives used for this purpose are:
Freehold buildings, long leasehold land and buildings 50 years
Leasehold improvements (less than 50 years’ duration) Period of lease
Furniture and fittings 10 years
Machinery and other equipment 5 to 10 years
Computer equipment 4 years
Vehicles 4 years
Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with 
the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
(g) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries. 
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 31 March 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition 
and the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the 
basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under previous GAAP .
The Group now expenses transaction costs associated with its acquisitions and movements in liabilities relating to contingent consideration within 
the Consolidated Statement of Income in conformity with the revised IFRS 3. The carrying value of contingent consideration is reassessed annually.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and allocated to cash generating units that are anticipated 
to benefit from the combination. It is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment (see accounting policy l), or more frequently when there 
is an indicator that the unit may be impaired. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 74
Accounting Policies continued
(g) Intangible assets continued
(ii) Development costs
Research and development costs are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income in the year in which they are incurred unless development 
expenditure is applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products, in which case they are capitalised. 
The criteria for capitalisation include demonstration of the technical feasibility of completing a new intangible asset that will be available 
for sale and that the asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Where expenditure meets the criteria, development costs 
are capitalised and amortised through the Consolidated Statement of Income over their useful economic lives.
(iii) Acquired intangible assets
An intangible asset acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or 
arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be reliably measured. The asset 
is amortised through the Consolidated Statement of Income over it useful economic life.
(iv) Amortisation
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income on a systematic basis in proportion to the use of the assets 
over their estimated useful economic lives as follows:
Capitalised development costs 3 to 5 years
Technology related acquired intangibles 5 to 12 years
Customer related acquired intangibles 6 months to 15 years
Software 10 years
(h) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently stated at their amortised cost less appropriate allowances 
for amounts which are expected to be non-recoverable.
(i) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes materials, direct labour, an attributable proportion of production 
overheads based on normal operating capacity and all other expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing 
location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion 
and selling expenses.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective stock where appropriate in light of recent usage, expected future requirements, 
new product introduction plans and likely realisable values.
(j) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits and are carried at amortised cost. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on 
demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose 
of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
(k) Non-current assets held for sale
A non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing 
use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within one year.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the measurement of the assets is brought up-to-date in accordance with applicable IFRSs. 
Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets are recognised at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income, even when the asset 
has previously been revalued. The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement. Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   75
(l) Impairment of non-current assets
All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. 
Additionally, goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review.
For the purposes of impairment testing assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash flows from continuing 
use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other groups of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income as under the administration and shared services heading, to the extent 
that an asset’ s carrying value, or a cash generating unit’ s carrying value, exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of its net realisable 
value and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating 
unit to which it relates. The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in estimates used 
to determine the asset’s recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its carrying amount 
had the impairment loss not been recognised in previous periods. Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit.
(m) Employee benefits
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans which require contributions to be made to independent trustee 
administered funds. 
(i) Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future 
benefit that current and past employees have earned in return for their service in prior periods. That benefit is discounted to determine its present 
value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses in calculating the Group’s net obligation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
in the year.
The charge to the Consolidated Statement of Income reflects the current service cost. The interest expense or income is calculated on the net 
defined benefit liability by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability, and is included within financial expenditure or financial 
income in the Consolidated Statement of Income respectively.
(iii) Share-based payment transactions
The fair value of equity settled share option programmes is measured at grant date and charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income, 
with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled 
to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due 
to market performance conditions not being met.
(n) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as 
a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. A provision for warranty 
and product related liability is recognised when the underlying products are sold. A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has 
approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. A provision for 
onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of 
meeting its obligations under the contract. A provision for a claim or dispute is made when it is considered probable that an adverse outcome 
will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Contractual and other provisions represent the Directors’ best estimate of the cost of settling future obligations where the Directors, taking 
into account professional advice received, assess that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be successful.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liabilities. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 76
Accounting Policies continued
(o) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
(p) Government grants
Grants from Governments are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group 
will comply with all attached conditions. 
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income over the period necessary to match them 
with the costs they are intended to compensate. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in other current liabilities 
and are credited to the Consolidated Statement of Income on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the related assets.
(q) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing 
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
(r) Revenue
Revenue is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the 
buyer. In the Industrial Products segment this is generally considered to be on dispatch, as products have a low level of customisation and are 
manufactured on a routine basis. In the Nanotechnology Tools segment products are generally bespoke and customer contracts more complex. 
As such, there are a number of conditions which must be satisfied before revenue can be recognised. These can include: legal, contractual ownership; 
passing internal quality control testing; dispatch from manufacturing sites; installation at customer sites; customer inspection both before and 
after installation; and/or, ultimately, customer acceptance. Given these conditions, a greater degree of consideration is given as to whether the 
terms of sale have been met and whether revenue can be recognised for each product. In the Services segment, revenue for maintenance and 
support is recognised on a pro-rata basis over the length of the contract period. Revenue excludes value added tax and similar sales-based taxes 
and is stated before commissions payable to agents.
(s) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, 
and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes 
and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the 
initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries 
to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
(t) Lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received 
are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income as an integral part of the total lease expense. Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   77
(u) Segment reporting
An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including any revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. Operating components are 
combined into aggregated operating segments to the extent that they have similar economic characteristics. Aggregated operating segments’ 
operating results are reviewed regularly by the Group’s Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and 
to assess its performance, for which discrete financial information is available. Segment results that are reported to the Board include items directly 
attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
A reportable segment is an aggregated operating segment in respect of which revenue or profit exceeds 10% of the Group total. Discrete 
financial information is disclosed for each reportable segment.
(v) Dividends
Interim and final dividends are recognised as a liability when they are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
(w) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU and are effective 
for annual periods beginning after 1 April 2015. They have not been applied in preparing these consolidated Financial Statements. Those which 
may be relevant to the Group are set out below:
• Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans – Employee contributions: The amendments introduce a relief that will reduce the complexity 
and burden of accounting for certain contributions from employees or third parties. The Group has considered the impact of this amendment 
in future periods on profit, earnings per share and net assets. It is not expected to have a material impact.
A number of other new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB, although they are not yet endorsed 
by the EU, and are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 April 2015. They have not been applied in preparing these consolidated Financial 
Statements. The two standards that may be relevant to the Group are set out below:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which becomes mandatory for the Group’s consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning 
on 1 April 2015 and could change the classification and measurement of financial assets.
• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which becomes mandatory for the Group’s consolidated Financial Statements for the annual 
period beginning 1 April 2017. The potential impact on the Group of the new standard is still being assessed. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 78
Consolidated Statement of Income 
year ended 31 March 2015
Notes
Adjusted*
£m
Adjusting
items*
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 3 385.5 — 385.5
Cost of sales (214.3) (0.2) (214.5)
Gross profit 171.2 (0.2) 171.0
Research and development 5 (30.8) — (30.8)
Selling and marketing (65.6) — (65.6)
Administration and shared services (34.8) (39.2) (74.0)
Foreign exchange 2.7 — 2.7
Operating profit 42.7 (39.4) 3.3
Other financial income 7 0.1 — 0.1
Financial income 0.1 — 0.1
Interest charge on pension scheme net liabilities 23 (1.9) — (1.9)
Other financial expenditure 8 (5.3) (5.9) (11.2)
Financial expenditure (7.2) (5.9) (13.1)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 35.6 (45.3) (9.7)
Income tax (expense)/credit 12 (8.1) 11.5 3.4
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity Shareholders of the parent 27.5 (33.8) (6.3)
pence pence
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share 2 48.2 (11.1)
Diluted earnings per share 2 48.0 (11.1)
Dividends per share
Dividends paid 13 12.4
Dividends proposed 13 13.0
* Adjusted numbers are stated to give a better understanding of the underlying business performance. Details of adjusting items can be found in Note 1 of these Financial Statements.
The attached notes form part of the Financial Statements. Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   79
Consolidated Statement of Income 
year ended 31 March 2014
Notes
Adjusted*
£m
Adjusting
items*
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 3 360.1 — 360.1
Cost of sales (196.6) (3.7) (200.3)
Gross profit 163.5 (3.7) 159.8
Research and development 5 (25.1) — (25.1)
Selling and marketing (56.7) — (56.7)
Administration and shared services (33.1) (22.6) (55.7)
Foreign exchange 1.7 — 1.7
Operating profit 50.3 (26.3) 24.0
Other financial income 7 0.3 4.1 4.4
Financial income 0.3 4.1 4.4
Interest charge on pension scheme net liabilities 23 (2.0) — (2.0)
Other financial expenditure 8 (1.5) (0.9) (2.4)
Financial expenditure (3.5) (0.9) (4.4)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 47.1 (23.1) 24.0
Income tax (expense)/credit 12 (8.7) 2.9 (5.8)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity Shareholders of the parent 38.4 (20.2) 18.2
pence pence
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share 2 67.7 32.1
Diluted earnings per share 2 67.3 31.9
Dividends per share
Dividends paid 13 11.2
Dividends proposed 13 12.4
* Adjusted numbers are stated to give a better understanding of the underlying business performance. Details of adjusting items can be found in Note 1 of these Financial Statements. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 80
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
year ended 31 March 2015
Notes
2015
£m
2014 
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year (6.3) 18.2
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Gain on effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of amounts recycled 0.1 —
Foreign exchange translation differences 7.3 (8.4)
Tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss — —
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Remeasurement loss in respect of post-retirement benefits 23 (10.8) (1.9)
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 12 2.3 (1.0)
Total other comprehensive expense (1.1) (11.3)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year attributable to equity Shareholders of the parent (7.4) 6.9 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   81
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
as at 31 March 2015
Notes
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 33.1 34.4
Intangible assets 15 231.3 247.9
Deferred tax assets 16 20.1 11.2
284.5 293.5
Current assets
Inventories 17 70.8 68.3
Trade and other receivables 18 87.3 80.9
Current income tax recoverable 3.3 1.0
Derivative financial instruments 20 3.4 5.3
Cash and cash equivalents 25.1 32.6
189.9 188.1
Total assets 474.4 481.6
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity Shareholders
Share capital 21 2.9 2.9
Share premium 61.5 61.3
Other reserves 0.2 0.1
Translation reserve 2.9 (4.4)
Retained earnings 58.0 80.3
125.5 140.2
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 22 144.0 141.4
Other payables 24 0.8 13.1
Retirement benefit obligations 23 53.5 46.3
Deferred tax liabilities 16 6.2 12.0
204.5 212.8
Current liabilities
Bank loans 22 — 15.5
Trade and other payables 24 121.6 99.2
Current income tax payables 2.6 3.7
Derivative financial instruments 20 4.1 0.5
Provisions 25 16.1 9.7
144.4 128.6
Total liabilities 348.9 341.4
Total liabilities and equity 474.4 481.6
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Jonathan Flint Kevin Boyd
Director Director
Company Number: 775598 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 82
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
year ended 31 March 2015
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 April 2014 2.9 61.3 0.1 (4.4) 80.3 140.2
Total comprehensive income:
Loss for the year — — — — (6.3) (6.3)
Other comprehensive income:
– Foreign exchange translation differences — — — 7.3 — 7.3
–  Gain on effective portion of changes in fair value 
of cash flow hedges, net of amounts recycled — — 0.1 — — 0.1
– Remeasurement loss in respect of post-retirement benefits — — — — (10.8) (10.8)
–  Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income — — — — 2.3 2.3
Total comprehensive income/(expense) attributable 
to equity Shareholders of the parent — — 0.1 7.3 (14.8) (7.4)
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity:
–  Charge/(credit) in respect of employee service costs settled 
by award of share options — — — — (0.2) (0.2)
– Tax charge in respect of share options — — — — (0.2) (0.2)
– Proceeds from shares issued — 0.2 — — — 0.2
– Dividends paid — — — — (7.1) (7.1)
Total transactions with owners recorded directly in equity — 0.2 — — (7.5) (7.3)
Balance at 31 March 2015 2.9 61.5 0.2 2.9 58.0 125.5
Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve, which represents the nominal value of shares repurchased and then cancelled during 
the year ended 31 March 1999, and the hedging reserve in respect of the effective portion of changes in value of commodity contracts.
The foreign exchange translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising since 1 April 2004 from the translation of the Group’s 
net investments in foreign subsidiaries into Sterling.
The Group holds 183,145 (2014: 183,145) of its own shares in an employee benefit trust. The cost of these shares is included within retained 
earnings. There was no movement in the shares held by the trust during the year.  Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   83
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
year ended 31 March 2014
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 April 2013 2.8 60.6 0.1 4.0 70.2 137.7
Total comprehensive income:
Profit for the year — — — — 18.2 18.2
Other comprehensive income:
– Foreign exchange translation differences — — — (8.4) — (8.4)
–  Gain on effective portion of changes in fair value 
of cash flow hedges, net of amounts recycled — — — — — —
– Remeasurement loss in respect of post-retirement benefits — — — — (1.9) (1.9)
–  Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income — — — — (1.0) (1.0)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) attributable 
to equity Shareholders of the parent — — — (8.4) 15.3 6.9
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity:
–  Charge/(credit) in respect of employee service costs settled 
by award of share options — — — — 1.6 1.6
– Tax charge in respect of share options — — — — (0.4) (0.4)
– Proceeds from shares issued 0.1 0.7 — — — 0.8
– Dividends paid — — — — (6.4) (6.4)
Total transactions with owners recorded directly in equity 0.1 0.7 — — (5.2) (4.4)
Balance at 31 March 2014 2.9 61.3 0.1 (4.4) 80.3 140.2 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 84
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
year ended 31 March 2015
2015
£m
2014 
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year (6.3) 18.2
Adjustments for:
Income tax expense (3.4) 5.8
Net financial expense 13.0 —
Acquisition related fair value adjustments to inventory 0.2 3.7
Acquisition related costs 2.2 7.8
Restructuring costs 9.9 —
Contingent consideration – further amount deemed payable 6.8 —
Contingent consideration deemed no longer payable (1.4) —
Settlement loss on US pension scheme — 0.1
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 21.7 14.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5.6 5.0
Amortisation and impairment of capitalised development costs 4.7 3.9
Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 53.0 59.2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.3
Cost of equity settled employee share schemes (0.2) 1.6
Acquisition related costs paid (1.9) (6.4)
Restructuring costs paid (1.2) —
Cash payments to the pension scheme more than the charge to operating profit (5.9) (5.4)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 44.0 49.3
Increase in inventories (3.0) (2.9)
Increase in receivables (4.4) (3.8)
Decrease/(increase) in payables and provisions 0.5 (3.3)
Increase/(decrease) in customer deposits 1.8 (10.9)
Cash generated from operations 38.9 28.4
Interest paid (5.0) (1.0)
Income taxes paid (9.1) (6.2)
Net cash from operating activities 24.8 21.2
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (0.8) (165.7)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (4.4) (6.8)
Acquisition of intangible assets (1.0) —
Capitalised development expenditure (8.0) (5.4)
Net cash used in investing activities (14.2) (177.9)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 0.2 0.8
(Decrease)/increase in borrowings (12.9) 156.9
Dividends paid (7.1) (6.4)
Net cash from financing activities (19.8) 151.3
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (9.2) (5.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 32.6 39.2
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 1.7 (1.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 25.1 32.6
Reconciliation of changes in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (9.2) (5.4)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1.7 (1.2)
(7.5) (6.6)
Cash outflow/(inflow) from decrease/increase in debt 12.9 (156.9)
Movement in net cash in the year 5.4 (163.5)
Net (debt)/cash at start of the year (124.3) 39.2
Net debt at the end of the year (118.9) (124.3) Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   85
Notes to the Financial Statements
year ended 31 March 2015
1 Non-GAAP measures 
The Directors present the following non-GAAP measures as they consider that they give a better indication of the underlying performance 
of the business.
Reconciliation between profit before income tax and adjusted profit 
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit before income tax (9.7) 24.0
Reversal of acquisition related fair value adjustments to inventory 0.2 3.7
Acquisition related costs 2.2 7.8
Restructuring costs 9.9 —
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 21.7 14.7
Contingent consideration – further amount deemed payable 6.8 —
Contingent consideration deemed no longer payable (1.4) —
Unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration 1.1 0.9
Mark to market loss/(gain) in respect of derivative financial instruments 4.8 (4.1)
Settlement loss on US pension scheme — 0.1
Adjusted profit before income tax 35.6 47.1
Share of taxation (8.1) (8.7)
Adjusted profit for the year 27.5 38.4
The reversal of acquisition related fair value adjustments to inventory are excluded from adjusted profit to provide a measure that includes 
results from acquired businesses on a consistent basis over time to assist comparison of performance. 
Acquisition related costs comprise professional fees incurred in relation to mergers and acquisitions activity and any consideration which, 
under IFRS 3 (revised), falls to be treated as a post acquisition employment expense.
In common with a number of other companies adjusted profit excludes the non-cash amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible 
assets and goodwill and the unwind of discounts in respect of contingent consideration relating to business combinations.
In the current period, a further £6.8m has been provided in respect of additional contingent consideration expected to be due in respect 
of the acquisition of Platinum Medical Imaging in November 2011.
In the current period, £1.4m relating to contingent consideration on the acquisition of RMG Technology Limited, which the Directors 
no longer consider will be payable has been released. 
Restructuring costs comprise the one-off costs in respect of the cost reduction programme referred to in the Review of the Year and the 
refocusing of the Plasma Technology business as also described in the Review of the Year.
During the prior year the Group purchased annuities for 27 members of the US defined benefit pension scheme. A settlement loss of £0.1m 
crystallised on purchase.
Under IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are also measured 
at fair value. In respect of instruments used to hedge foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk the Group does not take advantage of the hedge 
accounting rules provided for in IAS 39 since that standard requires certain stringent criteria to be met in order to hedge account, which, in the 
particular circumstances of the Group, are considered by the Board not to bring any significant economic benefit. Accordingly, the Group accounts 
for these derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss. To the extent that instruments are hedges of future transactions, 
adjusted profit for the year is stated before changes in the valuation of these instruments so that the underlying performance of the Group 
can be more clearly seen.
In calculating the share of tax attributable to adjusted profit before tax in 2011 a one-off recognition of deferred tax assets relating to the Group’s 
UK businesses of £11.3m was excluded. At that time the Group announced its intention to exclude the reversal of this deferred tax from the 
calculation of the share of tax attributable to adjusted profit before tax in the years in which it reverses. In the current period tax losses arose 
in the UK and consequently no deferred tax reversed. In the prior period £2.2m reversed and was excluded from the tax attributable to adjusted 
profit before tax.  Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 86
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
2 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic and adjusted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Income 
and the adjusted profit for the year as shown in Note 1 respectively. Basic and adjusted earnings are divided by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Basic earnings (6.3) 18.2
Adjusted earnings (Note 1) 27.5 38.4
Weighted average number of shares 57.1 56.8
pence pence
Basic earnings per share (11.1) 32.1
Adjusted earnings per share 48.2 67.7
The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation excludes shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust, as follows:
2015
Shares
million
2014
Shares
million
Weighted average number of shares outstanding 57.3 57.0
Less shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trust (0.2) (0.2)
Weighted average number of shares used in calculation of basic earnings per share 57.1 56.8
The following table shows the effect of share options on the calculation of diluted earnings per share: 
2015
Shares
million
2014
Shares
million
Weighted average number of ordinary shares per basic earnings per share calculations 57.1 56.8
Effect of shares under option 0.2 0.4
Weighted average number of ordinary shares per diluted earnings per share calculations 57.3 57.2
In the current year the Group reported a loss, and as such basic earnings per share was equal to reported diluted earnings per share. This is due 
to the fact that the shares under option above would have an anti-dilutive effect. Adjusted diluted earnings per share has been calculated in a manner 
consistent with previous periods. 
3 Segment information
The Group has nine operating segments. These operating segments have been combined into three aggregated operating segments to the extent 
that they have similar economic characteristics, with relevance to products and services, type and class of customer, methods of sale and distribution 
and the regulatory environment in which they operate. Each of these three aggregated operating segments is a reportable segment.
The Group’s internal management structure and financial reporting systems differentiate the three aggregated operating segments on the basis 
of the economic characteristics discussed below:
• the Nanotechnology Tools segment contains a group of businesses, supplying similar products, characterised by a high degree of customisation 
and high unit prices. These are the Group’s highest technology products serving research customers in both the public and private sectors;
• the Industrial Products segment contains a group of businesses supplying high technology products and components manufactured in medium 
volume for industrial customers; and
• the Service segment contains the Group’s service business as well as service revenues from other parts of the Group.
Reportable segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those which can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Inter-segment 
pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. The operating results of each are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, which 
is deemed to be the Board of Directors. Discrete financial information is available for each segment and used by the Board of Directors for decisions 
on resource allocation and to assess performance. No asset information is presented below as this information is not presented in reporting 
to the Group’s Board of Directors.  Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   87
3 Segment information continued
a) Analysis by business 
Year to 31 March 2015
Nanotechnology
Tools
£m
Industrial
Products
£m
Service
£m
Total
£m
External revenue 210.9 106.0 68.6 385.5
Inter-segment revenue 0.3 1.1 —
Total segment revenue 211.2 107.1 68.6 
Segment adjusted operating profit 20.7 6.3 15.7 42.7
Year to 31 March 2014
Nanotechnology
Tools
£m
Industrial
Products
£m
Service
£m
Total
£m
External revenue 180.5 113.3 66.3 360.1
Inter-segment revenue 0.1 1.4 0.1
Total segment revenue 180.6 114.7 66.4 
Segment adjusted operating profit 21.2 15.6 13.5 50.3
Reconciliation of reportable segment profit
2015
£m
2014
£m
Adjusted profit for reportable segments 42.7 50.3
Acquisition related costs (2.2) (7.8)
Restructuring costs (9.9) —
Settlement loss on US pension scheme — (0.1)
Reversal of acquisition related fair value adjustments to inventory (0.2) (3.7)
Contingent consideration – further amount deemed payable (6.8) —
Contingent consideration deemed no longer payable 1.4 —
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles (21.7) (14.7)
Financial income 0.1 4.4
Financial expenditure (13.1) (4.4)
(Loss)/profit before income tax (9.7) 24.0
Depreciation, capital expenditure, amortisation and impairment of intangibles and capitalised development costs arose in the following segments:
2015 2014
Depreciation
£m
Capital
expenditure
£m
Depreciation
£m
Capital
expenditure
£m
Nanotechnology Tools 3.0 2.6 2.6 3.0
Industrial Products 1.9 1.4 1.8 1.6
Service 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.7
Unallocated Group items 0.4 1.3 0.4 1.5
Total 5.6 5.4 5.0 6.8 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 88
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
3 Segment information continued
a) Analysis by business continued
Reconciliation of reportable segment profit continued
2015 2014
Amortisation
and 
impairment
£m
Capitalised 
development
costs
£m
Amortisation
and
impairment
£m
Capitalised
development
costs
£m
Nanotechnology Tools 3.8 6.1 3.0 3.8
Industrial Products 1.6 1.9 0.9 1.6
Service — — — —
Unallocated Group items 21.7 — 14.7 —
Total 27.1 8.0 18.6 5.4
Amortisation of development costs is included in arriving at segment operating profit. Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 
is included below segment operating profit and excluded from the measure of operating profit reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
and so has been included within unallocated Group items.
b) Geographical analysis
The Group’s reportable segments are located across a number of geographical locations and make sales to customers in countries across the world.
The analysis below shows revenue and non-current assets (excluding deferred tax) for individual countries or regions that represent more than 
5% of revenue.
Revenue from external customers by destination
2015
£m
2014
£m
UK 37.0 33.6
China 55.4 50.4
Japan 31.8 37.4
USA 126.6 95.9
Germany 25.8 30.3
Rest of Europe 51.4 59.7
Rest of Asia 44.2 34.9
Rest of World 13.3 17.9
Total 385.5 360.1
Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax)
2015
£m
2014
£m
UK 206.6 212.4
China 0.7 0.4
Japan 0.5 0.7
USA 29.0 30.0
Germany 17.7 27.3
Rest of World 9.9 11.5
Total 264.4 282.3
4 Auditor’s remuneration
2015
£000
2014
£000
Audit of these Financial Statements 125 136
Amounts received by the auditor and its associates in respect of:
– Audit of Financial Statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 282 283
– Taxation compliance services 31 21
– Audit related services 29 1
Total fees paid to the auditor and its associates 467 441 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   89
5 Research and development (R&D)
The total R&D spend by the Group is as follows:
2015 2014
Nanotechnology
Tools
£m
Industrial
Products
£m
Total
£m
Nanotechnology
Tools
£m
Industrial
Products
£m
Total
£m
R&D expense charged to the  
Consolidated Statement of Income 22.5 8.3 30.8 17.6 7.5 25.1
Less: depreciation of R&D related fixed assets (0.2) (0.7) (0.9) (0.2) (0.6) (0.8)
Add: amounts capitalised as fixed assets 0.9 1.1 2.0 0.6 1.5 2.1
Less: amortisation of R&D costs previously  
capitalised as intangibles (3.2) (1.5) (4.7) (3.0) (0.9) (3.9)
Add: amounts capitalised as intangible assets 6.1 1.9 8.0 3.8 1.6 5.4
Total cash spent on R&D during the year 26.1 9.1 35.2 18.8 9.1 27.9
An additional £0.7m impairment of capitalised development is included within administration and shared services in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income relating to the refocusing of the Plasma Technology business. 
6 Acquisitions
Andor Technology plc
On 21 January 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the issued listed share capital of Andor Technology plc for a net cash consideration of £158.1m. 
Andor is a market leading supplier of high performance optical cameras, microscope systems and software.
The book and fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are given in the table below. Fair value adjustments have been made to better align 
the accounting policies of the acquired business with the Group accounting policies and to reflect the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired. 
The business has been acquired for the purpose of integrating into the Nanotechnology Tools segment where it is believed that synergies can be 
obtained particularly in respect of routes to market.
Book value
£m
Adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Intangible fixed assets 9.4 70.2 79.6
Tangible fixed assets 6.0 (4.0) 2.0
Inventories 11.1 2.5 13.6
Trade and other receivables 10.3 0.5 10.8
Trade and other payables (13.5) (2.0) (15.5)
Deferred tax (0.5) (14.2) (14.7)
Cash 17.2 — 17.2
Net assets acquired 40.0 53.0 93.0
Goodwill 82.3
Total consideration 175.3
Cash acquired (17.2)
Net cash outflow relating to the acquisition 158.1
During the year ended 31 March 2015, as a result of access to further information, management made some amendments to the provisional fair 
value adjustments presented in the prior year. As this was within the hindsight period, as allowed by IFRS 3, the difference has been included within 
goodwill. As the difference is not material, the prior year balance sheet has not been restated. 
The goodwill arising is not tax deductible and is considered to represent the value of the acquired workforce and synergistic benefits expected 
to arise from the acquisition. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 90
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
6 Acquisitions continued
Roentgenanalytik Systeme GmbH
On 31 December 2013 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Roentgenanalytik Systeme GmbH for a net cash consideration 
of £1.6m. The company specialises in designing and supplying instruments for coating thickness measurement and material analysis, 
using X-ray fluorescence (XRF).
The book and fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are given in the table below. Fair value adjustments have been made to better align 
the accounting policies of the acquired business with the Group accounting policies and to reflect the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired. 
The business has been acquired to strengthen Oxford Instruments’ range of XRF materials and coating thickness analysers.
Book value
£m
Adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Intangible fixed assets — 1.2 1.2
Inventories 0.2 — 0.2
Trade and other receivables 0.1 — 0.1
Trade and other payables (0.3) 0.2 (0.1)
Cash 0.1 — 0.1
Net assets acquired 0.1 1.4 1.5
Goodwill 0.2
Total consideration 1.7
Cash acquired (0.1)
Net cash outflow relating to the acquisition 1.6
The goodwill arising is tax deductible in full and is considered to represent the value of the acquired workforce and synergistic benefits expected 
to arise from the acquisition.
RMG Technology Ltd
On 8 November 2013 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of RMG Technology Limited for an initial net cash consideration 
of £5.7m. RMG is a UK business specialising in Laser Induced Breakdown Spectrography. 
The book and fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are given in the table below. Fair value adjustments have been made to better align 
the accounting policies of the acquired business with the Group accounting policies. The business has been acquired for the purpose of integrating 
into the Industrial Analysis segment where it will add a unique hand-held analyser to the Group’s product portfolio.
Book value
£m
Adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Intangible fixed assets — 8.2 8.2
Inventories 0.1 — 0.1
Trade and other receivables 0.2 — 0.2
Trade and other payables (0.3) — (0.3)
Deferred tax — (1.6) (1.6)
Cash 0.4 — 0.4
Net assets acquired 0.4 6.6 7.0
Goodwill 0.5
Total consideration 7.5
Cash acquired (0.4)
Contingent consideration at acquisition (1.4)
Net cash outflow relating to the acquisition 5.7
In the current period, it is no longer considered that the £1.4m relating to contingent consideration on the acquisition of RMG Technology Limited 
will be payable, and it has been released to other operating income (see Note 1). 
The goodwill arising is not tax deductible and is considered to represent the value of the acquired workforce and synergistic benefits expected 
to arise from the acquisition.  Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   91
7 Financial income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest receivable 0.1 0.3
Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments — 4.1
0.1 4.4
8 Financial expenditure
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest payable 5.3 1.5
Interest charge on pension scheme net liabilities 1.9 2.0
Unwind of discount on contingent consideration 1.1 0.9
Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments 4.8 —
13.1 4.4
9 Personnel costs
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 101.6 83.8
Social security costs 11.7 9.4
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 4.4 3.7
(Credit)/charge in respect of employee share options (0.2) 1.6
117.5 98.5
Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 66 of this Annual Report.
10 Employees 
The average number of people employed by the Group (including Directors and temporary employees) during the year was as follows:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Production 1,047 958
Sales and marketing 581 478
Research and development 462 337
Administration and shared services 330 277
Total average number of employees 2,420 2,050 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 92
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
11 Share option schemes
The Group operates three share option schemes:
All employee Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Group’s HM Revenue and Customs approved SIP . Participating employees make a cash contribution 
to the plan each month. The Group contributes a further amount equal to 20% of the employee’s contribution. Independent trustees then purchase 
matching shares in the market on behalf of the employees. The matching shares vest on the completion by the participating employee of a further 
three years’ service and can be withdrawn from the plan tax-free after five years’ service.
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESO)
Options awarded under the Executive Share Option Scheme are made annually to certain senior managers. The exercise prices are determined according 
to the mid-market closing share price on the day before the date of grant. Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years. 
Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Scheme (SELTIS)
Options awarded under the Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Scheme are made annually to certain senior managers. The exercise prices are nil. 
Options have a life of seven years and a vesting period of three years.
Both the Executive Share Option Scheme and Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Scheme are subject to performance conditions which can 
be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 66.
Performance Share Plan Scheme (PSP)
Under the 2014 Performance Share Plan awards of performance shares (or nil cost options) are made annually to certain senior managers. Awards 
have a life of ten years with vesting subject to achievement of performance targets and a vesting period of a minimum of three years (but may be 
up to five years).
Administrative expenses include a credit of £0.2m (2014: charge of £1.6m) in respect of the cost of providing share options. The credit in the current 
year arose as a result of options granted in 2012 under the Executive Share Option Scheme failing to meet their vesting conditions. The cost of share 
options is calculated by estimating the fair value of the option at grant date and spreading that amount over the vesting period after adjusting 
for an expectation of non-vesting.
Fair values are determined using an internal valuation model based on a modified Black-Scholes model. Expected volatility has been based on historical 
volatility over a period of time of the same length as the expected option life and ending on the grant date. Half of the ESO options issued before 
2009, half of the PSP options and all SELTIS options use T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) as a performance condition. As TSR is a market-based performance 
condition, the accounting treatment differs from that for options subject to non-market performance conditions. This means that the TSR performance 
conditions have been incorporated into the calculation of the fair value as a discount in calculating the fair value.
For options granted in the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2014, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation 
are as follows:
Senior Executive
Long Term
Incentive 
Scheme
Performance 
Share 
Plan Scheme
Executive 
Share Option Scheme
Executive 
Share Option Scheme
June 
2014
October 
2014
June 
2014
July 
2014
June
2013
March
2014
Fair value at measurement date £9.62 £6.58 £5.50 £4.77 £5.49 £4.99
Share price at grant date £13.95 £9.72 £13.95 £12.37 £14.55 £12.72
Exercise price £nil £nil £14.15 £12.61 £14.55 £12.89
Expected volatility 35.8% 34.6% 41.9% 41.6% 40.7% 41.8%
Expected option life (expressed as weighted average 
life used in the modelling) 3 years 3 years 6 years 6 years 6 years 6 years
Expected dividend yield 0.9% 1.3% 0.9% 1.0% 0.8% 0.9%
Risk free interest rate 1.3% 1.0% 2.2% 2.1% 1.5% 2.1% Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   93
11 Share option schemes continued
Performance Share Plan Scheme (PSP) continued
The options existing at the year end were as follows:
2015
Number
of shares
Exercise
price Period when exercisable
2014
Number
of shares
Options subsisting at the year end on unissued ordinary shares
Executive Share Option Schemes
July 2004 — £2.18 15/07/07–14/07/14 1,500
July 2005 980 £2.19 15/07/08–14/07/15 1,715
July 2006 9,500 £2.10 15/07/09–14/07/16 10,250
September 2007 6,000 £2.32 28/08/10–27/09/17 6,000
December 2008 12,839 £1.35 16/12/11–15/12/18 14,839
December 2009 24,646 £2.04 17/12/12–16/12/19 35,051
January 2011 111,075 £7.05 07/01/14–06/01/21 136,987
December 2011 369,470 £9.90 14/12/14–13/12/21 433,050
December 2012 320,750 £13.88 19/12/15–18/12/22 373,775
June 2013 10,670 £14.55 12/06/16–11/06/23 10,670
March 2014 94,000 £12.89 20/03/17–19/03/24 110,000
June 2014 388,600 £14.15 13/06/17–12/06/24 —
July 2014 19,813 £12.61 08/07/17–07/07/24 —
Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares 1,368,343 1,133,837
Percentage of issued share capital 2.4% 2.0%
Performance Share Plan
October 2014 120,325 nil 10/10/17–09/10/21 —
Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares 120,325 —
Percentage of issued share capital 0.2% —
Options subsisting at the year end on existing ordinary shares held in trust
Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Scheme
January 2011 15,500 nil 07/01/14–06/01/18 15,500
December 2011 — nil 14/12/14–13/12/18 39,800
December 2012 32,800 nil 19/12/15–18/12/19 32,800
June 2014 21,400 nil 19/12/15–18/12/19 —
Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares held in trust 69,700 88,100
Percentage of issued share capital 0.1% 0.2%
The number and weighted average exercise prices of those options were as follows:
Weighted
average
exercise price
2015
Number
of
options
2015
Weighted
average
exercise price
2014
Number
of
options
2014
Outstanding at the beginning of the period £9.94 1,221,937 £8.47 1,561,215
Granted during the year £10.58 570,238 £13.04 120,670
Forfeited during the year £12.42 (137,945) £10.37 (42,270)
Exercised during the year £5.68 (40,501) £4.85 (334,005)
Lapsed during the year £9.74 (55,361) £7.10 (83,673)
Outstanding at the year end £10.46 1,558,368 £9.94 1,221,937
Exercisable at the year end £8.26 550,010 £4.96 221,842
The weighted average share price at the time of exercise of the options was £12.06 (2014: £16.98). Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 94
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
12 Income tax expense 
Recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 6.5 6.5
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.3) (0.1)
6.2 6.4
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (9.0) 0.2
Recognition of deferred tax not previously recognised — —
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.6) (0.8)
(9.6) (0.6)
Total tax (credit)/expense (3.4) 5.8
Reconciliation of effective tax rate 
(Loss)/profit before income tax (9.7) 24.0
Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 21% (2014: 23%) (2.0) 5.5
Effect of: 
Tax rates other than the UK standard rate 1.2 1.7
Change in rate at which deferred tax recognised — (0.2)
Non-taxable income and expenses (1.5) (0.1)
Tax incentives not recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income — (0.4)
Recognition of deferred tax not previously recognised — —
Movement in unrecognised deferred tax (0.2) 0.2
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.9) (0.9)
Total tax (credit)/expense (3.4) 5.8
Taxation (credit)/charge recognised in other comprehensive income
Deferred tax – relating to employee benefits (2.3) 1.0
(2.3) 1.0
Taxation charge recognised directly in equity
Deferred tax – relating to share options 0.2 0.4
On 20 March 2013 the Chancellor announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% by 1 April 2015.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) and to 23% (effective 1 April 2013) were substantively 
enacted on 26 March 2012 and 3 July 2012 respectively. Further reductions to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) 
were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. The UK deferred tax balances at 31 March 2015 have been calculated based on the rate of 20% which 
was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
13 Dividends per share
The following dividends per share were paid by the Group:
2015
pence
2014
pence
Previous year interim dividend 3.36 3.05
Previous year final dividend 9.04 8.15
12.40 11.20 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   95
13 Dividends per share continued
The following dividends per share were proposed by the Group in respect of each accounting year presented:
2015
pence
2014
pence
Interim dividend 3.70 3.36
Final dividend 9.30 9.04
13.00 12.40
The interim dividend was not provided for at the year end and was paid on 9 April 2015. The payment of the interim dividend remains discretionary 
until it is paid. The final proposed dividend of 9.30p per share (2014: 9.04p) was not provided at the year end and will be paid on 22 October 
2015 subject to authorisation by the Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
14 Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Fixtures and
fittings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2013 23.8 47.3 9.4 80.5
Additions – business combinations 0.9 0.9 0.2 2.0
Additions – other 1.2 5.0 0.6 6.8
Disposals (0.8) (3.5) (0.1) (4.4)
Transfer to intangible assets — (0.9) — (0.9)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates (0.8) (1.4) (0.2) (2.4)
Balance at 31 March 2014 24.3 47.4 9.9 81.6
Balance at 1 April 2014 24.3 47.4 9.9 81.6
Additions – other 0.2 3.6 0.6 4.4
Disposals — (1.9) — (1.9)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates 0.1 1.0 — 1.1
Balance at 31 March 2015 24.6 50.1 10.5 85.2
Depreciation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 April 2013 6.3 34.8 6.5 47.6
Depreciation charge for the year 0.9 3.3 0.8 5.0
Disposals (0.7) (3.2) (0.1) (4.0)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates (0.3) (1.0) (0.1) (1.4)
Balance at 31 March 2014 6.2 33.9 7.1 47.2
Balance at 1 April 2014 6.2 33.9 7.1 47.2
Depreciation charge for the year 1.0 4.1 0.5 5.6
Disposals — (1.7) — (1.7)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates 0.3 0.7 — 1.0
Balance at 31 March 2015 7.5 37.0 7.6 52.1
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2013 17.5 12.5 2.9 32.9
At 31 March 2014 and 1 April 2014 18.1 13.5 2.8 34.4
At 31 March 2015 17.1 13.1 2.9 33.1
At 31 March 2015, the net book value of plant and equipment included £1.2m (2014: £1.0m) of assets under construction. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 96
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
15 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Customer
related
acquired
intangibles
£m
Technology
related
acquired
intangibles
£m
Development
costs
acquired
intangibles
£m
Development
costs
internally
generated
£m
Software 
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2013 25.8 28.8 60.4 4.9 38.2 — 158.1
Additions – business combinations 83.6 19.6 67.6 1.8 — — 172.6
Additions – internally generated — — — — 5.4 — 5.4
Transfers from property, plant and equipment — — — — — 0.9 0.9
Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates (1.4) (2.0) (2.8) (0.2) (0.5) — (6.9)
Balance at 31 March 2014 108.0 46.4 125.2 6.5 43.1 0.9 330.1
Balance at 1 April 2014 108.0 46.4 125.2 6.5 43.1 0.9 330.1
Additions – internally generated — — — — 8.0 1.0 9.0
Effect of movements in foreign 
exchange rates (0.4) 1.7 (1.5) (0.6) (0.8) — (1.6)
Balance at 31 March 2015 107.6 48.1 123.7 5.9 50.3 1.9 337.5
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 April 2013 1.3 17.3 19.7 2.0 25.9 — 66.2
Amortisation and impairment charge for the year 0.4 5.1 6.6 2.6 3.9 — 18.6
Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates (0.1) (1.2) (0.4) (0.1) (0.8) — (2.6)
Balance at 31 March 2014 1.6 21.2 25.9 4.5 29.0 — 82.2
Balance at 1 April 2014 1.6 21.2 25.9 4.5 29.0 — 82.2
Amortisation and impairment charge 
for the year — 7.3 14.2 0.2 5.4 — 27.1
Effect of movements in foreign 
exchange rates (0.2) 0.6 (2.7) (0.6) (0.2) — (3.1)
Balance at 31 March 2015 1.4 29.1 37.4 4.1 34.2 — 106.2
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2013 24.5 11.5 40.7 2.9 12.3 — 91.9
At 31 March 2014 and 1 April 2014 106.4 25.2 99.3 2.0 14.1 0.9 247.9
At 31 March 2015 106.2 19.0 86.3 1.8 16.1 1.9 231.3
The transfers from property, plant and equipment in the prior year relate to identifiable software assets.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated to individual CGUs as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Nanotechnology Tools
NanoScience 6.3 2.2
NanoAnalysis 9.3 3.9
Asylum 20.8 8.8
Andor 61.4 —
Unallocated — 83.0
Industrial Products
Industrial Analysis 3.6 4.0
Magnetic Resonance 2.3 2.3
Austin Scientific 1.8 1.6
Service
OI Service 0.7 0.6
106.2 106.4 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   97
15 Intangible assets continued
The unallocated goodwill in the prior year related to the acquisition of Andor Technology plc (see Note 6). In the current year this has been 
allocated to the Andor, Nanoscience, Nanoanalysis and Asylum CGUs. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Accounting standards require an impairment test to be carried out by determining the recoverable amount of each cash generating unit which 
contains goodwill. The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of the fair value less costs to sell or the value in use of the CGU. In the Group’s 
case the recoverable amount is based on value in use calculations. Value in use is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows and in particular 
Board-approved five year cash flow forecasts, prepared by the management of each CGU, are used together with 3% (2014: 2.5%) per annum 
revenue growth and 1% growth in overheads for each CGU for the subsequent 20 years. These assumptions, combined with the operational 
leverage of the CGUs, result in cash flow growth for the subsequent 20 years ranging from 4.9% to 9.4%. These rates are considered 
to be at or below long term market trends for the Group’s businesses. 
Key assumptions
The key assumptions are those regarding discount rates, growth rates, expected selling volumes and prices and direct costs during the period.
The growth rates are based on industry growth factors. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations 
of future changes in the market.
The pre-tax weighted average costs of capital used for Nanotechnology T ools, Industrial Products and Service in impairment testing are 13.6%–14.2% 
(2014: 13.2%–15.3%), 13.8%–14.3% (2014: 12.3%–14.1%) and 14.8% (2014: 14.7%) respectively in line with the risk associated with each 
of the business segments. Management have estimated these discount rates by reference to past experience and an industry average weighted 
cost of capital as adjusted for appropriate risk factors reflecting current economic circumstances and the risk profiles of each CGU.
Sensitivity analysis
The Group’s estimate of impairments is most sensitive to changes in the discount rate and forecast cash flows. Sensitivity analysis has been carried 
out by reference to both of these assumptions. This demonstrated that a 170 basis point increase in the discount rate would be required in order to 
result in an impairment in the Andor business, with no impairment arising in any other business. Similarly a 285 basis point reduction in the growth 
rate would be required in order to result in an impairment in the Andor business, with no impairment arising in any other business. The Andor 
business is recently acquired and consequently it is to be expected that its carrying value and fair value are very similar. Accordingly, it is not 
surprising that an adverse change in assumptions would lead to an impairment charge.
16 Deferred tax
Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
Property, 
plant and
equipment
£m
Inventory
£m
Employee 
benefits
£m
Intangible 
assets
£m
Tax losses
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance 31 March 2013 1.4 2.5 15.0 (5.7) 3.4 2.2 18.8
Reclassification — — (0.7) 0.7 — — —
Recognised in income (1.4) 0.7 (1.5) 4.2 (2.3) 0.9 0.6
Recognised in other comprehensive income — — (1.0) — — — (1.0)
Recognised directly in equity — — (0.4) — — — (0.4)
Acquisitions 0.3 (0.7) — (18.6) 1.3 — (17.7)
Foreign exchange 0.1 (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) — (0.3) (1.1)
Balance 31 March 2014 0.4 2.2 11.1 (19.7) 2.4 2.8 (0.8)
Reclassification — — — — — — —
Recognised in income (1.1) 0.7 (0.9) 6.7 2.0 2.2 9.6
Recognised in other comprehensive income — — 2.3 — — — 2.3
Recognised directly in equity — — (0.2) — — — (0.2)
Acquisitions — — — 0.9 0.8 (0.2) 1.5
Foreign exchange (0.1) — 0.2 1.0 (0.3) 0.7 1.5
Balance 31 March 2015 (0.8) 2.9 12.5 (11.1) 4.9 5.5 13.9 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 98
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
16 Deferred tax continued
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset as follows:
Assets Liabilities Net
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Gross assets/(liabilities) 38.9 25.0 (25.0) (25.8) 13.9 (0.8)
Offset (18.8) (13.8) 18.8 13.8 — —
Net assets/(liabilities) 20.1 11.2 (6.2) (12.0) 13.9 (0.8)
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Deductible temporary differences 1.1 1.2
Tax losses 4.9 10.7
6.0 11.9
The tax losses and the deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised 
in respect of these items as it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available in the subsidiaries concerned against which the Group 
can utilise the brought forward tax losses.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of £56.4m (2014: £37.4m) of undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries since 
the majority of such distributions would not be taxable. In other cases the Group considers that it is able to control the timing of remittances 
so that any tax is not expected to arise in the foreseeable future.
17 Inventories
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 21.2 23.0
Work in progress 28.0 26.2
Finished goods 21.6 19.1
70.8 68.3
The amount of inventory recognised as an expense was £190.3m (2014: £172.0m). In the ordinary course of business, the Group makes impairment 
provisions for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory as appropriate. Inventory is stated after charging impairments of £2.9m in the current 
period (2014: £0.5m). There were no credits reversing previous impairments in either the current or prior period. Impairments are included within 
gross profit.
Inventory carried at fair value less costs to sell is £nil (2014: £0.7m). Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   99
18 Trade and other receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 78.1 75.3
Less provision for impairment of receivables (2.3) (1.6)
Net trade receivables 75.8 73.7
Prepayments and accrued income 6.5 4.4
Other receivables 5.0 2.8
87.3 80.9
Trade receivables are non-interest-bearing. Standard credit terms provided to customers differ according to business and country and are typically 
between 30 and 60 days.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by geographic region was:
2015
£m
2014
£m
UK 6.7 5.7
China 12.3 12.3
Japan 10.6 11.5
USA 26.7 20.1
Germany 4.2 4.6
Rest of Europe 10.1 12.2
Rest of Asia 8.0 5.7
Rest of the World 3.7 4.4
Total 82.3 76.5
The ageing of financial assets comprising net trade receivables and other receivables at the reporting date was:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current (not overdue) 50.7 44.8
Less than 31 days overdue 18.0 18.6
More than 30 days but less than 91 days overdue 8.5 9.4
More than 90 days overdue 5.1 3.7
82.3 76.5
In both periods presented the entire provision against trade receivables relates to balances more than 90 days overdue. 
The movement in the allowance for impairment of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Balance at start of year 1.6 1.5
Acquired on acquisition — 0.3
Increase/(decrease) in allowance 0.7 (0.2)
Balance at end of year 2.3 1.6
Valuation allowances are used to record provisions for credit losses. The valuation allowance is reduced and the asset impaired when the customer 
is in liquidation. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 100
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
19 Financial risk management
The Group’s multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks. In the course of its business, the Group is exposed 
to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, commodity risk and credit risk. Financial risk management policies are set by the Board of 
Directors. These policies are implemented by a central treasury function that has formal procedures to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate 
risk and liquidity risk, including, where appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments. Commodity risk is managed locally by the operating 
businesses. The Group has clearly defined authority and approval limits.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
Such instruments are only used to manage the risks arising from operating or financial assets or liabilities or highly probable future transactions.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain 
commodity prices.
The Group has adopted hedge accounting for a limited number of related commodity contracts as outlined below. However, in common with 
a number of other companies, the Group has decided that the additional costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements of IAS 39 
to apply hedge accounting to derivative financial instruments used for hedging exposure to foreign currency and interest rate volatility cannot 
be justified. Accordingly the Group does not use hedge accounting for such derivatives.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the respective functional currencies 
of Group companies (transactional exposures) and where the results of overseas companies are consolidated into the Group’s reporting currency 
of Sterling (translational exposures). The Group has operations around the world which record their results in a variety of different local functional 
currencies. In countries where the Group does not have operations, it invariably has some customers or suppliers that transact in a foreign currency. 
The Group is therefore exposed to the changes in foreign currency exchange rates between a number of different currencies but the Group’s primary 
exposures relate to the US Dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen. To reduce uncertainty the Group maintains a rolling hedge equivalent to 80% 
of the exposure expected to arise over the following 12 months. The hedge comprises a mixture of fixed forward contracts and option based 
products. The remaining 20% is sold on the spot market as it arises. The fair value of outstanding currency contracts recognised as a liability 
as at 31 March 2015 amount to £4.1m (2014: £0.4m) and those recognised as an asset amount to £3.4m (2014: £5.3m).
Movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income immediately. 
However, in order to facilitate a more meaningful comparison of the Group’s performance year on year the element of these movements 
that relate to hedges in respect of future sales are treated as an adjusting item in the calculation of adjusted earnings (see Note 1).
The Group’s translational exposures to foreign currency risks can relate both to the Consolidated Statement of Income and net assets of overseas 
subsidiaries. The Group’s policy is not to hedge the translational exposure that arises on consolidation of the consolidated statements of income 
of overseas subsidiaries. 
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk comprises both the interest rate price risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the interest cash flow 
risk that results from borrowing at variable rates. The Group’s policy is to use a mixture of revolving short and medium term floating rate debt 
under pinned by longer term fixed rate debt. The short and medium term floating rate debt provides flexibility to reduce debt levels as appropriate. 
The longer term fixed rate debt provides stability and cost certainty to the Group’s financing structure. 
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk represents the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing 
this risk is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed 
conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group manages this risk by maintaining adequate 
committed lines of funding from high quality lenders. The facilities committed to the Group as at 31 March 2015 are set out in Note 22.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets such as cash 
balances, derivative financial instruments, trade and other receivables. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and 
cash balances. The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are net of appropriate allowances for doubtful receivables, 
estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. Trade receivables 
are subject to credit limits and control and approval procedures in the operating companies.
Due to its large geographic base and number of customers, the Group is not exposed to material concentrations of credit risk on its trade 
receivables. Credit risk associated with cash balances and derivative financial instruments is managed by transacting with financial institutions 
with high quality credit ratings. In particular a Board-approved policy sets out guidelines for which categories of institutions may be used and 
the maximum amount which may be invested with each institution within a particular category. Accordingly the Group’s associated credit risk 
is limited. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying 
amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   101
19 Financial risk management continued
Credit risk continued
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 March 2015 
was £109.3m (2014: £114.4m).
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 75.8 73.7
Other receivables 5.0 2.8
Cash and cash equivalents 25.1 32.6
Forward exchange contracts 3.4 5.3
109.3 114.4
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables is discussed in Note 18.
Other receivables include £0.9m (2014: £1.5m) in respect of VAT and similar taxes which are not past due date.
Commodity risk
The Group is exposed to changes in commodity prices, particularly in respect of copper used as a major component in one of the Group’s USA 
operations. It manages this exposure using derivative commodity hedging instruments.
At 31 March 2015, the Group had outstanding commodity hedge contracts with a fair value asset of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m liability) that were 
designated and effective as cash flow hedges of committed and highly probable forecast transactions. Fair value movements of these contracts 
have been deferred in equity until the hedged transaction takes place. These contracts all mature within one year of the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position date.
A £0.2m gain net of tax (2014: £0.1m loss) has been deferred in equity as at 31 March 2015 in respect of these contracts. A loss of £0.1m 
(2014: £0.2m loss) has been recycled to current assets (inventory) in respect of contracts designated as cash flow hedges that have matured 
during the year to 31 March 2015.
Capital management
The Board considers capital to comprise share capital, reserves and the net cash or net debt position of the Company. The Company 
was in a net debt position at the year end. Total capital at the end of the current year totalled £243.4m (2014: £264.5m).
The Board’s long term objective is to have an efficient capital structure by maintaining a balance between the higher returns that might be possible 
with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position. This is monitored by reference to the ratio 
of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and the Board has set itself internal limits, which are well inside 
any covenants the Group has with lenders. The Group maintains the right to purchase its own shares in the market; the timing of these purchases 
would depend on market prices. Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board.
The Board carefully considers dividend payments and the Company moved from a fixed dividend policy to a progressive one in the year ended 
March 2011. In doing this the Board will look to increase dividends as adjusted earnings per share increase although there will not be a direct 
correlation. The Board does not have a policy to pay a fixed dividend yield or to maintain a fixed rate of dividend cover, but assesses both 
of these metrics together with dividends paid by peers when assessing what dividend to recommend.
As set out in the Chief Executive’s Statement the Group’s strategy is to grow its business in its core markets of physical and materials science and 
to exploit convergence to expand into life sciences. An essential part of this will be to make acquisitions. In line with the objective of maintaining 
a balance between borrowings and equity the Group would seek to finance smaller “bolt-on” acquisitions from operating cash flow thus maintaining 
balance sheet efficiency. Larger acquisitions would be financed either by equity or a mixture of equity and debt so as to ensure the Group has 
a manageable ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
The Board encourages employees to hold shares in the Company. As well as various share option plans (full details of which are given in Note 11), 
from April 2008 all UK employees have been offered the opportunity to take part in a Share Incentive Plan (SIP). Under this plan, employees are 
able to invest up to £1,500 each tax year in shares in the Company. The Company awards one additional free share (a matching share) for every 
five shares bought by each employee.
There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries 
are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.  Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 102
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
20 Financial instruments
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities together with the carrying amounts shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
are as follows:
Fair
value
hierarchy
Carrying
amount
2015
£m
Fair
value
2015
£m
Carrying
amount
2014
£m
Fair
value
2014
£m
Assets carried at amortised cost
Trade receivables 75.8 75.8 73.7 73.7
Other receivables 5.0 5.0 2.8 2.8
Cash and cash equivalents 25.1 25.1 32.6 32.6
Assets carried at fair value
Derivative financial instruments:
– Copper hedging contracts (designated as an IAS 39 hedge) 2 0.1 0.1 — —
– Foreign currency contracts 2 3.3 3.3 5.3 5.3
3.4 3.4 5.3 5.3
Liabilities carried at fair value
Derivative financial instruments:
– Foreign currency contracts 2 (4.1) (4.1) (0.4) (0.4)
– Copper hedging contracts (designated as an IAS 39 hedge) 2 — — (0.1) (0.1)
Contingent consideration 3 (17.5) (17.5) (10.7) (10.7)
(21.6) (21.6) (11.2) (11.2)
Liabilities carried at amortised cost
Trade and other payables (86.9) (86.9) (84.9) (84.9)
Borrowings (144.0) (144.0) (156.9) (156.9)
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the above table.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are marked to market using market prices.
Fixed and floating rate borrowings
The fair value of fixed and floating rate borrowings is estimated by discounting the future contracted principal and interest cash flows using 
the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the carrying amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. All other  
receivables/payables are discounted to determine their fair value. Advances received are excluded from other payables above as these 
are not considered to be financial liabilities.
Contingent consideration
The fair value of contingent consideration is estimated based on the forecast future performance of the acquired business over a timeframe 
determined as part of the acquisition agreement, discounted as appropriate. Key assumptions include growth rates, expected selling volumes 
and prices and direct costs during the period.
Fair value hierarchy 
The table above gives details of the valuation method used in arriving at the fair value of financial instruments. The different levels have been 
identified as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities;
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. 
There have been no transfers between levels during the year. Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   103
20 Financial instruments continued
Maturity of financial liabilities
31 March 2015
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
Due
within
one year
£m
Due
1–5 years
£m
Trade and other payables 86.9 86.9 86.1 0.8
Contingent consideration 17.5 18.8 18.8 —
Foreign exchange contracts 4.1 4.1 4.1 —
Borrowings 144.0 144.0 — 144.0
252.5 253.8 109.0 144.8
31 March 2014
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
Due
within
one year
£m
Due
1–5 years
£m
Trade and other payables 84.9 84.9 81.8 3.1
Contingent consideration 10.7 12.9 1.4 11.5
Foreign exchange contracts 0.4 0.4 0.4 —
Copper hedging contracts 0.1 0.1 0.1 —
Borrowings 156.9 156.9 15.5 141.4
253.0 255.2 99.2 156.0
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Carrying
amount
2015
£m
Carrying
amount
2014
£m
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets 25.1 32.6
Financial liabilities (74.8) (87.8)
Fixed rate instruments
Financial liabilities (69.2) (69.1)
Sensitivity analysis
The Group has estimated the impact on the Consolidated Statement of Income and on Equity of the following changes in market conditions 
at the balance sheet date:
• one percentage point increase in interest rates;
• ten percentage point weakening in the value of Sterling against all currencies;
• ten percentage point strengthening in the value of Sterling against all currencies;
• five percentage point increase in the cost of copper; and 
• five percentage point decrease in the cost of copper.
The sensitivities above represent the Directors’ view of reasonably possible changes in each risk variable, not worst case scenarios or stress tests. 
The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur at the year end and 
are applied to the risk exposures at that date. Accordingly they show the impact on the balance sheet of an instantaneous shock. The calculations 
include all hedges in place at the year end. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 104
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
20 Financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis continued
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to commercial actions taken to mitigate any potential losses from such 
rate movements, to the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring and to further developments in global financial markets. As such this 
table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses.
1% increase
in interest
rates
£m
10% 
weakening
in Sterling
1
£m
10% 
strengthening
in Sterling
2
£m
5% increase
in copper
prices
£m
5% decrease
in copper
prices
£m
At 31 March 2015
Impact on Consolidated Statement of Income — 5.5 (4.5) — —
Impact on equity — 5.5 (4.5) — —
At 31 March 2014
Impact on Consolidated Statement of Income — 4.5 (3.7) — —
Impact on equity — 4.5 (3.7) 0.1 (0.1)
1 Of the effect on the Consolidated Statement of Income, £6.3m (2014: £6.7m) would have been recognised on the “mark to market” line (see Note 1).
2 Of the effect on the Consolidated Statement of Income, £(5.1)m (2014: £(5.5)m) would have been recognised on the “mark to market” line (see Note 1).
21 Called up share capital
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares:
2015
Number 
of shares
2014
Number 
of shares
At the beginning of the year 57,250,835 56,916,830
Issued for cash 40,501 334,005
At the end of the year 57,291,336 57,250,835
2015 2014
Number of
shares £m
Number of
shares £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p each 57,291,336 2.9 57,250,835 2.9
Number 
of shares
Aggregate
nominal value
Consideration
per share
New issues of ordinary shares of 5p each during the year
Exercise of executive share options 31,410 £1,570 £nil–£9.90
Exercise of executive share options – share appreciation rights 9,091 £455 £0.05
The total consideration received from exercise of share options in the year was £0.2m (2014: £0.7m).
The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared, a proportionate amount of capital on a winding up of the Company 
and one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
22 Borrowings
Current
Effective
interest rate
Earlier of re-pricing
date or maturity date
2015
£m
2014
£m
Term loans – unsecured N/A N/A — 15.5
— 15.5 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   105
22 Borrowings continued
Non-current
Effective
interest rate
Earlier of re-pricing
date or maturity date
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revolving credit facility – unsecured 2.27% April 2015 74.8 72.3
European Investment Bank loan – unsecured 3.30% August 2020 24.8 24.8
Loan notes – unsecured 5.10% March 2021 44.4 44.3
144.0 141.4
The Group’s undrawn committed facilities available at 31 March 2015 were £49.1m comprising the undrawn portion of the Group’s £124.9m 
revolving credit facility. This facility expires on 28 February 2020.
The European Investment Bank loan is repayable in equal quarterly instalments commencing November 2016 with the final maturity in August 2019.
23 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates defined benefit plans in the UK and USA; both offer pensions in retirement and death in service benefit to members. Pension 
benefits are related to members’ final salary at retirement and their length of service. Both schemes have been closed to new members since 2001 
and closed to future accrual since 2010.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are:
UK
2015
£m
USA
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
UK
2014
£m
USA
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Present value of funded obligations 283.8 8.3 292.1 235.7 7.2 242.9
Fair value of plan assets (233.9) (4.7) (238.6) (191.9) (4.7) (196.6)
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 49.9 3.6 53.5 43.8 2.5 46.3
Reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligation
UK
2015
£m
USA
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
UK
2014
£m
USA
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 235.7 7.2 242.9 235.5 10.4 245.9
Interest on defined benefit obligation 10.5 0.2 10.7 10.5 0.4 10.9
Settlement loss — — — — 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (4.8) (1.0) (5.8) (5.0) (0.3) (5.3)
Settlement payments — — — — (2.8) (2.8)
Remeasurement loss/(gain) on obligation 42.4 0.8 43.2 (5.3) 0.1 (5.2)
Exchange rate adjustment — 1.1 1.1 — (0.7) (0.7)
Benefit obligation at the end of the year 283.8 8.3 292.1 235.7 7.2 242.9
Reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of the fair value of plan assets
UK
2015
£m
USA
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
UK
2014
£m
USA
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year 191.9 4.7 196.6 190.6 7.4 198.0
Interest on plan assets 8.6 0.2 8.8 8.6 0.3 8.9
Contributions by employers 6.3 0.2 6.5 5.6 0.3 5.9
Benefits paid (4.8) (1.0) (5.8) (5.0) (0.3) (5.3)
Settlement payments — — — — (2.8) (2.8)
Administrative expenses (0.4) (0.1) (0.5) (0.4) — (0.4)
Actual return on assets excluding interest income 32.3 0.1 32.4 (7.5) 0.4 (7.1)
Exchange rate adjustment — 0.6 0.6 — (0.6) (0.6)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 233.9 4.7 238.6 191.9 4.7 196.6 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 106
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
23 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Expense recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Total – defined benefit expense 1.9 2.0
Contributions to defined contribution schemes 4.4 3.7
6.3 5.7
The Group expects to contribute approximately £7.0m to defined benefit plans in the next financial year.
The pension costs are recorded in the following lines of the Consolidated Statement of Income:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost of sales 1.4 1.1
Selling and marketing costs 1.0 0.7
Administration and shared services 0.7 1.3
Research and development 1.3 0.6
Financial expenditure 1.9 2.0
6.3 5.7
Remeasurement gains and losses shown in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Actual return on assets excluding interest income 32.4 (7.1)
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme obligations 2.2 (0.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme obligations
– Financial (45.9) 2.2
– Demographic 0.5 3.9
Cumulative actuarial losses reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 April 2004, the transition date to IFRS, are 
£49.5m (2014: £39.6m).
History of experience gains and losses are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of benefit obligations 292.1 242.9 245.9 215.4 184.8
Fair value of plan assets (238.6) (196.6) (198.0) (180.2) (173.1)
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 53.5 46.3 47.9 35.2 11.7
Difference between the expected and actual return:
Amount £m 32.4 (7.1) 8.7 (3.0) 4.8
% of scheme assets 13.6% (4%) 4% (2%) 3%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:
Amount £m 2.2 (0.9) 0.4 (4.7) 10.9
% of the present value of the scheme liabilities 1% —% —% 2% (6%)
The table below shows the sensitivity of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position to changes in the significant pension assumptions:
Balance at 
31 March 2015
£m
Discount rate
(-0.1% p.a.)
£m
Inflation rate 
(+0.1% p.a.)
£m
Life expectancy
(+1 year)
£m
Value of funded obligations 292.1 297.9 297.4 300.3
Fair value of plan assets (238.6) (238.6) (238.6) (238.6)
Deficit 53.5 59.3 58.8 61.7 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   107
23 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit scheme – United Kingdom
A full actuarial valuation of the UK plan was carried out as at 31 March 2012 and has been updated to 31 March 2015 by a qualified independent 
actuary. The major assumptions used by the actuary for the purposes of IAS 19 were (in nominal terms):
As at
31 March
2015
%
As at
31 March
2014
%
Discount rate 3.4 4.5
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (3LPI) 2.4 2.5
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (5LPI) 2.9 3.1
Rate of inflation (CPI) 1.9 2.3
Mortality – pre and post-retirement – males and females 94% of S1PA tables  
(97% for females) future 
improvement in line with CMI 
2013 with 1% long term trend
94% of S1PA tables  
(97% for females) future 
improvement in line with CMI  
2013 with 1% long term trend
The mortality assumptions imply the following expected future lifetime from age 65:
2015
years
2014
years
Pre-retirement – males 22.4 23.8
Pre-retirement – females 24.5 25.9
Post-retirement – males 23.7 22.4
Post-retirement – females 26.0 24.4
The assumptions have been chosen by the Directors from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which, due to the timescales covered, may 
not be borne out in practice.
The assets in the plan were:
Value at
31 March
2015
£m
Value at
31 March
2014
£m
Equities 97.8 84.1
Corporate bonds 55.6 40.4
Gilts 34.2 36.6
Cash 24.8 13.8
Alternative 21.5 17.0
233.9 191.9
Defined benefit scheme – United States
A full actuarial valuation of the USA plan was carried out as at 1 January 2012, which for reporting purposes has been updated to 31 March 2015 
by a qualified independent actuary. The major assumptions used by the actuary for the purposes of IAS 19 were (in nominal terms):
As at 
31 March
2015
%
As at 
31 March
2014
%
Discount rate 3.75 4.50
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 0.00 0.00
Rate of inflation 2.25 2.25
Mortality – pre and post-retirement RP-2000CH with Projection  
Scale BB (fully generational), 
male and female
RP-2000CH with Projection  
Scale BB (fully generational),  
male and female Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 108
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
23 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit scheme – United States continued
The assets in the plan were:
Value at
31 March
2015
£m
Value at
31 March
2014
£m
Equities 1.9 3.0
Bonds 2.8 1.0
Property and other — 0.7
4.7 4.7
Defined contribution schemes
In the UK employees are offered participation in the defined contribution Oxford Instruments Stakeholder Plan. The Company contribution rate 
and employee contribution rate varies between grades and whether the individual had previously been in the defined benefit scheme. The Company 
contribution ranges between 4% and 14% of base salary. The Group also operates a 401k defined distribution plan in the USA. Details of pension 
schemes contributions made in respect of Directors can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
24 Trade and other payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables 36.4 37.8
Customer deposits 18.0 16.7
Social security and other taxes 3.1 3.1
Accrued expenses and deferred income 42.1 37.2
Contingent consideration due within one year 17.5 0.7
Other creditors 4.5 3.7
Current trade and other payables 121.6 99.2
Amounts due after more than one year – contingent consideration — 10.0
Amounts due after more than one year – accrued expenses 0.8 3.1
Total trade and other payables 122.4 112.3
Contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in respect of acquisitions. It is reassessed at the end of each year to its fair value. 
Contingent 
consideration
£m
Balance at 1 April 2014 10.7
Fair value of contingent consideration on acquisitions in the year —
Unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration 1.1
Contingent consideration paid (0.8)
Increase in contingent consideration 6.8
Contingent consideration released to the Consolidated Statement of Income (1.4)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 1.1
Balance at 31 March 2015 17.5 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   109
25 Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Warranties
£m
Restructuring 
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 April 2014 5.2 — 4.5 9.7
Provisions made during the year 4.7 5.8 0.2 10.7
Provisions used during the year (2.1) — (0.1) (2.2)
Provisions released during the year (0.9) — (1.4) (2.3)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.2 — — 0.2
Balance at 31 March 2015 7.1 5.8 3.2 16.1
Warranty provisions
Product warranty provisions reflect commitments made to customers on the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and included within 
the Group companies’ standard terms and conditions. Warranty commitments typically apply for a 12 month period. The provision represents the 
Directors’ best estimate of the Group’s liability based on past experience.
Restructuring provision
The restructuring provision relates to amounts provided as a result of the cost reduction programme initiated during the year. The provision 
represents the Directors’ best estimate of the liability arising. The Directors expect these amounts to be settled within the next 12 months.
Other provisions
Other provisions relate to various obligations including obligations in respect of onerous leases, obligations to employees in Japan on termination 
of their employment and claims and disputes such as intellectual property claims arising against the Group in the ordinary course of business. 
The Company has on occasion been required to take legal or other actions to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties. Provisions 
are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors, taking into 
account professional advice received, and represent the Directors’ best estimate of the likely outcome. The timing of utilisation of these provisions 
is frequently uncertain reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of various court proceedings and negotiations. Contractual and other 
provisions represent the Directors’ best estimate of the cost of settling future obligations and reflect the Directors’ assessment of the likely settlement 
method, which may change over time. However, no provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties 
against Group companies unless the Directors, taking into account professional advice received, assesses that it is more likely than not that 
such proceedings may be successful. The Group’s expectation is that the other provisions are likely to be utilised within a 12 month period. 
26 Operating leases
Leases
Non-cancellable future total minimum operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 3.6 2.6
Between one and five years 6.4 7.1
Over five years 2.0 2.7
12.0 12.4
During the year ended 31 March 2015 £2.4m was recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income in respect of operating 
leases (2014: £2.6m). 
The majority of operating leases relate to properties occupied by the Group in the course of its business. There are no material contingent rent 
payment arrangements, purchase options or escalation clauses. It is expected that most leases could be renewed on the existing or similar terms. 
The leases do not impose any material restrictions in respect of dividends, additional debt requirements or further leasing.
27 Capital commitments
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment which are expected 
to be settled in the following financial year for £nil (2014: £0.2m).
28 Contingencies
In an international group of companies a variety of legal claims arise from time to time. The Board, having taken legal advice, are of the opinion 
that any ongoing actions and investigations will not have a material impact on the Group’s financial position. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 110
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
year ended 31 March 2015
29 Related parties
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note.
The remuneration of key management personnel is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short term employee benefits 1.2 1.2
Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payment 0.1 0.6
Total 1.4 1.9
Short term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. 
During the year the Company paid £0.2m (2014: £0.2m) to Imperialise Ltd, a company for whom Nigel Keen is a Director. The payment 
was for his services as Chairman of the Group. The liability due to Imperialise Ltd at the year end was £nil (2014: £nil).
30 Principal Group entities 
Equity owned by
the Company
%
Country of
incorporation
Principal
activity
Oxford Instruments Overseas Marketing Ltd *100 UK Marketing
Oxford Instruments Industrial Products Ltd *100 UK Trading
Oxford Instruments Nanotechnology Tools Ltd *100 UK Trading
Omicron UHV Technik Ltd** *100 UK Trading
Oxford Instruments AFM Ltd *100 UK Trading
Andor Technology Ltd *100 UK Trading
Oxford Instruments America Inc. *100 USA Distribution
Oxford Instruments Service LLC *100 USA Trading
Oxford Instruments Superconductivity Wire LLC *100 USA Trading
Oxford Instruments Austin, Inc. *100 USA Trading
Oxford Instruments X-Ray Technology Inc. *100 USA Trading
Oxford Superconducting Technology LP *100 USA Trading
Omniprobe, Inc. *100 USA Trading
Oxford Instruments AFM Inc. *100 USA Trading
Bitplane Inc. *100 USA Trading
Spectral Applied Research Inc. *100 Canada Trading
Oxford Instruments KK *100 Japan Distribution
Oxford Instruments (Shanghai) Company Ltd** *100 China Trading
Oxford Instruments India Private Ltd *100 India Distribution
Oxford Instruments Analytical Oy *100 Finland Trading
Oxford Instruments SAS *100 France Distribution
Omicron Nanotechnology GmbH** *100 Germany Trading
Oxford Instruments GmbH *100 Germany Distribution
Oxford Instruments Analytical GmbH *100 Germany Trading
Roentgenanalytik Systeme GmbH *100 Germany Trading
Bitplane AG *100 Switzerland Trading
Oxford Instruments Pte Ltd *100 Singapore Marketing
** Year end is 31 December.
Equity owned by the Company represents issued ordinary share capital.
The information given above reflects only the undertakings whose results or financial position principally affect the figures in the Group 
consolidated financial statements. A full list of the Group companies as at 31 March 2015 is available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office and will be included in the company’s next annual return.
All the above companies are engaged in the research, development, manufacture, service or sale of high technology tools and systems. 
Equity owned by subsidiary companies is indicated by an asterisk (*). All the above companies are consolidated in the Group accounts. Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   111
31 Subsequent events
The interim dividend of 3.7p per share (total cost £2.1m) was paid after the year end. In addition on 9 June 2015 the Directors proposed a final 
dividend of 9.3p per ordinary share (total cost £5.3m). The total amount of £7.4m has not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
On 30 April 2015 the Group acquired Medical Imaging Resources Inc (MIR) for an initial net cash consideration of $13.4m. Further consideration 
of up to $10.1m is payable based on revenue performance in the first year after acquisition. MIR is based in Ann Arbor, Michigan and specialises 
in the build, lease and service of mobile medical imaging labs and has been acquired for integration into OI Healthcare. Some of the disclosure 
required by IFRS 3 has been omitted since, due to the timing of the acquisition, the initial accounting is incomplete at the date of this publication.
On 27 May 2015 the Group entered into a strategic alliance with GD Intressenter AB of Sweden (GDI) to create the world’s largest player in 
the highly specialised Ultra High Vacuum Surface Science field. The alliance will comprise Oxford Instruments’ Omicron Nanotechnology GmbH 
(“Omicron”) and associated subsidiaries and GDI’s Scienta Scientific AB (“Scienta”) and associated subsidiaries.
In consideration for new shares in Scienta, Oxford Instruments has transferred all of its shares in the capital of Omicron to Scienta. Oxford Instruments 
holds a 47% interest in the share capital of Scienta and GDI holds 53%.
32 Exchange rates 
The principal exchange rates to Sterling used were:
Year end rates 2015 2014
US Dollar 1.48 1.67
Euro 1.38 1.21
Yen 178 172
Average translation rates 2015 US Dollar Euro Yen
April 1.68 1.21 172
May 1.68 1.22 172
June 1.69 1.24 172
July 1.69 1.25 173
August 1.67 1.26 173
September 1.64 1.27 175
October 1.61 1.28 179
November 1.58 1.27 183
December 1.56 1.27 186
January 1.53 1.31 182
February 1.52 1.35 181
March 1.51 1.38 181
Average translation rates 2014 US Dollar Euro Yen
April 1.53 1.19 147
May 1.53 1.18 152
June 1.52 1.17 152
July 1.53 1.16 151
August 1.54 1.17 151
September 1.58 1.18 155
October 1.62 1.18 158
November 1.63 1.19 163
December 1.65 1.20 171
January 1.65 1.21 171
February 1.66 1.22 169
March 1.67 1.21 171 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 112
Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets c 3.4 2.5
Investments in subsidiary undertakings d 320.0 320.2
323.4 322.7
Current assets
Debtors (including £83.9m (2014: £84.5m) due after more than one year) e 99.0 94.3
Cash at bank and in hand 5.1 1.5
104.1 95.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts (36.1) (31.7)
Other creditors f (30.5) (13.1)
(66.6) (44.8)
Net current assets 37.5 51.0
Total assets less current liabilities 360.9 373.7
Long term loans (144.0) (141.4)
Provisions for liabilities g (0.4) —
Net assets 216.5 232.3
Share capital h 2.9 2.9
Share premium account h 61.5 61.3
Capital redemption reserve h 0.1 0.1
Other reserves h 7.6 7.6
Profit and loss account h 144.4 160.4
Equity Shareholders’ funds 216.5 232.3
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Jonathan Flint Kevin Boyd
Director Director
Company Number: 775598
Parent Company Balance Sheet 
as at 31 March 2015 Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   113
a) Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s 
Financial Statements, except as noted below. 
Basis of preparation 
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK GAAP accounting standards and under the historical cost accounting 
rules. In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit 
and loss account.
Going concern
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, based on the Directors’ opinion, after making reasonable enquiries, 
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the Balance 
Sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Fixed assets and depreciation
Depreciation is provided to write off the valuation or the cost less estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their 
estimated useful economic lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Computer equipment 4 years
Motor vehicles  4 years
Computer software 10 years
Financial instruments
The Company’s accounting policies for financial instruments under UK GAAP , namely FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Presentation, FRS 26 Financial 
Instruments: Measurement and FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, are the same as the Group’s accounting policies under IFRS, namely 
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. 
These policies are set out in accounting policy “(e) Financial instruments” in the Group accounting policies. As consolidated financial information 
has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in Notes 18, 19 and 20 to the Group Financial Statements, the Parent Company is exempt from the disclosure 
requirements of FRS 29.
Post-retirement benefits
The Company participates in a Group wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The assets of the scheme are 
held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme 
on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined 
contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme 
in respect of the accounting period. Refer to Note j for the additional disclosures required by FRS 17.
Foreign currencies
The Company enters into forward exchange contracts and options to mitigate the currency exposures that arise on sales and purchases denominated 
in foreign currencies. Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into Sterling at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the Balance Sheet date or at the appropriate forward 
contract rates. Exchange profits and losses arising from the above are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust (EBT)
Transactions of the Group-sponsored EBT are included in the Group Financial Statements. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares 
in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 114
a) Accounting policies continued
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment, where appropriate. 
Share-based payments
The share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted after 7 November 2002 and 
those not yet vested as at 1 April 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured 
at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options 
granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market conditions.
When options are granted to employees of subsidiaries of the Company, the fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense 
in the Financial Statements of the subsidiary undertaking together with the capital contribution received. In the Financial Statements of the Company, 
the options granted are recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding increase in equity.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past expectations 
or events which can be reasonably estimated. The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances 
which can be subject to change. Amounts provided represent the Group’s best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
Dividends on shares presented within Shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the Balance Sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and 
are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent 
liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
b) Loss for the year
The Company’s loss for the financial year was £8.7m (2014: profit of £27.2m).
The auditor’s remuneration comprised £125,000 (2014: £136,000) for statutory audit.
The average number of people employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year was 62 (2014: 57). All of these individuals 
were involved in administration.
The aggregate payroll costs (including Directors) of these people were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 5.2 4.0
Social security costs 0.6 0.6
Other pension costs 0.2 0.3
6.0 4.9
The share-based payment income was £0.2m (2014: expense of £0.8m). Details of the Group’s share option schemes are included in Note 11 
of the Group Financial Statements.
Full details of the emoluments paid to Directors can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 66.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   115
c) Tangible fixed assets
Software
£m
Land and
buildings
£m
Motor
vehicles
£m
Computer
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2014 0.9 — 0.1 5.2 6.2
Additions 0.9 — — 0.3 1.2
Balance at 31 March 2015 1.8 — 0.1 5.5 7.4
Depreciation
Balance at 1 April 2014 — — — 3.7 3.7
Charge for year — — — 0.3 0.3
Balance at 31 March 2015 — — — 4.0 4.0
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 0.9 — 0.1 1.5 2.5
At 31 March 2015 1.8 — 0.1 1.5 3.4
d) Investments
Investments
in subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost or valuation
Balance at 1 April 2014 338.9
Credit in respect of share options transferred to subsidiary undertakings (0.2)
Balance at 31 March 2015 338.7
Impairment 
Balance at 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015 18.7
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 320.2
At 31 March 2015 320.0
e) Debtors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 91.3 88.4
Other debtors 6.6 5.3
Prepayments and accrued income 0.3 0.1
Deferred tax asset 0.8 0.5
99.0 94.3
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings include £83.9m (2014: £84.5m) due after more than one year. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 116
f) Other creditors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade creditors 0.5 0.8
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 23.3 7.6
Tax, social security and sales related taxes 0.9 0.9
Other financial liabilities 4.2 1.4
Accruals and deferred income 1.6 2.4
30.5 13.1
g) Provisions for liabilities
Restructuring
 provision
£m
Balance at 1 April 2014 —
Provisions made during the year 0.4
Balance at 31 March 2015 0.4
Deferred tax asset
2015
£m
2014
£m
Balance at 1 April 0.5 0.5
Profit and loss credit 0.3 —
Balance at 31 March 0.8 0.5
The amounts of deferred tax assets are as follows:
Recognised
2015
£m
2014
£m
Excess of depreciation over corresponding capital allowances 0.3 0.5
Tax losses 0.5 —
0.8 0.5
The Company recognises deferred tax assets only to the extent that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying 
timing differences can be deducted. 
On 20 March 2013 the Chancellor announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% by 1 April 2015.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) and to 23% (effective 1 April 2013) were substantively 
enacted on 26 March 2012 and 3 July 2012 respectively. Further reductions to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) 
were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. The deferred tax balance at 31 March 2015 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% which 
was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Financial statements
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   117
h) Reserves
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Profit and
loss
account
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 April 2014 2.9 61.3 0.1 7.6 160.4 232.3
Loss for the year — — — — (8.7) (8.7)
Proceeds from shares issued — 0.2 — — — 0.2
Share options awarded to employees — — — — — —
Share options awarded to employees of subsidiaries — — — — (0.2) (0.2)
Dividends paid — — — — (7.1) (7.1)
Balance at 31 March 2015 2.9 61.5 0.1 7.6 144.4 216.5
Details of issued, authorised and allotted share capital are included in Note 21 of the Group Financial Statements.
Details of treasury shares held by the Company are included as a note to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Details of the Group’s share option schemes are included in Note 11 of the Group Financial Statements.
Details of dividends paid are included in Note 13 of the Group Financial Statements.
Other reserves relates to premium on shares issued as part of acquisitions made in the year to 31 March 1987.
i) Pension commitments
Defined benefit scheme
The Oxford Instruments Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme, was closed to new members from 1 April 2001 and to future accrual from the 
year to 31 March 2011. The Company continues to make deficit recovery contributions to this Scheme. Contributions are based on the pension deficit 
of the Group as a whole. The assets of the Scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
The Directors do not believe it is possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of the Scheme to individual Group members on a consistent and reasonable 
basis. Accordingly, under FRS 17 the Company is exempt from recognising its share of the net pension deficit and accounts for the scheme as though 
it were a defined contribution scheme. Details of the scheme and most recent actuarial valuation can be found in Note 23 of the Group Financial 
Statements. The contributions paid by the Company to the Oxford Instruments Pension Scheme were £0.4m (2014: £0.4m).
Stakeholder pension scheme
The Company makes contributions to a stakeholder pension scheme. The pension costs charge for the year represents contributions payable 
by the Company to the scheme. These amounted to £0.2m (2014: £0.3m). There were no outstanding contributions at the end of the financial 
year (2014: £nil).
j) Guarantees
The Company has given a guarantee to the pension scheme in respect of the liability of its UK subsidiaries to the pension scheme. The guarantee 
is for the excess of 105% of the liabilities of the scheme, calculated on the basis of Section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, over the assets of the scheme.
The Company and its UK subsidiaries have entered into a cross-guarantee for £10.0m (2014: £10.0m) in respect of overdraft facilities of which 
£nil (2014: £nil) was drawn at the year end.
k) Commitments
At 31 March 2015, capital commitments contracted were £nil (2014: £nil) and authorised were £nil (2014: £nil). 
l) Subsequent events
See Note 31 to the Group Financial Statements for details of dividends paid or declared after the Balance Sheet date.
m) Related party transactions
The Company has a related party relationship with its Directors and Executive Officers and with its wholly owned subsidiary companies.
Transactions with key management personnel are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 66. There were no other 
significant transactions with key management personnel in either the current or preceding year other than the following.
During the year the Company paid £0.2m (2014: £0.2m) to Imperialise Ltd, a company for whom Nigel Keen is a director. The payment 
was for his services as Chairman of the Group. The liability due to Imperialise Ltd at the year end was £nil (2014: £nil). Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 118
2011
(Restated)**
£m
2012 
(Restated)**
£m
2013
(Restated)**
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
Consolidated Statement of Income
Revenue 262.3 337.3 350.8 360.1 385.5
Adjusted operating profit 27.7 41.7 49.3 50.3 42.7
Other operating income 4.1 7.0 — — —
Contingent consideration deemed no longer payable 0.6 — — — 1.4
Reversal of acquisition related fair value adjustments — (1.7) (0.5) (3.7) (0.2)
Acquisition related costs — (1.5) (2.1) (7.8) (2.2)
Contingent consideration – further amount deemed payable — — — — (6.8)
Restructuring costs — — — — (9.9)
Settlement loss on US pension scheme — — — (0.1) —
Reorganisation costs and impairment (0.6) — — — —
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (4.7) (11.2) (13.8) (14.7) (21.7)
Operating profit 27.1 34.3 32.9 24.0 3.3
Net financing costs (2.1) — (4.5) — (13.0)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 25.0 34.3 28.4 24.0 (9.7)
Income tax credit/(expense) 5.9 (10.9) (7.4) (5.8) 3.4
Profit/(loss) for the year 30.9 23.4 21.0 18.2 (6.3)
Adjusted profit before tax* 24.5 40.2 47.0 47.1 35.6
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Property, plant and equipment 23.6 28.2 32.9 34.4 33.1
Intangible assets 41.6 78.1 91.9 247.9 231.3
Deferred and current tax 11.2 7.6 14.9 (3.5) 14.6
Inventories 46.6 59.3 58.1 68.3 70.8
Trade and other receivables 52.5 61.0 71.8 86.2 90.7
Trade and other payables (76.6) (99.2) (112.5) (112.8) (126.5)
Net assets excluding net cash 98.9 135.0 157.1 320.5 314.0
Cash and cash equivalents 23.7 35.1 39.2 32.6 25.1
Bank borrowings (10.6) — — (156.9) (144.0)
Net cash 13.1 35.1 39.2 (124.3) (118.9)
Provisions and other items (6.8) (7.8) (10.7) (9.7) (16.1)
Retirement benefit obligations (11.7) (35.2) (47.9) (46.3) (53.5)
Net assets employed/capital and reserves attributable 
to the Company’s equity holders 93.5 127.1 137.7 140.2 125.5
Cash flow
Net cash from operating activities 35.3 41.6 41.5 21.2 24.8
Net cash used in investing activities (8.8) (52.2) (32.3) (177.9) (14.2)
Net cash from financing activities (12.3) 22.6 (5.2) 151.3 (19.8)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash equivalents 14.2 12.0 4.0 (5.4) (9.2)
pence pence pence pence pence
Per ordinary share
Earnings – continuing 62.7 43.5 37.4 32.1 (11.1)
Adjusted earnings* 38.9 59.1 66.5 67.7 48.2
Dividends 9.0 10.0 11.2 12.4 13.0
Employees
Average number of employees 1,498 1,834 1,927 2,050 2,420
 * Adjusted numbers are stated to give a better understanding of the underlying business performance. Details of adjusting items can be found in Note 1 to the Group Financial Statements.
** Years 2011 to 2013 were restated as a result of changes to IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Benefits.
Historical Financial Summary Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   119
Company information
Shareholder Information
Financial calendar
5 March 2015 Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend
6 March 2015 Record date for interim dividend
15 March 2015 Dividend reinvestment (DRIP) last date for election
31 March 2015 Financial year end
9 April 2015 Payment of interim dividend
9 June 2015 Announcement of preliminary results
9 June 2015 Announcement of final dividend
Late July 2015 Publication of Annual Report
8 September 2015 Annual General Meeting
24 September 2015 Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend
25 September 2015 Record date for final dividend
28 September 2015 DRIP date
23 October 2015 Payment of final dividend
10 November 2015 Announcement of interim results
March 2016 Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend
March 2016 Dividend reinvestment (DRIP) last date for election
March 2016 Record date for interim dividend
31 March 2016 Financial year end
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings
You may view your shareholding and dividend history, register to receive your dividends direct to your bank account or elect to re-invest your 
dividends and register a change of address online at www.capitashareportal.com. To register to use this facility you will need your Investor code 
(IVC), which can be found on your share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Oxford Instruments plc, such as the loss of a share certificate, dividend payments, 
or a change of address should be directed, in the first instance, to the Registrar, Capita Asset Services.
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
Tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday)
Overseas callers: +44 20 8639 3399
Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Website: www.capitaassetservices.com
Correspondence should refer to Oxford Instruments plc and state clearly the registered name and address of the Shareholder. Please notify 
the Registrar promptly of any change of address. Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 120
Dividend bank mandates
If you wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account and notification to be sent to your Shareholder register address, 
please contact the Company’s Registrar at the address given above for a dividend mandate form. Overseas holders can also choose to receive 
payment directly into their bank account, or can be sent a draft in local currency. Further details are available from Capita Asset Services.
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 9ZA
Tel: 0871 664 0385 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open to 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday)
Overseas callers: +44 20 8639 3405 
Website: international.capitaregistrars.com
Duplicate share register accounts
If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our register of members. 
If that was not your intention you might consider merging them into one single entry. Please contact Capita Asset Services, which will be pleased 
to carry out your instructions.
Shareholder communications
Unless you have elected to continue to receive Shareholder communications by post, you will be notified by post or, where you have given us 
an email address for electronic notification, by email that Shareholder communications are available for viewing on the Company’s website at 
www.oxford-instruments.com/investors. The Company reserves the right to distribute any communication in hard copy if it deems this necessary.
Shareholder enquiries
Shareholders who have questions relating to the Group’s business or who wish to have additional copies of the Report and Accounts should apply to:
Company Secretary 
Oxford Instruments plc
Tubney Woods, Abingdon, Oxfordshire OX13 5QX
Tel: 01865 393200
Fax: 01865 393442
Email: info.oiplc@oxinst.com
Website: www.oxford-instruments.com
Company registration
Registered office: Tubney Woods, Abingdon, Oxfordshire OX13 5QX
Registered in England number: 775598
Website: www.oxford-instruments.com
Oxford Instruments has an extensive website which gives details of all its products and services, contact information, vacancies and latest news 
announcements. An interactive investor relations section gives information on recent trading reports, share price data and forthcoming events. 
Shareholder Information continued Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   121
Company information
Capita Share Dealing Services
A quick and easy share dealing service to either sell or buy shares in many leading UK companies is provided by Capita Share Dealing Services. 
An online and telephone facility is available, providing our Shareholders with an easy to access and simple to use service. There’ s no need to pre-register 
and there are no complicated forms to fill in. The online and telephone dealing service allows you to trade “real time” at a known price which will 
be given to you at the time you give your instruction. To deal online or by telephone all you need is your surname, Investor Code (IVC) reference 
number, full postcode and your date of birth. Your Investor Code can be found on a recent share certificate, statement or tax voucher. Should you 
not be able to locate your IVC number, please contact Capita Asset Services on 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; 
lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday–Friday). Please have the appropriate documents to hand when you log on or call, as this information 
will be needed before you can buy or sell shares.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, please contact www.capitadeal.com (online dealing) or 0871 664 0446 
(telephone dealing – calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday–Friday excluding public holidays). 
Full terms, conditions and risks apply and are available on request or by visiting www.capitadeal.com.
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares. Remember the price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed 
to get back the amount that you originally invested.
Analysis of Shareholders as at 31 March 2015
Size of shareholding
Number of 
holders % of total Total holding % of total
Up to 5,000 shares 2,325 87.54 1,478,015 2.58
5,001 to 50,000 shares 191 7.19 3,355,052 5.86
50,001 to 200,000 shares 88 3.31 7,755 0.01
Over 200,000 shares 52 1.96 52,450,514 91.55
Total 2,656 100 57,291,336 100 Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 122
Oxford Instruments Directory
Company/address Descriptor Country Telephone Fax Email
Oxford Instruments Head Office  
Tubney Woods, Abingdon, 
Oxfordshire OX13 5QX, UK
UK +44 (0)1865 393200 +44 (0)1865 393333 info.oiplc@oxinst.com
NanoTechnology Tools
NanoCharacterisation
Oxford Instruments NanoAnalysis
Halifax Road, High Wycombe, 
Buckinghamshire  
HP12 3SE, UK
Systems for materials  
analysis at the nano scale
UK +44 (0)1494 442255 +44 (0)1494 524129 nanoanalysis@oxinst.com
Arenavägen 41, 10th floor,  
121 77 Johanneshov, Sweden
Sweden +46 8 5448 1550 +46 8 5448 1558 nordiska@oxinst.com
Asylum Research
6310 Hollister Ave,  
Santa Barbara, CA 93117 USA
Systems for materials  
analysis at the nano scale
USA +1 (805) 696 6466 +1 (805) 696 6444 sba.sales@oxinst.com
Hauptstrasse 161,  
DE-68259 Mannheim, Germany
Germany +49 621 762117 0 +49 621 762117 11 sba.de.sales@oxinst.com
3–4 Shaochuan Street,  
Kaohsiung City, 80441,  
Taiwan, R.O.C.
Taiwan +886 9 3837 4589 +886 2 2794 2757 sba.tw.sales@oxinst.com
Halifax Road, High Wycombe, 
Buckinghamshire  
HP12 3SE, UK
UK +44 (0)1494 442255 +44 (0)1494 524129 sba.uk.sales@oxinst.com
Andor Technology/Bitplane/Spectral
7 Millennium Way, 
Springvale Business Park, 
Belfast, BT12 7AL UK
Scientific imaging cameras, 
spectroscopy solutions and 
microscopy systems
UK +44 (0)28 9023 7126 +44 (0)28 9031 0792 info@andor.com
Badenerstrasse 682,  
CH-8048 Zürich
Switzerland +41 44 430 11 00 +41 44 430 11 01 info@bitplane.com
9078 Leslie St., Unit 11, 
Richmond Hill, Ontario,  
Canada L4B 3L8
Canada +1 (905) 326 5040 +1 (905) 326 5041 info@spectral.ca
NanoSolutions
Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology
North End, Yatton,  
Bristol BS49 4AP, UK
Tools for nanotechnology 
fabrication
UK +44 (0)1934 837000 +44 (0)1934 837001 plasma@oxinst.com
Oxford Instruments NanoScience
Tubney Woods, Abingdon,  
Oxfordshire OX13 5QX, UK
Advanced tools for  
applied research
UK +44 (0)1865 393200 +44 (0)1865 393333 omicron.nanoscience@oxinst.com
Le plan d’Aigues, RN 7,  
13760 St.-Cannat, France
France +33 442 50 68 64 +33 442 50 68 65 omicron.nanoscience@oxinst.com
14850 Scenic Heights Road,  
Suite 140, Eden Prairie,  
MN 55344, USA
USA +1 (952) 345 5240 +1 (952) 294 8043 omicron.nanoscience@oxinst.com Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   123
Company information
Company/address Descriptor Country Telephone Fax Email
Industrial Products
Industrial Analysis
Oxford Instruments Industrial Analysis
Tubney Woods, Abingdon,  
Oxfordshire OX13 5QX, UK
Tools for QC/QA, 
environmental and  
compliance testing
UK +44 (0)1865 393200 +44 (0)1865 393333 industrial@oxinst.com
Derby Business Park, Tarvonsalmenkatu 17,  
FI-02600 Espoo, Finland
Finland +358 932 9411 +358 932 9413 industrial@oxinst.com
Georg-Ohm-Str. 6,  
65232 Taunusstein, Germany
Germany +61 28 95 35 0 +61 28 73 601 industrial@oxinst.com
Wellesweg 31, 47589 Uedem,  
Germany
Germany +49 2825 93830 +49 2825 9383100 industrial@oxinst.com
8403 Cross Park Drive, Suite 3F, Austin, 
TX 78754, USA
USA +1 (512) 339 0640 +1 (512) 339 0620 industrial@oxinst.com
Industrial Components
Oxford Instruments Austin
1340 Airport Commerce Dr  
Bldg 1, Suite 175, 
Austin, TX 78741, USA
Cryogenic pumps 
and compressors
USA +1 (512) 441 6893 +1 (512) 441 6665 cryo-sales@oxinst.com
Oxford Superconducting Technology
600 Milik Street, PO Box 429,  
Carteret, NJ 07008, USA
Superconducting wire USA +1 (732) 541 1300 +1 (732) 541 7769 sales@ost.oxinst.com
Oxford X-Ray Technology
360 El Pueblo Road, Scotts Valley,  
CA 95066, USA
X-ray tubes  
and detectors
USA +1 (831) 439 9729 +1 (831) 439 6051 industrial@oxinst.com
Company/address Descriptor Country Telephone Fax Email
Service
OiService CT & MR
1027 SW 30th Avenue,  
Deerfield Beach,  
FL 33442, USA
USA +1 (954) 596 4945 +1 (954) 596 4946 oiservice@oxinst.com
64 Union Way, Vacaville,  
CA 95687, USA
USA +1 (707) 469 1320 +1 (707) 469 1318 oiservice@oxinst.com
120 Enterprise Drive, Ann Arbor, 
MI, 48103, USA
USA +1 (888) 323 1316 +1 (734) 822 1011 info@mobileleasing.com
info@medimagingsales.com Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 124
Oxford Instruments Directory continued
Company/address Country Telephone Fax Email
Regional Sales and Service Offices
Oxford Instruments/Canada/Latin America
300 Baker Avenue, Suite 150,  
Concord, MA 01742, USA
USA +1 (978) 369 9933 +1 (978) 369 8287 info@ma.oxinst.com
Oxford Instruments China
Unit 1, Building A, No. 66 Zhufang Road, 
Haidian District, Beijing, 100085, China
China +86 (0)40 0621 5191 +86 (0)10 8271 9055 china.info@oxinst.com
Floor 1, Building 60, No.461, Hongcao Road, 
Shanghai, 200233, China
China +86 21 6127 3858 +86 21 6127 3828 china.info@oxinst.com
No. 129, Lane 150, Pingbei Road,  
Xinzhuang Industrial Area,  
Minhang District, 201102 Shanghai, China
China +86 (0)21 6490 8580 +86 (0)21 6490 4042 china.info@oxinst.com
Room 2112, Bai Hui Plaza, 193 Zhong Shan Wu Road,  
Guangzhou 510030, China
China +86 (0)20 8364 9990 +86 (0)20 8364 9996 china.info@oxinst.com
Room 1909, Huamin Empire Plaza,  
No.1, Fu Xing Street, Chengdu, China
China +86 (0)28 8670 3596 +86 (0)28 8670 3595 china.info@oxinst.com
Oxford Instruments Czech Republic
Velvarska 13, CZ-160 00 Praha,  
Czech Republic
Czech Republic +420 233 343 264 +420 234 311 724 office@oxinst.cz
Oxford Instruments France
77 ZA de Montvoisin, 91400 Gometz la Ville, France France +33 1 69 85 25 25 +33 1 69 41 46 80 infofrance@oxinst.com
Oxford Instruments Germany
Otto-von-Guericke-Ring 10, 65205 Wiesbaden, Germany Germany +49 6122 9370 +49 6122 937100 info-oiplc@oxinst.com
Oxford Instruments India
11, Marwah’s Complex, Krishanlal Marwah Marg,  
Andheri East, Mumbai 400072, India
India +91 224 4253 5100 +91 224 4253 5110 india@oxinst.com
Oxford Instruments Japan
IS Building 3-32-42, Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku  
Tokyo 140-0002, Japan 
Japan +81 (0)3 6732 8961 +81 (0)3 6732 8937 info.jp@oxinst.com
Oxford Instruments Korea
No. 8-S 26, 8F., 10 Chungmin-ro, Songpa-gu,  
Seoul 138-962 Korea (Republic of) 
Republic of Korea +82 2 2008 4500 +82 2 2008 4555 nanoanalysis@oxinst.com
Oxford Instruments Russia
Denisovskiy per. 26, Moscow 105005,  
Russian Federation
Russia +7 (095) 933 51 23 +7 (095) 933 51 24 info@oxford.de
Oxford Instruments Singapore
10 Ubi Crescent, #04-81 Ubi TechPark Lobby E,  
Singapore 408564, Republic of Singapore
Singapore +65 6337 6848 +65 6337 6286 oi.admin@oxfordinstruments.com.sg
Oxford Instruments Taiwan
1F, No. 23, Jing-Shang 19th Street, Hsinchu,  
Taiwan 300, Taiwan, R.O.C.
Taiwan +886 3 5788696 +886 3 5789993 oi.admin@oxfordinstruments.com.tw Report and Financial Statements 2015    Oxford Instruments plc   125
Company information
Advisers
Honorary President
Sir Martin Wood OBE FRS Hon FREng DL
Company Secretary
Susan Johnson-Brett ACIS
Board Committees
Audit
JF Lennox, Chairman; J Allerton; RH Friend*; TO Geitner
Nomination
NJ Keen, Chairman; J Allerton; JM Brady*; RH Friend*; TO Geitner; JF Lennox 
Remuneration
TO Geitner, Chairman; J Allerton; RH Friend*; NJ Keen; JF Lennox
Administration
Any two Directors
Advisers
Auditors
KPMG LLP
Principal Bankers
HSBC Bank plc; Santander plc; and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove
UK Solicitors
Laytons Solicitors LLP , Ashurst LLP 
US Counsel
Wilmer Hale LLP
* Professor Sir Richard Friend’s term commenced on 1 September 2014 and Mike Brady served until 9 September 2014.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, 
on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Arcoprint E.W., a paper sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC
®
 
certified forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process.
 
Design Portolio plants trees or 
each o its corporate report projects, 
in association with Trees or Cities. Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
For more information please email: info.oiplc@oxinst.com
www.oxford-instruments.com
This publication is the copyright of Oxford Instruments plc and provides outline information only, which (unless agreed 
by the Company in writing) may not be used, applied or reproduced for any purpose or form part of any order or contract 
or regarded as the representation relating to the products or services concerned. Oxford Instruments’ policy is one of continued 
improvement. The Company reserves the right to alter, without notice the specification, design or conditions of supply of 
any product or service. Oxford Instruments acknowledges all trademarks and registrations. © Oxford Instruments plc, 2015. 
All rights reserved.
As part of Oxford Instruments’ environmental policy 
this report has been printed on FSC paper.
