 PayPoint plc
1 The Boulevard, Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Hertfordshire AL7 1EL
United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)1707 600300
Fax +44 (0)1707 600333
www.paypoint.com
Simplifying payments
for everyone
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
Annual 
Report
For the year ended 
31 March 2015 OUR BUSINESS
Contents
Page
Strategic report
Highlights 1
Chairman’s statement 2
Chief Executive’s review 3
Strategy and business model 5
Key performance indicators 8
Review of business 9
Trends and factors on future 
development
13
Risks and uncertainties 14
Environmental matters, employees, 
social, community and human rights
16
Governance
Governance 19
Audit committee report 21
Board of directors 23
Directors’ report 24
Remuneration committee report 26
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 41
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of PayPoint plc 
42
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 45
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
45
Consolidated statement  
of financial position 
46
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
47
Consolidated cash flow statement 48
Company statement  
of financial position
49
Company statement  
of changes in equity
50
Company cash flow statement 50
Notes to the financial statements 51
Annual general meeting
Notice of annual general meeting 67
Form of proxy 73
Officers & professional advisers Inside 
back 
cover
Today, with an ever expanding number of ways to pay, customers increasingly expect 
to pay the way they want, wherever they are and at any time. PayPoint answers that 
demand by taking the complexity of multi-channel payments and translating it into 
convenient, simple, value-added solutions. 
We are an international leader in our field, and a pioneer of a range of payment 
technologies. We handle over £14 billion in payments annually, for 5,500 clients  
and merchants. Our solutions transform payments for everyone from consumers  
to retailers and our clients in utilities, telcos, media, gaming, government and other 
sectors. Our services are delivered through our unique combination of local shops,  
mobile and online distribution channels, both delivered through the businesses we  
own and by integrating the best services from more specialised suppliers.
Retail networks
We operate branded retail networks across the UK, Ireland and Romania. 
In the UK, our growing network already includes terminals in over 27,800 local  
shops including Co-operative, Spar, McColls, Costcutter, Sainsbury’s Local, Tesco Express,  
One Stop, Asda, Londis and thousands of independent stores. These stores are  
quick and convenient places to make energy meter prepayments, bill payments,  
benefit payments, mobile phone top-ups, transport tickets, BBC TV licences, cash 
withdrawals and a range of other transactions. They are made available to customers  
by most leading utilities and a range of telecoms and consumer service companies. 
Our Romanian network continues to grow profitably. We have more than 9,200 
terminals in local shops across the country, helping people make cash bill payments, 
money transfers, road tax payments and mobile phone top-ups. 
In the Republic of Ireland, people use our 500 terminal sites in shops and Credit Unions 
for mobile top-ups and bill payments.
In the UK, Collect+, our joint venture with Yodel, offers parcel drop-off and pick-up 
services in 5,800 convenience stores. Customers use Collect+ to handle parcels from 
major retailers including Amazon, eBay, ASOS, New Look, Boden, John Lewis,  
House of Fraser, M&S, Asda Direct and Very. 
The UK network also includes over 4,000 LINK branded ATMs, and 9,800 of our 
terminals enable retailers to accept credit and debit cards.
Mobile and Online
Our unique mix of digital payments solutions helps maximise success in a complex  
and rapidly changing world. Every year, PayPoint Mobile and Online handles over  
145 million payments for parking, payments and consumer services. In the UK,  
Canada, USA, France, Switzerland and Australia, our parking solutions make it easy  
for people to pay for parking by mobile – increasingly through our own app. We  
also provide electronic parking permits, automatic number plate recognition systems  
for car parks, and penalty charge notices.
Our online payments platform is linked to 16 acquiring banks in the UK, Europe 
and North America. It delivers secure credit and debit card payments for over 4,600 
online merchants, including Moonpig, WHSmith, London and Zurich Insurance, 
Moneysupermarket.com, Severn Trent and British Gas. Our comprehensive suite  
of products ranges from our transaction gateway to a bureau service, in which we  
take the merchants’ credit risk and manage settlement for them. We also offer a  
variety of value-added services such as FraudGuard, an advanced service that mitigates 
the risk of fraud in card not present transactions, Cardlock, an innovative solution for 
PCI compliance, PayCash through the PayPoint network and Cashier, one of the most 
advanced hosted digital payment solutions.
As well as this extensive range of services and solutions, we provide the backing of  
our 24/7 operations centres, with dual site processing to ensure business continuity.  
Little wonder then, that PayPoint is so widely renowned for leadership in payment 
systems, smart technology and service.
Our history is one of anticipating clients’ needs and pioneering solutions to meet  
them ahead of demand. Our future will be no different. Every day, we reinforce  
our competitive edge by developing our range of payments, products and services  
across the growing multitude of channels delivering best of breed services through  
our own and our expert supplier capabilities. 
Officers and  
professional advisers
Directors
E Anstee*
G Barr*†
N Carson*
G Earle
D Morrison*
S Rowley*
D Taylor
T Watkin-Rees
N Wiles (Chairman)*
* Non-executive directors 
† Agreed to join on 1 June 2015
Company Secretary
S Court 
Registered office
1 The Boulevard
Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Hertfordshire, AL7 1EL
United Kingdom 
Registered in England and Wales  
number 03581541
Independent auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London, EC4A 3BZ
United Kingdom
Brokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street 
London, E14 5JP
United Kingdom
Canaccord Genuity
88 Wood Street
London, EC2V 7QR
United Kingdom
Jefferies/Hoare Govett
Vintners Place 
68 Upper Thames Street 
London, EC4V 3BJ
United Kingdom
Registrar
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent, BR3 4TU
United Kingdom
Printed and bound by Empress Litho who are accredited with FSC and ISO international 
environmental management standards.
This document has been printed on 100% FSC certified recycled paper, produced using  
de-inked post consumer waste.
FSC – Forest Stewardship Council. This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the 
tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 – A pattern of control for an environmental management system against  
which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
Carbon Balancing by the World Land Trust tackles climate change through projects that both 
offset carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and conserve biodiversity. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 1
STRATEGIC REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
Year ended 
31 March
2015
Year ended 
31 March
2014 Increase
Revenue £218.5m £212.2m 3.0%
Net revenue
1
£123.1m £113.7m 8.3%
Gross margin 48.1% 45.7% 2.4ppts
Operating profit
2
£49.5m £45.4m 9.1%
Profit before tax £49.6m £46.0m 7.7%
Diluted earnings 
per share
57.4p 52.6p 9.1%
Dividend per share 38.5p 35.3p 9.1%
Operating highlights
• Retail networks performed well, with net revenue up 10.1% 
including retail services up 19.9%
• Romanian bill payment transactions grew 36.8%, increasing 
profitability and market share
• Collect+ transactions up 38.7% to 18.8 million. Available in 
over 5,800 sites
• New multi-channel capability launched for energy sector 
smart meter payments and first sale achieved
• Mobile and Online
4
 transactions up 10.0% to 145.3 million, 
with strong parking transaction growth
• Announced sale process for our parking and online payment 
processing companies to realise their value 
Financial highlights
• Record group transaction volumes at 812.7 million, up 5.9%
• Operating profits
2
 up 9.1% with improved margin
• Robust balance sheet with cash of £43.9 million
5
• Increase in final dividend by 9.2% to 26.1p
1. Net revenue is revenue less the cost of mobile top-ups (where PayPoint is principal), SIM cards and other costs incurred by PayPoint, which are recharged to clients and 
merchants.  These costs include retail agent commission, card payment merchant service charges and costs for the provision of call centres for mobile parking clients.  
Net revenue is a measure which the directors believe assists with a better understanding of the underlying performance of the group.
2. Operating profit including our share of joint venture results and excluding the £0.2 million costs associated with the acquisition of Adaptis Solutions Limited in the 
previous year.
3. Excludes special dividend in 2013.
4. Mobile and Online comprises our parking and online payment processing companies.
5. Excludes £3.3 million for Mobile and Online included in assets held for sale.
Net revenue
1
90.4 105.7
2012 2013 2014 2015
113.7 123.1
38.9
26.5
2012 2013 2014 2015
37.0 41.0 45.4 49.5
2012 2013 2014 2015
26.5 30.4 35.3 38.5
Operating profit
2
Dividend per share
3 2 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am privileged to have been asked to serve the company and its board as Chairman, having  
been appointed as a non-executive director in 2009.
We are pleased to report strong growth in net revenue with operating profits up 9.1% for the  
year under review. Our retail networks performed well and we have continued to make progress  
in Mobile and Online. We are proposing a final dividend of 26.1p per share, an increase of 9.2% 
on the final dividend last year, and our cash position remains strong.
Following a review of the Mobile and Online businesses, the board has decided to sell our parking 
and online payment processing companies to refocus on multi-channel payments and services, 
where we have retail networks. This will allow us to realise the value of the businesses we propose 
to sell. Further details of the proposed sale can be found in the Chief Executive’s statement.
We are committed to best-in-class governance for the board and processes that support the 
executives’ strong record on controls, ethics, risk and management. 
We are delighted that Neil Carson has joined the board as Senior Independent Director and 
remuneration committee Chairman. I am also delighted to welcome Gill Barr, who has agreed  
to join our board on 1 June 2015. We would like to thank David Newlands for his contribution  
as Chairman over many years and Eric Anstee, who has served as audit committee Chairman  
for the last seven years. We would also like to thank Warren Tucker for his contribution. Full  
details of the current directors are set out on page 23.
We have already reorganised the continuing business to focus on developing multi-channel 
payments and services for the blue chip clients of our retail networks, following the decision  
to sell the parking and online payment processing businesses. We have developed and sold the 
first multi-channel product and will look to extend the application across our varied client base.  
Our new terminal, now under development, will be piloted this year and will bring with it wider 
opportunities for new products for clients, retailers and consumers. We will also be continuing  
the search for retail expansion in new geographies.  
The board is excited by the long term potential for profitable growth and development as we 
capitalise on our competitive advantages and market opportunities.
Nick Wiles
Chairman
28 May 2015
PayPoint gains 
Approved Payment 
Institution status
Payment Institution status further 
enhances our position as one of 
the leading non-bank payment 
companies and authorises  
us to develop new product  
capability in regulated areas  
to bring schemes to market  
quicker and operate them  
more efficiently. 
It also means that we are able 
to develop digital and electronic 
versions of our successful CashOut 
service. CashOut reverses the 
traditional flow of cash from 
customer to retailer by enabling 
retailers to make certain payments 
to customers. Existing services 
include energy dual fuel rebates, 
Warm Home Discount, the  
Simple Payment service for  
benefits and pensions and  
Quick Credit Vouchers (QCV)  
for emergency payments.  
Multi-channel  
payment system for 
energy payments
Independent energy supplier  
Utilita has become the first user  
of PayPoint’ s new integrated,  
multi-channel payment solution  
for smart meter customers.
PayPoint has developed an 
innovative solution for energy 
suppliers and other consumer 
service organisations to manage 
their relationships with their 
customers, giving them an 
improved experience when 
choosing where, when and  
how they pay for their energy. 
Utilita’ s customers now have 
complete flexibility to pay using 
whichever method is most 
convenient for them at the  
time – in cash at any of the  
stores in PayPoint’ s retail network  
or by credit and debit card using 
their mobile phone, tablet or 
personal computer. 
“Utilita’s customer base is growing 
rapidly and our aim is to offer 
our customers the best possible 
payment experience. PayPoint’s 
unique multi-channel solution is 
integral to meeting that challenge 
and will help us to achieve our 
ambitious growth targets.”
 
Bill Bullen, founder and 
Managing Director of  
Utilita Energy PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 3
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PayPoint rolls out  
ITSO smart ticketing
PayPoint’s new ITSO-compliant 
smart ticketing system has 
been rolled out with Cardiff 
Bus in Cardiff and the Vale 
of Glamorgan and with 
Merseytravel on Merseyside.  
ITSO ticketing enables transport 
companies and authorities to 
allow customers to buy tickets 
and load smart cards for use 
on multiple transport modes, 
including buses, underground 
rail and ferries.
The new service makes it much 
easier for customers to top up 
their smartcards with a range 
of ticket and value options 
each time they top up at 
PayPoint retailers, who benefit 
from extra footfall as well as 
other payments and purchases 
customers make while in  
the store.
“Partnering with PayPoint is the 
start of the journey in getting 
our tickets and the way people 
buy them fit for the 21
st
 century. 
PayPoint shops are mostly near 
to where our customers live so 
they will be able easily to load 
their transport smart card when 
buying a newspaper or a  
meal-to-go.” 
Cllr Liam Robinson,  
Chair of Merseytravel
Proposed sale of Mobile and Online businesses
We have built our Mobile and Online business organically and by acquisitions since 2006 to provide 
clients with a complete payment solution, gain access to fast growing markets and provide a migration 
path from cash in the event of decline. Notwithstanding predictions to the contrary, during our 
ownership of these businesses, cash use has remained robust and we have been able to improve 
our retail differentiation. T echnology and changing consumer trends are also giving rise to new 
opportunities for future growth centred around our retail proposition. At the same time, the mobile 
and online market has attracted a substantial amount of new investment, particularly last year. This 
investment has changed the competitive landscape, bringing pressure for both faster development and 
larger scale to support lower margins. The need for greater pace and scale has increased the execution 
risk and extended the timetable for returns for PayPoint. Positioned against the opportunities centred 
around our retail proposition, the board believes that there are likely better owners for these businesses 
and as a consequence has decided to sell the parking and online payment processing companies to 
realise their value.
We will continue with our strategy to develop a multi-channel payments company, but refocused  
on our retail network clients, retailers and consumers. We have built the capability to develop  
these products within the retained group. The focus on our retail network will further improve  
our differentiation and growth opportunities, without the need to own all the constituent  
processing infrastructure.
Review of performance
We have made good progress in all of our businesses in the financial year just completed. We  
have again been able to increase net revenue and profits, building on our near 20 year track  
record of success.
Retail payments and services
Our UK and Romanian retail networks continued to perform strongly, with net revenue growth of 
10.1%. PayPoint’ s market leadership in retail payments and services remains the driving force behind 
our success. We continue to be strongly differentiated through the unique quality and breadth of our 
client base and retail coverage. As a consequence, we contract with the best convenience retailers and 
are able to extend the range of payments and services that we provide, delivering new retail schemes 
that drive footfall and commission earnings to our retail partners.
In the UK and Ireland, convenience retailing continues to grow as busy consumers demand quality 
products and services on their doorstep. This evolution continues to drive investment by convenience 
retailers in their stores and improved product ranges. PayPoint sits in a unique position at the centre 
of this change as a leading innovator of in-store payments and services for consumers. Coupled with 
the growth of our retail network, we have continued to improve technology in store by rolling out 
PayPoint Point of Sale (PPOS), the software version of our terminal on retailers’ till systems and by 
placing broadband connected terminals, which process transactions more quickly.  The benefits of our 
focus on retail services are demonstrated by strong transaction growth of 28.8% in the year, as well 
as the increase in our overall average retail yield per site
1
. This growth has helped to mitigate a small 
decline of 0.7% in UK prepaid energy transactions, caused by reduced domestic gas consumption, and 
the continued decline in mobile top-up transaction volumes. We are excited by the new products and 
services which will drive our growth, with the launch of our third generation terminal providing the 
platform for retail innovation. We have developed a multi-channel product in UK retail, to address the 
payment challenges faced by utilities, as a result of the UK Government mandated change to smart 
meters by 2020, building on our existing online payment solutions for prepayment meters. This product 
has been sold into the energy sector and is attracting interest from other sectors. It will be available 
outside the UK in due course.  
Romania has made good progress with strong transaction growth, as we increase our share of over 
the counter bill payment, driving increased profitability. We continue to roll out further sites to get 
ever closer to where consumers live and work. With a network of over 9,000 sites, we already have 
the prime technology enabled network providing the platform to develop our payments and services 
offering. Bill payment transactions have grown 36.8%, as we continued to grow market share and 
add new clients and outlets. Contrary to the UK, mobile top-up transaction volumes have increased 
in Romania. We are evaluating new retail services to complement our international money transfer 
proposition, which has shown strong growth in the year. The prospects for Romania continue to  
be excellent, with the opportunity to extend our share of payments, develop our retail services 
proposition and to start to introduce the group’ s new multi-channel payment capability to our 
Romanian client base.
1. Average retail yield per site is retail network net revenue, excluding Simple Payment service set up, divided by the 
average number of retail sites in the period.
PayByPhone app 
features on Apple Watch
PayByPhone, which allows drivers 
to use an innovative mobile 
payment app for parking, was 
chosen by Apple to be one of 
the first apps to launch on Apple 
Watch. The app uses the glance 
feature on the face of Apple 
Watch to display discretely how 
much time is left in drivers’ parking 
sessions at any given moment. As 
with the existing phone app, the 
watch allows drivers instantly to 
extend the parking time without 
returning to their cars or searching 
for the exact change.
PayByPhone has millions of users 
globally paying for parking, bike 
hire, taxis or parking permits in 
over 300 locations worldwide, 
including San Francisco, Seattle, 
Miami, Vancouver, London,  
Paris and the Melbourne area  
in Australia.  
Digital services, like PayByPhone’s 
mobile parking payment app, 
cater to increasingly connected 
communities and can provide  
cities with impressive cost 
savings on new meter hardware, 
maintenance and data charges. 
They can also avoid the high cost  
of cash collection, which, in the  
USA can be as high as 35% of 
parking revenues. 4 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Collect+
In Collect+, our joint venture with Yodel, transactions increased by 38.7% to 18.8 million as the 
service continues to attract consumers and the best online retailers. The company has grown profit 
in the year, although logistics costs have increased. We have started to re-organise the network of 
Collect+ stores to ensure optimum coverage for consumers and the number of sites has increased 
to over 5,800. We continue to invest in service improvements to encourage growth and maintain 
our strong position in a developing market landscape. As the service grows, Collect+ is becoming 
a significantly larger part of the logistics landscape. We are in discussion with Yodel concerning 
proposed further increases in charges and capacity constraints for the logistics services provided  
to Collect+.
Mobile and Online
Transaction growth in our Mobile and Online channels in the year was 10.0%, although net  
revenue declined by 3.8%. Transaction growth was mainly from larger merchants, or newer  
parking clients, which have lower than average net revenues per transaction. Few businesses  
can match our nine million customer parking registrations and activity levels. We have also made  
excellent progress in introducing a new advanced payments platform for our online payment 
processing company, as well as innovative products, which are showing promise and should  
increase recurring service revenues going forward. Recent parking client wins have included  
Paris as well as many other long term renewals.
Opportunities beyond multi-channel
We have already made significant progress towards our multi-channel ambitions in our core  
retail client base and this can be continued and accelerated. The refocused strategy is evident  
in our new smart metering platforms, which provide broad multi-channel payments capability  
and draw on our payments experience as a specialised supplier.
In addition to our multi-channel payment services for clients, we are excited by the prospects  
for continued retail services success. Our major new initiative in this area will be our new tablet 
based terminal with integrated EPoS capability. We anticipate that this will enhance significantly 
our retail offer over the next few years, helping us to generate new sources of direct and third 
party revenues. As retailers adopt our EPoS capability, we should move even closer to the heart  
of retail operations, further increasing our yield per store, particularly in the independent and 
symbol sectors.
We have also been reviewing our international development options, building on our British,  
Irish and Romanian successes. We expect to move selectively into new territories organically  
and by acquisition, both in developing economies where cash dominates and in more  
advanced economies, which are already open to multi-channel service delivery.
Technology
Our businesses depend on technology. As a leading supplier of retail technology, we  
are designing our next generation of point of sale infrastructure which, in due course, will  
replace existing terminals and provide much richer functionality for retailers. This will integrate  
our technology deeper into our retail networks, providing the potential for offering new and 
enhanced services. We are completing the new storage network for our two new data centres 
which will be commissioned this year. We plan to close our other data centres after we have 
moved all systems and transaction processing.
Summary
We are invigorated by the opportunities ahead and continuing the momentum in our  
businesses. We are restructuring to gain efficiencies between group and our retail businesses, 
whilst realising the value of our parking and online payment processing businesses in the near 
future. Our strategy for continuing success is set out on the pages that follow.
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive
28 May 2015
Utilities issue 
Government’s electricity 
rebate through PayPoint  
Most of the UK’s leading 
electricity suppliers issued the 
Government electricity rebate to 
around three million customers 
using PayPoint’s CashOut scheme. 
Each recipient received a voucher, 
which they were only able to 
redeem at PayPoint as a top-up 
on their electricity meters.  
The energy suppliers involved 
were British Gas, SSE, Scottish 
Power, EDF Energy, Utilita, 
Economy Energy, Utility 
Warehouse, Epower and  
Co-operative Energy. The rebate 
was ordered by the Government 
to provide eligible domestic 
electricity customers with a rebate 
as a key element of its policies to 
help reduce domestic energy bills.
Several energy companies 
also used PayPoint to deliver 
other discounts and rebates to 
customers. British Gas issued  
dual fuel discount vouchers to 
almost one million customers and 
Warm Home Discount vouchers  
to a further 197,000 customers 
for electricity meter top-ups, 
which could only be redeemed  
at PayPoint. EDF Energy also 
issued vouchers under the  
Warm Home Discount scheme  
to 75,000 customers, for 
redemption against gas  
and electricity top-ups only  
at PayPoint.   PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 5
STRATEGIC REPORT
PayPoint’s business success over 19 years has been achieved through excellence in serving the 
needs of three distinct but closely linked groups, namely our clients, retailers and consumers.  
Our achievement with each contributes opportunity – the best clients drive millions of consumers 
to use our services, which helps us to attract the best network of retailers and this in turn grows 
consumer demand and reinforces the loyalty of our clients. Our strategy is to extend our services 
to, and returns from, each group. Given the decision to sell the parking and online payment 
processing businesses, our focus is on retail as set out below.
Clients
Our client base includes many blue chip utility and consumer service organisations in both  
the commercial and public sectors. Building from our unique strength in over the counter cash 
payments, we have continued to develop a broader range of payment methods and channels  
to serve our clients’ needs. This enables us to deepen and extend our client relationships and 
provides the bedrock of our success. Many of our major client relationships extend back to the 
early days of our business and this longevity is based on their trust in our ability to serve their 
consumers uniquely well. We will continue to promote a broad range of payments to clients  
across our multi-channel platform, drawing on the best of our own capability and integrating 
selected expert suppliers.
In delivering this vision, it is the overall integrated solution that is at the heart of our offer going 
forward, rather than, necessarily, the direct ownership of all aspects of service delivery. Following 
the proposed sale of our parking and online payment processing companies, we will retain their 
service delivery capabilities through our in-house expertise and through continuing supplier 
contracts, but will focus more strongly on our blue chip retail client base. 
Recent progress illustrates the potential for a multi-channel payments capability in our core  
billing world. For example, to address the structural change in energy with the introduction  
of smart metering in the next decade, we have launched our new multi-channel payment  
solution to our first client, Utilita, and have other energy companies ready to take the service. 
Through this solution, consumers make payments and prepayments to utilities by electronic 
payment methods, online and by mobile, in addition to their traditional cash options. Industry 
opinion is that the availability of digital payment options will increase the number of consumers 
opting for pre-pay tariffs. We have also had success in selling our multi-channel capability into  
the social housing sector.
A major factor in building our credentials with our blue chip billing clients has been our ability to 
target verticals and develop an in depth understanding of client needs, based on which we design 
and deliver our services. Verticals where we have demonstrated our ability to deliver value added, 
rather than commoditised services, are energy, water, local and central government, telecoms, 
media, gaming, financial services, transport ticketing and eMoney. We will continue to focus on 
these sectors and prospect for others which show potential for value added solutions. Increasingly, 
our role will be to become our major clients’ payments partner across their wide-ranging needs.
The payments industry continues to be particularly vibrant and innovative, presenting many 
opportunities, but also causing untold complexity for consumer service organisations for which 
payments are a necessity, but not their core business expertise. PayPoint provides solutions aimed 
at the challenges businesses face, to help them find the optimum path offering traditional and 
new payments methods, providing consumers with payment choices that are seamlessly integrated 
to service delivery. This approach applies to money in and out; by cash, card, bank or alternative 
wallet; and by retail, online, mobile or other channel, thereby facilitating consumer demand to  
be able to pay when, where and how best suits their circumstances.
Retailers
By pioneering payment service delivery in convenient retail stores, PayPoint has established a 
uniquely strong position at the heart of neighbourhood retailing, one of the few areas of retailing 
which has been resilient and complementary to the online shopping boom. Our 37,500 outlets 
across the UK, Ireland and Romania provide full national footprints for service delivery and also  
a community of successful local entrepreneurs and more substantial retailer businesses, which  
are both distributors of, and customers for, our services.
The depth of our retail offer allows us to layer on more services for increasing retail yield, by  
selling additional value added services and footfall drivers to our retail partners. In the earlier  
days of PayPoint, retailer interest was more limited to the traditional convenience store and 
newsagents sector, but in recent years there has been increasing demand from all sizes of  
retailer, including the big grocers, as they seek to secure more reasons for customers to visit  
for their valuable regular grocery shopping. PayPoint has proven its ability to deliver footfall,  
more than any other service provider and continues to focus on securing the strongest product  
and service portfolio to deliver competitive advantage to our retail partners.
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL  
T3 – third generation 
PayPoint terminal
PayPoint is preparing to launch 
the sector’s most technically 
advanced terminal – to be known 
as T3. Tablet-based with an 
Android operating system, it will 
be an all-in package, comprising 
an EPoS system and PayPoint’s 
complete range of services, 
card payments, scanner, a cash 
drawer and fingerprint security. 
Retailers will be able to replace 
their existing EPoS tills with  
the T3 terminal, which will  
be available with a range of 
options designed to meet their 
different requirements.
Just as the current terminal was 
built to accommodate future 
technology and requirements, 
T3 has been designed so that 
it will be able to incorporate 
many services and functions that 
retailers use on a daily basis to 
run their business, such as stock 
ordering and price checking.  
As these developments are  
rolled out, they have the 
potential to replace retailers’ 
existing EPoS till and other 
back office systems, further 
embedding the PayPoint terminal 
at the heart of their operation.  
Derby City Council opts 
exclusively for PayPoint
Derby City Council has become the 
first local authority in the country  
to contract exclusively with PayPoint 
for cash payments by residents.  
Previously, the council worked with 
a third party to offer payments 
through PayPoint and post offices. 
After reviewing coverage, opening 
hours and the costs involved in 
collecting payments through two 
networks, the council concluded 
that, with more than 150 local 
shops with a PayPoint terminal (and 
only 20 post offices) close to where 
they live, work and go shopping, 
the PayPoint network provides 
excellent opportunity throughout 
the city for residents to pay  
their bills to Derby City Council,  
including Council T ax and  
rent to Derby Homes.
“As many residents will already 
be paying other bills, such as their 
utilities, at PayPoint, we believe 
the move will be welcomed by 
residents as being convenient and 
suited to their lifestyles. The new 
payment contract with PayPoint 
potentially will save the council 
around 25% annually.”
John Massey, Head of Benefits 
and Exchequer Services at  
Derby City Council  6 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL continued  
As mobile prepay volumes have declined and general payments growth rates have matured, 
PayPoint has been able to sustain growth through exceptionally strong retail services sales.  
We have introduced new services that many retailers want to offer and many consumers want  
to use to the benefit of our business and our retail partners. We will continue to drive retail 
services growth deeper into our network, including our established successful products such  
as ATMs, card payments, money transfer, SIM cards, broadband connectivity and parcels.  
We will add further products to bring new sources of revenue, new sources of commission  
and footfall to our retailers.
A particular focus in the next few years will be the third generation evolution of our terminal 
platform. Our existing terminal is still by some margin the best in our sector and in recent years, 
we have also enjoyed success with our EPoS integrated solution for multiple and symbol retailers. 
However, this is an opportune time for a further step change in our retail platform capability to 
provide an even better terminal for future product delivery, deepening and expanding our ability  
to serve retailers.
The new terminal, which we aim to pilot in this financial year, will include a much larger tablet-
like screen and an Android operating system that will enable us to launch and support our own 
app store. One of the most important new applications is a multi-level EPoS capability targeted 
at independent retailers and small chains helping them to run their stores more efficiently and to 
control better their stocks and promotions. A range of other added value applications will also be 
introduced with potential to generate direct and third party revenues. We will also be building in 
the capability to support beacons and other physical and wireless connectivity to support  
consumer apps and promotions.
Just as our EPoS integrated solutions have transformed our major multiple propositions, we 
anticipate that the availability of high quality and attractively priced EPoS directly through 
the PayPoint terminal will prove attractive to our retailers and will further embed us into their 
businesses for mutual benefit and as such we view this as one of our most important new strategic 
initiatives. In time, our new EPoS capability may take us into other retail sectors as a lead offer in 
its own right, rather than solely serving retailers in PayPoint’s traditional convenience heartland.
A further attraction of EPoS is the purchasing and behavioural data to which it gives access, which 
we would seek to monetise.
Consumers
PayPoint’s past and continuing success is in no small part due to our ability to deliver solutions that 
consumers love to use and adopt at scale. Our satisfaction rates and promoter scores continue to 
be exceptional, but the clearest evidence of consumer demand is the continuing record volumes 
that we generate in payments, parcels, cash withdrawals, card payments and money transfers.
The consumer is ultimately the glue in our business and is the common factor that motivates 
PayPoint, our clients and our retailers to provide exceptional service. The consumer is also at the 
heart of our future product and service evolution. Our business volumes in retail are over 10 million 
per week, but this is still a minority of the overall footfall through the stores in which PayPoint is 
located. Our focus is to harness this customer flow and generate still more through our innovative 
new products and services. These are typically B2B2C services rather than our own consumer 
offers. For example, our parcels business has grown to volumes of over 18 million in just five years 
of operations, which are delivered through similar shops, but with a different consumer profile to 
our cash payments consumers.
This is a further driver in our new terminal and EPoS strategy as, by moving beyond services more 
directly into core retail technology, we can become more central to broader product and service 
delivery to consumers, including critically the opportunities to link point of sale capability with the 
consumers’ mobile phone. We aim to support our retail partners in exploiting these opportunities 
through our platforms and our experience in consumer applications, having operated PayByPhone, 
one of the most popular, convenient and heavily used mobile apps.
We will continue to develop our understanding of consumer needs and to innovate to serve them 
through retail and their broader multi-channel needs.
PayPoint Romania 
branches out into 
multiples
As the PayPoint network in 
Romania has expanded to cover 
small towns and villages, an 
increasing number of multiple 
groups in the country have 
recognised PayPoint as an 
important generator of footfall.  
Major store groups, including Cora, 
Carrefour and Profi, which operate 
supermarkets and hypermarkets 
across the country, are now 
offering their customers the facility 
to pay their bills through PayPoint 
in their stores.
As the PayPoint Romania retail 
network has expanded into 
remoter counties and regions of 
the country, the majority of regional 
utility suppliers, particularly in 
water and sewage, have signed 
up to offer their customers the 
convenience of paying their  
bills at PayPoint, making it possible 
for them to pay most of their 
essential household bills in one 
place, at one time.
“We know that people are very 
busy and so we want them to 
know that when they come to 
Cora, they don’t have to come  
just to do their weekly shopping, 
they can also do many other  
things, such as paying bills  
through PayPoint.”
Marilena Cirsteanu, Cora PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 7
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL continued
International
Building on our success in the UK, Ireland and Romania, we have been reviewing further 
international potential in recent months and expect to take further steps in the current year to 
grow into new countries by green field or acquisition routes. The countries in which we choose  
to operate will allow us to deliver a broad service portfolio including, as appropriate, our wider 
retail services products and our multi-channel payments for billers. 
New countries typically require considerable focus and take time to grow volume to cover the  
costs of network roll out. We will, therefore, continue to assess these selectively according to  
the scale of the opportunity and whether the local environment is attractive and receptive to  
our capabilities. We are considering developing economies, where cash still dominates, and  
more advanced economies, which are already embracing multi-channel solutions.
Summary of strategy
As we focus on maximising our success with clients, retailers and consumers in existing and  
new countries our strategy is, therefore, focused on:
• continuing to leverage our model of securing the best client content to maintain the best retail 
footprint to deliver the best consumer footfall to in turn attract the best clients and retailers;
• enhancing our client offer to be their preferred payments partner across a broader multi-
channel, multi-tender payment portfolio;
• continuing our retail services drive whilst embedding our role deeper into retail technology 
through our next generation terminal and EPoS capability as a direct source of income and  
a platform for helping retailers to develop their businesses;
• continuing to innovate with attractive new scale consumer services; and
• selectively moving into additional countries which we see as having attractive scale, payment 
needs and receptive clients and retailers.
We believe that the simplified focus that results from divesting our mobile and online businesses 
will provide a stronger basis for driving shareholder value in the coming years.
John Lewis goes 
nationwide with 
Collect+
Collect+ completed the national 
roll-out of its click & collect 
service for John Lewis during 
the year, following a successful 
trial across Scotland, Northern 
Ireland, Wales and the South 
West of England. John Lewis 
customers can now collect their 
online purchases from any one  
of the 5,800 Collect+ stores in 
the PayPoint network. Purchases 
are typically delivered to their 
store of choice the next day.
The success of Collect+ is 
reflected in the 260 retail brands 
for which it provides returns 
solutions. Its click & collect 
service for customers to have 
online orders delivered to their 
local Collect+ store, is available 
from retailers ranging from 
Amazon to Asda and House of 
Fraser to River Island. Collect+ is 
also widely used as a convenient 
option for those who sell 
products via online marketplaces, 
such as eBay, to send to UK 
addresses.
“Click & collect has become a 
huge part of our business and 
we are committed to providing 
our customers with the most 
convenient shopping experience. 
We’re delighted to have 
extended that to every corner  
of the country.”
James Leeson,  
Head of Online Category  
at John Lewis 8 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs)
In order to realise its strategic aims, PayPoint has identified areas of strategic focus and records a number of KPIs to measure progress 
against them. Whilst these KPIs are helpful in measuring the group’s performance, they are not exhaustive and the group uses many 
other measures to monitor progress.
Measuring our performance
Strategic focus KPI Description 2015 2014
Shareholder return Earnings per share 
(diluted)
Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the 
parent divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period (including  
the impact of shares which are likely to be issued  
under share schemes).
57.4p 52.6p
Dividends per share Proposed final dividend and interim dividend divided 
by the number of fully paid shares at the end of  
the period.
38.5p 35.3p
Economic profit Operating profit (including PayPoint’s share of joint 
venture results and excluding exceptional costs, 
relating to the cost of acquisitions) after tax and a 
charge for capital employed, excluding cash, based 
upon the group’s cost of capital.
£31.3
million
£28.1
million
Growth Retail networks 
transactions
Number of transactions processed in the period  
on our terminals, ATMs and on our retailers’  
EPoS systems.
667.3
million
635.4
million
Mobile and Online 
transactions
Number of transactions processed in the period by 
Mobile and Online.
145.3 
million
132.2
million
Transaction value The value of transactions processed via our terminals, 
retailers’ EPoS systems, online merchants, ATMs, mobile 
payments and the sale of other retail services.
£14.8
 billion
£14.7
billion
Net revenue Revenue less: commissions paid to retail agents; the 
cost of mobile top-ups and SIM cards where PayPoint 
is principal; acquiring bank charges and call centre 
costs recharged to clients.
£123.1 
million
£113.7
million
Operating margin Operating profit including our share of joint venture 
results and excluding exceptional costs, relating to the 
cost of acquisitions, as a percentage of net revenue.
40.2% 39.9%
Asset optimisation Return on capital 
employed 
Total operating profit for the period divided by 
average month end capital employed (net assets 
including assets held for sale and excluding cash).
63.6% 62.6%
Growth in retail 
networks’ yield  
per site
Growth in net revenue from retail networks, 
excluding Simple Payment service set up, divided by 
the average number of sites in the period.
4.3% 3.9%
People Labour turnover Number of permanent employees who left during 
the period divided by average total permanent 
employees:
  
UK & Ireland 21.7% 20.7%
Rest of world 16.5% 8.7% PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 9
STRATEGIC REPORT
REVIEW OF BUSINESS
The review of business presented in this annual report includes 
highlights on page 1, the Chairman’s statement on page 2 and 
the Chief Executive’s review on pages 3 and 4.
PayPoint processes consumer transactions and as such, has only 
one operating segment. However, we include an analysis of the 
number and value of consumer transactions, revenue and net 
revenue by product and an analysis of our networks to help to 
explain our performance and strategy execution.  
Growth opportunities include: provision of single solution, 
multi-channel payments and services to new and existing 
clients; the extension of services in each payment channel across 
our existing and prospective clients, new and existing client 
development and retail services in the UK and Romanian retail 
networks; the expansion of these retail networks; building and 
developing Collect+. There are also opportunities to extend our 
services into other countries.
The channel and product analysis is as follows:
Retail payments and services:
• bill and general (prepaid energy, bills and cash out services)
• top-ups (mobile, eMoney vouchers, prepaid debit cards and 
lottery) 
• retail services (ATM, credit and debit, parcels, money transfer, 
SIM cards, broadband, receipt advertising, charges for failed 
direct debits and paper invoicing) 
• Collect+ parcels service
In addition, fees for early settlement, development and set-up 
are attributed to the client, to which they are billed and included 
above in the relevant categories.
Mobile and Online:
Parking, permits, tolling, ticketing, bicycle rental transactions, 
consumer transactions with merchants, pre-authorisations, 
optimisation of authorisations, FraudGuard, where separately 
charged, and real time management reporting.
Transactions have increased to 812.7 million (2014: 767.5 
million), up 5.0% in the retail networks and 10.0% in Mobile 
and Online.
Transaction value increased to £14.8 billion (2014: £14.7 billion), 
up 3.5% in the Retail Payments and Services (retail networks), 
but down 6.7% in Mobile and Online.
Revenue has increased to £218.5 million (2014: £212.2 million), 
up 3.4% in the retail networks, but down 1.5% in Mobile and 
Online. Revenue growth is lower than transaction volume due to 
higher transaction growth in some larger online merchants who 
benefit from lower pricing and from charges to newer parking 
clients, which are lower than those to existing clients.
Net revenue has increased to £123.1 million (2014: £113.7 
million), up 10.1% in the retail networks, but down 3.8% in 
Mobile and Online. Net revenue growth is higher than revenue 
growth in retail networks, mainly as a consequence of a 
richer transaction mix from clients, an increase in requests for 
early client settlement, for which we charge fees, offset by a 
reduction in Simple Payment set-up fees.
Operating profit, including our share of Collect+ and excluding 
exceptional costs, relating to the cost of acquisitions in the prior 
year, was £49.5 million (2014: £45.4 million), an increase of 
9.1%. The increase in the operating profit is the result of the 
strong growth of our retail networks.
OPERATING REVIEW
Year 
ended 
31 March 
2015
Year
ended 
31 March
 2014
Increase 
%
Transactions         ‘000 812,668 767,520 5.9
Transaction value £000 14,756,476 14,742,667 0.1
Revenue               £000 218,495 212,158 3.0
Net revenue
1
       £000 123,131 113,740 8.3
1.  Net revenue is revenue less the cost of mobile top-ups (where PayPoint is principal), SIM cards and other costs incurred by PayPoint, which are recharged to clients and 
merchants. These costs include retail agent commission, card payment merchant service charges and costs for the provision of call centres for mobile parking clients.  
Net revenue is a measure which the directors believe assists with a better understanding of the underlying performance of the group. 10 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
REVIEW OF BUSINESS continued
1.  Net revenue is revenue less the cost of mobile top-ups (where PayPoint is principal), SIM cards and other costs incurred by PayPoint, which are recharged to clients and 
merchants. These costs include retail agent commission, card payment merchant service charges and costs for the provision of call centres for mobile parking clients.  
Net revenue is a measure which the directors believe assists with a better understanding of the underlying performance of the group.
Bill and general
Year
ended 
31 March 
2015
Year
ended 
31 March
 2014
Increase 
%
Transactions          ‘000 459,018 445,597 3.0
Transaction value £000 8,485,736 8,306,601 2.2
Revenue               £000 89,229 85,341 4.6
Net revenue
1  
     £000 58,954 54,000 9.2
Bill and general transactions were ahead of the prior year
as a result of a 36.8% increase in Romanian bill payment
transactions. UK and Irish bill and general transactions were
down 0.2% on the prior year due to lower domestic gas
consumption resulting from warmer weather, mitigated by  
the continuing increase in energy prepayment meters. Although 
not material in the year under review, we have launched our
multi-channel payment solution for our first energy client for its
smart meter customers. The strong growth in Romania, where 
we processed 53.5 million transactions (2014: 39.1 million) 
was the result of increasing market share in March for clients 
we serve to 20% (2014: 15%), including the addition of new 
clients, and notably the launch of road tax payments at many 
PayPoint sites. 
Growth in net revenue of 9.2% exceeded that of revenue 
growth, mainly as a consequence of a richer transaction mix 
from clients offset by a reduction in Simple Payment set up fees. 
  
Top-ups
Year
ended 
31 March 
2015
Year
ended 
31 March
 2014
(Decrease)
/increase
%
Transactions          ‘000 89,482 97,465 (8.2)
Transaction value £000 821,049 866,321 (5.2)
Revenue               £000 69,978 73,680 (5.0)
Net revenue
1
       £000 23,154 22,543 2.7
Top-up transactions decreased from the prior year as a result of 
the continued decline in mobile top-up volumes in the UK and 
Ireland of 13.3%. The reduction in UK and Irish mobile top-up 
transactions was only partly offset by an increase in other top-up 
transactions and Romanian mobile top-ups.
The reduction in top-up transaction value was lower than that 
of transaction numbers as the average value of mobile top-ups 
increased, which also helped mitigate the reduction in revenue 
and net revenue, as did the increase in other top-ups. 
The growth in net revenue was driven by an increase in Romanian 
mobile top-ups, other top-ups and an increase in requests for 
early client settlement, for which we charge fees, the incidence  
of which is unpredictable, offset by the mobile top-up decline  
in the UK and Ireland.
Retail services
Year
ended 
31 March 
2015
Year
ended 
31 March
 2014
Increase 
%
Transactions          ‘000 118,849 92,308 28.8
Transaction value £000 874,449 667,303 31.0
Revenue               £000 42,294 35,883 17.9
Net revenue
1  
       £000 26,507 22,105 19.9
Retail services transaction volume has increased across all 
products except for SIM card sales. ATM transactions increased 
by 28.8%, credit and debit transactions by 27.4%, money 
transfer transactions by 44.2% and parcels by 38.7% over  
the prior year.
A higher average ATM transaction value has driven an increase 
in total transaction value in excess of the increase in  
transaction volume.
Revenue growth is lower than transaction growth due to parcel 
transactions earning a reduced fee from Collect+ above a 
volume tier which was reached for the first time this year, bonus 
payments for reaching contractual network targets in the prior 
year which are not repeated and lower revenues from receipt 
advertising. Strong net revenue growth of 19.9% was driven by 
the increases in parcels, ATM transactions, credit and debit and 
income from broadband (enabling faster terminal transactions).
Collect+
PayPoint has a 50% equity interest in Drop and Collect Limited, 
trading as Collect+, a 50:50 joint venture with Yodel. PayPoint 
does not consolidate the results of the joint venture, but does 
include its share of the profit or loss of the joint venture in its 
consolidated income statement, after group operating profit.
Collect+ at 100%
Year
ended 
31 March 
2015
Year
ended 
31 March
 2014
Increase 
%
Transactions          ‘000 18,799 13,555 38.7
Revenue               £000 46,059 34,093 35.1
Profit    £000 2,634 1,784 47.6
Transactions have grown substantially despite lower consumer 
send transactions, where there has been significant price 
competition. This, together with the expected increase in 
logistics costs, as Collect+ migrates from marginal use to 
dedicated use of transport, has reduced gross margins.  
The growth in revenue, offset by the increase in costs has 
delivered profit ahead of the prior year. 
Discussions are underway with our joint venture partner, Yodel, 
which has proposed increases in its charges to Collect+ in the 
current financial year. The extent to which, if any, that Yodel’s 
proposed increases will be adopted is uncertain, making future 
profitability hard to predict. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 11
STRATEGIC REPORT
REVIEW OF BUSINESS continued
Mobile and Online
Year
ended 
31 March 
2015
Year
ended 
31 March
 2014
Increase/
(decrease)
%
Transactions          ‘000 145,319 132,150 10.0
Transaction value £000 4,575,242 4,902,442 (6.7)
Revenue               £000 16,994 17,254 (1.5)
Net revenue
 
     £000 14,516 15,092 (3.8)
Transactions increased by 10.0% with online payment 
processing transactions of 106 million up 6.1% and parking 
transactions of 40 million up 21.9%.
Payment transaction growth was driven by adding new 
merchants and organic growth. Parking transaction growth was 
driven predominantly by the continued increase in consumer 
adoption in existing clients. The decline in transaction value is 
due to a change in mix and the impact on parking from the 
weakening of the US and Canadian currency against sterling. 
We have continued to add parking contracts with cities, 
operators and local authorities, as we provide them with a  
more convenient and cost effective method for collecting 
parking charges. The business has rolled out the first phase  
of parking payment services in Paris during the period, which 
has 155,000 parking spaces. This and other increases have  
made up for the loss of the Westminster contract in July 2014. 
Overall revenues decreased by 1.5% and net revenues by 
3.8%, reflecting a decline in payment revenues, due to larger 
merchants benefitting from lower pricing on core payment 
transactions, offset by the growth in parking revenue. 
In payments, the first sales have been achieved of two new 
licensed products, Cashier and Cardlock. Cashier enables 
enterprise merchants to offer a highly customised payment 
experience for their online or mobile customers, hosted by 
PayPoint. It also has a built in capability to allow customers to 
store multiple cards. Cardlock reduces the complication and  
cost of Payment Card Industry compliance for merchants by 
removing card data from their websites and apps at the point  
of data entry and securing it remotely within PayPoint systems. 
In time, the new platform will also enable the business to 
replace the existing payments gateway platforms. Significant 
work has also been undertaken on the core parking system to 
enable new functionality and to increase flexibility for future 
developments. Work is also advanced on the next generation  
of the PayByPhone app, due later this year.  
Continued expenditure in technology, product development, 
sales and marketing are necessary to take this venture forward 
and grow net revenue. As a consequence of the expenditure, 
this business is currently loss-making and we expect it to remain 
in loss in the current financial year.
The assets of the Mobile and Online parking and online payment 
processing businesses, including their related goodwill, are 
shown as assets held for sale within current assets on the 
statement of financial position. Further detail can be found  
in note 16 to the accounts. 12 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Operating costs (administrative expenses) increased by 8.0%  
to £56.9 million (2014: £52.7 million) reflecting:
• IT costs which grew in the second half of the prior year  
and continued in the year under review;
• increasing costs of development and marketing required  
to support new products; and
• continuing investment in Mobile and Online to support  
the potential for growth in these fast moving markets.
Our share of the profit in our parcels joint venture, Collect+, 
was £1.3 million (2014: £0.9 million). The integration of new 
merchants, heightened consumer awareness and growth in 
activity from existing clients all helped to drive up revenues 
which led to the business increasing profit. This was despite  
an increase in logistics costs, as Collect+ migrated from  
marginal to dedicated use of transport.
Operating margin
3
 rose to 40.2% (2014: 39.9%) as a 
consequence of the performance of the retail networks  
and the improvement in Collect+ profitability.
Profit before tax was £49.6 million (2014: £46.0 million), an 
increase of 7.7%. The prior year included a £0.7 million profit 
on disposal of a small investment. The tax charge of £10.4 
million (2014: £10.1 million) represents an effective rate of 
21.0% (2014: 21.9%). The reduction in the UK corporate 
tax rate was reflected in the effective tax rate, mitigated by 
reductions in the effective tax rate in the prior year resulting 
from development tax credits and Romanian tax losses. The 
reduction in UK corporation tax rate to 20.0% became effective 
after the year end.
Statement of financial position
Net assets of £115.3 million (2014: £103.6 million) include 
£54.8 million of net assets for the parking and online payment 
processing businesses which have been classified as assets held 
for sale (note 16). The group net assets reflect a strong financial 
position, including cash of £43.9 million (including cash held  
for settlement of obligations to our clients (client cash) of  
£3.8 million in the UK, £10.1 million in Romania, but excluding 
£3.3 million in Mobile and Online, which is reported within 
assets held for sale) higher than £41.6 million (including client 
cash of £6.5 million in the UK and £10.3 million in Romania and 
including £3.4 million in Mobile and Online) at 31 March 2014.  
The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will absorb 
£17.8 million and is payable in July 2015.
Analysis of sites/
internet merchants
 
31 March 
2015
31 March
 2014
Increase/
(decrease)
%
UK & Ireland terminal sites 28,307 27,242 3.9
Romania terminal sites 9,234 8,354 10.5
Total terminal sites 37,541 35,596 5.5
Online merchants 4,662 5,168 (9.8)
Collect+ sites 5,831 5,582 4.5
Network growth 
Terminal sites overall have increased by 5.5% to 37,541.
In the UK and Ireland, site numbers have expanded by  
1,065, an increase of 4%. We provide credit and debit card 
acceptance, including the capability for retailers to accept 
convenient contactless card transactions in 9,816 sites. During 
the year, we continued to roll-out our PPOS integrated solution 
to retailers, which combines a virtual terminal (our software 
on the retailer’s till system) with a plug-in reader, to provide 
the service at a lower cost. As well as enhancing our service to 
retailers, this allows us to redeploy terminals for use in Romania. 
In addition to these 7,498 PPOS solutions, there were 10,689 
broadband enabled terminals (which offer a faster service than 
PSTN enabled terminals for transactions where the terminal 
has to contact the client’s host) at 31 March 2015.
In Romania, we increased the number of terminal sites  
by 880 in the period.
We added over 170 new merchants for online payments  
during the year and the overall reduction in merchants,  
since 31 March 2014, is largely the result of the churn  
of low volume merchants.
We added Collect+ sites as transaction volumes increased.  
There is high demand among retailers for this service.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Income statement
Revenue for the period was 3.0% higher, at £218.5 million 
(2014: £212.2 million), from growth across the retail networks. 
Cost of sales reduced to £113.4 million (2014: £115.2 million).  
The cost of mobile top-ups in Ireland and Romania
1
 has fallen 
to £29.5 million (2014: £31.3 million). Retailers’ commission 
decreased to £63.3 million (2014: £64.9 million) as a result  
of lower mobile top-up commission. These reductions in cost 
were partially offset by higher depreciation (on increased  
capital expenditure). Gross profit margin improved to 48.1% 
(2014: 45.7%) mainly as a consequence of the reduction in  
the cost of sales.
Net revenue
2
 of £123.1 million (2014: £113.7 million) was  
up 8.3% from the growth in bill payment, retail services  
and mobile parking.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS continued
1.  In Ireland and Romania, PayPoint is principal in the sale of mobile top-ups and, accordingly, the face value of the top-up is included in sales and the corresponding costs 
in cost of sales.
2.  Net revenue is revenue less the cost of mobile top-ups (where PayPoint is principal), SIM cards and other costs incurred by PayPoint, which are recharged to clients and 
merchants. These costs include retail agent commission, card payment merchant service charges and costs for the provision of call centres for mobile parking clients.  
Net revenue is a measure which the directors believe assists with a better understanding of the underlying performance of the group.
3. Operating profit including our share of joint venture results and excluding exceptional costs, relating to the cost of acquisitions, as a percentage of net revenue. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 13
STRATEGIC REPORT
Cash flow
Cash generated by operations was £53.6 million (2014: £55.8 
million), reflecting strong conversion of profit to cash. Corporation 
tax of £8.6 million (2014: £10.3 million) was paid, lower than the 
prior year predominantly due to the tax relief on the cost of settled 
share schemes. Capital expenditure of £10.1 million (2014: £11.3 
million) comprised expenditure on IT infrastructure, developments 
for new products, terminals, ATMs and prepaid energy card and 
key readers for PPOS (PayPoint Point of Sale, the software version 
of our terminal that can be loaded onto retailers’ till systems). The 
amount paid for the acquisition of Adaptis in the year was £0.2 
million (2014: £3.2 million). Share incentive schemes settled in cash 
absorbed £2.9 million (2014: £5.3 million). Equity dividends paid 
were £24.7 million (2014: £31.6 million, which included a 15.0p 
per share special dividend, which cost £10.2 million).
Economic profit
PayPoint’s economic profit (operating profit less tax and 
capital charge) was £31.3 million (2014: £28.1 million),  
an increase of 11.7%.
Dividend
We propose to pay a final dividend of 26.1p per share on 23 
July 2015 (2014: 23.9p) to shareholders on the register on 26 
June 2015, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the 
annual general meeting. An interim dividend of 12.4p (2014: 
11.4p) was paid on 18 December 2014, making a total  
dividend for the period of 38.5p (2014: 35.3p), up 9.1%,  
in line with earnings.
Liquidity and going concern
The group had cash of £43.9 million, excluding £3.3 million of
cash in Mobile and Online in assets held for sale at 31 March 
2015, and has an undrawn £45.0 million revolving term credit 
facility expiring in May 2019. Cash included amounts held to 
settle short term client settlement obligations, which at the 
period end, amounted to £3.8 million in the UK (2014: £6.5 
million) and £10.1 million in Romania (2014: £10.3 million). The 
final dividend, if approved by shareholders, will absorb £17.8 
million of cash. Cash and borrowing capacity is adequate to 
meet the foreseeable needs of the group, taking account of risks
(pages 14 and 15). The financial statements have, therefore,
been prepared on a going concern basis.
Financing and treasury policy
The financing and treasury policy requires a prudent approach to 
the investment of surplus funds, external financing, settlement, 
foreign exchange risk and internal control structures. The policy 
prohibits the use of financial derivatives and sets limits for gearing.
Charitable donations
During the year, the group made charitable donations of £32,556 
(2014: £23,879) to charities serving the communities in which the 
group operates. We encourage employees to raise funds for charity 
and the company matches funds raised by the employees, subject 
to certain limits.
Our UK retail network acted as a collection agent for the BBC’ s 
Children in Need telethon.
Employees
Our success depends upon the continuing support and 
commitment of all our staff. We would like to take this 
opportunity to thank PayPoint’s employees for their commitment, 
energy and enthusiasm in the delivery of these results.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS continued
Economic climate
The company’s bill and general payments service, which 
accounts for 47.9% (2014: 47.5%) of our net revenue, has 
continued to be resilient, as consumers’ discretion in expenditure 
is limited for essential services and our service continues to be 
popular. Utility providers continue to install new prepay gas and 
electricity meters, which should have a beneficial impact on our 
transaction volumes. The online payment market continues to 
grow substantially. There has been an adverse impact on our 
mobile top-ups as mobile operators continue to offer more 
airtime at lower cost and to promote prepay less than contract. 
Mobile and Online is able to offer parking authorities a more 
cost effective collection system for parking compared to pay and 
display machines. The convenient service offered by Collect+ 
offers great opportunity for growth in parcel volumes.
PayPoint’s exposure to retail agent debt in the UK and Ireland 
is limited as credit granted to retail agents is restricted by daily 
direct debiting for all UK and Irish transactions, other than EPoS 
mobile top-ups (which are collected weekly). There is some 
concentration of risk in multiple retail agents. Most of PayPoint’s 
clients in the UK, other than for top-ups, bear the cost of retail 
agent bad debt. In PayPoint Romania, the risk of bad debt lies 
with the company. In Mobile and Online, exposure is limited  
to receivables from online merchants for fees, except in the  
case of bureau online merchants, where PayPoint.net retains 
credit risk on merchant default for credit card charge backs,  
a risk mitigated in part by cash retention and in parking, to 
receivables from clients.
TRENDS AND FACTORS ON  
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT 
For the current financial year, trading is in line with the 
company’s expectations, although the investment in and the 
continuing losses of Mobile and Online will lower earnings 
in the first half. Our retail networks in the UK and Romania 
should continue to deliver profitable growth from our breadth 
of services and extensive client base, despite the impact of 
the recent VAT ruling. We will continue to invest in network 
expansion, innovative retail technology and new services to 
improve retail network quality further. We anticipate that this 
will enhance our competitive advantage and increase retail 
yield. We continue to focus on growth and on evaluating new 
opportunities to extend our business, particularly in developing 
vertical markets and internationally. The provision of multi-
channel payments and services to our client base remains an 
essential element of our strategy, placing us in growing markets 
and providing a bridge from cash to electronic payments. The 
sale of our parking and online payment processing businesses 
will enable us to focus this multi-channel payments strategy 
where we have a strong retail presence. Discussions are 
underway with our joint venture partner, Yodel, which has 
proposed increases in its charges to Collect+ in the current 
financial year. The extent to which, if any, that Yodel’s  
proposed increases will be adopted is uncertain, making  
future profitability hard to predict. 14 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
PayPoint’s business, financial condition or operations could be materially and adversely affected by the risks summarised below. 
Although management takes steps to mitigate risks where possible or where the cost of doing so is reasonable in relation to the 
probability and seriousness of the risk, it may not be possible to avoid the crystallisation of some or all of such risks. The group’s risk 
management policies and procedures are also discussed in the governance statement on page 22.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies
Loss or inappropriate usage  
of data
The group’s business requires the appropriate 
and secure use of consumer and other sensitive 
information. Mobile telephone and internet-based 
electronic commerce requires the secure transmission 
of confidential information over public networks, 
and several of our products are accessed through the 
internet. Fraudulent activity, cyber-crime or security 
breaches in connection with maintaining data and 
the delivery of our products and services could harm 
our reputation, business and operating results.
The group has established rigorous information 
security, anti-fraud and whistleblowing standards, 
procedures, and recruitment and training schemes, 
which are embedded throughout its business 
operations. The group also screens new employees 
carefully. Continued investments are made in IT 
security infrastructure, including the significant use 
of data and communications encryption technology.
Dependence upon third parties 
to provide data and certain 
operational services
The group’s business model is dependent upon third 
parties to provide operational services, the loss of 
which could significantly impact the quality of our 
services. Similarly, if one of our outsource providers, 
including third parties with whom we have strategic 
relationships, were to experience financial or 
operational difficulties, their services to us would 
suffer or they may no longer be able to provide 
services to us at all, significantly impacting delivery  
of our products or services.
The group selects and negotiates agreements with 
strategic suppliers and agents based on criteria 
such as delivery assurance and reliability. Single 
points of failure are avoided, where practicable 
and economically feasible. Controls are regularly 
reviewed and improved to minimise risk of retailer 
churn caused by financial loss to retailers through 
fraudulent third party activity.
Exposure to legislation or 
regulatory reforms and risk  
of non-compliance
The group is largely unregulated by financial services 
regulators, although in the UK we have Payment 
Institution status for prefunded cash payments to 
consumers and to allow the online payments business 
to act as a master merchant for SME online merchants.  
The group’ s agents which offer money transfer are 
licensed as Money Service Businesses by HMRC. Our 
Mobile and Online business is subject to Payment Card 
Industry Data Security Standards regulated by the card 
schemes. Regulatory reform could increase the cost 
of the group’ s operations or deny access to certain 
territories in the provision of certain services. Non-
compliance with law, regulation, privacy or information 
security laws could have serious implications in cost and 
reputational damage to the group.
The group’s legal department works closely with 
senior management to adopt strategies to educate 
legislature, regulators, consumer and privacy 
advocates and other stakeholders to support the 
public policy debate, where appropriate, to ensure 
regulation does not have unintended consequences 
over the group’s services. The group has in place 
a business ethics policy which requires compliance 
with local legislation in all the territories in which the 
group operates. A central compliance department 
co-ordinates all compliance monitoring and 
reporting. Subsidiary managing and finance directors 
are required to sign annual compliance statements.
Interruptions in business 
processes or systems
The group’s ability to provide reliable services 
largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted 
operation of our computer network systems, 
financial settlement systems, data and call centres,  
as well as maintaining sufficient staffing levels.  
System or network interruptions, recovery from fraud 
or security incidents or the unavailability of key staff 
or management resulting from a pandemic outbreak 
could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver 
or maintain our products and services, causing harm 
to our business and reputation and resulting in loss 
of customers or revenue.
Comprehensive business continuity plans and 
incident management programmes are maintained 
to minimise business and operational disruptions, 
including fraudulent activity, system failure or 
pandemic incidents. Support arrangements have 
been established with third party vendors and there 
are strict standards, procedures and training schemes 
for business continuity. 
Dependence on recruitment  
and retention of highly  
skilled personnel
The ability of the group to meet the demands of the 
market and compete effectively is, to a large extent, 
dependent on the skills, experience and performance 
of its personnel. Demand is high for individuals with 
appropriate knowledge and experience in payments, 
IT and support services. The inability to attract, 
motivate or retain key talent could have a serious 
consequence on the group’s ability to service client 
commitments and grow our business. 
Effective recruitment programmes are on-going 
across all business areas, as well as personal and 
career development initiatives. The executive 
management reviews talent potential at quarterly 
meetings. Compensation and benefits programmes 
are competitive and also reviewed regularly.
Exposure to materially  
adverse litigation
The group contracts with a number of large service 
organisations for which it provides services essential 
to their customers. Failure to perform in accordance 
with contractual terms could give rise to litigation.
The group seeks to limit exposure in its contracts.  
Mitigating actions are taken where contractual 
exposures are above the norm, including  
insurance coverage, where appropriate  
and economically sustainable. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 15
STRATEGIC REPORT
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued
Risk area Potential impact
Mitigation strategies
Technology change may  
render products obsolete
There are rapid changes in technology in the payments 
industry including the development of new payment 
methods, particularly on smart phones and tablets, but 
also as a consequence of technology changes in other 
areas e.g. smart meters, which will replace the use of 
the energy keys and gas cards currently used to pay 
for prepaid energy. Such changes may render current 
products and services obsolete.
IT development resource is directed at a group 
level and developments are in hand to ensure the 
group has relevant products in place to meet the 
demands brought about by changing technology. 
For smart meters, the first multi-channel product 
has been developed and launched.
Exposure to country and 
regional risk (political, financial, 
economic, social) in North 
America, United Kingdom, 
Romania, France and Ireland
The group’s geographic footprint subjects its businesses 
to economic, political and other risks associated with 
international sales and operations.  A variety of factors, 
including changes in a specific country’s or region’s 
political, economic or regulatory requirements, as  
well as the potential for geopolitical turmoil, including 
terrorism and war, could result in loss of services, 
prevent our ability to respond to agreed service levels or 
fulfil other obligations. These risks are generally outside 
the control of the group.
The group’s portfolio is diversified by geography, 
by product, by sector and by client in order to 
protect itself against many of these fluctuations, 
especially those that are restricted to individual 
territories and market sectors, although the bulk 
of its operations and revenues are UK based.
Exposure to consolidation 
among clients and markets
Consolidation of retailers and clients could result in 
reductions in the group’s revenue and profits through 
price compression from combined service agreements 
or through a reduced number of clients.
No single client accounts for more than 9% of the 
group’s net revenue, and no single retailer accounts 
for more than 4% of the group’s net revenue, 
which reduces the probability of this potential risk 
having a significant impact on the group’s business. 
In addition, the group continues to expand in its 
developing businesses and in CashOut (reversing 
the flow of money through its retail networks).
Acquisitions may not  
meet expectations
The group’s acquisitions, strategic alliances and  
joint ventures may result in financial outcomes  
that are different than expected. The net sale proceeds 
from the proposed sale of the parking and online 
payment processing business may not exceed their 
carrying value.
Yodel, our joint venture partner in Collect+,  
is seeking  increases in its charges to the joint  
venture. It is not clear the extent to which, if  
any, these proposals will be adopted.
The group assesses all acquisitions rigorously,  
using both in-house experts and professional 
advisers. In addition, the group conducts regular 
reviews to monitor performance.
Exposure to the unpredictability 
of financial markets (foreign 
exchange, interest rate and 
other financial risks)
As the group operates on an international basis,  
it is exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations  
and the unpredictability of financial markets in  
which it operates.
The group’s financial risk management seeks to 
minimise potentially adverse effects on the group’s 
financial performance.
Exposure to increasing 
competition
The group operates in a number of geographic, 
product and service markets that are highly 
competitive and subject to technological developments 
for example the introduction of smart meters and 
new payment solutions. Competitors may develop 
products and services that are superior to ours or that 
achieve greater market acceptance than our products 
and services, which could result in the loss of clients, 
merchants and retailers or a reduction in revenue. 
The group is committed to continued research 
and investment in new data sources, people, 
technology and products to support its  
strategic plan.
Loss or infringement of 
intellectual property rights
The group’s success depends, in part, upon proprietary 
technology and related intellectual property rights. 
Some protection can be achieved, but in many cases, 
little protection can be secured. Third parties may  
claim that the group is infringing their intellectual 
property rights or our intellectual property rights  
could be infringed by third parties. If we do not 
enforce or defend the group’s intellectual property 
rights successfully, our competitive position may  
suffer, which could harm our operating results.
The group, where appropriate and feasible, 
relies upon a combination of patent, copyright, 
trademark and trade secret laws, as well as 
various contractual restrictions, to protect our 
proprietary technology and continues to monitor 
this situation. The group also vigorously defends 
all third party infringement claims.
Data centre security breaches The group is highly dependent on information 
technology networks and systems to process,  
transmit and store electronic information.  
Fraudulent or unauthorised access, including  
security breaches of our data centres, could create 
system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorised 
disclosure of confidential information.
The group’s data centres are protected against 
physical break-ins. The group has strict standards 
and procedures for security and fraud prevention. 16 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY  
AND HUMAN RIGHTS
PayPoint is committed to dealing fairly and with a high level of integrity with all its stakeholders, including clients, retailers, 
merchants, consumers, local communities and shareholders. We comply with statutory obligations in all areas and subject our 
practices to high levels of scrutiny. We publish results twice each year and provide two interim management statements, complying 
with reporting and disclosure obligations. This report sets out our approach and the way we measure our success in dealing with 
each group of stakeholders.
Clients and 
merchants
Retailers and 
consumers
Local communities Shareholders
Information 
on 
stakeholders
5,500 clients and online 
merchants in six countries.
Over 37,000 retailers 
in three countries and 
provide a service to 
millions of consumers.
Where our employees  
live and work.
559 shareholders at  
31 March 2015.
Impact Provision of convenient 
services for consumer 
payments.
To provide stable, reliable 
and a broad range of 
services to help generate 
consumer footfall for 
retailers who serve their 
communities.
Financial support to  
local charities.
Maximise shareholder 
return.
Engagement Provision of a high 
standard of service to 
our clients and open 
communication. Client 
contracts contain service 
level agreements, which 
are set to a high standard. 
Specific performance 
is measured for key 
elements, including system 
availability and file delivery.  
We seek to provide an 
unparalleled service to our 
retailers and consumers.
Staff are encouraged to 
nominate local charities 
and fundraising events. 
PayPoint has adopted a 
charitable giving policy 
which supports the local 
communities in which its 
employees live and work 
by matching funds raised 
by employees, subject to 
certain limits.
PayPoint focuses  
on maximising  
economic value.
How we 
interact and 
support the 
stakeholders
Communication - major 
clients have regular review 
meetings with dedicated 
sector managers.
In the UK, terminal 
availability is over 99% 
and when a terminal 
needs to be replaced, it is 
achieved within four hours 
across the UK in 98% 
of cases. The breadth 
of products offered by 
PayPoint is greater than 
any other network. 
An annual retailer 
survey is carried out to 
understand how we can 
improve our service. We 
also invite retailers to 
attend an annual forum to 
discuss new products and 
obtain retailer feedback.
Major multiple retailers 
have regular review 
meetings with dedicated 
account managers.
During the period, 
PayPoint donated 
£32,556 to local and 
national charities, which 
was supplemented by 
employees who also 
donated to some of  
these charities through 
various schemes. 
We offer our network to 
collect for certain charities 
free of charge, including 
the BBC’s Children in 
Need telethon.
45% of PayPoint’s ATM 
network is ‘speech-
enabled’, the largest 
proportion of an 
independent network  
in the UK.
Shareholders are invited to 
attend the annual general 
meeting and major 
shareholders are visited 
twice a year to discuss  
the group’s results.
PayPoint has been 
a constituent of the 
FTSE4Good index  
since 2008. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 17
STRATEGIC REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY  
AND HUMAN RIGHTS continued
Environment 
PayPoint’s main impact on the environment stems from our use 
of resources to run offices in the UK, Ireland, Romania, North 
America and France and our communications with our retailers. 
We measure our carbon footprint in accordance using the Green 
House Gas (GHG) protocol. This allows us to monitor, by region, 
our carbon footprint and implement, where practical, targets to 
reduce our carbon footprint.
The two primary sources of PayPoint’s carbon emissions are 
business travel and energy consumption. We visit existing  
and prospective retailers in the UK, Ireland and Romania. 
Routes are pre-planned to ensure efficiency where possible. 
Management regularly visits our businesses to review and 
improve performance. We aim to avoid unnecessary travel. 
Energy consumption arises from our offices in the UK,  
Romania and North America. We have a cycle to work  
scheme for our UK employees. We encourage employees  
not to print unless necessary and our board papers are sent 
electronically rather than printed and sent by post.
PayPoint’s services help consumers to reduce the number of 
unnecessary car journeys through the convenience of our  
outlets which are usually available within a short walking 
distance. Collect+ consolidated over 18 million parcels into  
1.6 million store visits in the year, saving millions of van 
deliveries to each consumer’s home address.
We recycle wherever possible, including paper, cans, plastic 
cups, cardboard, toners and print cartridges. We also recycle 
computer equipment. This has resulted in an increase in the 
proportion of waste recycled to 55% of all waste generated 
(2014: 54%). Total waste has increased in the year due to  
the rise in employee numbers and corporate office locations  
as the business has grown. 
Year
ended
31 March
2015
Tonnes
Year
ended 
31 March
2014
Tonnes Change %
Waste
Landfill 17.9 15.4 16.3
Recycled 21.8 18.4 18.9
Total 39.7 33.8 17.7
% recycled 55.0% 54.4% 0.6 ppts
GHG emissions
In this section we report on all required greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. 
We report using a financial control approach to define our 
organisational boundary. A range of approaches can be taken  
to determine the boundaries of an organisation for the purposes 
of GHG reporting including financial control, operational control 
or equity share.  
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based upon 
the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory 
greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance (June 2013) issued 
by DEFRA which make it clear that, in most cases, whether an 
operation is controlled by the organisation or not does not vary 
based on whether the financial control or operational control 
approach is used. The 2013 UK Government GHG Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting have been used to calculate  
our emissions based on data gathered from each of our  
business units. 
Global GHG emissions data for the year is as follows:
Impact Units
Year 
ended
31 March
2015
Year
ended
31 March
2014
Scope 1 (direct emissions 
from fuel combustion)
tonnes  
CO
2
e 382 357
Scope 2 (indirect emissions 
from purchased electricity, 
heat and cooling)
tonnes 
CO
2
e 1,371 1,256
Scope 3 (business travel, 
waste and water)
tonnes 
CO
2
e 929 932
Total 2,682 2,545
Intensity measurement: 
Total tonnes of CO
2
e  
per employee
1
3.7 3.7
1.  We have used the average number of employees to calculate our intensity 
measure as the majority of our emissions are directly related to business travel 
and energy consumption at our head office locations.
Human rights
PayPoint supports fundamental human rights, such as the 
right to privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, with dignity and 
respect. Our employment standard sets out our commitment 
to good employment practices and the principles to govern 
the practices adopted in each of our businesses. All employees 
have a right to safe conditions of work, consideration of their 
welfare, fair terms of employment, reward and treatment,  
clarity and openness about what is expected. PayPoint offers  
an environment where all are treated equally and which is free 
from discrimination in respect of gender, ethnicity, religion, 
sexual orientation, age or disability.
Employees
PayPoint employed, on average, 731 members of staff 
during the period. We operate an equal opportunities 
policy. PayPoint’s culture is one of openness, honesty and 
accountability and we recognise that all employees play  
a part in delivering the group’s performance.
PayPoint seeks to improve its employees’ working 
environment. Employees are invited to participate in two staff 
meetings a year where the directors present the performance 
of the group. Overseas offices participate by webcam. In 
addition, there are a variety of management presentations 
to employees on key points of topical interest and functional 
meetings take place throughout the year at our various 
offices. PayPoint believes that keeping its employees informed 
of new developments and products, as well as the financial 
performance of the group, motivates the employees and  
helps them understand the group’s progress towards its  
goals and objectives.
PayPoint’s employment policies are designed to attract,  
retain and motivate the best people. All staff are given two 
appraisals per annum, which cover performance management, 
employee development, training and succession planning 
where applicable. Training is undertaken locally and all 
employees are given equal opportunities to develop their 
experience and their careers. 18 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
PayPoint’s employees
UK Rest of the world
3
Year
ended 
31 March 
2015
Year
ended 
31 March 
2014
Year 
ended 
31 March 
2015
Year 
ended 
31 March 
2014
General
1
Average number of staff 
employed during the period 531 512 200 175
Average length of service 5 years 5 years 2 years 2 years
Average staff turnover 
during the period 22% 21% 16% 9%
Sickness absence rate 1.8% 1.6% 2.2% 1.5%
% working part-time 9% 10% 4% 4%
Gender diversity
1
Number of women employed 231 193 79 69
% of all employees 43% 41% 39% 39%
Number of men employed 300 319 121 106
% of all employees 57% 59% 61% 61%
PayPoint plc directors:
Number of women employed - - - -
% of PayPoint plc directors 0% 0% - -
Number of men employed 10 9 - -
% of PayPoint plc directors 100% 100% - -
Senior management
2
:
Number of women employed 2 2 - -
% of senior management 22% 22% 0% 0%
Number of men employed 7 7 1 1
% of senior management 78% 78% 100% 100%
Ethnic minorities
1
% of all employees 21% 25% 9% 9%
% of management grades 3% 3% 7% 10%
Disabled employees
1
% of all employees 1% 1% 0% 0%
Age profile
1
 
Employees under 25 51 54 26 13
Employees 25 to 29 96 88 32 38
Employees 30 to 49 299 282 138 117
Employees 50 and over 85 88 8 7
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY  
AND HUMAN RIGHTS continued
Employees in the UK, Ireland, North America 
and Romania are asked annually to complete an 
anonymous employee engagement survey which 
covers a wide range of subjects, including goal 
clarity, employee involvement, job satisfaction, 
learning, development and management 
effectiveness. This survey is used to agree with 
employees the actions necessary for improvement.
PayPoint has the following policies in place:
• equal opportunities - we treat job applicants, 
employees and temporary staff equally, 
regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, age, 
race, ethnic origin or disability. It is also the 
group’s policy to retain employees who may 
become disabled while in service and provide 
appropriate training as necessary.
• whistle-blowing - we are committed to 
ensuring that malpractice is prevented and 
immediately dealt with, should it arise. We 
encourage employees to raise their concerns 
about any malpractice promptly and we  
have an established procedure for raising  
any such concerns.
• health and safety - we recognise that 
effective health and safety management is 
fundamental to running a successful business. 
We are committed to operating high standards, 
designed to minimise the risk of injuries and 
ill health to employees, contractors, visitors 
and others who come into contact with the 
business, so far as is reasonably practicable.
• disciplinary and grievance procedures -  
we provide a fair and consistent method of 
dealing with disciplinary problems and treat 
misconduct with appropriate action. We ensure 
that we treat any grievance an employee may 
have relating to their employment in a fair and 
reasonable manner.
• bullying and harassment - we promote  
a working environment free of harassment  
and individuals who believe that they are  
being subjected to any form of harassment  
are encouraged to come forward to have  
the issue resolved. 
• business ethics - we set out clear standards 
for ethical relationships and conduct to be 
maintained by employees and sub-contractors 
and conduct our business in accordance with 
the highest ethical standards. We do not offer 
or accept any bribes.
• training and development - all employees  
meet twice a year with their line manager to 
discuss performance and any development 
needs. Training is provided either in-house or 
externally. We also sponsor employees through 
further professional and technical qualifications. 
We promote internally, where appropriate.
1.  Numbers based on employees employed at the end of each month
2.  Senior management includes the group executive, managing directors,  
the Group HR director and Group Head of Legal/Company Secretary
3.  Rest of the world includes Ireland, Romania, North America and France
Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of the board.
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive
28 May 2015 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 19
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE
The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate 
governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature  
of the company. The company has complied with the revised  
version of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code),  
as issued by the Financial Reporting Council for the year  
ended 31 March 2015, a copy of which can be found at 
www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm
This statement describes how the principles of corporate 
governance in the Code are applied by the company.
The board
The board comprises nine directors: Nick Wiles, the  
non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, Dominic 
Taylor, George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees, and five non-executive 
directors, Eric Anstee, David Morrison, Stephen Rowley, Neil 
Carson and Gill Barr (who has agreed to join on 1 June 2015). 
Neil Carson, who was appointed to the board immediately 
following the annual general meeting on 23 July 2014, is  
Senior Independent Director.
Nick Wiles was appointed as Chairman on 8 May 2015 following 
Warren Tucker’s decision to step down. Prior to his appointment 
as non-executive Chairman, Nick Wiles served as an independent 
non-executive director on the board for over five years. Further 
information regarding the appointment of the Chairman can  
be found in the succession planning section of this report on  
page 20. 
The board considers that Gill Barr, Neil Carson, Eric Anstee  
and Stephen Rowley are independent for the purposes of the 
Code. Nick Wiles met the Code Independence Criteria on  
his appointment.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and 
ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role. The board 
is comprised of an appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge, which enables it to discharge its 
responsibilities effectively. The balance of independence creates 
an environment that encourages the effective challenge and 
development of proposals on strategy. All the non-executive 
directors bring considerable knowledge and experience to board 
deliberations. Non-executive directors do not participate in any of 
the company’s share schemes or bonus schemes and their service 
is non-pensionable. The balance and independence of the board 
is kept under review by the nominations committee. 
Biographical details of each of the current serving directors are set 
out on page 23. Procedures exist to allow the directors to seek 
independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the 
company’s expense where the circumstances are appropriate. All 
directors have access to the Company Secretary.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive 
directors and the executive directors’ service contracts are 
available for inspection at the company’s registered office  
during normal business hours and will be available at the  
annual general meeting.
The Chairman chairs board meetings and regularly consults with 
the executive directors regarding on-going business. His other 
significant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 
23. The board considers that these commitments do not hinder 
his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the company and its 
subsidiaries (the group) effectively.
The directors believe it is essential for the company to be led and 
controlled by an effective board which monitors progress through 
monthly reports and management accounts. The board has a 
schedule of matters reserved for its approval. The most significant 
of these are the approval of:
• corporate strategy of the group and the annual operating 
and capital expenditure budgets;
• the appointment of the Chief Executive, other directors  
and the Company Secretary;
• major capital investments;
• annual and half yearly financial statements;
• interim management statements; and
• acquisitions and disposals. 
The board met nine times during the year and all meetings 
were attended by all board members in office at the relevant 
time except that David Newlands, Andrew Robb, Nick Wiles 
and Eric Anstee were each unable to attend one meeting. 
Where a director is unable to attend, he provides input through 
discussion with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
In line with the commitment made to shareholders last year, 
an external evaluation of the board took place during the year. 
The board recognise the importance of good governance and 
wish to continue to meet the revised Code provisions and to 
ensure sensible adherence to governance rules and disciplines 
appropriate for a FTSE 250 company. The evaluation was 
facilitated by Sheena Crane under the direction of Warren 
Tucker and involved a thorough evaluation of the board and its 
committees. Sheena Crane attended the board and committee 
meetings in September and November 2014, reviewed the 
associated papers for those meetings and conducted interviews 
with the Company Secretary and each of the directors in office 
at the time, except Neil Carson who had only recently been 
appointed. The results of the evaluation, including feedback  
from the individual interviews, were discussed by the board  
at its November meeting. The evaluation report was 
complimentary of the board and its overall performance.  
The report made some recommendations for areas requiring 
improvement, including diversity, which the board have acted 
upon, whilst acknowledging that further modernisation should 
be made over an appropriate timescale. 
Eric Anstee will retire at the 2015 annual general meeting.  
Every other member of the board will offer himself for  
re-election. The board’s recommendations in respect of  
the re-election of each director can be found in the  
notice of meeting on pages 67 to 70. 
The Chief Executive proactively manages succession planning  
for the executives and senior management team and keeps  
the board updated on developments as necessary.
Conflicts of interest
Under the articles of association, the board has authority to 
approve any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that are 
declared by individual directors; conditions may be attached  
to such approvals and directors will generally not be entitled  
to participate in discussions or vote on matters in which they  
have or may have a conflict of interest.
A register of conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at least 
annually to ensure all details are kept up to date. Authorisation  
is sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if  
any new conflicts arise. 20 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE continued
Shareholder relations
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts 
play an important role in providing shareholders with an 
evaluation of the company’s position and prospects. The board 
aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all 
shareholders. The board acknowledges the importance of an 
open dialogue with its institutional shareholders and welcomes 
correspondence from private investors.
We believe that, in addition to the annual report and the 
company’s website, the annual general meeting is an ideal 
forum at which to communicate with investors, and the board 
encourages their participation. The Senior Independent Director 
is available to address any unresolved shareholder concerns.
The company held briefings with institutional fund managers, 
analysts and other investors following the announcement of  
half yearly results and feedback from these has been reported  
to the board. Meetings have been held at other times during  
the period when appropriate.
Committees of the board
The following formally constituted committees deal with specific 
aspects of the group’s affairs in accordance with the duties and 
responsibilities formally delegated to them by the board. The 
terms of reference for each of the committees are available on 
the company’s website at www.paypoint.com.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee comprises Eric Anstee, Neil Carson 
(appointed 23 July 2014), Stephen Rowley, David Morrison and 
Nick Wiles (committee Chairman). It met five times during the 
period and all members in office at the  
relevant time were in attendance except that Eric Anstee  
and Nick Wiles were each unable to attend one meeting.  
Nick Wiles succeeded Warren Tucker as Chairman of the 
committee on 8 May 2015. Gill Barr has agreed to join the 
committee on 1 June 2015.
The committee is responsible for considering and making 
recommendations on the appointment of additional directors, 
the retirement of existing directors and for reviewing the size, 
structure and composition of the board and membership  
of board committees, which are considered against  
objective criteria. 
The committee considers the need for progressive refreshment 
and keeps the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and 
experience of the board under review. During considerations 
on the appointment and retention of non-executive directors, 
the committee has regard to the need for particularly rigorous 
review and the need to progressively refresh the board where 
terms of appointment are beyond six years. 
Diversity policy
The board embraces the supporting principles enshrined in  
the Code relating to board diversity, including gender. 
The board is committed to ensuring an appropriate balance of 
skills, knowledge and experience on its board and fully supports 
the Department of Business Innovation & Skills objective for 
FTSE 350 boards to have an appropriate female presence by 
2015. Diversity is a vital part of the continued assessment and 
enhancement of board composition and the board recognises 
the benefits of diversity amongst its members. The board  
takes account of all aspects of diversity in its considerations 
including, but not limited to gender, industry experience, 
background and race. 
The nomination committee puts particular emphasis on the 
importance of sourcing candidates appropriately widely so  
that shortlisted candidates reflect the desire for increased 
diversity, in line with the board’s objectives as stated above. 
In order to assist the board in achieving its commitment, the 
nomination committee ensures that only independent executive 
search firms, which subscribe to the Voluntary Code of Conduct 
for Executive Search Firms, are commissioned in respect of 
board appointments. 
All board appointments are made on merit, in the context of 
balance of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge 
which the board as a whole requires to be effective, taking 
account of diversity in the manner described above.
Further details on diversity throughout the group including 
information about the diversity and equality policy that applies 
to PayPoint employees can be found on pages 17 and 18.
Succession planning 
Nick Wiles was appointed as non-executive Chairman on  
8 May 2015. The committee decided not to commission an 
external search, following the decision of Warren Tucker to  
step down. Having served as an independent non-executive 
director on the board for over five years, Nick Wiles’ 
longstanding and deep knowledge of the group made  
him the strongest candidate for the role and the board  
was unanimous in his appointment.   
During the year, an external search was commissioned, using 
an independent executive search firm, Egon Zehnder, which has 
no other connection with the company, to search for a non-
executive director, who would also act as Senior Independent 
Director and remuneration committee Chairman, pending the 
retirement of Andrew Robb from the board at the 2014  
annual general meeting. Neil Carson was identified as the  
best candidate for the role and was subsequently recommended 
to the board by the nomination committee on the basis that  
he met the desired criteria.
Egon Zehnder were also commissioned to search for a non-
executive director with relevant skills in retail. Gill Barr met all 
the criteria deemed necessary for the role and, following the 
year end, was recommended to the board by the nomination 
committee and has agreed to join the board on 1 June 2015.
Since the year end, the committee has commissioned Spencer 
Stuart to search for an independent, non-executive director 
to replace Eric Anstee as Chairman of the audit committee. 
Eric Anstee will retire from the board at the 2015 annual 
general meeting after seven years. The search process is being 
conducted in line with the appropriate guidelines on diversity.
The Senior Independent Director chaired discussions relating to 
succession planning for the Chairman, in which the Chairman 
did not take part.
Remuneration committee
The role and composition of the remuneration committee 
and details of how the company applies the principles of the 
Code in respect of directors’ remuneration are set out in the 
remuneration committee report on pages 26 to 40. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 21
GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
On behalf of the audit committee, I am pleased to present our 
report for the year ended 31 March 2015. During the year, the 
audit committee has continued to focus on risk management for 
the group and the integrity of the group’s financial reporting, 
including both the internal and external audit processes. The 
committee will continue to keep its activities under review in  
line with regulatory and market developments. 
The audit committee comprises Eric Anstee, Neil Carson 
(appointed 23 July 2014) and Stephen Rowley. Nick Wiles, who 
was a member of the committee during the year, ceased to be a 
member of the committee on his appointment as non-executive 
Chairman of the board on 8 May 2015. Gill Barr has agreed 
to join the committee on 1 June 2015. Andrew Robb retired 
from the committee and the board at the 2014 annual general 
meeting. The board considers Eric Anstee, who is Chairman 
of the audit committee, to have recent and relevant financial 
experience in accordance with the Code. Full biographical 
details of each of the current committee members, including 
relevant financial experience, are set out on page 23. 
The key responsibilities of the audit committee are as follows:
 
• monitoring that the financial performance of the group is 
properly measured and reported;
• reporting to the board on the appropriateness of the 
significant accounting policies and practices of the group;
• considering and making recommendations to the board on 
the nature and extent of the significant risk the group is 
willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives;
• overseeing the relationship with the external auditor and the 
quality of the internal and external audit processes;
• reviewing the internal financial controls and internal control 
and risk management systems of the group;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
arrangements for internal audit, including its remit and 
programme and ensuring that it is adequately resourced; and 
• advising the board on whether the committee believes 
the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides sufficient 
information to enable shareholders to assess the group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
The committee continued to keep its activities under review in 
the light of regulatory and market developments and met six 
times during the period. All members were in attendance at all 
of the meetings. By invitation, during the year, meetings were 
also attended by the Chairman and non-executive directors, the 
Chief Executive, Finance Director, Business Development Director 
and the Group Financial Controller, our external auditor, Deloitte 
LLP and internal auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP , as appropriate. 
In order to maximise its effectiveness and as part of the process 
of working with the board, the committee meetings generally 
took place on the same day as, but prior to, the company board 
meetings. Where all the board members were not in attendance 
at an audit committee meeting, either as a member of the 
committee or by invitation, the Chairman of the committee 
reported to the board as part of a separate agenda item, on  
the activity of the committee.
In contemplation of its key responsibilities, during the period, 
the committee: reviewed reports from the auditor relating to the 
group’s accounting and internal controls; advised the board on 
the appointment, performance, independence and objectivity of 
the auditor and the internal auditor; reviewed the effectiveness 
of the group’s systems of internal control, including fraud 
prevention; reviewed the appropriateness of the internal audit 
programme and the reports of the internal auditors and other 
independent audits by clients, LINK and BSI. In addition it has 
considered the decision by the board to undertake a review of 
the accounting treatment of the Mobile and Online business 
and transferring the book value of that asset to be classified as 
an asset held for sale.
The significant issues considered by the committee in relation  
to the 2015 accounts, and how these were addressed, were:
• Goodwill impairment and disclosure:
The judgements in relation to the impairment of goodwill largely 
relate to the value in use of the businesses acquired. Forecasts 
used for the valuations are consistent with those prepared for 
business planning purposes, including the setting of targets 
for management incentives. The committee scrutinised these 
forecasts and challenged the assumptions with management.  
The forecasts include targets for the sale of new products and 
services to new clients, over which there is inherent uncertainty. 
In addition, the committee received extensive reports from the 
auditors on these valuations. Sensitivity analysis was performed 
to understand whether the headroom (the amount by which  
the value in use would have to fall to cause impairment)  
was adequate and proper disclosure was made in the  
financial statements. 
• Revenue recognition:
We reviewed the recognition of income to ensure that  
the approach adopted is appropriate and consistent. Most of 
the group’s revenue was transaction-based and recognised on  
the basis of completed transactions. We challenged the basis  
of non-transaction based recognition, where judgement  
was applied. The committee also received reports from the 
auditors on income recognition which it discussed with them.
• Taxation:
Judgement on taxation included the recognition of losses. There
were brought forward losses at the start of last year available
for offsetting profit in the year and future years. The audit
committee considered the losses, any time restrictions for their
use and the financial forecasts prepared by management and
management’s views on the potential use of such losses and
those it would be appropriate to recognise in the period under
review. The committee also received reports from the auditors
and discussed the recognition of losses with them.
• Balance sheet presentation of Mobile and Online:
We considered the position of this sale process as at  
31 March 2015 and the appropriate accounting treatment  
for the disposal group in relation to the guidance detailed in 
IFRS 5. The committee satisfied itself that the presentation of 
the disposal as an asset held for sale at its carrying value, but 
not a discontinued operation, was appropriate. The value in  
use and independent valuation of these assets held for resale  
are in excess of their carrying value in the balance sheet, but  
there is no guarantee that the net sale proceeds will match  
the valuations.
External audit
Deloitte LLP has been the external auditor for the group since 
2001 following a formal tender process. The appointment of 
Deloitte LLP as external auditor, including the rotation of the 
audit partner, is kept under annual review. Edward Hanson 
completed his five year term following the current year end  
and is to be replaced by Hadleigh Shekle. An annual review  
of the effectiveness of the external audit is undertaken by  
the committee. 22 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued
The effectiveness of the audit process is underpinned by 
appropriate audit planning and risk identification at the outset 
of the audit cycle. The auditor provides a detailed audit plan 
identifying its assessment of the risks and other key matters 
for review. For the year ended 31 March 2015, the primary 
risks identified were goodwill impairment, revenue recognition, 
taxation and the balance sheet value of Mobile and Online. 
The committee reviewed and challenged the work undertaken 
by the auditor to test management’s assumptions on these 
matters. An assessment of the effectiveness of the audit 
process in addressing these items was performed through the 
reporting received from the auditor at the half-year and year 
end. The committee sought feedback from management on the 
effectiveness of the audit process. No significant issues were 
raised with respect to the audit process for the period and the 
quality of the audit process was assessed to be good.
The audit committee met the external auditor without the 
executive directors being present and procedures were in place, 
which allowed access at any time of both external and internal 
auditor to the audit committee. I reported the outcome of each
meeting to the board.
The committee’s assessment of the external auditor’s 
performance and independence, if satisfactory, underpins  
its recommendation to the board to propose to shareholders  
the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor. Based on  
the committee’s assessment, the committee provided the  
board with its recommendation to the shareholders on the  
re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor for the year 
ending 31 March 2016. There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the committee’s choice of auditor. A resolution  
for re-appointment of the auditor will be proposed at the 
forthcoming annual general meeting, the notice for which  
can be found on pages 67 to 70.
Non-audit services
The committee considered the level of non-audit fees for
services provided by the auditor in order to satisfy itself that
auditor independence is safeguarded. The group has a policy
which prohibits the auditor providing certain services which
might impair its independence. The committee monitored
compliance with the policy safeguarding the independence  
of the external auditor. The policy also prescribes that any  
non-audit services to be performed by the auditor in any 
one year (excluding tax) are to be provisionally capped at an 
aggregate total equivalent to the level of the annual audit fee. 
Any proposal to use the auditor for non-audit services exceeding 
this is subject to the prior approval of the audit committee. In
determining the most appropriate provider of non-audit services,
the committee considers the knowledge and expertise of the
potential providers and the proposed costs. Non-audit services
are only undertaken by the auditor where it is deemed to be the
preferred provider and the provision of services poses no threat
to its independence. In this context, Deloitte was appointed,
following a competitive tender, to advise on the proposed sale 
of our parking and online payment processing businesses. 
Tenders were invited from five parties recommended by 
our independent financial advisor. The Deloitte bid was the 
best on both quality and cost out of the submitted tenders. 
Consequently Deloitte was appointed as advisor for the 
proposed sale. Details of the remuneration paid to the auditor 
for the statutory audit and non-audit services, which normally 
are limited to assurance and tax advice, are set out in note 5.
Risk management and internal control
The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
the group’s system of internal control, and for regularly 
reviewing its effectiveness. Procedures have been designed 
to meet the particular needs of the group and its risks, 
safeguarding shareholders’ investments and the company’s 
assets. Such a system is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. There is an on-going process of 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the group. 
All procedures necessary to comply with the FRC’s Internal 
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code 
were in place throughout the period under review and up to the 
date of approval of the annual report and financial statements. 
The directors conducted a formal review of the effectiveness  
of the group’s system of internal control during the period.  
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during  
the review.
The operational management of the group is delegated to 
senior managers who are appointed by the Chief Executive.  
The responsibilities of the senior management group include  
the regular review of the main business risks to the group.
The group has prepared a detailed risk register which includes 
analysis of all the main operational risks covering all parts of 
the group’s business activities, including financial risks. The 
group evaluates and prioritises the identified key operational 
risks. In order to ensure that this process is managed effectively, 
responsibility for each key risk area is assigned to a member 
of senior management, who must confirm in writing that the 
potential threats in each area have been properly identified and 
recorded and the appropriate action taken to mitigate risks so 
far as possible. This process has been fully embedded into the 
operations of the business. During the year, the audit committee
received regular updates on the on-going risk management,
control systems and processes which were discussed at
their meetings.
Internal audit
The audit committee is responsible for approving a rigorous 
internal audit programme covering all the group’s key business 
areas. The current programme was approved in March 2014 and 
each year the programme is reviewed to ensure that account 
is taken, where necessary, of any change. During the period, 
Grant Thornton UK LLP provided internal audit services to the 
company as directed by the audit committee, in accordance  
with the approved internal audit plan. They executed a 
programme of testing designed to assess and report on  
the adequacy, reliability and effectiveness of the design and 
operation of the relevant accounting, financial and business 
control systems implemented by management and reported  
the results to the audit committee.
Eric Anstee
Chairman, audit committee PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 23
GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Dominic Taylor, Chief Executive (aged 56),  
appointed 4 August 1998
Dominic joined PayPoint in 1997 as Retail Director and was 
appointed to his current role in August 1998. He was a Royal Naval 
officer for 12 years, following which he completed an MBA at the 
Cranfield School of Management. In 1991, Dominic joined the 
Vodafone Group where he led a number of initiatives including the 
development of its SMS service and a bid for the National Lottery, 
before becoming Sales and Marketing Director for the indirect sales 
of mobile phones to retailers. In 1996, Dominic joined Granada 
plc as a director of Granada T echnology Group and Managing 
Director of Granada Business T echnology, supplying film and 
telecommunications products into the hotel and leisure sectors.
George Earle, ACA, Finance Director (aged 61),  
appointed 20 September 2004
George joined PayPoint in September 2004 and is responsible 
for the financial affairs of the group. George qualified as a 
chartered accountant with Touche Ross & Co (now Deloitte LLP) 
in 1979, where he served in the corporate finance and audit 
groups, becoming a partner in 1984. In 1987, George moved 
to Saatchi & Saatchi plc, serving as Deputy Finance Director. 
George subsequently moved to The General Electric Company 
in 1989, where, until 2001, he fulfilled the role of Financial 
Services Director. George left Marconi (formerly GEC) in 2001 to 
work as Group Director, Chief Executive’s Office at Centrica plc, 
and in 2003 was appointed as Director of Financial Control.
Tim Watkin-Rees, Business Development Director  
(aged 52), appointed 22 September 1998
Tim was a founder director of PayPoint in 1996 and has been 
responsible for group business development throughout the 
company’s history. He previously worked in retail banking and 
payments with Lloyds Bank, KPMG Management Consultants 
and Nexus (later Sligos and now Atos). He is an Associate of  
the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
David Morrison, non-executive Director  
(aged 56), appointed 12 January 1999
David has been Chief Executive of Prospect Investment 
Management (Prospect) since 1999, when he started the 
company. He became a director of PayPoint in 1999 following 
an investment in the company by clients of Prospect. Prior to 
establishing Prospect, he had worked in the venture capital 
sector with 3i, Abingworth Management and Botts & Company. 
He is currently a non-executive director of Record plc and also 
Chairman of Snoozebox Holdings plc (AIM listed), and several 
private companies.
Eric Anstee, non-executive Director (aged 64),  
appointed 16 September 2008
Eric is Chairman of CPP Group plc and is non-executive director 
of Sun Life Financial of Canada (UK) Limited, a Subsidiary 
of the Canadian listed Life Assurance Company, and Insight 
Asset Management, the institutional investment arm of Bank 
of New York Mellon. He is also a member of the UK Takeover 
Panel Appeals Board. His former non-executive positions have 
included: The Financial Reporting Council; Chairman of Mansell 
plc; and Severn Trent plc where he was Chairman of the treasury 
and audit committees. His former executive appointments 
include: Chief Executive of City of London Group plc, The 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales, Old 
Mutual Financial Services, and Group Finance Director at Old 
Mutual plc, The Energy Group plc and Eastern Electricity plc.
Stephen Rowley, non-executive Director (aged 56), 
appointed 16 September 2008
Stephen is Chairman of IHS, a global provider of services to 
the hospitality industry and is a non-executive director of 
Metapack. Previously he was Chief Executive of Torex, leading 
its turnaround and eventual sale to Micros in 2012. He was 
formerly Chief Executive of Anite plc and his other executive 
appointments include: Senior Vice President Corporate Business 
Development for 3Com Corporation, Marketing and Sales 
Director of Cellnet (now O2) and Director at IBM UK where  
he also held a variety of other senior positions.
Nick Wiles, non-executive Chairman (aged 53),  
appointed to the board 22 October 2009
Nick retired as Chairman of UK investment banking at Nomura 
in 2012. He has worked in banking for more than 20 years,  
with the majority of this time at Cazenove & Co, where he  
was a partner prior to incorporation. Nick was appointed as 
non-executive Chairman on 8 May 2015.
Neil Carson, non-executive Director (aged 58),  
appointed 18 June 2014
Neil worked for 34 years for Johnson Matthey (JM), the FTSE 
100 chemical company. Starting as an engineering graduate 
trainee, he worked in each of the divisions in a number of 
different roles serving global markets. He joined the board of 
JM in 1999 as Division Director of the Autocatalyst division and 
became the Chief Executive in 2004, standing down in 2014. 
Neil is currently Chairman of TT Electronics and is SID and Chair 
of Remco at AMEC Foster Wheeler. He is also the joint Chairman 
alongside the Minister of State for BIS for the Chemistry Growth 
Partnership. Neil was a founder member of the Prince of Wales 
Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
Gill Barr, non-executive Director (aged 57),  
has agreed to join the board on 1 June 2015
Gill is an experienced Marketing Director who has held senior 
positions at John Lewis, MasterCard and Kingfisher and most 
recently she was Group Marketing Director for The Co-operative 
Group. She also has valuable non-executive director experience 
with Morgan Sindall plc and UK Breast Cancer Coalition as well 
as recently being appointed as a trustee for a new pension fund 
established by Towers Watson. 24 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors present their annual report on the affairs of 
the company and of the group, together with the financial 
statements and independent auditor’s report, for the year   
ended 31 March 2015.
This annual report has been prepared for, and only for the 
members of the company, as a body, and no other persons.   
The company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do  
not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to 
whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come 
and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.  
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and 
uncertainties facing the company and the group in this annual 
report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances 
can cause results and developments to differ materially from 
those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect 
knowledge and information available at the date of preparation 
of this annual report and the company undertakes no obligation 
to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this 
annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Strategic report
The strategic report is on pages 1 to 18. The company has chosen 
to set out certain matters in this strategic report that would 
otherwise be required to be disclosed in the directors’ report. These 
matters include disclosures concerning: greenhouse gas emissions 
(page 17); use of financial instruments (pages 13 and 65); credit 
risk and price risk (page 65); employment of disabled persons (page 
18); employee involvement (pages 14 and 15); and likely future 
developments in the business (page 13).
Principal activity
The company is a holding company and its subsidiaries are 
engaged in providing clients with specialist consumer payment and 
other services and products, transaction processing and settlement. 
PayPoint UK & Ireland processes transactions for payment products 
and services and collects payments on behalf of the UK and 
Ireland’ s leading utility and customer service organisations in 
convenience retail stores using PayPoint’ s terminals. On average, 
over 11 million consumer transactions were processed weekly 
by PayPoint UK & Ireland. At a PayPoint outlet, consumers are 
provided with a one stop shop for making cash payments for the 
wide range of PayPoint’ s clients. In addition, PayPoint provides 
other services to retail stores.
PayPoint Romania provides electronic mobile top-ups, scratch cards, 
money transfer, road tax payment and a bill payment service to 
consumers.
Mobile and Online provides secure credit and debit card payment 
services for web merchants and allows consumers to pay for their 
car parking by credit or debit card from their mobile phones and 
provides other services such as text reminders to consumers to 
warn them of parking session expiry, permit payments, bike rental 
and toll payments.
PayPoint has a 50% interest in Drop and Collect Limited which 
trades as Collect+, a joint venture with Yodel, which provides a 
parcel service through selected PayPoint outlets.
Substantial shareholdings
The company had been notified of the following disclosable 
interests in the voting rights of the company as required by 
provision 5.1.2 of the FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
As 31 March 2015:
Name of holder 
No. of 
ordinary 
shares 
Percentage 
of issued 
capital 
Invesco Limited
1
10,662,158 15.67
Liontrust Asset Management plc 7,785,499 11.44
Capital Research & Management 5,919,900 8.70
Woodford Investment Management 5,132,504 7.54
Standard Life Investments 4,544,101 6.68
Schroder Investment Management 3,553,159 5.22
Kames Capital 2,854,682 4.20
BlackRock Inc. 2,841,941 4.18
Mawer Investment Management 2,781,644 4.09
1. 168,812 of Invesco Limited’s shareholding is held indirectly via its holdings in the 
BBC Pension Trust
As at 28 May 2015:
Name of holder 
No. of 
ordinary 
shares 
Percentage 
of issued 
capital 
Invesco Limited
1
8,502,584 12.50
Liontrust Asset Management Plc 7,900,771 11.61
Capital Research & Management 5,919,900 8.70
Woodford Investment Management 5,132,504 7.54
Mawer Investment Management 4,773,064 7.01
Standard Life Investments 4,544,101 6.68
Schroder Investment Management 3,678,234 5.41
Kames Capital 2,839,682 4.17
BlackRock Inc. 2,512,641 3.69
1. 168,812 of Invesco Limited’s shareholding is held indirectly via its holdings in 
the BBC Pension Trust
Share capital
As at the date of this report, 68,045,059 ordinary shares of 1/3p 
each have been issued and fully paid up and are quoted on the 
London Stock Exchange. During the year ended 31 March 2015, 
145,360 ordinary shares were issued under the company’s share 
schemes. The rights and obligations attaching to the company’s 
ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the company’s directors 
are set out in the company’s articles of association, copies of 
which can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to 
the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the 
ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the company. 
No person holds securities in the company carrying special 
rights with regard to control of the company. The company is 
not aware of any agreements between holders of securities 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 
voting rights. Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the 
articles of association of the company, the company’s articles 
of association may be amended by a special resolution of the 
company’s shareholders.
At the annual general meeting on 23 July 2014, the directors 
were given authority to purchase 14.99% of its issued share 
capital, allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £67,899 and to disapply pre-emption rights in 
respect of allotments of relevant securities up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £10,185. Resolutions to renew these 
authorities will be proposed at the 2015 annual general 
meeting, details of which are set out in the notice of  
meeting on pages 67 to 70. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 25
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
Future developments
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the 
company and details of research and development activities are 
included in the strategic report on pages 1 to 18.
Dividends
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 26.1p 
(2014: 23.9p) per ordinary share amounting to £17,760,000 
(2014: £16,205,000) to be paid on 23 July 2015 to members on 
the register on 26 June 2015.  An interim dividend was declared 
and paid during the period of 12.4p per share (2014: 11.4p per 
share) amounting to £8,437,587 (2014: £7,739,000).
Related party transactions
Related party transactions that took place during the period  
can be found in note 28.
Going concern 
At the end of the period, the group had cash of £43.9 million, 
excluding £3.3 million in assets held for sale, and an undrawn 
£45.0 million revolving term credit facility expiring in May 2019. 
The company’s cash and borrowing capacity is adequate to meet 
the foreseeable needs of the group, taking into account any risks 
(see pages 14 to 15). The directors are satisfied that the group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the 
date of this report. Therefore, the financial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis.
The group’s liquidity review and commentary on the current 
economic climate are shown on page 13 of the strategic report and 
commentary on financial risk management is shown in note 27.
Independent auditor
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as the 
company’s auditor and a resolution for its re-appointment will be 
proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting. The notice  
of the annual general meeting can be found on pages 67 to 70.
Corporate governance statement
The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate 
governance statement for the purposes of the FCA’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules can be found in this directors’ report and in the 
governance section on pages 19 to 22 (which is incorporated into 
this directors’ report by reference).
Statement as to disclosure of information  
to auditor
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval  
of this report confirms that:
1. So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and 
2. The director has taken all the steps that he ought reasonably to 
have taken as a director in order to make him or herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of S.418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual general meeting
The annual general meeting will be held at the offices of 
Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood Street, EC2V 7QR, on 22 July 2015. 
The notice of meeting and explanatory information on the 
resolutions to be passed at the annual general meeting can  
be found on pages 67 to 70 of the annual report. 
Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf  
of the board.
Susan Court
Company Secretary
28 May 2015
The company’s authorised share capital is referred to in  
its articles of association and its issued share capital as at  
31 March 2015, together with details of purchases of  
own shares during the period, are set out in note 24.
Directors
The names of the directors at the date of this report and their 
biographical details are given on page 23 and their interests in 
the ordinary shares of the company are given on page 32.
Results for the period
The consolidated income statement, statement of financial 
position and cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 
2015 are set out on pages 45 to 48. An analysis of risk is set out 
on pages 14 to 15 and of risk management on page 22. The 
statement of financial position and cash flow statement of the 
holding company for the year ended 31 March 2015 are set  
out on pages 49 and 50. Since 1 April 2015, there have been  
no material events likely to impact the future development  
of the company.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for 
the benefits of directors
Under sections 236 (1) (a) and (b) of the Companies Act 2006, 
companies are obliged to disclose any indemnities which are 
in force in favour of their directors. The current articles of 
association of the company contain an indemnity in favour 
of the directors of the company which indemnifies them in 
respect of certain liabilities and costs that they might incur 
in the execution of duties as directors. Copies of the articles 
of association can be obtained from Companies House or by 
writing to the Company Secretary and will be available at the 
venue of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before 
the meeting until it ends.
Change of control
All of the company’s share schemes contain provisions relating 
to a change of control. Outstanding options and awards would 
be prorated for time and normally vest on a change of control, 
subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at  
that time.
The company has a revolving term credit facility for £45 million 
with a remaining term of over three years. The terms of the 
facility allow for termination on a change of control, subject to 
certain conditions. The contracts with acquirers for the Mobile 
and Online business are subject to market standard rights of 
termination on change of control. The British Gas contract for 
payments is subject to termination rights for change of control 
in very limited circumstances. With the exception of the Simple 
Payment service contract, which allows for termination on 
change of control, there are no other significant contracts in 
place that would take effect, alter or terminate on the change 
of control of the company, including compensation for loss of 
office as a result of a takeover bid.
Suppliers payment policy
Terms of payment are agreed with individual suppliers prior 
to supply. The group aims to pay its creditors promptly, in 
accordance with terms agreed for payment, provided the supplier 
has provided the goods or services in accordance with the 
agreed terms and conditions. The group had 38 days’ purchases 
outstanding at 31 March 2015 (2014: 40 days), based on the 
average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the period.
Charitable and political donations
The group made no political donations during the period (2014: 
£nil). Details of the charitable donations policy can be found 
within the strategic report on page 16.
Employee matters and environmental issues
Employee matters and environmental issues are discussed in  
the strategic report on pages 16 to 18. 26 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
This report is divided into two main sections: 
•  The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out the details of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year  
ended 31 March 2015.  
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report contains details of the remuneration policy that was approved at the 2014 annual 
general meeting, and remains unchanged.  
The report complies with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 and also the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.   
The remuneration committee, whose membership and responsibilities are set out on page 27 of this report, strives to ensure 
that executive directors’ remuneration is aligned with the interests of shareholders. The remuneration committee believes that 
shareholders’ interests are best served by focussing a greater proportion of total potential remuneration on compensation which 
varies with performance.
Short and long-term incentives are structured to reward executives for enhancing shareholder value. The value received by executive 
directors under the share incentive arrangements depends on the degree to which the associated performance conditions are 
satisfied at the end of the three year performance period and the share price of the company at that time. This ensures that 
substantial rewards are received only when substantial value has been created for shareholders.
As discussed in last year’s report, the committee undertook a comprehensive review of PayPoint’s remuneration last year, with the 
following objectives:
• motivate senior management to maximise economic value for shareholders;
• comply with new regulatory and governance requirements; 
• respond to shareholder feedback; and
• ensure no increase in cost to the company.
Following this review, we proposed several changes to our remuneration policy intended to simplify our incentive structure, closely 
align it with our business strategy, and take account of evolving market practice and the latest institutional shareholder guidelines.  
The new policy received a 97.7% vote in favour and is working well in its first year of operation.
Bonuses for the year under review were 88.1% of maximum, reflecting growth in economic profit of 11.7%, with 25% deferred 
into shares vesting after three years subject to continued employment. Based on our three year earnings per share growth to  
31 March 2015 of 44.7%, the 2012 DSB awards will vest in full. 2012 LTIP awards will be performance-tested in May 2015,  
and based on TSR performance to date relative to FTSE 250 index constituents (excluding investment trusts), we expect these  
awards to lapse.
During the year, the committee reviewed the remuneration policy and concluded that it continues to be appropriate.
For 2015/16, executive director salaries were reviewed in line with the shareholder-approved salary policy. The Chief Executive’s  
salary has been increased by 5%, to bring it in line with the market, while the salaries for the Finance Director and Business 
Development Director have been increased by 2.5% in line with increases for the general employee population. Pensions for the 
Finance Director and Business Development Director have been increased from 14% to 15% of salary. The proposed LTIP award  
and bonus opportunity for 2015/16 is unchanged from last year, as are the performance measures. The current financial year is  
the first year that awards will be granted under the DABS, in respect of the bonus for the year under review, which was approved  
by shareholders at the last annual general meeting.
Our current policy contains provisions for malus on DABS and LTIP awards. The committee notes the requirement for clawback in  
the updated UK Corporate Governance Code and intends to review its approach to clawback as part of the next policy review.
At the annual general meeting in July 2015, the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote.
Neil Carson
Chairman, remuneration committee
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The following section provides details of how PayPoint’s remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year ended  
31 March 2015. The following pages contain information that is required to be audited in compliance with the Directors’ 
Remuneration requirements of the Companies Act 2006. All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated. 
Remuneration committee membership in 2014/2015
The remuneration committee is responsible for developing policy on remuneration for executive directors and senior managers and 
for determining specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors. The committee members are all independent 
directors. Neil Carson is Chairman of the committee, with Eric Anstee, Stephen Rowley and Nick Wiles as members. Gill Barr has 
agreed to join the committee on 1 June 2015.   PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 27
GOVERNANCE
The remuneration committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which set out the full remit of the committee.  
A copy of the terms of reference is available to shareholders by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office. The  
terms of reference are also available on the company’s website at www.paypoint.com. The remuneration committee met four  
times during the year and all members were in attendance with the exception of Nick Wiles and Eric Anstee who were each  
unable to attend one meeting. 
During the year, the committee sought internal support from the Chief Executive and Finance Director, who attended committee 
meetings by invitation from the Chairman, to advise on specific questions raised by the committee and on matters relating to the 
performance and remuneration of senior managers. The Chief Executive and Finance Director were not present for any discussions 
that related directly to their own remuneration. The Company Secretary attended each meeting as Secretary to the committee.
In undertaking its responsibilities, the committee seeks independent external advice as necessary. To this end, for the year under 
review, the committee continued to retain the services of Kepler Associates as the principal external advisers to the committee. The 
committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is comfortable that the Kepler team provides independent 
remuneration advice to the committee and do not have any connections with PayPoint that may impair their independence. Kepler 
Associates is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be 
found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. During the year, Kepler Associates provided independent advice on a wide 
range of remuneration matters including current market practice, benchmarking of executive pay, incentive design and remuneration 
reporting and provides no other services to the company. The fees paid to Kepler Associates (on the basis of time and materials) in 
respect of work carried out for the year under review were £89,435.
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2014 annual general meeting
The following table shows the results of the shareholder votes on the 2014 Remuneration Policy Report and Annual Report on 
Remuneration at the 2014 annual general meeting on 23 July 2014:
Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive director for the year ended 
31 March 2015 and the prior period:
1. Taxable value of benefits received in the year by executives includes car allowance of £15,500 (2014: £15,500) for Dominic Taylor and £13,200 (2014: £13,200) for George Earle and Tim Watkin-
Rees, petrol, health insurance, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
2. Pension: During the year, the company made contributions of 16% of salary to Dominic Taylor and 14% of salary to the other executive directors (the remuneration committee has agreed that 
George Earle’s pension contributions will be paid directly to him, grossed up for tax). 
3. Annual bonus: this is the total bonus earned in respect of performance during the relevant year, including deferred amounts. For 2015, 25% of the annual bonus was mandatorily deferred in 
shares under the DABS. For 2014, directors were additionally entitled to voluntarily invest up to a further 25% of the bonus under the DSB.  Further details of annual bonus awards for 2015 can 
be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 28. 
4. Long-term incentives: For 2015, this is the market value of matching DSB shares granted on 25 May 2012 based on performance to 31 March 2015 and which will vest on 25 May 2015.  The 
share price used to calculate market value is the trailing three month average on 31 March 2015 of 864p.  Further details can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 28 and 
29.  For 2014, the long-term incentive figures have been re-stated based on the value at vesting of LTIP and DSB awards granted in 2011 and vesting in 2014.  
5. SIP matching and dividend shares awarded in the period valued at the average share price calculated over three months to 31 March 2015 of £8.64 (2014: £11.24). The SIP is an HMRC approved 
plan that allows participants to purchase shares using gross salary and receive matching award from the company. There are no performance conditions. 
1. A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Remuneration Policy Remuneration Report
Total number  
of votes
% of votes 
cast
Total number  
of votes
% of votes 
cast
For (including discretionary) 58,346,532 97.69% 59,613,591 99.77%
Against 1,380,271 2.31% 136,962 0.23%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 59,726,803 100% 59,750,553 100%
Total votes withheld
1
93,453 - 69,704 -
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 59,820,256 - 59,820,257 -
Dominic Taylor
£000
George Earle
£000
Tim Watkin-Rees
£000
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Base salary 450 425 330 320 310 300
Taxable benefits
1
25 24 23 22 22 21
Pension
2
72 68 87 85 43 42
Annual bonus
3
421 389 309 293 290 274
Long-term incentives
4
244 1,335 184 873 169 787
Other
5
3 6 3 5 3 6
Total 1,215 2,247 936 1,598 837 1,430 28 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended  
31 March 2015 and the prior period:
Base fee
£000
Committee fees
£000
Senior 
Independent 
Director fees
£000
Chairman fees
£000
Total
£000
2015 2014 2015 2014 £000 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Eric Anstee 45 42 8 7 - - - - 53 49
Neil Carson 32 - 5 - 3 - - - 40 -
David Morrison 45 42 - - - - - - 45 42
David Newlands 14 42 - - - - 31 98 45 140
Andrew Robb 14 42 3 7 - - - - 17 49
Stephen Rowley 45 42 - - - - - - 45 42
Warren Tucker 45 11 - - - - 109 - 154 11
Nick Wiles 45 42 - - - - - - 45 42
Total 285 263 16 14 3 - 140 98 444 375
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2015
Annual bonus in respect of 2014/15 performance
The annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2015 was based on economic profit (group operating profit including PayPoint’s 
share of the results of Collect+ after tax and after deducting a charge for capital employed based on the company’s cost of capital). 
Based upon the actual results for the year, 88.1% of the maximum bonus was payable.
Further details, including the targets set and performance against these, are provided the table below:
Measure Weighting Threshold
(20% of
 salary)
£000
Target
(80% of 
salary)
£000
Stretch
(100% of 
salary)
£000
Actual 
achieved
£000
Bonus earned (% of salary)
Dominic 
Taylor
George 
Earle
Tim 
Watkin-
Rees
Group EP 100% 27,102
(90% 
of plan)
30,113
(100%  
of plan)
33,124
(110%  
of plan)
31,335 88.1% 88.1% 88.1%
Annual bonus (% of salary)
25% of the bonus earned was mandatorily deferred into shares vesting after three years subject to continued employment.
2012 DSB vesting
With respect to the DSB matching awards granted on 25 May 2012, vesting was based on earnings per share growth. The three-year 
performance period for these awards ended on 31 March 2015 with vesting on the third anniversary of the date of grant. Further 
details relating to these awards are provided in the table below:
Measure Weighting Targets Outcome
1
% Vest
EPS 100% 0% vesting below RPI+3% p.a.
100% vesting at RPI+3% p.a.
EPS growth of 44.7%
Target: 15.8% 
100%
Total DSB vesting 100%
1. Based on 2015 EPS of 57.6p, 2012 EPS of 39.8p and RPI growth over the 3 year period of 6.8%.
Further details of the vesting for each individual director are as follows:
1.  As the price on the date of vesting is unknown, the value of an award is calculated by multiplying the number of shares, which vested by the average share price 
calculated over three months to 31 March 2015 of £8.64.
Director Interests held Vesting % Number of 
shares vesting
Date of 
vesting
Market price 
on vesting
1
Value
£000
Dominic Taylor 28,178 100% 28,178 25 May 2015 £8.64 244
George Earle 21,328 100% 21,328 25 May 2015 £8.64 184
Tim Watkin-Rees 19,514 100% 19,514 25 May 2015 £8.64 169 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 29
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
2012 LTIP vesting
With respect to the LTIP awards granted on 25 May 2012, vesting is based 100% on TSR. The three-year performance period for 
these awards will end on 25 May 2015 with vesting on the third anniversary of the date of grant. Further details relating to these 
awards are provided in the table below: 
Measure Weighting Targets Outcome
(to 30 April 2015)
Implied % 
vesting
Relative TSR vs FTSE 
250 index (excluding 
investment trusts)
100% 0% vesting below median
30% vesting at median 
100% vesting at upper quartile
Straight-line vesting between these points
114th position out of 191 
companies equating to 40.5 
centile
0%
Total LTIP vesting 0%
Further details of the vesting for each individual director are as follows:
Director Interests held Implied % 
vesting
Number of 
shares vesting
Date of 
vesting
Market price 
on vesting
1
Value
£000
Dominic Taylor 79,807 0% - 25 May 2015 £8.64 -
George Earle 50,406 0% - 25 May 2015 £8.64 -
Tim Watkin-Rees 46,178 0% - 25 May 2015 £8.64 -
1. As the price on the date of vesting is unknown, the value of an award is calculated by multiplying the number of shares which vested by the average three month 
share price to 31 March 2015 of £8.64.
These awards will only vest subject to the committee’s satisfaction that this is a genuine reflection of the underlying financial 
performance of the company.
Scheme interests awarded in the year ended 31 March 2015
DSB matching awards
In the year under review, executive directors deferred 50% of their bonuses for the year ended 31 March 2014, and therefore were 
granted matching awards under the 2009 DSB Plan on a 1:1 basis as detailed below. The awards will vest on the third anniversary of 
the date of grant, 2 June 2017. The performance condition is based solely on earnings per share growth. The three year performance 
period over which earnings per share performance will be measured began on 1 April 2014 and will end on 31 March 2017.
Executive Director Basis of
award
Face 
value
1
£000
Potential award 
for minimum 
performance
End of 
performance 
period
Performance measures
Dominic Taylor
1:1 match 
on deferred 
amounts
194
100% of face 
value
31 March 2017
100% based on EPS growth: 
George Earle 146 – 0% vesting below RPI+3% p.a.
Tim Watkin-Rees 137 – 100% vesting at RPI+3% p.a.
1. Face value is based on the middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the company on the date of award, 2 June 2014, of £10.55.
LTIP
In the year under review, LTIP awards were granted with a face value of 145% of salary for the Chief Executive and 125% of salary 
for other executive directors. The awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, 2 June 2017. The performance 
condition is based 100% on relative TSR vs. the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment trusts). The three year performance period, 
over which TSR performance will be measured began on the grant date of 2 June 2014 and will end on 2 June 2017.
Executive Director Basis of
award
Face 
value
1
Potential award 
for minimum 
performance
End of 
performance 
period
Performance measures
Dominic Taylor
As a % of 
salary in line 
with stated 
remuneration 
policy
145% 
of 
salary
25% of face 
value
2 June 2014
100% on TSR relative vs. FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts):
– 0% vesting below median
– 25% vesting at median
– 100% vesting at upper quartile
– Straight-line vesting in between
George Earle 125% 
of 
salary Tim Watkin-Rees
1. Face value is based on the middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the company on the date of award, 2 June 2014, of £10.55. 30 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
Payments for loss of office
No such payments were made during the year under review.
Payments to past directors
No such payments were made during the year under review.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2015/2016
Base salary
Executive directors received the following salary increases with effect from 1 April 2015:
From 1 April 2015 From 1 April 2014 Increase %
Dominic Taylor £472,500 £450,000 5.0%
George Earle £338,250 £330,000 2.5%
Tim Watkin-Rees £317,750 £310,000 2.5%
Pension
Dominic Taylor’s pension contributions will remain unchanged at 16% of salary. George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees pension 
contributions will be increased from 14% to 15% of salary (compared to the maximum allowable under our remuneration policy of 
20% of salary).
Annual bonus
The annual bonus for the year ending 31 March 2016 will operate as described in the Remuneration Policy Report, with a maximum 
opportunity of 106% of salary and based 100% on economic profit. 20% of maximum is paid for threshold performance and 80% 
for target.
25% of any bonus earned will be mandatorily deferred into shares vesting after three years, subject to continued employment, with 
clawback for financial misstatement or misconduct.
 
Economic profit targets for 2015/16 have been set to be challenging relative to the business plan. These targets are currently 
commercially sensitive, but will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.  
LTIP
The LTIP to be granted in June 2015 will operate as described in the Remuneration Policy Report. The Chief Executive will receive an 
LTIP award of 145% of salary and the other executive directors will receive an award of 125% of salary.
Final vesting will be based entirely on the achievement of three year TSR relative to the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment trusts), 
as follows:
Measure Weighting Targets
Relative TSR
 vs. FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts)
100%
0% vesting below median
25% vesting at median 
100% vesting at upper quartile
Straight-line vesting between these points
Additionally, the committee must satisfy itself that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying financial performance 
of the company. If events occur which cause the committee to consider that this performance requirement has become unfair or 
impractical, it may, in its discretion, amend the performance requirement so that it is no more or less difficult to satisfy than when 
it was originally imposed.
Recovery by the company will apply to unvested LTIP shares in the event of misstatement and/or participant misconduct.   
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 31
GOVERNANCE
Non-executive director fees
In March 2015, the board undertook its annual review of non-executive directors fees.  Following consideration of general  
non-executive director fee increases across the market and current market fee levels, the board determined that a modest increase  
in the base fee was appropriate. A summary of the fee increases, which are effective 1 April 2015, is set out in the table below.  
From 1 April 2015 From 1 April 2014
Base fees
Non-executive director £46,125 £45,000
Additional fees
Chairman, audit committee £8,200 £8,000
Chairman, remuneration committee £8,200 £8,000
Senior Independent Director £4,100 £4,000
The Chairman’s fee in the current year is £165,000, a reduction from last year of £190,000.
Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration, comprising salary, taxable benefits and annual 
bonus, and comparable data for the average of all employees within the company. 
Change in remuneration from 2014 to 2015
Chief Executive Average % change
for other
employees
1
2015
£000
2014
£000
%
change
Salary 450 425 5.9% 4.7%
Taxable benefits 25 24 4.2% 0.0%
Annual bonus 421 389 8.2% (1.7)%
2
Total 896 838 6.9%
1. Increase in salary is for UK based employees who were employed by PayPoint for the entirety of both financial years, but excludes those who were promoted to a new role
2. Increase is for UK based employees who earned a bonus pay out in both financial years.  The growth rate is impacted by the award of only small discretionary bonuses to 
some Mobile and Online employees in 2015
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the company’s actual expenditure on shareholder distributions (including dividends and share buybacks) and 
total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ending 31 March 2014 and ending 31 March 2015.
Total employee pay expenditure
£000
Distributions to shareholders
£000
Distributions to shareholders 
excluding special dividend
£000
2015 36,682 24,696 24,696
2014 33,295 31,632 21,450
% change 10.17% (21.93)% 15.1%
Pay for performance
The graph below compares the value of £100 invested in PayPoint shares, including re-invested dividends, with the FTSE 250 index 
(excluding investment trusts) over the last six years. This index was selected because it is considered to be the most appropriate 
against which the total shareholder return of PayPoint should be measured. 
Value of £100 invested on 31 March 2009
Value of £100 invested
on 31 March 2009
500
31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 31 March 2015
400
300
200
100
0
PayPoint plc FTSE 250 index (excluding Investment trusts)
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued 32 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
The shareholdings of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the company against their respective shareholding 
requirement as at 31 March 2015:
Shares held
Current
shareholding
4
Shareholding
guideline
5
Owned outright or 
vested
4
Unvested and 
subject to holding 
period
Unvested and 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Dominic Taylor 1,816,277 493 259,165 1,816,277 54,671
George Earle
1
319,824 493 171,587 319,824 39,138
Tim Watkin-Rees
2
528,231 493 160,609 528,231 36,766
Eric Anstee 7,700 - -
David Morrison
3
35,000 - -
Stephen Rowley 5,000 - -
Warren Tucker - - -
Nick Wiles 25,000 - -
Neil Carson - - -
1. Includes 287,762 shares held by Mrs C Earle.
2. Includes 284,190 shares held by Mrs E Watkin-Rees.
3. Held by Prospect Investment Management Limited, which is wholly owned by David Morrison and his connected persons.
4. Current shareholding includes DSB bonus and SIP shares other than SIP matching shares subject to a holding period.
5.   Shareholding guidelines apply to executive directors with immediate effect. Executive directors are required to hold shares of a value equivalent to 100% of their 
salaries as at 1 April 2015. An average three month share price to 31 March 2015 of £8.64 has been used to calculate this guideline.
The market price of the company’s shares on 31 March 2015 was £8.20 (31 March 2014: £11.45) per share and the low and high 
share prices during the period were £8.18 and £11.96 respectively.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Directors’ interests in shares in PayPoint long-term incentive plans and all-employee plans 
Long Term Incentive Plan
1
 (audited)
Number of 
shares at 
31 March 
2014 
Number of
 shares 
awarded 
during 
the period
3
Number of 
shares
 released 
during the 
period
Number of 
shares
 lapsed 
during the 
period
Number of 
shares at 
31 March 
2015
Value of
 shares 
awarded
Date of 
grant
Release
date
D Taylor 96,266
1,3
(96,266) - £476,517 27.05.11 27.05.14
79,807
1,4
79,807 £490,813 25.05.12 25.05.15
52,577
1,5
52,577 £509,997 31.05.13 31.05.16
- 61,848
2,6
61,848 £652,496 02.06.14 02.06.17
G Earle 60,720
1,3
(60,720) - £300,564 27.05.11 27.05.14
50,406
1,4
50,406 £309,997 25.05.12 25.05.15
32,989
1,5
32,989 £319,993 31.05.13 31.05.16
- 39,099
2,6
39,099 £412,494 02.06.14 02.06.17
T Watkin-
Rees 55,555
1,3
(55,555) - £274,997 27.05.11 27.05.14
46,178
1,4
46,178 £283,995 25.05.12 25.05.15
30,927
1,5
30,927 £299,992 31.05.13 31.05.16
- 36,729
2,6
36,729 £387,491 02.06.14 02.06.17
1. These LTIP awards will only vest if the company’s comparative TSR performance is equal to or greater than the median level of performance over the three year  
holding period, at which point 30% of awards will vest, with full vesting occurring for upper quartile performance (proportionate vesting between points).
2. These LTIP awards will only vest if the company’s comparative TSR performance is equal to or greater than the median level of performance over the three year  
holding period, at which point 25% of awards will vest, with full vesting occurring for upper quartile performance (proportionate vesting between points).  
Awards were granted at the following closing prices on the preceding day:
3. £4.95 per share
4. £6.15 per share
5. £9.70 per share
6. £10.55 per share
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Chief Executive single figure 
of remuneration (£000)
637 677 1,067 2,639 2,247 1,215
Annual bonus pay-out 
(as % of maximum)
84.50% 80.90% 88.70% 86.20% 91.43% 88.11%
LTIP vesting 
(as % of maximum)
0.00% 0.00% 40.10% 100.00% 100.00% 0.00% PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 33
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Number 
of bonus 
shares 
purchased 
at 
31 March 
2014
1
Number of 
matching 
shares 
awarded at
31 March
2014
2
Number 
of bonus 
shar es  
(released)/
purchased 
during the 
period
Number of 
matching 
shares 
awarded 
during the 
period
Number 
of 
matching 
shares 
(lapsed) 
during 
the 
period
Number 
of bonus 
shares 
purchased 
at 
31 March 
2015
Number 
of 
matching 
shares 
awarded 
at 
31 March
2015
Value of 
matching 
shares 
awarded
Date of 
grant
Date 
lapsed/
release 
date
3
D Taylor 10,785
4
22,469
4
(10,785) (22,469) - - £115,282 02.06.11 02.06.14
13,525
5
28,178
5
13,525
5
28,178
5
£176,113 25.05.12 25.05.15
9,719
6
18,338
6
9,719
6
18,338
6
£176,201 06.06.13 06.06.16
- - 9,761
7
18,417
7
9,761
7
18,417
7
£194,299 02.06.14 02.06.17
34,029 68,958 (1,024) (4,052) - 33,005 64,933
   
G Earle 8,163
4
17,007
4
(8,163) (17,007) - - £87,258 02.06.11 02.06.14
10,237
5
21,328
5
10,237
5
21,328
5
£133,300 25.05.12 25.05.15
7,366
6
13,898
6
7,366
6
13,898
6
£133,539 06.06.13 06.06.16
- - 7,349
7
13,867
7
7,349
7
13,867
7
£146,297 02.06.14 02.06.17
25,766 52,233 (814) (3,140) - 24,952 49,093
   
T Watkin-
Rees 6,973
4
14,528
4
(6,973) (14,528) - - £74,539 02.06.11 02.06.14
9,366
5
19,514
5
9,366
5
19,514
5
£121,963 25.05.12 25.05.15
6,748
6
12,733
6
6,748
6
12,733
6
£122,345 06.06.13 06.06.16
- - 6,890
7
13,000
7
6,890
7
13,000
7
£137,150 02.06.14 02.06.17
23,087 46,775 (83) (1,528) - 23,004 45,247
1. Bonus Shares are purchased with the bonus deferred after the deduction of tax.
2. Matching Shares are awarded based on the value of the gross bonus deferred.
3. No Matching Shares will be released unless the company’s earnings per share growth is 3% p.a. in excess of the Retail Prices Index over the three year holding period. 
The bonus shares were purchased and the matching share awarded at share prices of:
4. £5.13 per share
5. £6.25 per share
6. £9.61 per share
7. £10.55 per share
Share Incentive Plan (audited)
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (audited)
Number of 
Partnership 
Shares 
purchased 
at 31 March 
2014
Number of 
Matching 
Shares 
awarded at 
31 March 
2014
Number 
of Free 
Shares
1
 
awar ded at  
31 March 
2014
Dividend 
Shares
2 
acquired at 
31 March 
2014
Total 
shares at 
31 March 
2014
Number of 
Partnership 
Shares
3
 
purchased 
during the 
period
Matching 
Shares
4
 
awarded 
during the 
period
Dividend 
Shares 
acquired 
during the 
period
Dates of 
release of 
Matching 
and Free 
Dividend 
Shares
5
Total 
shares at 
31 March 
2015
D Taylor 2,886 2,886 1,562 1,800 9,134 154 154 143 22.04.14 – 
22.04.17
9,585
G Earle 2,910 2,910 - 1,334 7,154 153 153 143 22.04.14 – 
22.04.17
7,603
T Watkin-Rees 2,910 2,910 1,562 1,806 9,188 153 153 143 22.04.14 – 
22.04.17
9,637
1. Free Shares are ordinary shares of the company awarded conditionally on 24 September 2004 based on the share price on admission of £1.92. 
2. Dividend shares are ordinary shares of the company purchased with the value of dividends paid in respect of all other shares held in the plan.
3. Partnership Shares are ordinary shares of the company purchased on a monthly basis during the period (at prices from £8.735 to £11.63).
4. Matching Shares are ordinary shares of the company awarded conditionally on a monthly basis during the period (at prices from £8.735 to £11.63) in conjunction  
with two share purchases.
5. The dates used are based on the earliest allocation of the matching shares 34 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
Executive directors’ remuneration
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for executive directors. This policy was approved and formally came into 
effect at the 2014 annual general meeting on 23 July 2014, and remains unchanged. The table below summarises our policy on 
each element of the remuneration package for executive directors. 
Element 
and link to 
strategy
Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Fixed
Base salary
Takes 
account of 
personal 
contribution 
and 
performance 
against 
company 
strategy
Reviewed annually, with account 
taken of responsibility and 
skills, the individual director’s 
performance and experience,  
pay for comparable roles and  
pay and conditions throughout  
the company.
Any base salary increases are 
applied in line with the outcome 
of the annual review. Salaries 
are generally positioned broadly 
around median, but may fall within 
the second and third quartiles. 
In respect of existing executive 
directors, it is anticipated that salary 
increases will have regard to those 
of salaried employees as a whole. 
In exceptional circumstances 
(including, but not limited to,  
a material increase in job size  
or complexity) the committee  
has discretion to make appropriate 
adjustments to salary levels  
to ensure they remain  
market competitive. 
The salary review takes into 
account individual and  
company performance.
Pension
Provides 
market 
appropriate 
benefits
The company makes contributions 
to personal pension plans.
Executive directors may receive a 
contribution of up to 20%  
of salary.
None
Benefits
Provides 
appropriate 
market 
benefits
Benefits may include, but are  
not limited to, car allowance, 
health insurance and employee 
share plans. 
In certain circumstances, the 
committee may also approve the 
provision of additional allowances 
relating to the relocation of an 
executive director and other 
expatriate benefits to perform  
his or her role.
Benefits vary by role and individual 
circumstances and are reviewed 
periodically. Benefits will not 
normally exceed 15% of salary.
The committee retains discretion 
to approve a higher cost in 
exceptional circumstances (e.g. 
relocation) or in circumstances 
where factors outside the 
company’s control have changed 
materially (e.g. increases in 
insurance premiums).
None
Variable
Share 
Incentive 
Plan (SIP)
Encourage 
share 
ownership 
across all 
employees
Opportunity to purchase shares 
out of pre-tax salary and receive 
a matching award. The PayPoint 
SIP is a HMRC approved plan open 
to all UK tax resident employees 
of participating group companies.  
Executive directors are eligible  
to participate.
The plan is an HMRC approved 
plan that allows an employee to 
purchase shares using gross salary 
and receive a matching award from 
the company. Matching shares are 
subject to continued employment 
for three years.
Dividends may accrue on 
purchased and matching shares 
and be paid either in cash or rolled 
up into additional shares.
Participants can purchase shares up 
to the prevailing HMRC approved 
limit at the time employees are 
invited to participate. The company 
currently offers to match purchases 
made through the plan at the rate 
of one free matching share for 
every one share purchased.
None PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 35
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Element 
and link to 
strategy
Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Variable
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
Drives 
sustained 
long term 
performance, 
aids 
retention 
and aligns 
the interests 
of executive 
directors 
with 
shareholders
Annual awards of conditional  
share awards or nil-cost options 
vesting subject to performance 
and continued employment over  
at least three years. 
Award levels and performance 
conditions are reviewed by the 
committee in advance of grant to 
ensure they remain appropriate.
The company has the right to 
cancel LTIP awards in the event  
of material misstatement and/or 
gross misconduct or other  
similar circumstances.
The committee may decide  
at the time of grant that the  
shares acquired on vesting  
may be required to be retained,  
for a period of up to three  
years following the end of  
the performance period, during 
which time they would be  
subject to cancellation.
 
Dividends accrue as additional 
share entitlements over the vesting 
period but would only be paid on 
awards that vest.
Annual awards of performance 
shares of up to 200% of salary  
for executive directors.   
The proposed awards for 2015 
are 145% of salary for the Chief 
Executive and 125% of salary  
for other executive directors
Achievement of threshold level  
of performance results in 25%  
of maximum vesting. 
The LTIP is based on Total 
Shareholder Return (increase in 
the share price plus dividends 
paid per share) TSR relative to 
an appropriate benchmark. The 
committee has the discretion 
to determine the appropriate 
benchmark prior to each grant, and 
to add performance measures and 
determine appropriate weightings 
to ensure they continue to be linked 
to the delivery of company strategy.  
At least 50% of the LTIP will be 
based on TSR.
The remuneration committee  
will satisfy itself that the recorded 
TSR is a genuine reflection of the 
underlying financial performance  
of the company.
In addition, the committee has the 
discretion to adjust the formulaic 
outcomes to ensure alignment 
of pay with performance, i.e. 
to ensure the outcome is a true 
reflection of the performance of 
the company, e.g. in the event of 
unforeseen circumstances outside 
of management control.
Annual 
bonus and 
Deferred 
Annual 
Bonus 
Scheme 
(DABS)
Rewards 
delivery of 
the group’s 
annual 
financial and 
strategic 
goals and 
supports 
retention
The remuneration committee 
reviews and agrees measures, 
targets and weightings at the 
beginning of each financial year.
At the end of the year, the 
remuneration committee 
determines the extent to which 
targets have been achieved.
Under the DABS at least 25% 
of any annual bonus award is 
deferred into conditional share 
awards, deferred cash or nil-cost 
options for at least three years, 
subject to continued employment 
and the company has a right  
to cancel DABS awards in the  
event of material misstatement 
and/or gross misconduct or  
other similar circumstances.
Dividends accrue on deferred 
awards as additional share 
entitlements over the deferral 
period but would only vest on 
awards that vest.
For executive directors, the target 
annual bonus opportunity is 85% 
of salary.
The maximum opportunity is 
currently 125% of target (106% 
of salary). 
For threshold level of performance, 
the bonus pays out at 25% of 
target (21% of salary).
The committee retains discretion to 
increase the maximum opportunity 
to 150% of salary. Targets will be 
commensurately more stretching.
The bonus is currently based 100% 
on group economic profit vs. the 
budget agreed by PayPoint’s board. 
The committee has the discretion 
to add performance measures and 
determine appropriate weightings 
to ensure they continue to be 
linked to the delivery of company 
strategy. However, if other 
measures were incorporated,  
at least 50% of the bonus  
would continue to be tied  
to economic profit. 
The range for threshold to 
maximum performance is 
calibrated with reference  
to the target. 
The remuneration committee 
reviews and agrees targets at the 
beginning of each financial year 
and may subsequently adjust those 
targets as detailed in the notes to 
this table.  
The committee also has the 
discretion to adjust the formulaic 
bonus outcomes both upwards 
(within the plan limits) and 
downwards, to ensure that 
payments are a true reflection of 
performance of the company over 
the performance period, e.g. in the 
event of unforeseen circumstances 
outside of management control. 36 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Notes to the policy table
Payments from previous awards
The company will honour any commitments entered into prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy as 
detailed in this report, and executive directors will be eligible to receive payment from any historical awards made. This includes 
outstanding awards made under the 2009 LTIP and 2009 DSB Plan, as detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration. The differences 
between the 2009 LTIP and DSB and the plans in the policy table above are detailed below and in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In 2014, the remuneration committee undertook a comprehensive review of executive incentive arrangements to simplify the long-term 
incentive structure and align it with the business strategy, to motivate senior management to maximise economic value for shareholders 
and to improve compliance with new regulatory and governance requirements. As a result of the review, the following changes were 
made to the 2009 LTIP and DSB plans:
The pay out at threshold in the annual bonus was reduced from 70% of to 25% of maximum to be in line with best practice. The 
matching plan was removed, and a small offsetting increase made to the annual bonus and LTIP opportunities so that the fair value of 
long-term incentive awards would be broadly maintained. The requirement to mandatorily defer 25% of the bonus into shares was 
maintained, but deferred shares were made subject to continued employment and clawback. Under the LTIP , the level of vesting at 
threshold was reduced from 30% to 25% to be in line with best practice and unvested awards were made subject to clawback.
Use of discretion 
The remuneration committee may exercise discretion in two broad areas for each element of remuneration:
• To ensure fairness and align executive director remuneration with underlying individual and company performance, the 
committee may adjust upwards or downwards the outcome of any short- or long-term incentive plan payment within the limits 
of the relevant plan rules. Any adjustments in light of corporate events will be made on a neutral basis, i.e. the intention of any 
adjustment will be that the event is not to the benefit or detriment of participants. Adjustments to underlying performance may 
be made in exceptional circumstances to ensure outcomes are fair both to shareholders and participants.
• In the case of a non-regular event occurring, the committee may apply its discretion to ensure fairness and seek alignment with 
business objectives. Non-regular events in this context include, but are not limited to: corporate transactions, changes in the 
company’s accounting policies, minor or administrative matters, internal promotions, external recruitment and terminations.
Any use of discretion by the committee during the financial year will be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measure selection
Economic profit has been selected as the measure for the annual bonus plan, as it captures growth, returns and risk. The use of a 
single measure provides simplicity and focus. Economic profit is defined as operating profit after deducting the actual tax charge  
and a capital charge based on the weighted average cost of capital applied to the average capital employed. The operating profit  
is the profit before any goodwill impairment, interest and tax. Average capital employed is based on a 12 month average starting  
on 1 April including cumulative goodwill, but excluding net cash/indebtedness. At the sole discretion of the remuneration 
committee, exceptional items may be removed from operating profit where the inclusion of such items would be inconsistent  
with fair measurement, and actual tax may be adjusted to normalised rates if they are considered unsustainable. Performance  
targets relating to the annual bonus plan are set from the company’s annual budget, which is reviewed and signed off by the  
company’s board prior to the start of each financial year.  
Relative TSR has been selected as the measure for the LTIP as it is considered the best measure of long term performance for 
PayPoint, is directly aligned with shareholder interests and rewards management for outperformance of the company’s peers.  
The FTSE 250 index (excluding investment trusts) is currently considered to be the most appropriate benchmark, being representative  
of PayPoint’s size and given PayPoint’s lack of listed sector peers. TSR is calculated using the three month average share price 
preceding the start and end of the performance period.  
The target for economic profit applying to the annual bonus is set annually, based on a number of internal and external reference 
points. The target is set to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic environment 
in a given year.   
Remuneration policy for other employees
PayPoint’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the group, with consideration given to the level of experience, 
responsibility, individual performance and salary levels in comparable companies. All UK employees are eligible to participate in the 
company’s SIP and senior managers participate in the annual bonus scheme with the same measure at the appropriate business level  
as is set for the executive directors at group level, but each with personal targets in addition. Senior managers (c.25 individuals) are 
eligible to participate in the LTIP . Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while award sizes vary by organisational level. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 37
GOVERNANCE
Chief Executive - Dominic Taylor
Maximum £1,760k
£1,146k
£573k
Target
Minimum
£ 000s 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800
33%
50%
100%
29%
35%
38%
15%
Business Development Director – Tim Watkin-Rees
Maximum £1,122k
£757k
£387k
Target
Minimum
£ 000s 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800
35%
51%
100%
30%
36%
35%
13%
Finance Director – George Earle
Maximum £1,194k
£805k
£412k
Target
Minimum
£ 000s 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200
34%
51%
100%
30%
36%
36%
13%
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Shareholding guidelines
The committee recognises the importance of executive directors aligning their interests with shareholders through building up a significant 
shareholding in the company. Shareholding guidelines are in place, which require executive directors to acquire a holding, equivalent to at 
least 100% of their salaries. Executive directors are required to retain 50% of any LTIP and deferred bonus shares acquired on vesting (net 
of tax) until the guideline level is achieved. Acquired holdings may be held by spouses or dependent family members.
Non-executive director remuneration
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is within the limits set by the articles of association. Non-executive directors do not 
participate in any bonus plan or share incentive programme operated by the company and are not entitled to pension contributions 
or other benefits provided by the company. 
Details of the policy on fees paid to our non-executive directors are set out in the table below:
Pay scenario charts
The charts below provide an illustration of the potential future reward opportunities for the executive directors, and the potential split 
between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum. Potential 
reward opportunities are based on PayPoint’ s remuneration policy, applied to base salaries as at 1 April 2015. For the annual bonus, the 
amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance based on the maximum bonus opportunity under the current 
remuneration policy of 106% of salary. For the LTIP , the award opportunities are based on LTIP awards under the current remuneration 
policy of 145% of salary for the Chief Executive and 125% of salary for other executive directors. Note that LTIP awards granted in the 
year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant, and the projected value is based on the face value at award rather 
than vesting (i.e. the scenarios exclude the impact of any share price movement over the period). 
Element and link 
to strategy
Operation Opportunity Performance 
metrics
Fees
To attract and retain  
non-executive directors 
of the highest calibre 
with broad commercial 
and other experience 
relevant to the 
company
Fee levels are reviewed annually, with any 
adjustments effective 1 April in the year 
following review.
The remuneration of the non-executive 
directors is determined by the board based 
upon recommendations from the Chairman and 
Chief Executive (or, in the case of the Chairman, 
based on recommendations from the Senior 
Independent Director and the Chief Executive).
Additional fees are payable for roles with 
additional responsibilities including, but not 
limited to, the SID and the Chairman of the 
audit and remuneration committees.
Fee levels are benchmarked against sector 
comparators and companies of similar size and 
complexity. Time commitment and responsibility 
are taken into account when reviewing fee 
levels.
Non-executive director fee increases are applied in 
line with the outcome of the annual fee review.  
Fees paid in respect of the year under review (and 
for the following year) are disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
It is expected that non-executive director fee levels 
will generally be positioned around median, but 
may fall within the second and third quartiles, 
and any increases will also have regard to general 
increases in non-executive directors’ fees across 
the market. In the event that there is a material 
misalignment with the market or a change in the 
complexity, responsibility or time commitment 
required to fulfil a non-executive director role, or 
specific recruitment needs, the board has discretion 
to make an appropriate adjustment to fee levels.
Aggregate fees are also limited by the cap 
contained in the company’ s articles of association.
Continued strong 
and objective 
contribution 38 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
In illustrating potential reward opportunities, the following assumptions have been made:
Component Minimum Target Maximum
Variable Annual Bonus
(Maximum opportunity 
of 106% of salary)
No bonus payable Target bonus 
(80% of max)
Maximum bonus
LTIP 
(Awards of 145% of 
salary for the Chief 
Executive and 125% 
of salary for the other 
executive directors)
No LTIP vesting Threshold vesting 
(25% of max)
Maximum vesting
Fixed Base salary Salary as at 1 April 2015
Pension Current contribution rate applied to latest known salary
Other benefits Benefits as provided in the single figure table on page 27
Approach to recruitment remuneration
External appointment
In the cases of hiring or appointing a new executive director from outside the company, the remuneration committee may make use 
of all the existing components of remuneration, as follows:
Component Approach Maximum
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to similar positions 
with comparative status, responsibility and skills in parallel with the individual director’s 
performance, experience and responsibilities, and pay and conditions throughout the 
company. Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, any shortfall 
may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to the 
individual’s development in the role.
N/A
Pension New appointees will receive contributions to personal pension plans in line with existing policy.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with existing policy.
SIP New appointees will be eligible to participate in the SIP in line with existing policy.
Annual bonus The structure described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant 
maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year. Targets 
for the personal objectives element will be tailored to the executive. 
150% of salary
LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as other 
executives, as described in the policy table. The normal limit of 200% of salary will apply, 
save in exceptional circumstances when awards of up to 300% of salary may be made.
300% of salary
In determining appropriate remuneration, the remuneration committee will take into consideration all relevant factors (including 
quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited) to ensure that arrangements are 
in the best interests of both PayPoint and its shareholders. In addition to the above elements of remuneration, the committee may 
consider it appropriate to grant an award under a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, exercising 
the discretion available under the relevant Listing Rule (LR 9.4.2 R) to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. Such buyout awards would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited. In doing so, the committee will 
consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being 
met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.  
Internal appointment
In cases of appointing a new executive director by way of internal promotion, the remuneration committee and board will be 
consistent with the policy for external appointees detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to 
their promotion to the board, the company will continue to honour these arrangements. 
Non-executive directors
In recruiting a new non-executive director, the remuneration committee will utilise the policy as set out in the table on page 37. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 39
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Service contracts and exit policy 
Executive directors
Executive director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the committee. In 
accordance with general market practice, each of the executive directors has a rolling service contract requiring 12 months’ notice of 
termination on either side. Executive director service contracts are available to view at the company’s registered office. Details of the 
service contracts of the executive directors of the company are as follows: 
Name Company notice period Contract date
D Taylor 12 months 13 September 2004
G Earle 12 months 30 September 2004
T Watkin-Rees 12 months 13 September 2004
There are no special provisions in service contracts relating to cessation of employment or change of control. The policy on 
termination is that the company does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations and executive directors will be expected 
to mitigate their loss. In addition, the remuneration committee ensures that there are no unjustified payments for failure. Under 
normal circumstances, executive directors may receive termination payments in lieu of notice equal to pay and benefits for the length 
of their contractual notice period.  
When considering exit payments, the committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders 
and participants. The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in specific 
circumstances. Whilst the committee retains overall discretion on determining good leaver status, it typically defines a good leaver in 
circumstances such as death, ill health, injury or disability, retirement with the company’s consent, redundancy or any other reason 
that the committee determines. Bad leavers include those leaving employment due to resignation or misconduct, and retirement 
without agreement of the company. Final treatment is subject to the committee’s discretion:
Event Timing/vesting of award Calculation of vesting/payment
Annual bonus
Good leaver Paid at the same time as continuing employees. Eligible for an award to the extent that performance 
targets are satisfied and the award is pro-rated for 
the proportion of the financial year served.
Bad leaver No annual bonus payable Not applicable
Change of control Paid immediately on the effective date of change 
of control.
Eligible for an award to the extent that 
performance targets are satisfied up to the 
change of control and the award is pro-rated for 
the proportion of the financial year served to the 
effective date of change of control.
DABS
Good leaver Continue until the normal vesting date. In the 
event of death of a participant, the award would 
vest immediately.
Outstanding awards vest on a time pro-rated basis 
to reflect the length of the vesting period served 
unless the board decides otherwise. 
Bad leaver Outstanding awards lapse Not applicable
Change of control Paid immediately on the effective date of change 
of control.
Eligible for an award pro-rated for the proportion 
of the financial year served to the effective date of 
change of control.
LTIP
Good leaver Continue until the normal vesting date or vest 
immediately, at the discretion of the committee.
Outstanding awards vest to the extent the 
performance conditions are satisfied and the awards 
are pro-rated to reflect the length of the vesting 
period served unless the board decides otherwise.
Bad leaver Outstanding awards lapse Not applicable
Change of control Vest immediately on the effective date of change 
of control.
Outstanding awards vest subject to the satisfaction 
of performance conditions as at the effective date 
of change of control, and the award is pro-rated 
for the proportion of the vesting period served to 
the effective date of change of control unless the 
board decides otherwise.
Outstanding matching awards under the 2009 DSB Plan will be treated in the same way as awards under the LTIP . Mandatorily 
deferred (and voluntarily invested) shares under this plan are simply held on trust for participants and therefore would be released 
immediately on cessation or a change of control. 40 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts; rather, they have letters of appointment which are subject to a three year 
term. Details of the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are set out in the table below:
Name Date of letter Unexpired term as at  
31 March 2015
Date of appointment Notice period
D Morrison 24 July 2013 481 days 10 August 2004 1 month
E Anstee 24 July 2013 481 days 16 September 2008 1 month
S Rowley 24 July 2013 481 days 16 September 2008 1 month
N Wiles
1
24 July 2013 481 days 22 October 2009 1 month
W Tucker
2
5 February 2014 677 days 5 February 2014 3 months
N Carson 18 June 2014 844 days 23 July 2014 1 month
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the company
When making decisions on executive director remuneration, the committee considers pay and conditions across PayPoint.  
In particular, it is anticipated that salary increases for senior executives will have regard to those of salaried employees as a whole. 
Employee engagement surveys are carried out annually across the group, with questions which seek the employees’ views on  
these matters. Participation in these surveys is generally in excess of 80% of all employees.
Consideration of shareholder views
The remuneration committee maintains a regular dialogue with its major shareholders and when determining remuneration, takes 
into account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views. The committee continues to monitor trends and developments 
in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate and 
commits to undergo a shareholder consultation in advance of any material changes to remuneration policy.  
This report covers the remuneration of all directors that served during the period.
This report has been approved by the remuneration committee.
Neil Carson
Chairman, remuneration committee
28 May 2015
Under the company’s articles of association, all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every three years. However, 
in order to comply with the Code and as reported last year, all directors will be subject to annual re-election. Non-executive directors’ 
letters of appointment are available to view at the company’s registered office.
1. Date of original letter shown. Nick Wiles signed a new letter of appointment following his appointment as Chairman on 8 May 2015 with an unexpired term of 3 years.
2. Warren Tucker stepped down from the board on 8 May 2015. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 41
GOVERNANCE
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the directors 
are required to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent 
company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the 
EU. Under company law, the directors must not approve the 
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit 
or loss of the company for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 
requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the company and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the annual report and financial statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of  
the board.
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive
28 May 2015 42 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Consideration of non-current assets held for sale and 
discontinued operations
Management is required to assess the implications of the 
planned disposal of the Mobile and Online business (M+O) 
on the presentation in the group financial statements. In 
particular, management is required to take into account the 
requirements of IFRS 5 – Non-current assets held for resale 
and discontinued operations (IFRS 5). The net assets of 
M+O are £55 million as at 31 March 2015, and have been 
described in note 16 to the financial statements, with the 
accounting policy and critical accounting judgement in note 1.
Key judgements relate to the following:
• whether the status of the planned disposal meets the 
criteria for M+O to be disclosed as a disposal group, in 
particular whether the sale is considered highly probable as 
at the year end;
• ensuring any disposal group is held at the lower of carrying 
value and fair value less cost to sell; and
• whether M+O represents a “separate major line of 
business” and should therefore be disclosed as a 
discontinued operation.
We obtained management’s assessment of the application of IFRS 
5 and assessed the status of the planned disposal at 31 March 
2015 against the criteria set out in IFRS 5.
Our procedures included discussion with management and 
agreeing project milestones to supporting documentation 
including board minutes and correspondence with advisors.
We have compared the carrying value of M+O to the estimated 
fair value prepared by third party valuation experts. We also 
used our internal valuation experts to understand the valuation 
methodology applied. We benchmarked the data used against 
similar transactions and industry data.
In considering whether this represents a separate major line of 
business, we reviewed and challenged management’s assessment 
on both the quantitative and qualitative contribution that M+O 
makes to the PayPoint group.
The assessment of carrying value of goodwill and other 
non-current assets
Management is required to carry out an annual impairment 
test which incorporates judgments based on assumptions 
about future profitability, growth rates and discount rates. The 
goodwill in the balance sheet at 31 March 2015, following 
the classification of M+O as a disposal group held for sale, is 
£7.7 million (2014: £57.9 million), which relates to the group’s 
investment in PayPoint Romania. The accounting policy, 
methodology and key assumptions for goodwill impairment is 
described in note 1 and note 10 to the financial statements.
We assessed the assumptions used in the impairment model for 
PayPoint Romania.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with 
reference to historical trading performance and forecast future 
performance, consulting with our valuation specialists on the 
discount rate used and benchmarking assumptions such as the 
perpetual growth rate and discount rate to external macro-
economic and market data. 
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions 
that either individually or collectively would be required for the 
assets to be impaired by performing sensitivity analysis on the key 
assumptions, we considered the likelihood of such a movement 
in those assumptions arising and the adequacy of the disclosures 
made in note 10 to the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PA YPOINT PLC
Opinion on financial statements of PayPoint plc
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 
2015 and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the EU;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the 
consolidated and company statement of financial position, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity, the 
consolidated and company cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 29. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement contained within the Director’s Report on page 25 that 
the group is a going concern. We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 
is appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue as a  
going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 43
GOVERNANCE
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PA YPOINT PLC continued
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue recognition
Revenues of £218 million have been recognised in the 
year. The group’s accounting policy for the recognition of 
revenue is described in note 1 to the financial statements, 
and is based on a high volume of low value transactions 
calculated using volume data subject to automated 
controls. The risk of material misstatement relates to areas 
of manual intervention, the most significant being the 
manual input of agreed commission rates for the largest 
clients.
With the assistance of our IT specialists, we tested the effectiveness of 
the controls over the relevant computer systems and the revenue and 
agent commission payable cycles. In addition to this work, we have 
performed the following:
• substantive testing on the manual commission rates input into the 
computer systems;
• for all revenue streams, analytical procedures were undertaken; 
and
• any non-routine revenue streams are also substantively tested and 
the revenue recognition policies assessed against the criteria of  
IAS 18.
Taxation
As the group has continued to grow in size and diversify 
into different countries, tax issues facing the group have 
increased in complexity, in particular the judgement 
around the valuation of deferred tax assets. Deferred tax 
of £1.1 million (2014: £2.2 million) was recognised as an 
asset at 31 March 2015, with a further £9.2 million not 
recognised (2014: £8.4 million), and is described in note 
14 to the financial statements, with the accounting policy 
described in note 1. In addition the VAT position of the 
group has been the subject of a recent ruling by HMRC, 
rendering certain services partially exempt.
We tested the appropriateness of the assumptions in relation to 
the likelihood of generating future taxable profits to support the 
recognition of deferred tax assets as described in note 14 to the 
financial statements. We considered those assumptions as well as 
the appropriateness of the tax disclosures.
We worked with our tax audit specialists in relation to the 
recognition of deferred tax assets and to appraise the likely outcome 
of technical tax treatments.
In relation to the recent VAT ruling, we have reviewed 
correspondence with the tax authorities and discussed with the 
group’s advisors to understand and assess the impact on the 
financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the audit committee discussed 
on page 21.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and 
not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect 
to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of 
our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be £2.5 million (2014: £2.3 million), which is 5% (2014: 5%) of pre-tax profit, and 
below 3% (2014: 3%) of equity.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of £50,000 (2014: 
£50,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report 
to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
As in the prior year, our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work on 13 entities. Nine of these (including the joint venture, 
Drop and Collect Limited) were subject to a full audit, one (PayPoint Romania) was subject to a statutory audit to 31 December 2014 
followed by three months roll forward of specific audit procedures, whilst the remaining three were subject to an audit of specified 
account balances. The extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of 
the group’s business operations at those locations. These 13 entities represent the principal business units within the group and account 
for 99% (2014: 99%) of the group’s net assets, 99% (2014: 99%) of the group’s revenue and 99% (2014: 99%) of the group’s 
profit before tax. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material 
misstatement identified above. Our audit work on the 13 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual 
entity which were lower than group materiality. The highest materiality applied to an individual trading component was £1.2 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not 
subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the audit 
team visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused every year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 44 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PA YPOINT PLC continued
Adequacy of 
explanations 
received and 
accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ 
remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate 
Governance 
Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement 
relating to the company’s compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have 
nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to 
read other 
information 
in the annual 
report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect, based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to 
the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any 
such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard 
on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are 
effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson, ACA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
28 May 2015
Matters on which we are required to report by exception PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 45
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
Note
Year
ended
31 March 
2015 
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Continuing operations
Revenue 2 218,495 212,158
Cost of sales (113,415) (115,184)
Gross profit 105,080 96,974
Administrative expenses (56,892) (52,696)
Operating profit 5 48,188 44,278
Share of profit of joint venture 13 1,317 892
Investment income 6 151 231
Finance costs 6 (95) (84)
Other gains and losses 6 - 691
Profit before tax 49,561 46,008
Tax 7 (10,414) (10,092)
Profit for the period 24 39,147 35,916
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent 39,150 35,938
Non-controlling interests 25 (3) (22)
39,147 35,916
  
Earnings per share  
Basic 9 57.6p 52.9p
Diluted 9 57.4p 52.6p
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Note
Year
ended
31 March 
2015 
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the consolidated  
income statement:     
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 24 (1,393) (3,307)
Tax effect thereof - -
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the period (1,393) (3,307)
Profit for the period 39,147 35,916
Total recognised income and expenses for the period 37,754 32,609
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent 37,757 32,631
Non-controlling interests (3) (22)
37,754 32,609 46 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
Note
31 March
2015 
£000
31 March 
2014
£000
(restated)*
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 10 7,694 57,897
Other intangible assets 11 6,443 6,252
Property, plant and equipment 12 21,505 21,956
Investment in joint venture 13 1,853 686
Deferred tax asset 14 1,131 2,191
38,626 88,982
Current assets 
Inventories 17 686 731
Trade and other receivables 18 163,395 162,653
Cash and cash equivalents 19 43,913 41,600
Assets held for sale 16 59,066 -
267,060 204,984
Total assets 305,686 293,966
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 20 181,724 186,471
Current tax liabilities 4,349 3,845
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 16 4,250 -
190,323 190,316
Non-current liabilities  
Other liabilities 22 21 79
21 79
Total liabilities 190,344 190,395
Net assets 115,342 103,571
Equity  
Share capital 24 227 226
Share premium 24 1,977 408
Share-based payment reserve 24 3,926 3,682
Translation reserve 24 (4,006) (2,613)
Retained earnings 24 113,348 101,995
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 115,472 103,698
Non-controlling interest 25 (130) (127)
Total equity 115,342 103,571
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 28 May 2015 and signed on behalf 
of the board of directors. 
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive 
28 May 2015
* The March 2014 consolidated statement of financial position has been restated. Details of the restatement are explained in note 1, Accounting Policies – Restatement of 
March 2014 consolidated statement of financial position. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 47
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Note
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Share 
based 
payment 
reserve
£000
Translation 
reserve
£000
Retained 
earnings
£000
Total equity 
attributable 
to equity 
holders of 
the parent 
company 
£000
Non-
controlling
interest
(note 25)
£000
Total
equity
£000
Opening equity 1 April 2013 226 297 3,265 694 101,498 105,980 (105) 105,875
Profit for the period - - - - 35,938 35,938 (22) 35,916
Dividends paid  8 - - - - (31,632) (31,632) - (31,632)
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations
24 - - - (3,307) - (3,307) - (3,307)
Movement in share based 
payment reserve
24 - - 417 - - 417 - 417
Arising on issue of shares 24 - 111 - - - 111 - 111
Adjustment on share scheme 
vesting (net of tax benefit of 
£1,053,000)
24 - - - - (3,548) (3,548) - (3,548)
Deferred tax on share based 
payments
14 - - - - (261) (261) - (261)
Closing equity 31 March 2014 226 408 3,682 (2,613) 101,995 103,698 (127) 103,571
Profit for the period - - - - 39,150 39,150 (3) 39,147
Dividends paid  8 - - - - (24,696) (24,696) - (24,696)
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations
24 - - - (1,393) - (1,393) - (1,393)
Movement in share based 
payment reserve
24 - - 244 - - 244 - 244
Arising on issue of shares 24 1 1,569 - - - 1,570 - 1,570
Adjustment on share scheme 
vesting (net of tax benefit of 
£686,000)
24 - - - - (2,457) (2,457) - (2,457)
Deferred tax on share based 
payments
14 - - - - (644) (644) - (644)
Closing equity 31 March 2015 227 1,977 3,926 (4,006) 113,348 115,472 (130) 115,342 48 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Note
Year
ended
31 March 
2015 
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Net cash inflow from operating activities 29 44,896 45,434
Investing activities   
Investment income 153 231
Proceeds on disposal of investments - 1,127
Purchases of property, plant and equipment and technology (10,076) (11,343)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 211
Loan to joint venture 15 - (225)
Repayment of loan by joint venture 15 150 475
Acquisition of subsidiary (180) (3,214)
Net cash used in investing activities (9,949) (12,738)
Financing activities  
Cash settled share-based remuneration (2,898) (5,334)
Dividends paid:  
- Final and interim 8 (24,696) (21,450)
- Special 8 - (10,182)
Net cash used in financing activities (27,594) (36,966)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 7,353 (4,270)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 41,600 46,618
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1,755) (748)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 47,198 41,600
Note
Year
ended
31 March 
2015 
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Reconciliation of items disclosed on the consolidated statement of  
financial position:   
Cash and cash equivalents 43,913 41,600
Cash and cash equivalents included in assets held for sale 16 3,285 -
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 47,198 41,600 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 49
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note
31 March
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
Non-current assets 
Investments 15 127,512 124,180
127,512 124,180
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables 18 12,618 11,361
Cash and cash equivalents 382 50
13,000 11,411
Total assets 140,512 135,591
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 20 895 582
Current tax liabilities 498 498
1,393 1,080
Non-current liabilities   
Other liabilities 22 76,353 64,765
Total liabilities 77,746 65,845
Net assets 62,766 69,746
Equity   
Share capital 24 227 226
Share premium 24 1,977 408
Share-based payment reserve 24 3,926 3,682
Retained earnings 24 56,636 65,430
Total equity 62,766 69,746
The financial statements of PayPoint plc (registered number 03581541) were approved by the board of directors and authorised for 
issue on 28 May 2015 and signed on behalf of the board of directors.
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive
28 May 2015
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 50 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Note
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Share-based 
payment 
reserve
£000
Retained 
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Opening equity 1 April 2013 226 297 3,265 93,037 96,825
Profit for the period - - - 7,573 7,573
Dividends paid    8 - - - (31,632) (31,632)
Movement in share based payment reserve 24 - - 417 - 417
Arising on issue of shares 24 - 111 - - 111
Adjustment on share scheme vesting (net of 
tax benefit of £1,053,000)
24 - - - (3,548) (3,548)
Closing equity 31 March 2014 226 408 3,682 65,430 69,746
Profit for the period - - - 18,359 18,359
Dividends paid    8 - - - (24,696) (24,696)
Movement in share based payment reserve 24 - - 244 - 244
Arising on issue of shares 24 1 1,569 - - 1,570
Adjustment on share scheme vesting (net of 
tax benefit of £686,000)
24 - - - (2,457) (2,457)
Closing equity 31 March 2015 227 1,977 3,926 56,636 62,766
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Note
Year
ended
31 March 
2015 
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Net cash flow from operating activities 29 10,081 30,274
Investing activities   
Dividends received from subsidiaries 18,279 6,199
Proceeds on disposal of investments - 1,127
Loan to joint venture 15 - (225)
Repayment of loan by joint venture 15 150 475
Acquisition of subsidiary 16 - (3,214)
Investment in group companies 15 (3,482) (2,974)
Net cash used in investing activities 14,947 1,388
Financing activities  
Dividends paid 8 (24,696) (31,632)
Net cash used in financing activities (24,696) (31,632)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 332 30
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 50 20
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 382 50 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 51
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting policies
These financial statements have been prepared on an historical 
cost basis and on the basis of the policies set out below.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance  
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted for use in the EU and therefore comply with Article 4  
of the EU IAS Regulation.
The directors are satisfied that the group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a 
period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report. 
The group’s liquidity review can be found in the strategic report 
on page 13. The group’s going concern position is further 
discussed in the directors’ report on page 25. The financial 
statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations 
have been adopted in the current year. Their adoption has not 
had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these 
financial statements, but may impact the accounting for future 
transactions and arrangements:
• IAS 12 (amended): Deferred tax: Recovery of  
underlying assets
• IAS 1 (amended): Presentation of items of other 
comprehensive income
• IAS 19 (revised): Employee benefits
• IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (amended): Investment entities 
• IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements
• IFRS 11: Joint arrangements
• IFRS 12: Disclosure of interest in other entities
• IAS 27 (revised): Separate financial statements
• IAS 28 (revised): Investments in associates and joint ventures
New Standards and Interpretations in issue, but not yet effective:
• IFRS 9: Financial instruments
• IAS 19 (amended): Employee contributions
• IFRS 11 (amended): Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in 
Joint Operations
• IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amended): Clarification of Acceptable 
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
• IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers
• IAS 27 (amended): Equity method in separate financial 
statements
• IFRS 10, IAS 28 (amended): Sale or Contribution of Assets 
between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
• IAS 1 (amended): Disclosure Initiative
• IFRIC 21: Levies
The group does not consider that these standards and 
interpretations will have a material impact on the financial 
statements of the group when the respective standards or 
interpretations come into effect, except that IFRS 15 may 
have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosure.  
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide 
a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 until a detailed 
review has been completed. 
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling 
because it is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the group operates.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out as follows.
Restatement of March 2014 consolidated 
statement of financial position 
As a result of acquiring Adaptis Solutions Limited, management 
made judgements in the year ended 31 March 2014 regarding 
the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired. In the year 
ended 31 March 2015, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations, the group has adjusted the goodwill attributable 
to this acquisition to reflect the additional consideration arising 
from the net asset adjustment on finalisation of completion 
accounts. As a result, goodwill and trade and other payables 
have both been increased by £0.2 million at 31 March 2014. 
Accordingly, the consolidated statement of financial position for 
31 March 2014 has been restated.
The affected balances are as follows:
The restatement of these items has had no effect on the 
consolidated income, net assets, earnings per share or total cash 
flows as previously reported in the 2014 annual report.
Basis of consolidation
PayPoint plc (the company) acts as a holding company.  
The group accounts consolidate the accounts of the company 
and entities controlled by the company (its subsidiaries) drawn 
up to March each year. Control is achieved where the company 
has the power to govern the financial and operating policies 
of an entity in which it invests, so as to obtain benefits from 
its activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are 
consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which 
control passed. All intergroup transactions, balances, income 
and expenses are eliminated on consolidation except for  
joint ventures.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the 
purchase method. Investments are stated at cost less any 
required provision for impairment. The cost of the acquisition 
is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of 
exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and 
equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for control 
of the acquiree. The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition 
under IFRS 3 revised are recognised at their fair value at the 
acquisition date, except for non-current assets that are classified 
as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are 
recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Restated
£000
As originally 
stated £000
Goodwill 57,897 57,717
Trade and other payables 186,471 186,291
31 March 2014 52 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 
cost of acquisition over the group’s interest in the fair value of 
the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill, which has an indefinite useful economic 
life, is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently 
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
each of the group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units 
to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the 
unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount  
of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other  
assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount 
of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not reversed in a 
subsequent year.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets 
other than goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the 
extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the 
group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an 
indefinite useful life and intangible assets not available for use 
are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which 
the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately.
The reversal of any impairment loss is limited by the net book 
value to which the relevant asset would have been reduced, 
had no impairment occurred. A reversal of an impairment loss is 
recognised as income immediately.
Assets held for sale and discontinued 
operations
Where the sale of a component of the group is considered 
highly probable and the business is available for immediate sale 
in its present condition, it is classified as held for sale. Assets 
and liabilities held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
A discontinued operation is a component of the group which 
represents a separate major line of business or a geographical 
area of operations, which has been sold or classified as an asset 
held for sale.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable and comprises the value of sales  
of services (excluding sales taxes) in the normal course  
of business.
Revenue is deferred when cash has been received for the 
provision of the contracted service to the extent that the 
service has not been rendered, such as the set-up of a  
new service for a client.
Revenue and cost of sales are recorded according to the 
actual transactions that occur in a given period. In Ireland 
and Romania, PayPoint is contracted as principal in the 
supply of prepaid mobile top-ups. Accordingly, revenue 
includes the sale price of the mobile top-ups and the cost of 
sales includes the cost of the mobile top-ups to PayPoint. In 
the UK PayPoint is contracted as an agent in the supply of 
prepaid mobile top-ups and accordingly only the commission 
receivable from mobile operators is included in revenue.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when 
the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been 
established.
Cost of sales
Cost of sales includes agents’ commission, the cost of mobile 
top-ups and SIM cards where PayPoint acts as principal in  
their purchase and sale, consumables, communications, 
maintenance, depreciation, amortisation and field service  
costs, and any external processing charges levied by credit  
card scheme sponsors. All other costs are allocated to 
administrative expenses.
Pension costs
The group makes payments to a number of defined contribution 
pension schemes. The amounts charged to the profit and loss 
account in respect of pension costs represent contributions 
payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable 
in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either 
accruals or prepayments in the statement of financial position.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the 
grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is 
expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, 
based upon independent advice that the shares will eventually 
vest. Fair value is measured by use of either a Monte Carlo 
simulation or Black Scholes model depending upon the 
scheme. The expected life used in the model has been 
adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects 
of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations.
Interest income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to 
the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial 
asset to that asset’s net carrying amount. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 53
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Taxation
The group operates in a number of different tax jurisdictions 
which leads to some complexity in tax matters. This requires a 
degree of estimation of liabilities and delays resolution of issues. 
The final resolution of tax issues may give rise to variances in 
profit and loss and cash. The group’s policy is to pay tax when 
due, but to minimise tax payments where practically possible, 
without engaging in aggressive tax schemes.
The tax expense represents the sum of the payable in respect  
of the period under review based on the taxable profit for  
the period and deferred tax. Taxable profit differs from net  
profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes 
items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in 
other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. The 
group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. The provision 
is calculated using tax rates that have been substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profit will be available against which the tax will be realised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the 
reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is charged 
or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to 
items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the 
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional 
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of 
the transaction. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that 
are denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates 
prevailing at the date when fair value was determined. Gains 
and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or 
loss for the year, except for exchange differences arising on non-
monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value 
are recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the group’s 
overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are 
translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless 
exchange rates fluctuate significantly. Exchange differences 
arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the 
group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or as expenses in the year of disposal  
of the operation.
Intangible assets
Recognised on acquisition:
On acquisitions, the group has recognised contracts with 
merchants and acquired systems, based on their estimated fair 
values as intangible assets.
Contracts with merchants are amortised on a straight line basis, 
generally between one and five years, and acquired systems are 
amortised over their estimated useful economic life of ten years.
Software development expenditure:
The group develops computer software for internal use. 
Software development expenditure on large projects is 
recognised as an intangible asset if it is probable that the asset 
will generate future economic benefits. The costs that are 
capitalised are the directly attributable costs necessary to create 
and prepare the asset for operations. Software development 
costs recognised as an intangible asset are amortised on a 
straight line basis over its useful life, which is between five and 
ten years. Other software costs are recognised in administrative 
expenses when incurred. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of 
depreciation less provision for impairment. Depreciation is 
provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated 
residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its 
expected useful life. The estimated useful lives are as follows 
and are reviewed on an annual basis:
• freehold building – 50 years;
• leasehold improvements – over the life of the lease;
• terminals – 5 years;
• automatic teller machines – 4 years; and
• other classes of assets – 3 to 5 years.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset 
is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and 
the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised as income.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net  
realisable value.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables represent the amount of commission  
due from clients for which payment has not been received,  
less an allowance for doubtful accounts that is estimated  
based on factors such as the credit rating of the customer, 
historical trends, the current economic environment and  
other information.
Items in the course of collection represent gross transaction 
values received by retail agents that have not yet been collected 
by PayPoint.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 54 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Trade and other payables
Trade payables represent the amount of invoices received from 
suppliers for purchases of goods and services for which payment 
has not been made.
Settlement payables represent gross transaction values received 
by retail agents that have not yet been settled to clients.
Joint ventures
A joint venture entity is an entity in which the group holds a 
long term interest and shares joint control over the strategic, 
financial and operating decisions with one or more other 
ventures under a contractual arrangement. The group’s share of 
net assets, post tax profit and loss and dividends are accounted 
for using the equity method of accounting.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and 
obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are 
capitalised as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated 
over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives. The 
capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as 
liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the profit 
and loss account over the period of the leases to produce a 
constant rate of charge on the remaining balance of liability. 
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis 
over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such 
a basis. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an 
operating lease are similarly spread on a straight line basis over 
the lease term. Rentals received for ATMs from retail agents under 
operating leases are credited to income on a straight line basis 
over the lease term.
Bank and other loans
Bank and other loans are initially measured at fair value, 
net of any attributable transaction costs, if any, and are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method.
Dividends
Final dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the 
year in which they are approved by the company’s shareholders. 
Interim dividends are recognised when declared.
Own shares
PayPoint purchases its own shares for the purpose of employee 
share based payment schemes. Such shares are deducted from 
equity and no profit or loss is recognised on the transactions.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term 
deposits with original maturity of less than three months and 
are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the group’s accounting policies, which 
are described in note 1, the directors are required to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent 
from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and other factors that are 
considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these 
estimates.
 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on  
an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if  
the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the 
revision and future periods if the revision affects both  
current and future periods.
The critical accounting judgements at the balance sheet date 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next year 
and key sources of estimation uncertainty in the business are the 
classification and valuation of Mobile and Online, the valuation 
of goodwill of £7.7 million at 31 March 2015 (2014: £57.9 
million) and other intangible assets of £6.4 million at 31 March 
2015 (2014: £6.3 million). Management reviews goodwill and 
intangible assets not available for use for any impairment on an 
annual basis (notes 10 and 11). Intangible assets are amortised 
over their economic useful life (note 11). The accounting policies 
for goodwill and intangible assets are included above in this 
note 1.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 55
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2.  Segment reporting, revenue, net revenue 
and cost of sales
(i) Segment information
PayPoint is a service provider for consumer transactions through 
various distribution channels, involving the processing of high 
volume transactions, the management of retailers and clients, 
the settlement of funds (collection and transmission) and 
transmission of data in a secure environment, by the application 
of technology.
The application of technology is directed on a group basis by the 
group’s executive (comprising of the Chief Executive, Finance 
Director, Business Development Director and Chief Information 
Officer) to develop products across the business, prioritised on 
an economic value basis (generally by product), rather than 
on a subsidiary by subsidiary basis. As the business has high 
fixed operating costs, the company regards the analysis of net 
revenue as the most reliable indication of contribution on a 
product by product basis and net revenue analysis is shown in 
the operating and financial review. 
Whilst the group has a number of different services and 
products, these do not meet the definition of different segments 
under IFRS 8 and, therefore, the group has only one reportable 
class of business, being a service provider for consumer payment 
and value added transactions.
(ii) Revenue, net revenue and cost of sales
Revenue comprises the value of sales (excluding sales taxes) of 
services in the normal course of business. 
 
Revenue performance of the business is measured by net 
revenue, which is calculated as the total revenue from clients 
less commissions paid to retail agents, the cost of mobile top-
ups and SIM cards where PayPoint is principal and costs incurred 
by PayPoint which are recharged to clients and merchants. These 
costs include retail agent commission, merchant service charges 
levied by card scheme sponsors and costs for the provision of 
call centres for mobile parking clients.
Net revenue
Year 
ended
31 March
2015
£000
Year 
ended
31 March
2014
£000
Revenue 
– transaction processing 217,430 211,196
– service charge income from ATMs 1,065 962
218,495 212,158
less:   
Commission payable to retail agents (63,337) (64,925)
Cost of mobile top-ups and SIM 
cards as principal (29,549) (31,331)
Card scheme sponsors’ charges (2,478) (2,162)
Net revenue 123,131 113,740
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Cost of sales 
Commission payable to retail agents 63,337 64,925
Cost of mobile top-ups and SIM cards 
as principal 29,549 31,331
Card scheme sponsors’ charges 2,478 2,162
Depreciation and amortisation 6,530 5,166
Other 11,521 11,600
Total cost of sales 113,415 115,184
Geographical information
Revenue 
UK 173,976 168,181
Ireland 9,062 11,672
Romania 30,673 28,258
North America 4,784 4,047
Total 218,495 212,158
Non-current assets (excluding 
deferred tax)
UK 36,519 84,886
Romania 976 1,373
North America - 532
Total 37,495 86,791
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
Average number of persons 
employed 
Sales, distribution and marketing 219 210
Operations and administration 512 477
731 687
Staff costs during the period 
(including directors) £000 £000
Wages and salaries 31,585 29,399
Social security costs 3,850 3,004
Pension costs (note 26) 1,247 892
36,682 33,295
3. Employee information
Directors’ emoluments, pension contributions and share options 
are disclosed in the remuneration committee report on pages 
26 to 40. Included within staff costs is a share based payment 
charge (note 24) of £1,570,000 (2014: £1,324,000).
Cost of sales 56 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
4. Profit of parent company
The company has taken advantage of the exemption under 
S.408 of the Companies Act 2006 and consequently the income 
statement of the parent company is not presented as part of these 
financial statements. The profit of the parent company for the 
financial period amounted to £18,359,000 (2014: £7,573,000).
5. Operating profit
Group
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Operating profit is after  
charging/(crediting): 
Inventory expensed – cost of mobile 
top-ups and SIM cards as principal 29,549 31,331
Depreciation on owned assets 5,418 4,551
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, 
plant and equipment 7 (15)
Amortisation of intangible assets: 
- on acquired assets 180 180
- on internally generated assets 932 435
Operating leases:  
– other operating lease charges 227 411
– ATM service charge income (1,065) (962)
Auditor’s remuneration (note below) 558 430
Research and development costs 2,000 1,910
Staff costs (note 3) 36,682 33,295
2015
£000
2014
£000 
Auditor’s remuneration: 
Fees payable to the company’s 
auditor for the audit of the 
company’s annual accounts 
11 11
Fees payable to the company’s 
auditor for the audit of the 
company’s subsidiaries 
198 196
Total audit fees 209 207
Fees payable to the group’s auditor 
for the review of the interim results 36 34
Audit-related assurance services 36 34
Fees payable to the group’s auditor 
and its associates for other services to 
the group:  
Corporate finance services 100 70
Tax compliance services 70 61
Tax advisory services 142 58
Total other services 312 189
Total auditor’s remuneration 557 430
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and its associates for non-audit 
services to the company are not required to be disclosed because 
the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose 
such fees on a consolidated basis. A description of the work of 
the audit committee is set out on pages 21 to 22 and includes an 
explanation of how auditor independence is safeguarded where 
non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
6. Investment income, finance costs and other 
gains and losses 
Investment income comprises interest on current and  
deposit accounts.
Investment income
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Bank deposit interest 151 231
Finance costs
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Bank charges 95 84
Other gains and losses
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Profit on disposal of investments - 691
During the prior year, the company disposed of the investment 
held in OB10. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 57
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
7. Tax
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Current tax 10,015 10,773
Charge for current period (3) (437)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 10,012 10,336
Current tax charge  
Deferred tax  
Charge/(credit) for current period 345 (244)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 57 -
Deferred tax charge/(credit) (note 14) 402 (244)
Total income tax 
Income tax charge 10,414 10,092
The income tax charge is based on 
the United Kingdom statutory rate 
of corporation tax for the period of 
21% (2014: 23%)
The charge for the period can be 
reconciled to the profit before tax as 
set out in the consolidated income 
statement 
Profit before tax 49,561 46,008
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 
21% (2014: 23%) 10,408 10,582
8. Dividends on equity shares
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Interim dividend paid of 12.4p per 
share (2014: 11.4p) 8,437 7,739
Proposed final dividend of 26.1p per 
share (2014: paid 23.9p per share) 17,760 16,205
Total dividends paid and recommended 
of 38.5p per share (2014: 35.3p per 
share) 26,197 23,944
Amounts distributed to equity holders 
in the period:   
Final dividend for the prior period 16,259 13,711
Special dividend for the prior period - 10,182
Interim dividend for the current period 8,437 7,739
24,696 31,632
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the annual general meeting and has not  
been included as a liability in these financial statements.
9. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated on the 
following profits and number of shares.
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Profit for basic and diluted  
earnings per share is the net profit 
attributable to equity holders of  
the parent
39,147 35,938
31 March 
2015
Number of 
shares
31 March
2014
Number of 
shares
Weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue (for basic 
earnings per share) 68,019,437 67,895,495
Potential dilutive ordinary 
shares:   
Long-term incentive plan - 312,532
Deferred share bonus 239,049 89,337
Diluted basis 68,258,486 68,297,364
Tax effects of:
Losses in countries where the tax rate 
is different to the UK (200) (189)
Disallowable expenses 235 106
Utilisation of tax losses not previously 
recognised (274) (222)
Losses in companies where a deferred 
tax asset was not recognised 406 492
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 54 (437)
Research and development allowance (310) (132)
Tax impact of share based payments 95 56
Revaluation of deferred tax asset due 
to change in tax rate - 156
Deferred tax asset recognised for past 
losses in subsidiary - (320)
Actual amount of tax charge 10,414 10,092 58 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Total 
£000
Cost 
At 31 March 2014 57,897
Exchange rate adjustment (882)
Transfer to assets held for sale (49,321)
At 31 March 2015 7,694
Accumulated impairment losses  
At 31 March 2014 - 
 
Impairment losses for the period 
At 31 March 2015 - 
 
Carrying amount  
At 31 March 2015 7,694
At 31 March 2014 57,897
Total 
£000
(restated)*
Cost 
At 31 March 2013 56,570
Additions 3,994
Exchange rate adjustment (2,667)
At 31 March 2014 57,897
Accumulated impairment losses 
At 31 March 2013 - 
Impairment losses for the period
At 31 March 2014 - 
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2014 57,897
At 31 March 2013 56,570
10. Goodwill
The group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more 
frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be 
impaired. The recoverable amounts of the cash generating 
units are determined from value in use calculations. The key 
assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding 
the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to 
selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management 
estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the cash generating units. The growth rates are based 
on industry growth forecasts. Changes in selling prices and 
direct costs are based on past experience and expectation of 
future changes in the market.
The group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most 
recent financial budgets approved by management for the next 
four years and extends cash flows to perpetuity. Terminal values 
are based on nominal growth rates that do not exceed 3% 
(2014: 3%). The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash 
flows are based on the group’s estimated weighted average 
cost of capital, adjusted for country or business specific risk 
premiums. The pre-tax rate used was 14.9% (2014: 14.9%) for 
PayPoint Romania. 
Goodwill arising on acquisition:
31 March
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
(restated)*
Mobile and Online - 49,551
PayPoint Romania 7,694 8,346
Total 7,694 57,897
For Mobile and Online, the goodwill arising on acquisition is 
reported in assets held for sale at 31 March 2015 and is shown 
in note 16.
11. Other intangible assets
Acquired
systems
£000
Development
costs
£000
Acquired
contracts 
with 
merchants
£000
Total
£000 
Cost 
At 31 March 2014 1,800 6,212 2,052 10,064
Additions - 4,342 - 4,342
Reclassifications - 445 - 445
Transfer to assets 
held for sale
- (3,647) - (3,647)
At 31 March 2015
1,800 7,352 2,052 11,204
  
Amortisation  
At 31 March 2014 1,325 435 2,052 3,812
Charge for the 
period 180 932 - 1,112
Reclassifications - 35 - 35
Transfer to assets 
held for sale - (198) - (198)
At 31 March 2015
1,505 1,204 2,052 4,761
  
Carrying amount  
At 31 March 2015
295 6,148 - 6,443
At 31 March 2014
475 5,777 - 6,252
The amortisation period for acquired systems and development 
costs incurred is dependent upon their useful economic life and 
is between 5 years and 10 years and amortisation of merchant 
contracts is between 1.9 years and 4.6 years depending 
upon the merchant churn in the relevant acquired company.  
Amortisation is charged to cost of sales.
At 31 March 2015, the group had not entered into any material 
contractual commitments for other intangible assets.
* The March 2014 consolidated statement of financial position has been 
restated. Details of the restatement are explained in note 1, Accounting Policies – 
Restatement of March 2014 consolidated statement of financial position. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 59
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Acquired
systems
£000
Development
costs
£000
Acquired
contracts 
with 
merchants
£000
Total
£000 
Cost 
At 31 March 2013
1,800 3,982 2,052 7,834
Additions - 2,230 - 2,230
At 31 March 2014 1,800 6,212 2,052 10,064
  
Amortisation  
At 31 March 2013 1,145 - 2,052 3,197
Charge for the 
period 180 435 - 615
At 31 March 2014 1,325 435 2,052 3,812
  
Carrying amount  
At 31 March 2014 475 5,777 - 6,252
At 31 March 2013 655 3,982 - 4,637
12. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Terminals 
and 
ATMs 
£000 
Fixtures, 
fittings  
and 
equipment 
£000 
Land 
and 
buildings
£000
Total 
£000
Cost 
At 31 March 2014 46,960 6,508 6,412 59,880
Additions 5,719 520 - 6,239
Disposals (871) (40) - (911)
Reclassifications (445) - - (445)
Exchange rate 
adjustment (412) (117) - (529)
Transfer to assets 
held for sale - (3,001) - (3,001)
At 31 March 2015 50,951 3,870 6,412 61,233
Accumulated depreciation 
At 31 March 2014 34,525 2,936 463 37,924
Charge for the 
period 4,657 673 88 5,418
Disposals (857) (37) - (894)
Reclassifications (35) - - (35)
Exchange rate 
adjustment (346) (71) - (417)
Transfer to assets 
held for sale - (2,268) - (2,268)
At 31 March 2015 37,944 1,233 551 39,728
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 13,007 2,637 5,861 21,505
At 31 March 2014 12,435 3,572 5,949 21,956
Group
Terminals 
and 
ATMs 
£000 
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£000 
Land 
and 
buildings
£000
Total 
£000 
Cost 
At 31 March 2013 41,203 7,481 6,412 55,096
Additions 8,087 985 - 9,072
Disposals (2,121) (1,735) - (3,856)
Exchange rate 
adjustment (209) (223) - (432)
At 31 March 2014 46,960 6,508 6,412 59,880
Accumulated depreciation 
At 31 March 2013 32,788 4,204 375 37,367
Charge for the 
period 3,827 636 88 4,551
Disposals (1,935) (1,725) - (3,660)
Exchange rate 
adjustment (155) (179) - (334)
At 31 March 2014 34,525 2,936 463 37,924
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 12,435 3,572 5,949 21,956
At 31 March 2013 8,415 3,277 6,037 17,729
The cost of ATMs provided to retail agents under operating 
leases is £13.7 million (2014: £12.0 million) and the 
accumulated depreciation is £8.9 million (2014: £7.9 million). 
At 31 March 2015, the group had entered into contractual 
commitments for the acquisition of terminals and ATMs 
amounting to £0.7 million (2014: £0.4 million).
13. Investment in joint venture
On 5 February 2009, PayPoint entered a 50:50 joint venture 
with Yodel (formerly Home Delivery Network). The joint venture 
company, Drop and Collect Limited, trades as Collect+. PayPoint 
subscribed to £500,000 of ordinary shares in the company. The 
joint venture company has the same accounting reference date 
as PayPoint plc.
PayPoint’s share of aggregated 
amounts relating to joint ventures
31 March 
2015
£000  
31 March
2014
£000
Total assets 4,620 4,212
Total liabilities (8,167) (9,076)
Share of net liabilities (3,547) (4,864)
Loan to joint venture (note 15) 5,400 5,550
Investment in joint venture 1,853 686
PayPoint’s share of aggregated 
amounts relating to joint ventures
52 weeks 
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
52 weeks 
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Revenues 23,030 17,046
Profit for period 1,317 892 60 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
14. Deferred tax asset
31 March
2014
£000
(Debit)/
credit to 
income 
statement
£000
Debit to
equity
£000
Transfer 
to 
assets 
held for 
sale
£000
31 
March
2015
£000
Tax 
depreciation
1,087 (130) - (73) 884
Share-based 
payments
886 (7) (644) 235
Tax losses 320 (320) - -
Intangibles (100) 41 - 59 -
Short-term 
temporary 
differences
(2) 14 - 12
Total 2,191 (402) (644) (14) 1,131
31 March
2013
£000
(Debit)/ 
credit to 
income 
statement
£000
Debit to
equity
£000
31 March
2014
£000
Tax 
depreciation
1,231 (144) - 1,087
Share based 
payments
1,104 43 (261) 886
Tax losses - 320 - 320
Intangibles (125) 25 - (100)
Short term 
temporary 
differences
(2) - - (2)
Total 2,208 244 (261) 2,191
At the balance sheet date, a deferred tax asset of £1.1 million 
(2014: £2.2 million) was recognised on the basis that there will 
be sufficient future taxable profits against which the deferred 
tax asset can be recovered, based on management forecasts.
At the balance sheet date, the group had unused tax losses 
of £9.2 million (2014: £8.4 million) available for offset against 
future profits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised. 
All losses are held by group companies within the Mobile 
and Online asset held for sale and may be carried forward 
indefinitely by those companies.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect 
of temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries because the group is in a position to control the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is 
probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The aggregate amount of these differences is not 
material at the balance sheet date.
During the prior period, reductions in the UK main rate of 
corporation tax were enacted from 21% to 20% from 
1 April 2015. Deferred tax has been calculated using the 20% 
corporation tax rate. These future reductions in the main tax 
rate are expected to have a similar impact as for 2014, however 
the actual impact will be dependent on the deferred tax position 
at that time.
15. Investments
Subsidiary undertakings 
The company, a holding company, has investments (directly or 
indirectly) in the following subsidiary undertakings:
Subsidiary of the 
company 
Principal activity Country of 
registration
PayPoint Network 
Limited 
Management of an 
electronic payment service
England and 
Wales
PayPoint 
Collections Limited 
Provision of a payment 
collection service 
England and 
Wales
PayPoint Retail 
Solutions Limited 
Provision of retail services England and 
Wales
PayPoint Ireland 
Limited 
Holding company in Ireland Ireland
PayPoint Network 
Ireland Limited 
Management of an 
electronic payment service 
in Ireland
Ireland
PayPoint 
Collections Ireland 
Limited 
Provision of a payment 
collection service in Ireland 
Ireland
PayPoint Services 
SRL 
Management of an 
electronic payment and 
collection service in 
Romania
Romania
Metacharge 
Limited 
Online payment service 
provider 
England and 
Wales
PayPoint.net 
Limited
Online payment service 
provider 
England and 
Wales
Counter Payment 
Managers Limited 
ESOP scheme Isle of Man
PayByPhone 
Limited
Provision of a payment by 
phone service
England and 
Wales
PayByPhone 
Mobile 
Technologies Inc.
Provision of a payment by 
phone service
Canada
PayPoint 
Technologies 
Canada inc.
Holding company in 
Canada
Canada
Mobile Payment 
Services SAS
Provision of a payment by 
phone service
France
PayPoint Pty 
Limited
Provision of an online  
payment service
Australia
Adaptis Solutions 
Limited
Provision of a payment by 
phone service
England and 
Wales
PayPoint Payment 
Services Limited
Provision of regulated  
payments services
England and 
Wales
The company holds 100% of the issued share capital of the 
above companies except Mobile Payment Services SAS, where 
it holds 86% of the issued ordinary share capital. To avoid a 
statement of excessive length, details of investments which are 
not significant have been omitted. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 61
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
15. Investments continued
Group Company
31 March 
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
31 March 
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
Investments 
carried at 
cost:
Investments in 
subsidiaries and 
joint venture
- - 127,512 124,180
- - 127,512 124,180
The company received £0.15 million (2014: £0.475 million) of 
loan repayments from Collect+ (note 13) and made no loan 
payments (2014: £0.225 million) to Collect+. The company also 
subscribed for additional share capital in PayByPhone Mobile 
Technologies Inc. for £1.3 million, £0.5 million in PayByPhone 
Limited, £1.5 million in Adaptis Solutions Limited and £0.1 
million in PayPoint Payment Services Limited (2014: £2.1 million 
to PayByPhone Mobile Technologies Inc. and £0.7 million to 
PayByPhone Limited).
16. Assets held for sale
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations 
classified as held for sale are as follows:
The assets held for sale are those of the Mobile and Online 
parking and online payments processing businesses, including 
their related goodwill. 
As a consequence of the continuing investment and longer 
term payback required for these parking and online payments 
businesses to reach their undoubtedly considerable potential, 
the board has decided to realise their value. The board believes 
that there are likely better owners for these businesses.
Advisors for the sale were appointed before the end of the 
year and an active programme was started to market the sale 
and identify an appropriate buyer. The sale is expected to be 
completed in the current financial year.
The sale will be of separate legal entities within the group, with 
no material separation issues expected. 
The net assets have been assessed to ensure their fair value less 
costs to sell is greater than the carrying value.
17. Inventories
In Ireland and Romania, PayPoint trades as principal for the 
processing and sale of mobile phone top-ups. In addition, 
PayPoint Romania purchases and sells mobile scratch cards and 
SIM cards. In the UK, PayPoint purchases SIM cards. Stocks of 
eVouchers, scratch cards and SIM cards are held at cost.
£000
Assets held for sale:
Goodwill 49,321
Other intangible assets 3,449
Property plant and equipment 733
Deferred tax asset 14
Trade and other receivables 2,264
Cash and cash equivalents 3,285
59,066
Liabilities directly associated with assets  
classified as held for sale: 
Trade and other payables 4,030
Current tax liabilities 220
4,250
Net assets held for sale 54,816 62 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Group Company
31 March 
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
31 March 
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
Trade 
receivables
1
15,598 15,808 - -
Allowance for 
doubtful debts 
(946) (1,313) - -
14,652 14,495 - -
Items in the 
course of 
collection
2
139,940 137,043 - - 
Amounts 
owed by group 
companies
- - 11,558 11,175
Other 
receivables 
1,001 1,717 13 13
Prepayments 
and accrued 
income 
7,802 9,398 1,047 173
163,395 162,653 12,618 11,361
The group’s exposure to the credit risk inherent in its trade 
receivables is discussed in note 27. The concentration of 
credit risk is limited due to the spread of the retail agent, 
merchant and client bases. Clients, retailers and merchants 
are credit checked to mitigate credit risk and in all new client 
contracts, we have the right of set-off of funds collected against 
monies due.
The historical level of customer default is low, and as a result the 
credit quality of period end trade receivables is considered to 
be high. The group reviews trade receivables past due but not 
impaired on a regular basis and in determining the recoverability 
of the trade receivables, the group considers any change in the 
credit quality of the trade receivables from the date credit was 
initially granted up to the reporting date.
Included in the group’s trade receivable balance are debtors 
with a carrying amount of £2,104,268 (2014: £3,552,419), 
which are past due at the reporting date, for which the group 
has not provided as there has not been a significant change in 
credit quality and the group believes that the amounts are still 
recoverable. The average age of these receivables is 47 days 
(2014: 48 days) and of the total balance £2,239,045 is past due 
by fewer than 30 days.
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts:
18. Trade and other receivables
Less 
than 1 
month 
£000
1-2 
months
£000
2-3 
months
£000
More 
than 3 
months
£000
Total
£000
Carrying 
value at 31 
March 2015
1,829 207 9 59 2,104
1. The average credit period on the sale of goods is 28 days (2014: 27 days).
2. Items in the course of collection represent amounts collected for clients by 
retail agents. PayPoint bears credit risk and will have title to the cash collected 
on only £29,719,000 of this balance at 31 March 2015 (2014: £28,053,000).  
Credit risk is mitigated by daily direct debiting and the suspension of terminals 
where direct debits fail. At the date of this report, all but £29,000 has been 
collected from retailers.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
Included within group cash and cash equivalents is £3,772,000 
(2014: £6,459,000) relating to monies collected on behalf of 
clients where PayPoint has title to the funds (client cash). An 
equivalent balance is included within trade payables (note 20).
The group operates cash pooling amongst its various bank 
accounts in the UK and therefore individual accounts can be 
overdrawn without penalties being incurred so long as the 
overall position is in credit. At 31 March 2015, the group’s cash 
was £43,913,000 (2014: £41,600,000), excluding £3,285,000 
in assets held for sale.
Client settlement funds in the UK and Ireland are not shown in 
the balance sheet as the funds are held in trust for clients.  In 
Romania, all client settlement funds are held in bank accounts 
owned by PayPoint Romania and this cash, which at 31 March 
2015 amounted to £10.1 million (31 March 2014 £10.3 million) 
is included in the balance sheet. 
Age of allowance for doubtful debts
Less 
than 1 
month 
£000
1-2 
months
£000
2-3 
months
£000
More 
than 3 
months
£000
Total
£000
Carrying 
value at 
31 March 
2015
561 37 237 111 946
Group Company
31 March 
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
31 March 
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
Balance at the 
beginning of 
the period
1,313 1,552 - -
Amounts 
utilised in the 
period
(250) (263) - -
Increase in 
allowance 
134 24 - -
Transfer to 
assets held for 
sale
(251) - - -
Balance at end 
of the period
946 1,313 - - PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 63
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
20. Trade and other payables
Group Company
31 March 
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
(restated)*
31 March
2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
Amounts 
owed in 
respect of 
client cash
1
 
3,772 6,459 - -
Other trade 
payables
2 
24,847 25,491 - -
Trade 
payables 28,619 31,950 - -
Settlement 
payable
3
139,940 137,043 - - 
Other taxes 
and social 
security 1,873 1,836 - -
Other 
payables 3,106 5,055 798 539
Accruals 7,401 9,709 97 43
Deferred 
income 785 878 - -
181,724 186,471 895 582
1. Included within trade payables is £3,772,000 (2014: £6,459,000) relating 
to monies collected on behalf of clients where the group has title to the 
funds (client cash). An equivalent balance is included within cash and cash 
equivalents (note 19). 
2. The group aims to pay its creditors promptly, in accordance with terms agreed 
for payment. The group had 38 days purchases outstanding at 31 March 
2015 (2014: 40 days) based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers 
during the period.
3. Payable in respect of amounts collected for clients by retail agents.
* The March 2014 consolidated statement of financial position has been 
   restated. Details of the restatement are explained in note 1, Accounting   
   Policies – Restatement of March 2014 consolidated statement of financial
   position.
21. Operating lease receivables
31 March
 2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
Amounts receivable under operating 
leases:
Within one year 249 410
Within two to five years 239 556
488 966
The group enters into operating leases with some of its retail 
agents for the supply of ATMs. The average term of each lease 
entered into is five years.
23. Financial commitments
Operating lease commitments
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
Land and 
buildings 
£000
Other
£000 
Land and 
buildings 
£000 
Other 
£000 
Leases which 
expire: 
Within one year 658 - 463 -
Within two to 
five years 
2,789 - 867 -
22. Other non-current liabilities
Group Company
2015
£000
2014
£000
 2015
£000
2014
£000
Deferred income 21 79 - -
Amounts 
owed to group 
companies 
- - 76,353 64,765
21 79 76,353 64,765 64 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Group Company
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000 
2014
£000
Authorised share 
capital 
4,365,352,200 
ordinary shares of 
1/3p each (2014: 
4,365,352,200 
ordinary shares of 
1/3p each) 14,551 14,551 14,551 14,551
14,551 14,551 14,551 14,551
Called up, allotted 
and fully paid 
share capital    
68,045,059 ordinary 
shares of 1/3p each 
(2014: 67,899,699 
ordinary shares of  
1/3p each) 227 226 227 226
227 226 227 226
Called up share 
capital
At start of period 226 226 226 226
Arising on issue of 
shares 1 - 1 -
At end of period 227 226 227 226
Share premium
At start of period 408 297 408 297
Arising on issue of 
shares 1,569 111 1,569 111
At end of period 1,977 408 1,977 408
Share-based 
payment reserve
At start of period 3,682 3,265 3,682 3,265
Additions in period 1,570 1,324 1,570 1,324
Released in period (1,326) (907) (1,326) (907)
At end of period 3,926 3,682 3,926 3,682
Translation reserve
At start of period (2,613) 694 - -
Movement during 
period (1,393) (3,307) - -
At end of period (4,006) (2,613) - -
Retained earnings    
At start of period 101,995 101,498 65,430 93,037
Profit for period 39,147 35,916 18,359 7,573
Non-controlling 
interest loss for 
period included in 
above (note 25) 3 22 - -
Dividends paid (24,696) (31,632) (24,696) (31,632)
Adjustment on share 
scheme vesting (net 
of tax benefit of 
£686,000) (2,457) (3,548) (2,457) (3,548)
Deferred tax 
on share based 
payments (644) (261) - -
At end of period 113,348 101,995 56,636 65,430
The inputs into the Black Scholes model for the DSB and 
Monte Carlo model for LTIP and DSB awards during the period 
are as follows:
2015 2014
LTIP DSB LTIP DSB
Weighted average 
share price 5.40 4.39 4.91 3.70
Expected volatility
1
27%  36%  
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 1.29%  0.50%  
Expected dividend yield 2.90% 2.90% 3.40% 3.40% 
1. The expected volatility for PayPoint has been calculated using historical daily 
data over a term equal to the expected life of each conditional award.
Other share-based payment plans
The employee Share Incentive Plan is open to all employees 
of PayPoint Network, PayPoint Collections, PayPoint Retail 
Solutions and PayPoint.net and provides for a purchase price 
equal to the market price on the date of purchase. The shares 
are purchased each month (or employees can opt to purchase 
12 months at the start of each year) and are placed in the 
employee share savings plan for a three to five year period.
24. Equity
Share-based payments equity settled share scheme
The group’s share schemes are described in the remuneration 
committee report on pages 26 to 40. The vesting period for all 
awards is three years, and they are forfeited if the employee 
leaves the group before shares vest. All awards made are free 
shares. The amount charged to the income statement in the 
period was £1,570,000 (2014: £1,324,000).
Details of the share awards outstanding during the period are 
as follows:
Number
of shares
2015
Number
of shares
2014
Outstanding at the beginning of the 
period 1,035,238 1,254,920
Granted during the period – Long 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 276,720 221,978
Granted during the period – 
Deferred Share Bonus (DSB) 82,643 64,513
Lapsed during the period - -
Forfeited during the period - -
Released during the period (401,869) (506,173)
Outstanding at end of the period 992,732 1,035,238
Awards granted Number of shares Vesting date 
LTIP 25 May 2012 305,559 25 May 2015
DSB 25 May 2012 91,893 25 May 2015
LTIP 31 May 2013 221,978 31 May 2016
DSB 6 June 2013 64,513 6 June 2016
LTIP 2 June 2014 276,720 2 June 2017
DSB 2 June 2014 82,643 2 June 2017
The long term incentive plan tranche fully vested in June 2014. 
Under IFRS 2, the fair value charges of £947,000 relating to 
this tranche, that had been previously charged to the income 
statement, are reclassed to retained earnings. The deferred 
share bonus also fully vested in June 2014 and accordingly the 
fair value charge of £379,000 was also reclassed to retained 
earnings. PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 65
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
25. Non-controlling interest
31 March
 2015
£000
31 March
2014
£000
At start of period 127 105
Share of loss for period 3 22
At end of period 130 127
26. Pension arrangements
The group administers a non-contributory defined contribution 
scheme for executive directors and employees. The amount 
charged in the consolidated income statement for the period for 
pension costs of the group under the scheme was £1,247,000 
(2014: £892,000). There is no accrual for pension contributions 
at the balance sheet date (2014: £nil).
27. Derivatives and other financial instruments
The group’s financial instruments comprise cash and various 
items such as trade receivables, trade payables, other payables, 
bank loans and accruals, which arise directly from the group’s 
operations. The group’s policy is not to undertake speculative 
trading in financial instruments.
The main risks arising from the group’s financial instruments 
are interest rate risk and liquidity risk. The directors review 
and agree policies for managing each of these risks which are 
summarised below. These policies have remained unchanged 
during the period. The group has not used derivative 
instruments to manage its foreign exchange exposure.
(a) Interest rate risk
The group had no interest bearing financial assets at  
31 March 2015 other than sterling, euro, Romanian lei,  
US dollars and Canadian dollars deposits of £47,198,000  
(2014: £41,600,000), including £3,285,000 in assets held for  
sale. Of these deposits, £3,772,000 (2014: £6,459,000) relates  
to monies held on behalf of clients where PayPoint has title to  
the funds for periods of up to seven days.
All sterling funds earn interest at the prevailing rate. The funds are 
deposited on short-term deposits (normally weekly or monthly) 
or held in current accounts in cash. The group seeks to maximise 
interest receipts within these parameters.
(b) Liquidity risk
The group’s policy throughout the period ended 31 March 2015 
regarding liquidity has been to maximise the return on funds 
placed on deposit whilst minimising the associated risk.
The group had no financial liabilities at 31 March 2015 other 
than short-term payables such as trade payables and accruals.
(c) Foreign exchange risk
To date, the group has not engaged in an active programme of 
foreign exchange risk management. Given the size and nature 
of the group’s non-sterling denominated balances, the directors 
do not consider hedging necessary. 
The group’s currency exposures comprise those transactional 
exposures that give rise to the net currency gains and losses 
recognised in the income statement. Such exposures comprise 
the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the group that 
are not denominated in the operating (or functional) currency of 
the operating unit involved. At 31 March 2015, these exposures 
were £nil (2014: £nil).
(d) Borrowing facilities
At the period end, the group had an undrawn, unsecured £45 
million revolving loan facility expiring in May 2019.
(e) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The directors consider there to be no material difference 
between the book value and the fair value of the group’s 
financial instruments at 31 March 2015.
(f) Market price risk
The group’s exposure to market price risk comprises interest 
rate exposure. Group funds are invested in money market cash 
deposits with the objective of maintaining a balance between 
accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return. In practice, 
this has meant that no deposits were made with a maturity 
greater than 30 days during the period.
(g) Capital risk management
The group’ s objectives when managing capital (the definition 
of which is consistent with last year and is the group’ s assets 
and liabilities including cash) are to safeguard the group’ s ability 
to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
(h) Credit risk
The group’s financial assets are cash, trade and other receivables 
and investments. The group’s credit risk is primarily attributable 
to its trade receivables and retailer debt to the extent that 
PayPoint bears the credit risk. Clients, retailers and merchants 
are credit checked to mitigate credit risk and in all new client 
contracts, we have the right of set-off of funds collected against 
monies due. The group’s maximum exposure, at 31 March 2015, 
was £46,318,000 (2014: £45,578,000).
(i) Financial instrument sensitivities
Financial instruments affected by market risk include deposits, 
trade receivables and trade payables. Any changes in market 
variables (exchange rates and interest rates) will have an 
immaterial effect on these instruments.
28. Related party transactions
Remuneration of the directors, who are the key management of 
the group, was as follows during the period:
Year 
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year 
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Short-term benefits and bonus
1
2,624 2,443
Pension costs
2
202 195
Long-term incentives
3
597 2,995
Other
4
9 17
Total 3,432 5,650
1. Includes salary, fees, benefits in kind and annual bonus 
2. Pension costs include contributions to the defined contribution pension 
scheme, of which two current directors are members. 
3. Long term incentives: includes the value of 2012 DSB award expected to vest 
after the period end (2014: 2011 DSB and LTIP awards)
4. SIP matching and dividend shares awarded in the year
The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined 
by the remuneration committee having regard to the 
performance of individuals and market trends. The directors’ 
remuneration is disclosed in the remuneration committee report 
on pages 26 to 40.  66 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29. Notes to the cash flow statement
Group Company
Year
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Year 
ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year 
ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Profit before tax 49,561 46,008 18,363 8,405
Adjustments for:     
Depreciation of property, 
plant and equipment 5,383 4,551 - -
Amortisation of 
intangible assets 1,147 615 - -
Share of profits in  
joint venture (1,317) (892) - -
Gain on disposal of 
investment - (691) - (691)
Loss/(profit) on disposal 
of fixed assets 7 (15) - -
Investment revenues - - (18,279) (6,199)
Net interest income (56) (147) (1,009) (2,452)
Share-based payment 
charge 1,570 1,324 1,570 1,324
Operating cash flows 
before movements in 
working capital 56,295 50,753 645 387
(Increase)/decrease in 
inventories (25) 390 - -
(Increase)/decrease in 
receivables (971) 718 (571) (10,863)
(Decrease)/increase  
in payables  - -
– client cash (2,687) (492) - -
– other payables 995 4,448 10,007 41,970
Cash generated by 
operations 53,607 55,817 10,081 31,494
Corporation tax paid (8,614) (10,301) - (1,220)
Bank charges paid (97) (82) - -
Net cash from 
operating activities 44,896 45,434 10,081 30,274
Movements in items in the course of collection (see note 18) and settlement 
payables (see note 20) have not been included in this reconciliation as the directors 
do not consider them to be operating working capital balances.
 Period ended March
2006  
£m
2007  
£m
2008  
£m
2009  
£m
2010  
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013  
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
Revenue 120.0 157.1 212.1 224.4 196.6 193.2 200.0 208.5 212.2 218.5
Net revenue 46.1 57.7 69.9 77.4 77.4 82.7 90.4 105.7 113.7 123.1
Profit before tax 20.3 26.6 30.4 34.6 32.6 34.5 37.2 41.3 46.0 49.6
Tax 3.4 7.9 9.4 10.8 10.5 10.6 10.3 10.3 10.1 10.4
Profit after tax 16.9 18.7 21.0 23.8 22.1 23.8 26.9 31.0 35.9 39.1
Earnings per share   
Basic 25.0p 27.7p 31.1p 35.6p 32.9p 35.2p 39.8p 45.7p 52.9p 57.6p
Diluted 24.7p 27.3p 30.8p 35.3p 32.7p 35.1p 39.8p 45.3p 52.6p 57.4p
Dividend per share
(excluding special 
dividends) 7.5p 9.1p 10.4p 11.6p 21.8p 23.4p 26.5p 30.4p 35.3p 38.5p
This table does not form part of the audited financial statements or notes (as listed in the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 42 to 44). All numbers quoted are 
reported under IFRS
Trading history
28. Related party transactions continued
PayPoint has entered into a loan agreement with its 50:50  
joint venture Drop and Collect Limited (trading as Collect+)  
and during the period it has received repayments of £0.15 
million from Drop and Collect Limited, bringing the total  
loan to £5.4 million.
The terms of the loan are:
• Interest payable annually at a rate of three months LIBOR.
• Repayable upon termination of the joint venture or  
upon demand by the lender.
The company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course 
of business, enter into various sales, purchase and service 
transactions with Collect+. These transactions are under  
terms that are no less favourable than those arranged with  
third parties. Amounts received from Collect+ during the  
year totalled £12.4 million (2014: £9.5 million) and PayPoint 
held a trade debtor at year end for Collect+ of £0.4 million 
(2014: £0.3 million).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 67
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should 
seek your own advice from a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, tax adviser, accountant or other independent professional adviser. 
If you have recently sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in PayPoint plc, please pass this document together with the 
accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer, so they can pass these 
documents to the person who now holds the shares as soon as possible.
PayPoint plc
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the 2015 annual general meeting of PayPoint plc will be held at the offices of Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood 
Street, EC2V 7QR, on Wednesday, 22 July 2015 at 12 noon. You will be asked to consider and pass the resolutions below. Resolutions 
15, 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions. All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the annual accounts and reports for the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
2. To approve the directors’ remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 March 2015, other than the part containing the 
directors’ remuneration policy, as set out on pages 26 to 40 of the company’s annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 
March 2015. 
3. To declare a final dividend of 26.1 pence per ordinary share of the company.
4. To elect Mr Neil Carson as a director.
5. To re-elect Mr George Earle as a director.
6. To re-elect Mr David Morrison as a director.
7. To re-elect Mr Stephen Rowley as a director.
8. To re-elect Mr Dominic Taylor as a director. 
9. To re-elect Mr Tim Watkin-Rees as a director. 
10. To re-elect Mr Nick Wiles as a director.
11. To elect Ms Gill Barr as a director.
12. To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the company. 
13. To authorise the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of 
the company at which the accounts are laid. 
SPECIAL BUSINESS 
14. That the directors are authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) to exercise all the powers of 
the company to allot shares in the company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the company up 
to an aggregate nominal amount of £68,045.06 provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the annual general 
meeting of the company to be held in 2016 or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months from the date of this resolution, save 
that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require 
shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot shares or grant rights  
pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired; and all unexercised authorities previously granted to 
the directors under section 1 of the Act are revoked (save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551(7) of 
the Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be 
allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date).
15. That the directors are empowered in accordance with sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities (as defined in 
section 560 of the Act) for cash (under the authority conferred by resolution 14 above) or by way of a sale of treasury shares  
as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to:
(a)   the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities to or in favour  
of (i)  the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date(s) as the directors may determine where 
the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as may 
be) to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on any such record date(s), and (ii) the holders of other equity  68 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of 
those securities and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal 
with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of 
any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or  
any other matter whatever; and
b)   the allotment (otherwise than under sub-paragraph (a) above) to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £10,206.76.
and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by resolution 14 above, save that the company shall be entitled 
to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after 
such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power 
conferred hereby had not expired.
16.  That subject to, and in accordance with the company’s articles of association and pursuant to section 701 of the Act, the 
company is authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of  
1/3 of one penny of the company provided that:
(a)  the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be purchased under this authority is 10,199,954;
(b)  the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is the nominal value of such share; 
(c)   the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of: (i) 
105 per cent. of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to 
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary 
share is purchased; and (ii) the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for 
an ordinary share in the company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out;
(d)   this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016 or, if earlier,  
on the date which is 15 months from the date of this resolution; and
(e)   the company may make any purchase of its ordinary shares under a contract concluded before this authority expires  
and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
All shares purchased shall either: (i) be cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase; or (ii) be held, sold, transferred  
or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
17.  That any general meeting of the company that is not an annual general meeting may be called on not less than  
14 clear days’ notice. 
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
Susan Court
Company Secretary
28 May 2015
Registered Office: 
1 The Boulevard
Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Hertfordshire
AL7 1EL PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 69
NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
1. A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice for use by shareholders. To be valid, a proxy must be received by the company’s 
registrar, Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time 
of the annual general meeting. Completion and return of a form of proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the 
annual general meeting and voting in person. 
2. A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting may appoint a proxy (who need not be a member 
of the company) to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his or her behalf. A member may 
appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a 
different share or shares held by him or her. To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy the proxy form. Please indicate 
the proxy holder’s name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy (which, in 
aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you). Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple 
instructions being given. All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope. 
 
In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: 
• in hard copy form by post to the company’s registrar, Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent 
BR3 4ZF; 
• in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures 
set out below; or
• by courier or by hand to Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. 
and in each case must be received by the company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
  You must inform the company’s registrar in writing of any termination of the authorities of a proxy. 
3 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy 
information rights (a Nominated Person) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was 
nominated, have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the annual general meeting. If a 
Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, 
have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights. 
4.  The statement of the rights of shareholders to appoint a proxy in paragraphs one and two above does not apply to Nominated 
Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the company. Nominated Persons 
are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares (and not the company) on matters relating to their 
investments in the company.  
5. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so 
for the annual general meeting and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual. CREST 
personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service 
provider(s) should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action 
on their behalf. In order for a proxy appointment, or instruction, made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST 
message (a CREST proxy instruction) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s (EUI) 
specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual. The message, 
regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously 
appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA10) by the latest 
time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of annual general meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt 
will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host) from 
which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. The company 
may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5) of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that 
EUI does not make available special procedure in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations 
will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions. It is therefore the responsibility of the CREST member 
concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting 
service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to 
ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members 
and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST 
manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings. 
6.    Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its 
powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares. 
7. To be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting or any adjournment thereof (and also for the purpose of 
calculating how many votes a person may cast), a person must have his/her name entered on the register of members of the 
company by 6pm on 20 July 2015 (or 6pm on the date being two days before any adjourned meeting). Changes to entries on the 
register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting. 70 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
8.  Biographical details of the directors of the company are shown on page 23 of the 2015 annual report. 
9.   Each member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting 
which, in accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to some exceptions, the company must cause 
such questions to be answered. However no such answer need be given if: 
(a)  to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information;
(b)  the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or
(c)  it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered. 
10. Information relating to the meeting which the company is required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on 
a website in advance of the meeting may be viewed at www.paypoint.com.  A member may not use any electronic address 
provided by the company in this document or with any proxy appointment form or in any website for communicating with the 
company for any purpose in relation to the meeting other than as expressly stated in it. 
11. It is possible that, pursuant to members’ requests made in accordance with section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
company will be required to publish on a website a statement in accordance with section 528 of that Act setting out any matter 
that the members concerned propose to raise at the meeting relating to: (i) the audit of the company’s accounts (including the 
auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the annual general meeting; or (ii) any circumstances 
connected with an auditor of the company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and 
reports were laid. The company cannot require the members concerned to pay its expenses in complying with those sections. 
The company must forward any such statement to its auditor by the time it makes the statement available on the website.  
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any such statement. 
12. The issued share capital of the company as at 28 May 2015 was 68,045,059 ordinary shares of 1/3 pence each, carrying one 
vote each. The company holds no treasury shares or unallocated shares for the purpose of employee share schemes, therefore, 
the total number of voting rights in the company on 28 May 2015 is 68,045,059.
13. The directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the company 
and at the PayPoint office situated at Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1AE during normal business hours on any weekday and 
will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends 
Recommendation and voting intentions
With respect to resolutions 4 and 11, the board recommends that Neil Carson and Gill Barr be elected as directors. In both cases this 
opinion is based on the recommendation of the nomination committee following the external searches that were commissioned.  
The board considers that Neil Carson and Gill Barr meet the desired criteria for their respective roles as directors. 
With respect to resolutions 5 to 10 (inclusive), the Chairman confirms that, based on the performance valuation undertaken during 
the period, each of the retiring director’s performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role. The 
board has considered this and recommends that each director who wishes to serve again be proposed for re-election. This opinion is 
based on an assessment of each director’s relevant knowledge and experience and the conclusion that, in each case, their informed 
opinions are of significant value and contribute greatly to board discussions. The directors’ biographies can be found on page 23 of 
the 2015 annual report.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders 
as a whole and most likely to promote the success of the company for the benefit of those shareholders. Those directors who are 
shareholders will be voting in favour of the resolutions and unanimously recommend that you do so as well.  PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 71
Explanatory notes to certain of the resolutions to be 
proposed at the annual general meeting
Resolution 2: Directors’ remuneration report
Shareholders are asked to approve the directors’ remuneration report that appears on pages 26 to 40 other than the part containing 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, of the annual report and accounts. This vote is advisory, and the directors’ entitlement to 
remuneration is not conditional on it.
Resolution 14: Directors’ authority to allot shares 
By virtue of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act), the directors require the authority of shareholders of the company  
to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares. The resolution numbered 14 authorises the 
directors to make allotments of up to 22,681,686 ordinary shares (representing approximately one-third (33.33%) of the issued 
share capital of the company (excluding treasury shares) as at the date of this document). If approved at the forthcoming annual 
general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed or on the 
conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016, whichever is the sooner. The directors have no  
present intention of exercising the authority proposed to be conferred pursuant to resolution 14. 
Resolution 15: Authority for disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights 
By virtue of section 561 of the Act, any issue by the company of equity capital for cash made otherwise than to existing shareholders 
on a proportional basis requires the consent of shareholders of the company unless the company has obtained their authority under 
sections 570 and 573 of the Act. The resolution numbered 15 is for that purpose. It authorises the directors to allot shares by way of 
rights issue or pursuant to an open offer or otherwise than strictly pro rata when the directors consider that it is expedient to do so 
and also allows them to issue for cash up to 3,402,253 ordinary shares (representing approximately five per cent) of the issued share 
capital of the company (excluding treasury shares) as at the date of this document other than on a pre-emptive basis. If approved at 
the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is 
passed or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016, whichever is the sooner. 
Resolution 16: Authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares
By virtue of section 701 of the Act, the company may make market purchases of its own ordinary shares if authorised to do so by 
shareholders. Under resolution 16, the directors seek to renew an annual authority to make market purchases of shares: each year 
the directors will seek to further renew this authority at the company’s annual general meeting. Any ordinary shares purchased under 
this authority would either be (i) cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase and the number of ordinary shares in issue 
reduced accordingly; (ii) held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act; or (iii) transferred to an employee benefit trust for the satisfaction of awards under the company’s existing share schemes. 
The maximum number of ordinary shares which could be purchased under this authority is 10,199,954, being 14.99 per cent of the 
issued share capital of the company (excluding treasury shares) as at the date of this document. Any repurchase of ordinary shares 
carried out by the company would be at a maximum price per ordinary share of 105 per cent. of the average middle market price of 
such a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase, the price equal to the last independent trade 
or the highest current independent bid and at a minimum price equal to the nominal value. The authority to repurchase ordinary 
shares will, if approved by shareholders, only be exercised after careful consideration by the directors and if such exercise would 
result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally. If approved at the forthcoming 
annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed, or  
on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016, whichever is the sooner.
Resolution 17:  Authority to allow any general meeting of the company that is not an annual general to be called on not 
less than 14 clear days’ notice.
Further to the implementation of the shareholder rights regulations, the directors seek authority to hold general meetings, other 
than annual general meetings, on 14 rather than 21 days notice. If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the 
authority will expire at the company’s next annual general meeting, when it is currently intended that a similar resolution will be 
proposed, or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016, whichever is the sooner.  72 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 73
FORM OF PROXY
PayPoint plc – annual general meeting
I/We,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (NAME)
of...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................(ADDRESS)
hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting OR the following person........................................................................................................................(NAME OF PROXY)
of.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (ADDRESS)
as my/our proxy to exercise all or any of my rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my/our voting entitlement of ……………………………….. shares on my/our 
behalf at the annual general meeting of the company to be held at 12 noon on 22 July 2015 at the offices of Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood Street, EC2V 7QR and at 
any adjournment thereof. 
I/We would like my/our proxy to vote on the resolutions proposed at the meeting as specified below.  Unless otherwise instructed the proxy may vote as he or she 
sees fit or abstain in relation to any business of the meeting.  On any other business arising at the meeting (including any motion to amend a resolution or to adjourn 
the meeting) my/our proxy will act at his or her discretion.
Please indicate by ticking the box opposite if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
For the appointment of one or more proxy, please refer to explanatory note 2 (below). 
Items 1 to 13 are items of ordinary business, items 14 to 17 are items of special business
RESOLUTION ORDINARY BUSINESS FOR AGAINST WITHHELD
1 To receive the annual reports and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015.
2 To approve the directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
3 To declare a final dividend of 26.1p per ordinary share of the company.
4 To elect Mr Neil Carson as a director of the company.
5 To re-elect Mr George Earle as a director of the company.
6 To re-elect Mr David Morrison as a director of the company.
7 To re-elect Mr Stephen Rowley as a director of the company.
8 To re-elect Mr Dominic Taylor as a director of the company.
9 To re-elect Mr Tim Watkin-Rees as a director of the company.
10 To re-elect Mr Nick Wiles as a director of the company.
11 To elect Ms Gill Barr as a director of the company.
12 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the company.
13 To authorise the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration
SPECIAL BUSINESS
14 ORDINARY RESOLUTION: To authorise the directors to allot shares in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006.
15 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: T o disapply statutory pre-emption rights in accordance with Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006.
16
SPECIAL RESOLUTION: T o authorise the company to make market purchases of its ordinary shares up to 14.99% of the issued  
share capital.
17 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To allow any general meeting (other than an annual general meeting to be called on 14 days’ notice
To assist with arrangements, if you intend to attend the meeting in person, please place an ‘X’ in the box opposite.
Signature.............................................................................................................Date................................................2015
In the case of a corporation, this proxy must be given under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer duly authorised, stating their capacity (e.g. director, company secretary)
Explanatory notes:
1. Every holder has the right to appoint some other person(s) of their choice, who need not be a shareholder as his or her proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights, to 
attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space 
provided. If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holder’s name  the number of shares in 
relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy. If left blank, your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement (or if this proxy form 
has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account).
2. To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy this form. Please indicate the proxy holder’s name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act 
as your proxy (which, in aggregate, may not exceed the number of shares held by you). Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given. 
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
3. The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communication from 
the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (nominated persons). Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered 
shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy. Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or 
do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
4. The vote withheld option above is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution. However, it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will 
not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against a resolution.
5. Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to the register of members of the company 
at 6pm on the day which is two days before the day of the meeting or adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in 
determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
6. To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy (whether previously appointed or otherwise) via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by 
the issuer’s agent (ID number RA10) not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time 
(as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message. The company may treat as invalid a proxy 
appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
7. The completion and return of this form will not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person. If you attend the meeting in person, your proxy appointment 
will automatically be terminated. 
8. To be effective, all votes must be lodged not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at the office of the company’s registrars at: Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 
Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF.
9. This form is issued only to the addressee(s) and is specific to the unique designated account printed hereon. This personalised form is not transferable between different (i) 
account holders; or (ii) uniquely designated accounts. The company and Capita Asset Services accept no liability for any instruction that does not comply with these conditions. BUSINESS REPLY 
Licence No. RLUB-TBUX-EGUC
PXS 1
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
BR3 4ZF
3rd FOLD and TUCK IN
2nd FOLD
&
1st FOLD OUR BUSINESS
Contents
Page
Strategic report
Highlights 1
Chairman’s statement 2
Chief Executive’s review 3
Strategy and business model 5
Key performance indicators 8
Review of business 9
Trends and factors on future 
development
13
Risks and uncertainties 14
Environmental matters, employees, 
social, community and human rights
16
Governance
Governance 19
Audit committee report 21
Board of directors 23
Directors’ report 24
Remuneration committee report 26
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 41
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of PayPoint plc 
42
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 45
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
45
Consolidated statement  
of financial position 
46
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
47
Consolidated cash flow statement 48
Company statement  
of financial position
49
Company statement  
of changes in equity
50
Company cash flow statement 50
Notes to the financial statements 51
Annual general meeting
Notice of annual general meeting 67
Form of proxy 73
Officers & professional advisers Inside 
back 
cover
Today, with an ever expanding number of ways to pay, customers increasingly expect 
to pay the way they want, wherever they are and at any time. PayPoint answers that 
demand by taking the complexity of multi-channel payments and translating it into 
convenient, simple, value-added solutions. 
We are an international leader in our field, and a pioneer of a range of payment 
technologies. We handle over £14 billion in payments annually, for 5,500 clients  
and merchants. Our solutions transform payments for everyone from consumers  
to retailers and our clients in utilities, telcos, media, gaming, government and other 
sectors. Our services are delivered through our unique combination of local shops,  
mobile and online distribution channels, both delivered through the businesses we  
own and by integrating the best services from more specialised suppliers.
Retail networks
We operate branded retail networks across the UK, Ireland and Romania. 
In the UK, our growing network already includes terminals in over 27,800 local  
shops including Co-operative, Spar, McColls, Costcutter, Sainsbury’s Local, Tesco Express,  
One Stop, Asda, Londis and thousands of independent stores. These stores are  
quick and convenient places to make energy meter prepayments, bill payments,  
benefit payments, mobile phone top-ups, transport tickets, BBC TV licences, cash 
withdrawals and a range of other transactions. They are made available to customers  
by most leading utilities and a range of telecoms and consumer service companies. 
Our Romanian network continues to grow profitably. We have more than 9,200 
terminals in local shops across the country, helping people make cash bill payments, 
money transfers, road tax payments and mobile phone top-ups. 
In the Republic of Ireland, people use our 500 terminal sites in shops and Credit Unions 
for mobile top-ups and bill payments.
In the UK, Collect+, our joint venture with Yodel, offers parcel drop-off and pick-up 
services in 5,800 convenience stores. Customers use Collect+ to handle parcels from 
major retailers including Amazon, eBay, ASOS, New Look, Boden, John Lewis,  
House of Fraser, M&S, Asda Direct and Very. 
The UK network also includes over 4,000 LINK branded ATMs, and 9,800 of our 
terminals enable retailers to accept credit and debit cards.
Mobile and Online
Our unique mix of digital payments solutions helps maximise success in a complex  
and rapidly changing world. Every year, PayPoint Mobile and Online handles over  
145 million payments for parking, payments and consumer services. In the UK,  
Canada, USA, France, Switzerland and Australia, our parking solutions make it easy  
for people to pay for parking by mobile – increasingly through our own app. We  
also provide electronic parking permits, automatic number plate recognition systems  
for car parks, and penalty charge notices.
Our online payments platform is linked to 16 acquiring banks in the UK, Europe 
and North America. It delivers secure credit and debit card payments for over 4,600 
online merchants, including Moonpig, WHSmith, London and Zurich Insurance, 
Moneysupermarket.com, Severn Trent and British Gas. Our comprehensive suite  
of products ranges from our transaction gateway to a bureau service, in which we  
take the merchants’ credit risk and manage settlement for them. We also offer a  
variety of value-added services such as FraudGuard, an advanced service that mitigates 
the risk of fraud in card not present transactions, Cardlock, an innovative solution for 
PCI compliance, PayCash through the PayPoint network and Cashier, one of the most 
advanced hosted digital payment solutions.
As well as this extensive range of services and solutions, we provide the backing of  
our 24/7 operations centres, with dual site processing to ensure business continuity.  
Little wonder then, that PayPoint is so widely renowned for leadership in payment 
systems, smart technology and service.
Our history is one of anticipating clients’ needs and pioneering solutions to meet  
them ahead of demand. Our future will be no different. Every day, we reinforce  
our competitive edge by developing our range of payments, products and services  
across the growing multitude of channels delivering best of breed services through  
our own and our expert supplier capabilities. 
Officers and  
professional advisers
Directors
E Anstee*
G Barr*†
N Carson*
G Earle
D Morrison*
S Rowley*
D Taylor
T Watkin-Rees
N Wiles (Chairman)*
* Non-executive directors 
† Agreed to join on 1 June 2015
Company Secretary
S Court 
Registered office
1 The Boulevard
Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Hertfordshire, AL7 1EL
United Kingdom 
Registered in England and Wales  
number 03581541
Independent auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London, EC4A 3BZ
United Kingdom
Brokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street 
London, E14 5JP
United Kingdom
Canaccord Genuity
88 Wood Street
London, EC2V 7QR
United Kingdom
Jefferies/Hoare Govett
Vintners Place 
68 Upper Thames Street 
London, EC4V 3BJ
United Kingdom
Registrar
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent, BR3 4TU
United Kingdom
Printed and bound by Empress Litho who are accredited with FSC and ISO international 
environmental management standards.
This document has been printed on 100% FSC certified recycled paper, produced using  
de-inked post consumer waste.
FSC – Forest Stewardship Council. This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the 
tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 – A pattern of control for an environmental management system against  
which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
Carbon Balancing by the World Land Trust tackles climate change through projects that both 
offset carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and conserve biodiversity. PayPoint plc
1 The Boulevard, Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Hertfordshire AL7 1EL
United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)1707 600300
Fax +44 (0)1707 600333
www.paypoint.com
Simplifying payments
for everyone
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
Annual 
Report
For the year ended 
31 March 2015
