 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 Acquisitive capability
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Welcome
to Playtech
 Harness technology
 F acilitate play
Playtech is a market leader in the gambling and financial 
trading industries. Founded in 1999 and listed on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange, Playtech has more  
than 5,000 employees in 13 countries.
Playtech is the gambling industry’s leading software and services supplier  
with more than 130 licensees globally, including many of the world’s leading 
regulated online, retail and mobile operators, land-based casino groups, 
government sponsored entities such as lotteries, and new entrants opening 
operations in newly-regulated markets. Its business intelligence-driven gambling 
software offering includes casino, live casino, bingo, poker and sports betting.
 
It is the pioneer of omni-channel gambling which, through Playtech ONE, offers 
operators and their customers, a seamless, anytime, anywhere experience across 
any product, any channel (online, mobile, retail) and any device using a single 
account and single wallet. It provides marketing expertise, sophisticated CRM 
solutions and other services for operators seeking a full turnkey solution.
 
Playtech’s Financials division, run through its subsidiary Markets Limited (formerly 
called TradeFX), is an established and growing online CFDs, broker and trading 
platform provider, operating a number of brands including Markets.com. Its B2C 
focused offering is available in more than 100 countries and in more than 25 
languages and is licensed and regulated in the EU and South Africa.  Market leading
Offices in 
13 different 
countries
Licensees in 
more than 20 
markets
Global reach
We currently 
have over 5,000 
employees
130 global 
licensees
Our offices
Finance
Markets Limited
Cyprus
10
c.300
Player support
Live
Philippines
13
c.700
Casino
IMS Videobet
Estonia
7
c.600
Head Office
Isle of Man
1
4
Mobenga
Videobet Interactive
Videobet
Sweden Italy
5
c.100
Marketing
Product 
management
Israel
11
c.700
Ash Games
Bingo
GTS
UK
2
c.500
Portal
Ukraine
8
c.600
Casual
Russia
12
PokerStrategy
Gibraltar
3
Live
Latvia
6
c.800
Player support
Poker
Bulgaria
9
Lottery 
Sport
Playtech today
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  7
8
10
11
12
13
2
1
3
4
5
6
9
Key
Main 
offices
Other 
offices
No. of 
employees Strategic report
Playtech today IFC
Highlights of the year 02
Chairman’s statement 03
Our Gaming division 
Market backdrop 04
Strategy 06
Platform and intelligence 08
Products 12
Services 16
Our Financials division 20
Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review 22
Financial review 30
Risks and uncertainties 36
Sustainability 40
In our report
Governance
Board of Directors 44
Chairman’s introduction to governance 46
Directors’ governance report 47
Audit Committee report 55
Remuneration report  
– annual statement 58
Remuneration policy report 59
Annual report on remuneration 65
Directors’ report 73
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 82
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 89
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 90
Consolidated balance sheet 91
Consolidated statement of cash flows 92
Notes to the financial statements 94
Company balance sheet 127
Company statement  
of changes in equity 128
Company statement of cash flows 129
Notes to the financial statements 130
Five-year financial summary IBC
 04
Our Gaming division
All of Playtech’s products 
are part of a unified 
platform and can be 
integrated with one 
another
 44
Governance
The Board believes  
that high standards  
of corporate governance 
contribute to Playtech’s 
performance and 
continued success
 82
Financial statements
Full audited 
accounts for the 
2015 financial year
For more information
You’ll find links 
throughout this  
report to guide you 
to further reading or 
relevant information.
Find more information 
on our website: 
www.playtech.com
Throughout the report 
are case studies on 
Playtech’s activities 
during the year.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     01
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Driving growth
Gaming division
• Strong underlying performance with double digit growth 
excluding acquisitions, impact of POC, white-label and  
currency effect
• Regulated revenues growing faster than .com 
– 41% of 2015 Gaming revenues from regulated markets  
(2014: 36%)
– strong growth in the UK driven by Sky, GalaCoral,  
Ladbrokes, Betfair and white-label customers
• 10 new licensees signed in 2015 including Sun Bingo,  
Marca, win2day and Mr Green together with further  
product penetration in customer base
• Landmark exclusive agreement signed with DC Comics  
after the year end
• Strong pipeline with significant wins expected in 2016
Operational highlights
Financial highlights
€630.1m
Revenue (€m)
630.1
457.0
2015
2014
€205.9m
Adjusted net profit attributable  
to owners of parent* (€m)
205.9
190.8
2015
2014
€857.9m
Cash balances at year end (€m)
857.9
692.3
2015
2014
€251.9m
Adjusted EBITDA* (€m)
251.9
207.1
2015
2014
67.5€
cents
Adjusted basic EPS*  
(€ cents)
67.5
65.6
2015
2014
28.5€
cents
Total ordinary dividend per share** (€ cents)
28.5
26.4
2015
2014
* Adjusted numbers relate to certain non-cash and one-off items including amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions, 
professional costs on acquisitions and irrecoverable deposit and professional fees on abandoned acquisitions, finance costs  
on acquisitions, change in fair value of available-for-sale investments in the income statement, non-cash accrued bond interest, 
provision against irrecoverable cash and additional various non-cash charges.
** Final dividend of 18.9 €cents is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
See page 30 for  
our Financial review  
+38%
+8%
+24%
+22%
+3%
+8%
Financials division
• Pro-forma full year revenue of $100.2m with post-acquisition 
revenue contribution of $66.5m (€60.0m)
• Total active CFD customers up 30% over 2014, with first time 
depositors (FTDs) up 25%
• Adjusted EBITDA since acquisition of $17.8m (€15.9m) with 
margin of 26% due to lower volatility and improvements to 
business model to further enhance compliance in a tightening 
regulatory environment
• Improvements made to business model to impact 2016  
revenue growth and margin
02     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Highlights of the year Going from strength 
to strength
In 2015 Playtech once again achieved 
an outstanding operational and financial 
performance, with reported revenues up 
38% and 26% on an underlying basis. 
Our Gaming division continues to go  
from strength-to-strength, founded on 
our pioneering omni-channel offering, our 
market leading content and the investment 
we make every year into R&D to ensure that 
we not only maintain but also extend our 
lead against the competition. The second 
half of 2015 saw several new licensee wins, 
including Sun Bingo, as well as product 
launches, including the iconic Top Gun  
slot and Live Prestige Roulette. Our pipeline 
of new licensees, driven by regulated and 
soon-to-be-regulated markets, is strong  
and we expect significant wins in 2016.
During the year we created our Financials 
division with the acquisition of TradeFX 
which was announced in April, since 
renamed Markets Limited. Although it was 
disappointing not to be able to complete 
the subsequently announced acquisitions 
of Plus500 and Ava Trade, Markets Limited 
remains an important acquisition for Playtech, 
taking us into a high-growth industry 
with regulated revenues, leveraging our 
technology infrastructure and existing 
expertise in CRM and marketing. 
Playtech is proud of its track record of 
exceptional growth. Looking forward we  
see many opportunities to extend this 
record, both organically and through M&A, 
and have great confidence of continued 
success in 2016 and beyond.
Alan Jackson
Chairman
25 February 2016
We have a very strong balance sheet 
with significant cash balances. Playtech 
has always been highly disciplined when 
acquiring businesses and capabilities to 
ensure that they meet stringent criteria.  
We are currently in live discussions on a 
number of potential acquisitions in the 
Gaming division. 
We also remain committed to returning 
capital to shareholders, as evidenced by  
the strong compound growth in our regular 
dividends and the special dividend paid 
following the receipt of proceeds from the 
sale of Playtech’s stake in William Hill Online. 
Should suitable acquisition opportunities 
not be available, consideration will be given 
to returning cash to shareholders as we look 
to maintain an efficient capital structure.
I was particularly pleased to be able to 
strengthen the Board during the year with 
the appointments of Paul Hewitt and John 
Jackson. Their wealth of experience across 
many complementary industries will prove 
invaluable to Playtech’s growth over the 
coming years. 
Finally, I would like to thank each and 
every one of our 5,000 employees who 
make Playtech the great success story 
that it continues to be. I would also like to 
thank our shareholders for their continued 
support, particularly in supporting our equity 
fundraising in June. Playtech is focused 
on creating value for shareholders and I 
am delighted to be able to announce an 
increase of 8% for this year’s total dividend.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     03
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Whilst 2015 was an incredibly busy year for 
Playtech, our operational performance was 
stronger than ever, delivering reported revenues 
up 38% and up 26% on an underlying basis.  
We have many opportunities for further growth, 
both organically and through M&A, and have 
confidence in strong growth in 2016 and beyond
Alan Jackson
Chairman
Chairman’s statement The leader in a high  
growth industry
Development 
The online gambling market developed in 
the mid-1990s, initially with online casinos 
and then with the launch of online poker 
in 1998. In 2015 the total online gambling 
market, defined by H2 Gambling Capital 
to include casino, poker, bingo, sports 
betting, skill based gaming and lotteries, 
was estimated as having gross gambling 
revenues (“GGR”), being amounts staked 
including bonuses but less prizes, of 
approximately €35.0 billion (2014: €32.4 
billion), an increase of 8%. 
Portugal, Switzerland and Sweden. In Latin 
America, Mexico is due to introduce further 
regulations (with Playtech already well 
established in the country with Caliente) 
with Uruguay, Peru and Brazil considering 
their positions. Finally, in Asia, the Philippines 
is making positive progress with Laos, 
Cambodia and Thailand potentially  
looking to follow.
Mobile
The number of mobile devices in use grows 
every day, and increasing numbers of players 
are choosing mobile sports betting and 
gaming for the convenience it brings.
With over 350 mobile developers, Playtech 
is at the forefront of mobile development. 
In 2015, 21% of Playtech’s revenues were 
generated from mobile, up from 16% in 2014.
 
It is forecast that mobile interactive gambling 
will enjoy a compound annual growth rate  
of 17% between 2015 and 2018.
The global online market continues to 
benefit from the transition of land-based 
revenue to online revenue, regulation, 
improved broadband penetration and 
capacity, faster mobile data transfer rates, 
improved smartphone penetration, a 
growing number of market participants, 
and greater acceptance of online gambling 
as a mainstream leisure pastime along 
with increased marketing expenditure 
by operators through a wide range of 
marketing channels.
Regulation
The regulation of online gambling can be  
a catalyst for market growth, depending on 
how the regulation is enacted, which product 
verticals are permitted by the regulator and 
the tax rate introduced. This combination of 
factors determine whether online gambling 
is likely to be commercially attractive in the 
longer term. 
As markets move from a .com to a 
regulated regime, there are expected to be 
notable opportunities together with some 
uncertainties through the transition period.
Although it is obviously difficult to predict 
the exact form and timing of any regulatory 
progress, there are many countries which 
may regulate over the coming years. Across 
Europe we are seeing a number of markets  
at various stages of the regulatory process 
including the Czech Republic, Holland, 
According to H2 Gambling Capital, the total 
online gambling market is expected to grow 
at a compound annual growth rate of 10% 
from 2015 to 2018. 
Market size by geography
Data from H2 Gambling Capital shows 
that in 2015 the largest online market by 
player location was the United Kingdom, 
which accounted for just over 16% of the 
overall interactive market. China and Japan 
follow with approximately 12% and 11% 
respectively.
Convergence of online  
and land-based
A significant industry trend is the growing 
convergence of land-based and online 
market segments. This is principally as a  
result of many new entrants in regulated 
online markets being existing land-based 
gaming, betting and lottery operators, who 
already have a substantial local presence, 
well-recognised brands, existing player 
databases and are familiar with the local 
regulatory environment.
 
Historically separate in their philosophy and 
systems, there has been a fundamental shift in 
both segments towards common techniques 
for player attraction and retention, such as 
VIP levels and loyalty schemes. Operators are 
becoming more aware of the importance 
of player retention and of incentivising the 
player on an individual basis regardless of 
channel. The retention of players and the 
ability to cross-sell them on to other products 
provides an opportunity for operators, but 
also presents substantial technical challenges 
for them.
 
Playtech has focused much of its recent 
development efforts on ensuring that  
it is able to deliver functionality, player 
management and content across the full 
range of distribution channels, and to 
capitalise on this trend of convergence.
Of the total global online market, Europe is 
estimated by H2 Gambling Capital to be the 
largest segment, comprising approximately 
47% of the overall market, and is forecast  
to grow at a compound annual growth  
rate of 13% from 2015 to 2018.
 
Our Gaming division
Market backdrop
The online gambling market
Drivers of market growth
10%
Forecast compound annual growth of the 
online gaming industry from 2015 to 2018
04     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Global online gambling market 2015  
by region
 Europe: 47%
 Asia/Middle East: 30%
 North America: 13%
 Oceania: 6%
 Latin America/Caribbean: 2%
 Africa: 1%
€35.0bn
Maintaining and extending  
our leadership
The single most realistic alternative to 
outsourcing to Playtech is for operators 
to utilise their own proprietary platform 
together with proprietary and third party 
software, which while currently accounting 
for around 30% of the total online gambling 
market, Playtech believes is an increasingly 
unsustainable model.
Playtech enjoys significant scale advantages 
by being able to leverage operating and 
development costs of more than 130 
licensees, including the top 10 European  
and UK online gambling operators.
Playtech’s strategy is to offer all product 
verticals across all distribution channels on 
an integrated platform that offers a single 
wallet and sign-on. Playtech is also the 
only supplier that can offer sophisticated 
marketing and operational services to  
drive player acquisition and retention via  
a modular range of flexible approaches  
from a full turnkey solution to equity joint 
ventures or structured agreements. This 
enables operators to offer their players  
a true omni-channel approach across  
land-based/digital/mobile channels, 
providing the ultimate player experience.
Barriers to entry
Scale
The rapid growth and increased scale of 
Playtech has enabled the development of  
a superior platform, more relevant software 
and more products than other suppliers. 
New B2B operators or licensees are not 
able to undertake significant product 
development as they lack economies of scale. 
This is even more apparent in new channels 
coming to market such as mobile, or new 
products such as virtual racing. Games such 
as bingo or poker rely on liquidity to satisfy 
player demand. Networked casino games can 
also provide significant jackpot opportunities.
Technology
The Playtech operating system is agnostic, 
allowing upgrades and new features to 
be rolled out to every operator from a 
single platform. This enables all operators 
the benefit of a more advanced offering. 
Playtech’s R&D costs vary from year to year, 
but are typically around 17% of overall 
software revenue. This development cost 
is shared across the licensee base, and the 
revenue share model offered by Playtech 
is cost effective when compared to self-
development, and allows licensees to remain 
at the cutting edge of the market. Operators 
also benefit from product development 
through two-way feedback with Playtech.
Leading the competition
Experience
As Playtech’s scale has increased over  
the 16 years since its incorporation, its 
knowledge, expertise and offering in all 
markets have enabled operators to grow 
their businesses and to diversify into new 
markets more quickly.
Liquidity
Playtech offers greater liquidity in the bingo 
and poker markets, and can provide high 
progressive jackpots for casino players.
Services
Other barriers to entry are Playtech’s 
expertise in the services environment 
(marketing, hosting and affiliates) and 
increasingly longer-term supply contracts 
and established relationships with licensees.
Source: H2 Gambling Capital
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     05
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The building blocks 
of success
Our Gaming division
Strategy
The industry is moving towards locally 
regulated markets as governments see  
the implementation of gambling taxes  
and the sale of regulatory licences as 
significant revenue streams. Land-based  
and digital channels are converging as 
regulatory authorities issue gambling 
licences to land-based operators for both 
traditional and online offerings. Through 
being able to offer a full turnkey solution, 
Playtech is able to partner with established 
operators and new entrants to take 
advantage of these opportunities.
Playtech’s strategy of organic 
development, new business, 
targeted acquisitions, strategic 
agreements and joint ventures 
has enabled it to maximise 
opportunities created by  
the significant changes afoot  
in the online gambling industry.
1
Support  
organic growth
In 2015, Playtech’s licensees achieved 
organic growth of 16%, exceeding the 
growth of the underlying global market. 
The breadth and depth of Playtech’s 
offering enables Playtech’s licensees  
to run some of the most successful  
online gambling businesses.
Mobile gambling is one of the most 
significant growth drivers of the global 
online gambling industry. Playtech’s 
Mobile Hub has combined the established 
Mobenga mobile sports betting solution 
with other gambling products. This 
combination uniquely positions Playtech 
to capitalise on further developments in 
this sector. Mobile gambling is essential 
to Playtech’s future success and we have 
invested heavily to develop the next 
generation of products, maximising new 
functionality on tablets and smartphones, 
while continuing to roll out products across 
all mobile platforms, including Android, 
Apple iOS and HTML5.
 16%
Organic growth
06     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Extend our lead by increasing product, 
service and distribution capability
Attract new  
licensees
Playtech has enjoyed a successful 
track record of agreeing contracts with 
approximately five to ten new licensees 
every year, attracted by our market-leading 
product and service offering, the unique 
capabilities of the IMS and support for 
both established and new operators  
in regulating markets.
Playtech’s strategy as the leading technology provider in the online 
gambling industry, is to offer all product verticals across all distribution 
channels. Playtech invests to expand its offering to support its licensees  
with new technologies, avenues to market and products e.g. the Mobile 
Hub, virtual racing and casual gaming.
Cross-sell products 
and services
2
On average, Playtech’s licensees take a 
limited number of products. There is a trend 
for larger licensees e.g. GalaCoral, Ladbrokes 
and Paddy Power to leverage Playtech’s IMS 
and take more products from Playtech’s 
product suite, enhancing their cross-sell 
ability. Playtech also supports its licensees 
as they enter new markets e.g. Ladbrokes 
moving to Spain, Denmark and Mexico.
3
4
Improve quality  
of earnings through 
greater regulated 
market penetration
Playtech is focused on growing its  
presence in regulated markets, increasing 
the proportion of regulated revenue to  
41% in 2015 (2014: 36%). Future regulation 
will provide an opportunity to increase  
this proportion further and the Group 
continues to work on progressing in 
regulated markets.
5
Acquisitions  
remain key
Playtech has an outstanding acquisition 
track record, investing in new technology, 
exciting content, and new products. 
Companies have mostly been acquired 
on an earn-out basis, enabling Playtech to 
leverage its existing business and licensee 
base to create strong synergies. Playtech is 
focused on making further, similar bolt-on 
and larger acquisitions. Given the Group’s 
ability to generate cash and strength of its 
balance sheet, the Board is seeking strategic 
M&A opportunities to take the business to 
the next level.
6
See page 33 See page 20  
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     07
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech ONE:  
Experience is everything
Our Gaming division
Platform and intelligence
Our omni-channel philosophy
Consumers today live and play  
in a world without limitations,  
and so do we.
A user’s experience should be 
the same no matter what the 
content, where it is accessed 
from, when it is played, or on 
whatever device they play on.
The industry term for this is  
omni-channel.
Only Playtech can deliver this – 
play any game, on any platform 
and on any device using a single 
wallet anywhere and at any time. 
This is what we call Playtech ONE.
Playtech ONE software allows 
an operator and its customers 
a seamless, anytime, anywhere 
experience across any product, 
any channel and any device 
using a single account and  
single wallet.
Playtech’s pioneering innovation 
has enabled licensees to bridge 
the retail-online-mobile gap, 
giving their customers what 
they want, when they want it, 
in any location or time and on 
whatever hardware they choose 
to use.
Operator results speak for 
themselves. We offer and 
enable them with all the tools 
and technology; they present 
their players with the ultimate 
gaming experience; and they 
generate record-breaking 
results.
The five pillars of omni-channel
Playtech omni-channel gaming  
– where experience is everything
Definition
The application of the same business 
strategy for all channels resulting in a 
consistent brand experience wherever and 
whenever the customer chooses to engage.
Wallet
ONE wallet, ONE view,  
ONE platform
Seamless wallet and balance 
management, payments,  
fraud, responsible gaming  
and compliance tools
CRM
Data driven in real-time
Automated data-driven,  
real-time, BI marketing  
tools and bonus engine
User experience
One way for seamless play
Seamless, responsive and 
adaptive gameplay across  
all channels and devices
Personalisation
Tailored player experience
Bespoke player experience, 
enabled by segmentation 
and supported by real-time 
communication tools
Content
All content, all channels,  
all devices
Play any product, across all 
channels, locations and devices
1 4
2 5
3
08     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Playtech Open Platform (POP)
 » Extensive games library
 » Best-performing games
 » Exclusive content
Playtech’s omni-channel Open Platform 
allows licensees access to more than 600 
of the industry’s most popular online and 
mobile in-house and third-party games  
at any time, across any channel and on  
any device.
The POP content library includes a 
comprehensive selection of classic slot 
games, multi-line video and premium 
branded slots from our own cutting-edge  
in-house studios, more than 100 mobile 
titles and content from 20 of the industry’s 
largest suppliers. All new POP titles are 
launched simultaneously across mobile  
and desktop. 
Playtech Web Platform
 » Full front-end customisation
 » Huge range of designs, tools 
and features
 » End-to-end Playtech products 
integration
Playtech’s Web Platform is an open 
framework designed to integrate content 
and deliver an unparalleled experience for 
operators and their players.
It allows operators complete control over 
site functionality and content, including full 
content management support and all the 
tools they need to customise their front-end 
solutions across any channel and device.
It features cross platform support (mobile, 
tablet and desktop), is fully integrated 
into Playtech’s industry-leading IMS player 
management system and other products 
and is fully optimised allowing a seamless 
offering and experience.
Web Platform supports a multitude of 
languages and markets and comes complete 
with full CRM and personalisation, reporting 
and analytics and player communication 
tools. IMS functionalities include cashier 
integration, personalised login and 
registration and cross platform bonus  
and promotions capabilities.
Key components include aggregation 
through one integration; bonusing across  
all content including third parties; on- 
going support; real-time content and 
competitor performance league tables; 
games development kit; multiple game 
integration frameworks; seamless third  
party wallet integration; single player 
account across all products; and data 
integration and warehousing and  
support for all gaming standards.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     09
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our Gaming division
Platform and intelligence continued
Information Management System (IMS)
 » Most powerful BI-gaming 
platform
 » Seamless games and platforms 
transition via single account
 » Full player lifecycle visibility 
and control
Playtech’s award-winning Information 
Management System (IMS) is the backbone 
of our omni-channel product and services 
portfolio, powering Playtech ONE, and 
offering licensees all the tools they need 
to manage their operations in the most 
efficient and profitable way.
IMS enables our licensees to access all  
the elements of our unique omni-channel 
capabilities allowing players to seamlessly 
transition across games and platforms via 
a single account and single wallet, while 
providing operators with simple third party 
integration and full visibility and control  
of the entire player lifecycle.
IMS unifies all Playtech products across 
all channels, including retail, presenting 
operators with a single account overview 
and allowing them to streamline and 
optimise marketing spend, maximise  
cross-sell and conversion potential,  
leverage player loyalty and value and 
increase revenues by automating key 
aspects of the player journey.
There is simply no industry equivalent  
to IMS – gaming’s most powerful  
omni-channel enabler.
Business Intelligence Technology (BIT)
 » Data-driven marketing tools
 » Fully automated BI software
 » Increases LTV and revenues
BIT provides new and existing licensees  
with superior innovation for their next stage 
of growth. Our unique data-driven, business 
intelligence marketing technology, exclusive 
to Playtech, significantly enhances player 
experience and drives licensee revenues  
by increasing engagement and loyalty. 
BIT revolves around a series of game-
changing features including:
The BI platform  
– complete operational overview
Enables day-to-day and high-level decision 
making by comparing key metrics against 
competitors.
Data driven marketing tools  
– the power of personalisation
Powers automatic CRM and personalises  
every major aspect in the player flow.
Playtech analytics  
– real-time decision making 
Real-time tracking and reporting  
to maximise player value and brand 
profitability.
Playtech optimiser  
– omni-channel personalisation  
comes to life
Real-time, easy-to-use personalisation  
and optimisation engine powers all  
of our offering across all channels.
10     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Data is arguably the single 
most powerful tool businesses 
have at their disposal today. 
However a large swathe of 
organisations are not using 
it effectively, if at all, and as 
a result, are missing out on 
millions in potential revenue.
Playtech came to this conclusion several 
years ago and, in the last two years, has 
developed a series of high-level and 
highly innovative data-driven marketing 
tools designed to enable our licensees 
to maximise their brand’s full potential.
Not only do we have the largest content 
portfolio in the industry, we crucially 
also have data stretching back many 
years from more than 130 licensees 
across multiple demographics and 
geographies which is able to provide  
us and our customers with cross-
industry benchmarks and intelligence 
that no one else can provide. This 
enables us to have a unique position 
and crucially, allows our customers  
to have a key market differentiator.
The main challenge is to educate 
existing, as well as new and potential 
operators across all channels on how 
they can leverage their current position 
and achieve greater results by using their 
data in more efficient and effective ways.
There are several factors that often 
convince operators to take data analysis 
and automated business intelligence 
technology seriously. The first is that 
for more established brands a large 
proportion of their online net gaming 
revenue – some up to 40% or more  
– is generated from customers they  
have had for many years. 
The second point that makes heads turn 
is that the vast majority of this wealth of 
data has never been used to maximise 
their profits. And thirdly, the cost of 
implementation and subsequently 
acquisition, is minimal to non-existent. 
Operators are simply implementing 
potential that already exists within  
their businesses.
Our highly innovative technology is live 
and providing operators with the tools 
they need to enhance the way they 
differentiate and create a significantly 
improved and personalised player 
experience and, as a result, creating 
additional value both for their players, 
their brand and their shareholders.
Simply put, there is no other company in 
the market today that is able to provide 
the tools designed to increase lifetime 
value, lower churn rates and improve 
the customer journey.
Playtech’s suite of automated modular 
tools, including Game Advisor; Churn 
Detection; Optimiser; BI Reporting; 
Smart Installer; Lifetime Value 
Prediction; Segmentation; and RTP 
Monitoring; is based on advanced 
algorithms and benchmarks against 
big data from customers with similar 
profiles, while all the information and 
data gathered, including marketing  
and CRM systems, is integrated into  
our award-winning IMS player 
management platform.
Since launching our Business 
Intelligence Technology we have 
achieved a series of excellent results  
and exceeded the expectations of even 
the most pessimistic chief executives.
Make businesses more intelligent
Our Game Advisor module, for example, 
improves the customer journey 
and ensures individual players are 
recommended games that best fit them 
using a fully personalised approach 
based on a player’s characteristics and 
behaviour. This has significantly increased 
average player value by 15% to 30%, 
increased the average number of sessions 
by between 7% and 17%, and seen the 
average session length extended by 
between 10% and 20%.
Meanwhile, Smart Installer tool enables 
licensees to increase conversion and 
prevent churn with each installer 
customised specifically to the 
requirements of each customer and brand. 
The installer has the capability to run 
marketing campaigns, survey players,  
run fully automated AB tests and more 
and has proved extremely successful 
increasing sign-ups by 69% and first  
time depositors by 16%.
Our business intelligence technology 
is designed to make businesses more 
intelligent and our customers are reaping 
the rewards. Now, it is up to others to 
realise their full potential.
15–30%
Increase in average player value
10–20%
Increase in average session length
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our Gaming division
Products
Casino
Playtech live casino
 » Complete omni-channel  
offering
 » Best-performing content
 » Dual mobile-desktop launches
 » Complete omni-channel 
offering
 » Award-winning platform
 » Powered by innovation
Playtech offers the industry’s most extensive 
portfolio of best-performing omni-channel 
casino content and progressive jackpot 
network, delivering more than 500 of the 
most innovative and exhilarating titles  
across all channels, platforms and devices.
As part of our Playtech ONE omni-channel 
offering, our casino product allows players  
to access content anywhere, at any time  
and on any device through a single wallet 
and a single account.
Driven by our powerful IMS player 
management platform and data-driven 
business intelligence technology, Playtech 
casino delivers industry-leading in-house 
and rich premium branded games content, 
while our flexible Open Platform technology 
allows operators to access hundreds more 
titles which flawlessly integrate with their 
websites.
Our ongoing commitment to providing  
new and existing licensees with access  
to our leading content, powerful platform, 
and fully automated marketing tools and 
personalisation engine ensures operators 
are able to deliver the ultimate casino 
experience to their players. 
Playtech’s live dealer platform and products 
are designed to provide the most authentic, 
omni-channel gaming experience supported 
by a leading back-end platform that uses 
the latest business intelligence marketing 
technology.
Our extensive live product offering, manned 
by native-speaking dealers, includes all the 
casino classics such as Blackjack, Baccarat 
and Roulette in addition to innovative new 
variants including Unlimited Blackjack, Hi-Lo, 
Prestige roulette and Casino Hold’em.
State-of-the-art cameras broadcasting in 
premium HQ quality, the fastest streaming 
and highest up-time in the market, bespoke 
branding and individual training, all combine 
to establish the trust and loyalty associated 
with an enthusiastic Casino experience.
Our core focus revolves around unbeatable 
licensee service ensuring we outperform 
our competitors with our world-class 
omni-channel technology, features, user 
experience and dedicated support services.
The complete product suite
12     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015   350
Playtech has a dedicated team of more  
than 350 mobile developers
Sports
Virtual sports
 » Complete omni-channel 
offering
 » BI-driven risk management, 
built-in algorithms and 
trading platform
 » Bespoke mobile solutions, 
platform, features
Playtech Sports delivers the complete  
next generation, omni-channel solution  
for any sportsbook requirement offering  
the ultimate experience for operators and  
their players.
Our sports betting platform is robust, 
secure, scalable, and integrates flawlessly 
with Playtech’s award-winning IMS and 
business intelligence technology, offering 
player segmentation and personalisation, 
and can be tailored to suit any size or type 
of operation.
Our fully flexible, powerful and highly 
reliable omni-channel platform is uniquely 
able to support any channel, any product, 
on any device, using one wallet and one 
account, enabling licensees to track, 
customise and significantly enhance  
a player’s journey.
 » Complete omni-channel 
offering
 » Unique simulation technology
 » State-of-the-art graphics
Playtech’s diverse and growing virtual 
offering combines the latest 3D game 
graphics with highly sophisticated 
simulation technology across a wealth  
of sports, including horse racing, tennis  
and football.
Our ground-breaking virtual features include 
exclusive full sports simulations and feature 
film motion capture technology allowing for 
the most realistic betting and gameplay the 
industry has ever seen.
Our virtual products enable players to bet 
within a familiar sportsbook environment, 
while also offering integrated odds, data 
feeds and bespoke in-game branding, 
promotions and tailored races, matches, 
games and promotional events.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     13
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Bingo
Playtech poker
Retail
 » Complete omni-channel 
offering
 » Bespoke client and room 
variants
 » Largest games portfolio  
& network liquidity
 » Complete omni-channel 
offering
 » Innovative game features
 » Reliable back-end 
management tools
 » Complete omni-channel 
offering
 » Bespoke software & hardware 
solutions
 » Intuitive player management 
tools
Playtech delivers the industry’s most 
complete omni-channel bingo offering, 
allowing players to access and enjoy the 
same seamless, personalised experience 
across any platform, channel, and device, 
using one wallet and one account.
Playtech Bingo’s HTML5-only  
development delivers huge benefits 
including the management of a single code 
base; increased innovation, productivity and 
flexibility, amounting to providing a superior 
user experience.
We operate the industry’s largest and most 
innovative bingo networks and selection  
of omni-channel products, variants and  
side games, while the bingo client and  
room variants can be custom-built for  
any specific brand requirements.
Playtech offers an unrivalled omni-channel 
poker offering across all channels, platforms 
and devices, deployed on the industry-
leading iPoker network, the largest .com and 
regulated network of its kind in the world.
Our new poker client features the widest 
selection of game types with an extensive 
selection of table stakes and buy-ins 
allowing licensees to launch their own fully 
branded, customisable poker rooms, hosting 
multiple languages and currencies.
Through our award-winning IMS platform, 
the client is supported by premium back-
end management tools coupled with a 
powerful marketing system and services, 
allowing for targeted promotions, bonuses, 
next generation collusion prevention  
and detection tools and dedicated 24/7 
online support.
Playtech Retail provides the industry’s most 
complete next generation, omni-channel 
solutions for land-based venues, offering 
operators and their players the ultimate, 
seamless gaming experience.
Playtech Retail powers 40,000 terminals 
globally offering a full enterprise 
management system for land-based  
venues and providing licensees with 
complete operational control.
Using powerful back office management 
tools, the system provides operators with  
all the tools they require to successfully  
run and manage their businesses giving 
them full site control and control of their 
estate and player base.
These tools include player, content and 
multimedia management, rules-based 
rewards, jackpots, tournaments, bonusing, 
loyalty, cash desk facilities, responsible 
gaming, security and monitoring.
Our Gaming division
Products continued
14     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
RAY signs multi-year 
exclusive Playtech deal 
extension
In February 2015, Playtech announced 
that Finland’s national gaming operator 
had signed a 20-year online contract 
extension, the longest deal in both 
companies’ histories following four 
highly successful years, generating 
year-on-year double digit growth.
From day one of the initial agreement, Playtech 
partnered with RAY to plan and launch Ray.fi 
offering the Finnish government-owned operator 
its entire online gaming portfolio. This included 
casino and poker games, a series of localised RAY-
branded exclusive games as well as an innovative, 
dedicated live casino studio launched in August 
2014. In addition, Playtech worked closely with RAY 
on a responsible gaming framework specifically 
designed and adapted in-line with Finnish 
regulatory requirements. Playtech also confirmed 
its commitment to support RAY in implementing its 
‘Mobile First’ strategy, as part of the organisation’s 
long-term vision, maintaining its position as the 
leading eCommerce website in Finland.
The 20-year agreement includes multi-channel 
gaming software, content and support across online, 
mobile and retail with an automatic renewal period 
of four years, and underlines Playtech’s commitment 
to regulated markets.
Finland’s national gaming operator will continue to 
enjoy access to Playtech’s leading-edge exclusive 
content including locally themed in-house and 
premium branded titles from major studios such  
as Paramount and Universal, giving the business  
the strongest and most complete offering available 
on the market.
Read more at www.playtech.com
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     15 Our Gaming division
Services
A complete 
service offering
Playtech Turnkey Services
 » Comprehensive tools and skills
 » Player acquisition and 
retention
 » Levels playing field
Playtech’s Turnkey Services offer  
all the solutions an operator needs 
from product design, operational 
management, internal and external 
marketing tools, fully-customisable 
applications and around-the-clock 
interactive player support.
Our turnkey solutions bring more than 
a decade of expertise to assist those 
new operators preparing to enter highly 
competitive online regulated markets, 
including access to some of the most 
powerful marketing affiliates in the industry.
Our unparalleled range of services deliver 
material value and expertise to licensees 
across key elements of player acquisition 
and retention, achieving substantial 
financial rewards and cost savings.
16     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Payment advisory
 » Expert consultancy services
 » Extensive payment methods
Our professional consultants provide  
advice on all payment issues related to 
cashier, processing, risk management  
and financial performance, creating  
and simplifying the implementation  
of processing and payment models.
With an extensive choice of more than 50 
payment methods, including credit card 
processing gateways, acquirers, e-wallets, 
EFT, bank draft pay out options via local 
banks worldwide, wire transfer and prepaid 
cards. A payment model can be customised 
to meet the specific requirements of each 
individual client. 
Marketing
 » Unbeatable industry 
experience
 » Optimisation & results driven
 » Access to largest affiliate 
network
Playtech offers a comprehensive set  
of marketing services based on decades  
of gaming industry expertise.
 
Our offering includes the best performing 
affiliate marketing services including access 
to the industry’s largest affiliate network with 
the tools to push our licensees’ products 
through the world’s leading e-gaming 
affiliate program.
Our experienced team of media buyers  
build multi-language campaigns and offer 
daily campaign tracking, with a strong  
focus on optimisation in order to obtain  
the maximum return on investment.
We also offer unbeatable Search Engine 
Optimisation services and product specific 
marketing strategies including player loyalty 
programs, communication tools and full 
trading room services for sportsbooks.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     17
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial services
 » Unmatched reporting  
& analysis
 » Real-time monitoring
Our advanced financial reporting 
and analysis tools offer customers a 
comprehensive portfolio of financial  
services coupled with the ability to  
review and monitor a selection of  
online activities, all in real-time.
Our world-class financial tools include 
player pay out approval and decline, dispute 
withdrawal requests, wagering calculations, 
procedure submittal, document review and 
much more.
Our Gaming division
Services continued
Customer support 
services
 » 24/7 support
 » Unrivalled response times
Comprehensive customer support is crucial 
to the success of a gaming brand, from 
sign-ups, through to deposit, play and 
withdrawal.
Our email and telephone customer support 
is accessible 24/7 and is met by our team 
of highly skilled professionals with industry-
leading customer response times.
Hosting services
 » Tried, tested, trusted
 » Understand operator 
requirements
With many years of industry experience, 
our world-class hosting services offer peace 
of mind and work to ensure any operation 
remains secure at all times, providing DDoS 
prevention; DNS management; third-party 
services; geo-location services; maintenance 
services and client and banner hosting 
among others.
Our omni-channel gaming, software and 
services expertise means we understand 
operators’ specific business needs, therefore 
our customers can rely on us to foresee 
every possible threat and issue, prevent 
unplanned system failure and ensure 
businesses are running safely and at their 
maximum potential.
18     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Fraud prevention
 » Next generation tracking
 » Rapid suspicious activity 
detection
As the gaming industry continues to grow, 
so too does the number of fraudsters keen 
to take advantage of the huge revenues 
earned by operators.
Our state-of-the-art tracking technology 
allows for the rapid detection of suspicious 
behaviour and the prevention of illegal 
activity, while our top tier management tools 
monitor deposits and withdrawals, track 
player activity and deliver automated alerts.
Playtech launches Ladbrokes  
Omni sportsbook
In July 2015, Playtech launched its 
first omni-channel HTML5 front-
end solution with Ladbrokes, 
enabling a seamless, fully 
responsive desktop and mobile 
user experience and a host of 
unique, new sportsbook features.
In a market-first, Ladbrokes’ 
new Playtech Sports HTML5 
solution significantly boosted 
its sportsbook performance and 
optimisation capabilities ahead 
of the start of the English Premier 
League season.
The latest Ladbrokes desktop 
sportsbook will also be supported 
by Playtech Sports’ new 
NGen system, a fully bespoke 
solution capable of handling 
large volumes of data across 
concurrent sporting events and 
thousands of betting markets.
Playtech, under its Mobenga 
subsidiary, first partnered with 
Ladbrokes in May 2013 launching 
its mobile sportsbook platform 
in December of that year and 
completing the integration  
of Playtech Casino and all its 
digital products onto the market-
leading IMS platform in April 
2014. This has since allowed 
Ladbrokes to market effectively 
to its digital customers and 
significantly boost its online  
and mobile revenues.
The front-end desktop-mobile 
solution project began in  
January 2015 and was completed  
in record time.
See our website www.playtech.com  
for more information  
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     19 Acquisition adds  
new capability
In May 2015 Playtech was 
pleased to announce the 
acquisition of Markets Limited, 
an online CFDs broker and 
trading platform provider.
Markets Limited is an established, 
profitable and growing online CFDs 
broker and trading platform provider, 
offering services in more than 100 
countries and in over 25 languages 
through three principal business 
segments. 
Rapidly growing vertical
Markets Limited provides customers 
with a trading platform for CFDs trading 
(with its principal B2C brand being 
Markets.com). In addition, Markets 
Limited provides a turnkey offering, 
including a white-label solution, for  
B2B clients, in return for a revenue  
share. Markets Limited is licensed and 
regulated in the EU and South Africa.
Markets Limited employs over 500 staff 
globally, with offices in five countries.
Benefits of the transaction 
The acquisition represents the best  
entry point into the growing online 
CFDs industry, which is regulated and 
complementary to the Group’s existing 
business.
The acquisition gives Playtech access 
to the positive growth trends in this 
dynamic sector and helps to diversify 
Playtech’s earnings by product, 
geography and customer base  
and improve its quality of earnings. 
The sector remains somewhat 
fragmented and this is likely to give  
rise to further acquisition opportunities.
As part of the acquisition, Playtech 
secured a highly experienced 
management team who, through 
their retained shareholding in Markets 
Limited, are directly aligned with the 
interests of Playtech to drive the growth 
of the business in the coming years.
I am delighted to announce 
the acquisition of Markets 
Limited which provides entry 
into a highly complementary 
new market vertical where 
our combined operational 
superiority will enable exciting 
growth opportunities. 
In addition to being 
immediately and significantly 
earnings enhancing, the 
payment terms for the 
acquisition are weighted 
towards future financial 
performance of the business. 
Markets Limited’s proven 
management team has a  
strong cultural fit with our 
business and is incentivised to 
stay with the enlarged Group.
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Officer, Playtech
See our website www.playtech.com for more  
on our acquisitions in 2015  
20     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Our Financials division Acquisition highlights
• Compelling opportunity to enter 
growing and complementary 
vertical driven by similar core 
competencies
• Directly in line with Playtech’s 
strategy to acquire profitable, 
regulated, highly cash generative 
businesses with market-leading 
positions
• Experienced management team, 
with a proven track record, who 
will remain with the business
• Consideration at attractive 
multiple of up to 8x adjusted 
EBITDA
• Acquisition immediately 
significantly earnings enhancing
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     21 Overview: another record  
year of growth 
2015 was an extremely busy year 
for Playtech, both operationally and 
strategically. I am delighted to say that  
we once again delivered a record financial 
performance with reported revenues up  
38% and up 26% on an underlying basis. 
Our Gaming division continues to lead 
the industry and drive growth, driven 
by Playtech’s enhanced IMS forming the 
infrastructure underpinning our pioneering 
omni-channel offering, which is gradually 
becoming the standard for the retail and 
online gaming industry, with our Financials 
division taking Playtech into a new, high-
growth vertical. 
There are significant opportunities for further 
growth, both organically and through 
M&A, with a strong pipeline for 2016 and 
significant new wins expected, providing 
confidence in strong growth in 2016 and 
beyond. 
Performance of the  
Gaming division
Overview
Our Gaming division has seen strong growth 
across regions and product verticals, driven 
by our strategy of focusing on regulated 
markets.
Licensees
During the year we achieved many new 
customer wins, evidencing the strength  
of our offering. We signed a total of ten 
new customers, including Sun Bingo, 
Marca, win2day, Mr Green and LeoVegas. 
In addition to new customer wins, we have 
seen existing customers expanding into new 
territories, expanding portfolios with us such 
as portal and mini-games, and strengthening 
relationships, such as with a single Playtech 
wallet. With such a strong performance in 
2015, our pipeline remains strong and we 
expect more significant wins in 2016.
We not only secured additional customers 
that signed up to our best-of-breed software 
but also made great progress securing 
additional structured agreements and white-
label arrangements, such as the Sun and 
Marca. Together with other licensees that 
signed structured agreements in previous 
years, such as Caliente, where momentum is 
building every quarter, we are seeing strong 
positive momentum with such agreements. 
The ability to provide the combination 
of software and services is becoming a 
recurring theme we experience in regulated 
and soon-to-be-regulated markets and 
remains a key element of our future success. 
Not only are such contracts broad and 
potentially significant in size, they also 
cement the relationship with Playtech,  
its licensees and partners for many years.
Leaders, innovators, pioneers
Our Gaming division continues to lead the industry and drive growth, 
driven by Playtech’s enhanced IMS forming the infrastructure underpinning 
our pioneering omni-channel offering, which is gradually becoming the 
standard for the retail and online gaming industry, with our Financials 
division taking Playtech into a new, high-growth vertical
 10
Ten new customer wins
41%
Revenues from regulated 
markets (2014: 36%)
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Officer
22     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review Regulated markets
Playtech continues to focus on regulated 
markets which now account for 41%  
of gaming revenues (2014: 36%) and 
approaching 50% when including  
revenues from Markets Limited. Whilst  
some unregulated markets still continue 
to grow significantly, the underlying 
expansion into regulated markets is 
expected to continue and support a 
positive trend in the coming years given 
Playtech’s focus and investments made  
in different regulated and soon-to-be-
regulated markets. 
The growth from regulated markets is a 
combination of new licensees, organic 
growth of existing licensees that are already 
established in different regulated markets, 
the introduction of new regulated gambling 
formats and marketing investments diverted 
to regulated markets by various operators 
that traditionally operated in unregulated 
markets and are still in the transition process 
– a trend we expect to continue. 
On the official date set by Spanish regulator 
La Dirección General de Ordenación 
del Juego (DGOJ) for the allowance of 
casino slot games in June 2015, Playtech 
announced that it would supply all existing 
local licensees with access to its extensive, 
industry-leading slots portfolio. The Spanish 
gaming regulator approved slot games in 
July 2015 and reopened its licensing window 
in November 2014, the first time this has 
taken place since the market regulated in 
June 2012. Given the popularity of retail 
casino formats in Spain the inclusion of 
online casino games and slots in Spain is 
seen as an important milestone and will 
serve to increase Playtech’s market share 
as licensees enjoy the ability to cross-sell 
between different products in a similar 
fashion to the example set in the UK and 
Italian markets, with sports being the main 
gateway to casino and the popularity of  
slot games. 
Other markets across Europe, Latin 
America and elsewhere are in the process 
of considering regulations. This trend is 
inevitable and we expected this to continue 
in the coming quarters. Many markets across 
Europe, including Portugal, the Netherlands, 
Switzerland, Sweden and the Czech Republic 
are in the process of regulating, as well as 
various markets in Latin America, such as 
Brazil, which has indicated that it is in the 
process of regulating online sports betting. 
We see significant opportunities to establish 
ourselves in these markets as Playtech is a 
natural choice given its ability to provide a 
combination of best-of-breed technology  
and services across all channels, its market 
leading position and proven track record. 
Playtech ONE: omni-channel offering
Playtech’s pioneering Playtech ONE offering 
allows players a seamless, ‘anywhere-anytime’ 
gaming experience across any product, 
channel and device, all using a single account 
and single wallet and is critical to allowing our 
licensees to outperform. The Playtech ONE 
approach and offering not only makes the 
customer journey seamless across different 
channels, it also provides more visibility across 
the different channels and therefore makes it 
easier to identify, track and, most importantly, 
better communicate and better serve their 
customers. 
Our proven track record of working with 
various operators in regulated markets 
clearly shows that there is an overlap in 
demographics of retail and online, that 
traditional retail customers playing online 
are more valuable, and that the acquisition 
costs associated with such players are far 
lower when compared to direct acquisition 
channels and therefore extremely beneficial 
to the operators. 
In April 2015, Playtech announced that it 
would increase the workforce developing 
the omni-channel solution as it prepares 
to undertake several large-scale omni-
channel projects in the UK and emerging 
markets. Sports betting has seen the largest 
investment as part of the Playtech ONE 
strategic. Sports betting is a key element of 
Playtech ONE as online sports betting is one 
of the first formats to be regulated in newly 
regulated markets and acts as the gateway  
to other gaming products. It is also one of the 
first to be adopted by retail betting operators 
since sports represents their core business 
and an extension to online sports betting  
is a natural choice for them. 
In 2015, Playtech announced the launch  
of its first omni-channel HTML5 front-end 
solution with Ladbrokes, enabling a seamless, 
fully responsive and fully adaptive desktop 
and mobile user experience and a host of 
unique, new sportsbook features. In a market-
first, Ladbrokes’s new Playtech Sports HTML5 
solution significantly boosted its sportsbook 
performance and optimisation capabilities 
ahead of the English Premier League season. 
In November 2015, Playtech launched  
omni-channel content across Mecca Bingo’s 
entire product range including its new 
Mecca Max handheld devices enabling the 
leading brand to offer players the ultimate 
gaming experience. The ground-breaking, 
‘anywhere-anytime’ , seamless connection 
of Playtech ONE omni-channel games and 
systems across every channel and device – 
including Mecca’s retail, online, mobile and 
12,000 in-hall bingo handheld terminals –  
is the first time a supplier has successfully 
launched a combined bingo software 
and content strategy. The move followed 
the launch earlier in the year of Playtech’s 
industry-leading retail server-based software 
across Mecca Bingo’s entire suite of 2,300 
UK terminals and a number of other 
successful omni-channel system integrations 
including the pioneering Coral Connect. 
The nationwide retail deal, signed in the 
summer in partnership with SG Gaming, 
boosted Playtech’s already important role 
in the UK LBO market and is its largest ever 
within the UK retail bingo sector. It also 
complements the existing long-term online 
bingo partnership with Mecca, a key, tier-
one Playtech licensee.
Finally, at ICE 2016 Playtech showcased  
many new omni-channel innovations, 
including the ability to cash-out retail 
sport-bets on online devices and true 
omni-channel slot games designed so 
that additional features are unlocked as 
the players move between the different 
channels to play the same game.
Mobile
Mobile continues to be a core part of 
our growth strategy with Playtech taking 
an omni-channel approach to the way 
it develops new products that includes 
a mobile capability of each version of its 
software and games. The importance of 
mobile is supported by its growing share of 
revenues, representing 21% of 2015 software 
revenues compared to 16% in 2014, with 
a significant majority of Sports revenues 
coming through this channel. Whilst Mobile 
has existed for some time it is only partially 
adopted by various operators and we expect 
that mobile gaming will increase over time 
to become a very significant channel for 
gaming.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     23
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Superman I (1978) and Superman II (1980). 
All of Playtech’s global content studios have 
been engaged to work on, design, develop 
and deploy games based on these coveted 
properties from DC Entertainment and 
Warner Bros. Consumer Products.
Services
Services revenues increased 17%, benefiting 
from recently signed structured agreements, 
enjoying greater penetration of its customer 
base and positively impacted by the addition 
of the newly established white-label offering. 
Playtech saw particularly strong momentum 
with existing structured agreements such as 
Caliente, which is building to become one of 
the leading online operators in Mexico, and 
other new licensees signed such as Marca 
and Sun Bingo which will be launched in late 
2016. Founded on the strength of Playtech’s 
track record and strength of offering, we 
expect the continued growth of existing 
licensees and additional new licensees 
in existing and soon to be regulated 
jurisdictions. 
Services offers a unique set of operational 
capabilities and expertise that are 
unparalleled in an industry divided between 
software providers, that lack such services 
capabilities, and operators that are not 
inclined to share their know-how with other 
operators that could potentially become 
a competitor. Accordingly, Playtech is the 
natural choice for gaming customers in 
different regulated markets that understand 
that the winning combination is a well 
recognised brand, online marketing and 
CRM skills all driven by best-of-breed 
technology. They also understand that  
time-to-market is extremely important. 
Playtech is best positioned in such markets 
as it can not only provide them with a 
best-of-breed technology but can also 
complement it with online expertise and 
capabilities, which are very different than 
those which exist in their retail operations 
and provide it ahead or as soon as 
regulations are being introduced. 
Our modular offering is proven to be highly 
successful as services is not a ‘one size fits 
all’ but rather a fully customised solution in 
accordance with the specific requirements 
of each company. It also allows Playtech to 
position itself in different regulated markets 
with not only well established retail gaming 
operators but other types of organisations, 
such as existing online operators and media 
companies. 
Product
Playtech continues to lead innovation 
and can deploy unmatched research and 
development resources, all of which is 
available to our licensees. 
At the start of 2015, Playtech unveiled a 
series of never-before-seen features within 
an expanded Virtual Sports portfolio, 
including a fully simulated football game, 
allowing for realistic betting and gameplay. 
Each game employs leading-edge graphics 
based on feature film motion capture 
technology, shot on location and using 
professional sportsmen and women. Realistic 
odds and an increase in betting options, 
multiple languages with local language 
commentaries and in-game branding 
provide both operators and their players 
with the ultimate virtual sports experience. 
The power of the Company’s development 
capability was demonstrated in April 2015 
when, coinciding with the launch of Apple 
Watch, Playtech launched its first sports 
betting App for wearable devices – including 
Apple Watch. A team of Playtech’s most 
experienced developers worked intensively 
to deliver the Apple Watch betting App, 
presenting it for approval by Apple as soon 
its submission window opened at the 
beginning of April. Playtech’s Apple Watch 
App was made available to all licensees 
at launch with GalaCoral being the first to 
roll-out the App to its extensive UK and 
European player base in an extension to its 
multi-year ‘Coral Connect’ omni-channel 
contract. The App enables users to initiate 
bets, browse live and forthcoming sporting 
events, monitor promotions, receive alerts 
via technology linked to a user’s iOS mobile 
application and features full cash out 
functionality. 
In November 2015, Playtech launched live 
Prestige Roulette, a modern-day variant 
of the classic casino table game. Set in an 
intimate, neon-lit environment Prestige 
Roulette enables players to get closer to 
the action and the dealer with the game 
replicating a real-life, one-on-one VIP 
casino experience. While the ball spins in 
expectation of a big win, the tension is 
heightened with multiple in-game camera 
angles, revenue-enhancing quick-fire betting 
rounds, and an instant replay of the previous 
game win. Players are further empowered 
and engaged with the ability to display or 
hide the bet table on any channel or device 
by clicking or touching the middle of the 
screen. Once the bet table is minimised 
players gain access to a full-screen view of 
the action, further intensifying the personal 
look and feel of playing one-on-one with the 
dealer. Prestige Roulette is available across 
all channels and platforms, Flash, HTML5 and 
native and features enhanced video quality 
and high resolution.
Gaming division performance by vertical
Casino
Playtech’s flagship Casino product was once 
again the largest contributor to Playtech’s 
growth, with revenues increasing 26%  
in the year.
Playtech continued to further extend  
its content library, strengthening what  
is already the largest content portfolio  
in the online gaming industry, including 
launching a ‘supersonic’, premium branded, 
and officially licensed slot game themed  
on the iconic action classic Top Gun  
which coincided with the classic film’s  
30th anniversary in 2016 and Tom Cruise 
saying earlier in 2015 that he “would  
like to fly those jets again” in a sequel 
currently being written.
After the year end, Playtech signed a multi-
year landmark licensing deal with Warner 
Bros. Consumer Products, on behalf of 
DC Entertainment, to develop four iconic 
DC Comics branded film and television 
properties into leading omni-channel casino 
games. These action-packed real-money 
casino games are set to begin rolling out this 
year. The four titles include the DC Comics 
1960’s Batman Classic TV Series, as well as 
Warner Bros. Pictures’ feature films, Man 
of Steel (2013), Green Lantern (2011), and 
Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
2015 was an extremely 
busy year for Playtech, both 
operationally and strategically. 
24     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Bingo
Bingo revenues increased by 17% with 
significantly increased mobile and tablet 
penetration. A major promotion in December 
was a significant contributor to it being 
biggest month of the year for Bingo.
Bingo side games, which are recorded under 
the Casino line item, increased in line with 
the growth in core Bingo activity, also driven 
by the mobile offering, including ‘mobile 
first’ features and functionality such as lottery 
style interactive scratchcards.
The year saw further strengthening of 
relationships with existing Bingo customers 
as well as a new five-year deal with News UK 
to operate its Sun Bingo and Fabulous Bingo 
websites and mobile variants. The sites 
will launch at the end of the third quarter 
following the migration of existing players  
to Virtue Fusion’s leading UK bingo network. 
The Sun Bingo and Fabulous Bingo are 
amongst the largest and most successful 
bingo offerings that exist in the UK. 
Playtech’s bingo liquidity pool combined 
with its operational expertise and capabilities 
enabled the company to secure this highly 
lucrative agreement. 
Earlier in the year, work was completed on 
an HTML5 only platform, allowing Playtech 
to operate from one code base thereby 
increasing productivity as well as having 
the additional benefit of being a true multi-
channel single look and feel offering across 
desktop, mobile and tablet.
In February 2015, Playtech announced 
the launch of Rainbow Riches Bingo – the 
first ever bingo variant of the iconic cross-
channel brand, licensed and developed 
in partnership with Scientific Games. The 
UK’s most popular retail slot game, which 
enjoys huge success in the land-based 
bingo market, it was launched as a mobile 
and online bingo variant with a £100,000 
promotion in the run up to St Patrick’s Day 
on 17 March 2015. 
Sport
Revenues from Sports grew 22% in the year 
with a significant increase from mobile.
Sports remains largely an untapped market 
for Playtech and we expect it to continue 
growing rapidly in this developing and 
growing market. We identified a very 
significant opportunity in developing 
certain initiatives with some of our existing 
large licensees as well as new potential 
bookmakers as regulations develop. 
Playtech’s Sports offering represents a 
significant potential growth opportunity 
for the Group as further business wins are 
achieved in line with the Group’s strategy 
and continued focus.
In recent years, new digital formats of 
sports betting, such as tablets and SSBTs 
(Self Service Betting Terminals), have been 
introduced in retail sports betting outlets 
and even over the counter activities  
are being digitised, introducing new 
ways for customers to transact in retail 
environments. In addition, sports betting 
has been regulated in over 20 markets 
with a further 15 markets in the process of 
regulating sports and gaming currently. 
Such a combination of retail operations 
transforming into the digital age, together 
with markets allowing online sports betting, 
creates a very significant opportunity for 
operators and Playtech alike. 
Sports remains one of the critical 
components of our Playtech ONE offering. 
It acts as the gateway into gaming across 
both retail and online and is traditionally 
one of the first, if not the first, product 
to be regulated. The ability to provide 
an integrated retail and online sports 
system, offered through web and mobile, 
complemented by best-of-breed gaming 
products is unique and highly attractive 
to many operators across Europe and 
elsewhere, as most operators use old 
proprietary legacy retail systems that are  
not scalable and do not fit the digital age. 
As markets become more competitive, 
operators and bookmakers in particular 
search for different ways to differentiate 
themselves from their competitors and some 
bookmakers decided to develop the mobile 
front end of their offering internally. While 
the mobile front end is the simplest and the 
least sophisticated part of a true omnibus 
channel sports offering, Playtech continues 
to invest into a very flexible mobile front end 
framework and capabilities that will allow 
operators to distinguish themselves from 
their competition. 
2016 is expected to see revenues from 
Sports decline due to the loss of three 
Mobenga contracts with UK licensees who 
are replacing with their own user experience 
platform.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     25
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
continued
Land-based
Land-based revenues jumped by 79% 
boosted by the first full year inclusion of 
Videobet Interactive (formerly Aristocrat 
Lotteries) and supplemented by strong 
growth from Videobet and IGS. 
Following the acquisition of Videobet 
Interactive, Playtech’s leading land-based 
operation further extended its reach 
and diversification across key regulated 
markets. The acquisition also created cross-
selling opportunities in existing and new 
jurisdictions with the benefit of this cross-
selling contributing to growth in the year.
Videobet performed strongly during the 
year with several thousand terminals 
rolled-out across multiple licences. Mecca 
Bingo ordered 2,300 cabinets which 
were delivered in H1 2015 and which are 
generating revenue, with 500 supplied to 
RAY and 370 to QuickSilver Talarius. Also, in a 
highly competitive public procurement bid 
Videobet won a game supply contract with 
Norsk Tipping, the Norwegian state owned 
gaming monopoly, to supply games for the 
Multix (kiosks) and Belago (bingo halls).
Our presence in land based environments 
is still very limited and we believe that our 
omni-channel offering combined with our 
machine technologies and content, will 
become increasingly appealing to different 
operators, not only driving momentum in 
the coming years but also supporting our 
efforts to provide online products creating 
significant cross-selling opportunities driven 
by the inevitable convergence between the 
land based or retail and online activities. 
Poker
Poker remains a challenging vertical due 
to unfavourable wider market trends, with 
revenues down 19% in the half compared to 
the same period last year, although already 
from a very low base.
During 2015 we made significant investment 
in iPoker technical infrastructure as well as 
in our New Player Valuation. This investment 
stabilised our poker ecosystem and was the 
first step in our recreational player strategy 
that allowed us to merge our two-tier 
liquidity pools into a single tier and prepared 
the ground for further investment in our 
poker product offering.
During the second half of 2015, Playtech’s 
focus shifted from the network infrastructure 
to our product offering to cater for our 
recreational player strategy. During this 
period, we successfully started to rollout 
our new mobile product with mobile poker 
increasingly important as an acquisition 
channel since players via this channel are 
typically more recreational. 
We continuously work together with our 
licensees on improving our product offering, 
stabilising our ecosystem and network 
against the downward trend in poker over 
many years. During the first half of 2016 we 
plan to continue improving our product 
offering with the introduction of a new 
client, new game types and new CRM tools 
to cater for our recreational strategy.
Creation of the  
Financials division
Overview
Playtech has a stated strategy to acquire 
profitable, regulated, highly cash generative 
businesses with market-leading positions. The 
first half of 2015 saw the creation of Playtech’s 
Financials division through the completed 
acquisition of TradeFX Limited, which has 
subsequently been renamed Markets Limited, 
an online CFDs broker and trading platform 
and services provider, operating in more 
than 100 countries and in over 25 languages, 
with both B2C and B2B offerings. The initial 
consideration for the acquisition was €208m 
with additional cash consideration of up to 
€250m payable based on Markets Limited’s 
financial performance for the financial year 
ending 31 December 2017. 
Founded in 2009, Markets Limited employs 
approximately 500 staff globally, with offices 
in five countries around the world. Markets 
Limited operates its B2C brand, Markets 
Limited, utilising proprietary technology 
and CRM capabilities focused on increasing 
customer conversion rates and maximising 
customer lifetime value.
The acquisition represented a compelling 
opportunity to enter a growing and 
complementary vertical driven by 
similar core competencies to Playtech’s 
Gaming division and was directly in line 
with Playtech’s M&A strategy. Markets 
Limited also came with an experienced 
management team, with a proven track 
record, who will remain with the business.
26     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Changes to the business model  
of Markets Limited
The regulatory backdrop under which 
Markets Limited operates has become 
increasingly developed, with tighter 
restrictions and controls imposed on brokers. 
Examples of this can be found both across 
Europe and in certain specific jurisdictions, 
such as changes to when ‘trading incentives’ 
can be granted, limiting leverage, enhancing 
onboarding requirements, stricter 
interpretation of procedures and greater 
regulatory scrutiny in general.
Against this backdrop, Playtech is taking 
a risk-averse approach and has taken the 
decision to improve its business model to 
further enhance compliance, control and 
oversight, setting industry-leading standards 
in these areas:
• introducing stricter on-boarding 
procedures, controls and processes,  
going beyond industry standards;
• further developing our media buying 
technology, with strong focus on 
marketing our own trading platform  
as the main channel for growth;
• focusing on the core brand of  
Markets Limited;
• the cessation of trading relationships  
with large business introducers in  
respect of the core brand; and
• establishment of B2B relationships 
leveraging on servicing our technology 
and CRM capabilities, with a strong 
pipeline for 2016.
In certain jurisdictions, where practicable, 
Markets Limited introduced its previously 
contracted business introducers to other 
regulated businesses where it provides a 
range of different turnkey B2B services.
These quality improvements to the business 
will lay the foundations for future growth 
through:
• customer acquisition through  
automated funnels;
• better technology, with a wider  
offering of instruments;
• enhanced automation of  
on-boarding processes;
• focus on CRM activities;
• control over brand; and
• strong B2B pipeline extending  
our reach to new geographies  
with local regulations.
These improvements will ensure that 
Markets Limited is better placed to capture 
new profitable business whilst at the 
same time ensuring that the very highest 
standards of compliance are at the forefront 
of its strategy. 
However, as a result, whilst the business 
is expected to see strong growth in KPIs, 
positioning the business for sustained 
growth, total revenue growth in 2016 will be 
impacted due to the transition away from 
indirect revenues from business introducers 
to focusing on direct activity and further 
expanding B2B relationships. Adjusted 
EBITDA margin in 2016 will also be impacted 
due to the strong focus on investing for 
future growth in KPIs through increased 
direct marketing initiatives alongside further 
investment in media buying technology, 
compliance systems and marketing.
Other M&A and investments
Ladbrokes and GalaCoral
Both Ladbrokes and GalaCoral are key 
licensees of Playtech. 
As part of the recommended merger 
between Ladbrokes and certain businesses 
of GalaCoral announced in July 2015, 
to assist in providing flexibility for the 
combined entity to achieve integration 
and realise synergies, Playtech agreed, 
conditional upon completion of the 
merger, to accelerate the determination 
of amounts due to it under its marketing 
services agreement with Ladbrokes. The 
sum agreed was £75m, of which £40m will 
be satisfied by way of the issue of shares in 
the combined entity on completion with 
a further guaranteed £35m in cash paid 
upon delivery by Playtech of key operational 
milestones but, in any event, within 42 
months following completion.
In addition, demonstrating its support for 
the proposed merger, Playtech acted as 
a cornerstone investor, taking 22.9% of 
the c.9.99% equity placing announced by 
Ladbrokes at the time of the announcement 
of the merger. Subsequent to this, Playtech 
purchased further shares in Ladbrokes to 
take its total holding to 9.7%.
Yoyo Games
In February 2015, Playtech announced the 
acquisition of UK-based Yoyo Games Limited 
for $16.4m (€14.4m). Yoyo is the home 
of Game Maker: Studio, a mobile driven 
cross-platform casual game development 
technology that enables developers to 
create games using a single programming 
code and then publish them to run natively 
across most common platforms, including 
iOS, Android, OS X, HTML5, PlayStation, Xbox, 
Ubuntu, Windows 8, Windows Phone 8 and 
Windows RT. 
Plus500
Following the acquisition of Markets 
Limited, Playtech announced a £460m 
recommended cash offer for Plus500, a 
developer and operator of online trading 
platforms for retail customers, on 1 June 
2015. Having secured the support of both 
shareholders of Playtech and Plus500, 
the acquisition was initially expected 
to complete in September, subject to 
regulatory approvals. 
Regulatory approval was received from the 
Cyprus Securities Exchange Commission 
and Playtech was in active dialogue with 
the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) 
in relation to its proposed acquisition of 
Plus500, including in relation to certain 
concerns raised by the FCA which the 
Company considered could be resolved 
to the satisfaction of the FCA prior to 31 
December 2015, being the effective long-
stop date for the transaction to complete. 
There are significant 
opportunities for further 
growth, both organically and 
through M&A, with a strong 
pipeline for 2016 and significant 
new wins expected, providing 
confidence in strong growth  
in 2016 and beyond. 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements However, following an update from the FCA 
late in the afternoon of Friday 20 November 
2015, the Board of Playtech took the view 
that the steps being proposed to address 
these concerns would not sufficiently satisfy 
the FCA to enable Playtech to obtain the 
FCA’s approval by 31 December 2015, and 
therefore withdrew its change of control 
application to the FCA. Playtech discussed 
with Plus500 the consequences of the 
developments with the FCA and agreed to 
the termination of the merger agreement. 
Accordingly, the acquisition of Plus500 did 
not proceed. 
Playtech did not incur any financial penalties 
with respect to the termination of the 
acquisition of Plus500. Playtech still holds 
9.9% of Plus500 which was acquired during 
the offer process and has no immediate 
plans with respect to this holding.
Ava Trade
Prior to the acquisition by Playtech, Markets 
Limited had secured an option to acquire 
Ava Trade, an online B2C CFD broker. In July, 
Playtech announced that it had acquired 
Ava Trade for $105m, subject to regulatory 
approvals. 
Having already received approval from the 
Financial Services Commission in the British 
Virgin Islands, the Central Bank of Ireland 
(‘CBI’) opposed Playtech’s acquisition of Ava 
Trade, a decision which Playtech formally 
challenged. 
The appeal was allowed by the Irish Financial 
Services Appeals Tribunal, with the consent 
of the CBI, on the grounds of error in the 
CBI’s decision-making process. The appeal 
therefore succeeded. In these circumstances, 
the matter was remitted to the CBI for 
reconsideration and a new decision.
However, although the application 
was referred back to the CBI for further 
consideration, the proposed acquisition  
of Ava Trade had already been terminated 
by the sellers and so Playtech withdrew  
its application, bringing the process to  
a conclusion.
Playtech did not incur any financial  
penalties other than forfeiting the $5m  
non-refundable deposit already paid by 
Playtech on the signing of the acquisition.
Current trading and outlook
Average daily revenue in the Gaming 
division for the first 53 days of Q1 2016 was 
up over 12% on Q1 2015 (18% at constant 
currency) and up over 2% on Q4 2015 (7% 
at constant currency) mainly due to growth 
across the business including improved 
commercial terms and new customers  
in Asia. 
Markets Limited has seen a strong start to 
2016 driven by strong volatility with positive 
momentum from direct business following 
improvements to business model.
The momentum in the business and the 
strength of our pipeline gives me confidence 
in strong growth in 2016 with stronger 
growth in the Gaming division offsetting 
lower growth in the Financials division.
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Officer
25 February 2016
Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
28     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Beach Life player surfs  
up £3.7m jackpot win
In July 2015, Playtech announced  
that a UK player had surfed his way  
to a massive £3.7m online progressive 
jackpot win on Playtech’s Beach Life 
slot game – the second largest of its 
kind in the company’s 16-year history.
The five-reel slot game is one of Playtech’s most 
popular in-house titles and holds the record for  
the company’s largest ever Jackpot win of £4.4m  
in February 2012.
The jackpot winner, username ‘Hilton’, was  
playing 50p per line, or £10 per spin, on bgo.com 
and unlocked five sunshine symbols to reveal  
the colossal sum. The prize is a gigantic 379,904 
times the player’s stake and 142 times the  
average UK salary.
Read more at www.playtech.com
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Presentation of results
The Directors believe that in order to best 
represent the trading performance and 
results of the Group, the reported numbers 
should exclude certain non-cash and one-off 
items including amortisation of intangibles 
on acquisitions, professional costs on 
acquisitions, finance costs on acquisitions, 
one-off provision against irrecoverable cash, 
and additional various non-cash charges. 
Underlying results are presented in respect 
of the above measures in order to best 
represent the trading performance and 
results of the Group. Underlying results 
exclude acquisitions, associate investment 
and structured agreements, and the 
impact of the UK POC tax (which is a one-
off adjustment for the 2015 financial year) 
being the increased costs in the white-label 
operations and reduced earnings in our  
B2B revenues.
The Directors believe therefore that Adjusted 
Profit represents more accurately the trading 
performance of the business and is the key 
performance metric used by the Board when 
assessing the Group’s financial performance. 
A full reconciliation between the actual and 
adjusted results is provided in Note 4 of the 
financial statements on page 102.
Overview
Playtech delivered a strong financial 
performance in 2015 with total reported 
revenues up 38% vs 2014. Excluding 
acquisitions and after adding back the  
effect of the UK POC tax, the underlying 
revenue growth was 26%. 
Total regulated revenues increased to 
represent 46% of total revenues, which 
were positively impacted by the regulated 
revenues from Markets Limited. For the 
Gaming division on a standalone basis, 
regulated revenues increased to 41% from 
36%. In light of the industry transition to 
regulated formats, regulated revenues in the 
Gaming division grew faster than .com with 
reported growth of 36% compared to 16% 
for .com (excluding acquisitions).
Adjusted EBITDA was up 22% in the year, 
despite a lower adjusted EBITDA margin 
of 40.0% (2014: 45.3%), due to the impact 
of acquisitions, the effect of UK POC tax 
introduced in December 2014 and lower 
margin of the recently established white-
label activity. Excluding acquisitions and 
when adding back the effect of the UK POC 
tax, the underlying adjusted EBITDA growth 
was 44.9%. 
Playtech remains highly cash generative 
and once again delivered strong operating 
cashflows of €202m, representing high 
conversion from adjusted EBITDA. In 
addition to these operating cash inflows, 
Playtech raised €313m through an equity 
placing to fund future acquisitions and drew 
down €240m of revolving credit facilities,  
of which €40m was repaid in Q4 2015.
Playtech has a very strong balance sheet 
with cash and cash equivalents of €858m 
at the year end. In addition to total cash 
and cash equivalents, available-for-sale 
investments were €237m, an increase  
of €213m in the year, mostly comprising 
investments in Plus500 and Ladbrokes.
Revenue
Total revenue increased by 38% to €630.1m 
(2014: €457.0m) with underlying growth of 
26% (excluding acquisitions, after adding 
back the effect of the UK POC tax) and 16% 
at constant currency. 
Realising opportunities
The strength of our operational performance has 
translated into a strong financial performance for  
the year with revenue and adjusted EBITDA up  
38% and 22% respectively
Ron Hoffman
Chief Financial Officer
30     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Review of 2015
Financial review Split of Gaming revenues by vertical
 2015 2014 Change
 €m €m  %
Casino 308.7 244.2 26
Services 155.6 132.8 17
Sport 32.2 26.3 22
Land-based 29.8 16.6 79
Bingo 20.5 17.5 17
Poker 11.2 13.8 -19
Other 12.1 5.8 110 
 
Gaming division 570.1 457.0 25 
Financials division 60.0 – –
Total revenue 630.1 457.0 38
Casino, our biggest product vertical, 
continued to be the strongest contributor 
to growth, adding €64.5m of additional 
revenues in the year to take Casino revenues 
to €308.7m. Casino growth was 14% 
excluding acquisitions at constant currency, 
or 16% when adding back the effect of the 
UK POC tax, driven by growth from top UK 
operators (including Sky, GalaCoral and 
Ladbrokes) and significant growth in Asia. 
The majority of the growth in Casino came 
from core web casino, being mainly slots 
and roulette, with Bingo side games and 
Playtech Open Platform also seeing good 
growth. Mobile casino revenues more than 
doubled in the year with mobile penetration 
increasing to 16% from 10% in 2014.
Services revenues increased by 17% in the 
year, with growth derived from operational 
services and supporting Playtech’s white-
label operations. Excluding acquisitions and 
after adding back the effect of POC on a 
constant currency basis, services revenues 
increased 14%. 
Sport enjoyed strong growth with revenues 
increasing 22% to €32.2m with the majority 
of this growth coming from the Mobenga 
platform provided to top tier UK licensees. 
2016 is expected to see revenues from 
Sports decline due to the loss of three 
Mobenga contracts with UK licensees  
who are replacing with their own user 
experience platform later in the year.
 
Land-based revenues jumped by 79% on 
a reported basis and 40% when excluding 
acquisitions on constant currency basis, 
driven by strong growth from Videobet  
and IGS and the first full year inclusion  
of Videobet Interactive lotteries. 
Bingo revenues increased 17% in the  
year on a reported basis and 11% on an 
underlying constant currency basis and  
after adding back the effect of POC, with 
growth from all major licensees and with  
a significant increase in the mobile channel, 
accounting for 20% of revenues, up from 
14% in 2014. 
The online Poker market continues to  
be challenging with revenues down  
19% in 2015. 
Revenues in Financials division
Playtech completed the acquisition of Markets 
Limited on 7 May 2015 and accordingly has 
consolidated the financial performance from 
this date into Group results. 
Markets Limited generated pro-forma full year 
revenue of $100.2m with a post-acquisition 
contribution to Playtech of $66.5m (€60.0m). 
Active CFD customers of 62.1k in 2015 were 
up 30% over 2014, with first time depositors 
(FTDs) for CFDs of 48.9k, up 25%.  
Adjusted EBITDA &  
Adjusted EBITDA margin
The adjusted EBITDA margin of 40.0% was 
impacted by acquisitions and the white-label 
activity together with the impact of the UK 
POC tax. The underlying adjusted EBITDA 
margin (after excluding acquisitions and 
the impact of the UK POC tax) was 44.9% or 
47.8% when further stripping out the effect 
of lower margin white-label activity. After 
making these adjustments, and on a constant 
currency basis, the margin was 46.3%, broadly 
in-line with the margin in 2014.
Post-acquisition, Markets Limited 
contributed adjusted EBITDA of $17.8m 
(€15.9) with a margin of 26% due to lower 
volatility and the changes made to improve 
the business model.
Adjusted EBITDA & Adjusted EBITDA margin
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
EBITDA    234,011 197,903
Irrecoverable deposits and professional fees on abandoned acquisitions    6,792 –
Professional expenses on acquisitions    6,181 212
Employee stock option expenses    4,904 364
Decline in fair value of available-for-sale investments    – 8,668
Adjusted EBITDA    251,888 207,147
Adjusted EBITDA margin    40.0% 45.3%
EBITDA related to acquisitions    (13,374) (766)
Effect of UK POC tax    17,056  1,068
Underlying adjusted EBITDA    250,570  207,449
Underlying adjusted EBITDA margin    44.9% 45.9%
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     31
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Cost of operations
Adjusted operating expenses increased 
€128.4m, an increase of 51%, from €249.8m 
to €378.2m in 2015. €56.0 of the €128.4m 
increase came from acquisitions. The 
underlying operating expenses (excluding 
acquisitions and the effect of the UK POC 
tax), increased by 28%, in line with the 26% 
growth in underlying revenues. Excluding 
acquisitions, the effect of the UK POC tax 
and on a constant currency basis, adjusted 
operating expenses increased by 21%  
to €295.9m.
Revenue-driven costs comprise mainly 
direct marketing costs related both to the 
Gaming Services division and the Financials 
division, fees paid to sales agents and license 
fees paid to third parties, including games 
developers, IP owners and branded content, 
which are typically calculated as a share of 
the licensee revenues generated. Revenue-
driven costs as a proportion of total revenue 
increased from 8% to 10%, mostly as a result 
of additional cost related to the white-label 
operations and the entrance into the B2C 
Financials division.
Employee-related costs, as a proportion 
of adjusted non-revenue-related costs of 
operations decreased to 59% even when 
excluding acquisitions. Capitalisation of 
development costs, remained at the same 
14% level from total employee related 
costs as seen in 2014 and total capitalised 
development cost was €29.7m (2014: 
€20.1m). Total employee-related costs 
excluding acquisitions, were €151.5m  
(2014: €124.7m).
Cost of service comprises of dedicated 
development teams cost, charged back 
to licensees, hosting and software license 
cost. The increase is mostly as a result of an 
increase in the dedicated teams’ headcount 
and new licensed technologies supporting 
continued investment into the IMS backend 
capabilities and the BIT offering.
Admin and office costs when excluding 
acquisitions were slightly lower as a 
proportion of adjusted non-revenue-related 
costs of operation at 10%, with an increase 
of 12% to €24.3m.
Finance income,  
financial cost and tax
Finance income decreased from €19.2m  
in 2014 to €14.6m in 2015 primarily as a 
result of foreign exchange movements 
on Sterling cash balances with the Euro 
strengthening. 
Adjusted financing costs increased from 
€0.7m in 2014 to €5.2m in 2015, due to 
interest on the new credit facilities and  
a one off facility establishment cost.
The Company is tax registered, managed  
and controlled from the Isle of Man, where 
the corporate tax rate is set at zero. The 
Group’s trading subsidiaries are registered 
either in the Isle of Man, British Virgin 
Islands, Alderney, Gibraltar or Cyprus, where 
effective tax rates are low or set at zero. Other 
subsidiaries (normally related to the Group’s 
development centres) are located in other 
jurisdictions and operate on a cost plus basis, 
and are taxed on their residual profits. The tax 
charge in 2015 was €5.6m (H1 2014: €2.9m).
Cost of operations
  2015  2014
  €’000  €’000
Adjusted operating expenses  378,198  249,833 
Less revenue-driven cost  65,670  37,495 
Adjusted operating expenses excluding revenue-driven costs  312,528  212,338 
Employee-related costs  183,573 59% 133,034 63%
Cost of service  43,245 14% 32,233 15%
Administration and office costs  28,702 9% 22,753 11%
Other costs  26,129 8% 15,248 7%
Marketing White-label/Financial B2C  19,264  6% 572 –
Travel, exhibition and marketing costs  11,615 4% 8,498 4% 
Adjusted operating expenses excluding revenue-driven costs  312,528  212,338
Playtech had a busy year in 
2015, with a combination of 
organic growth, new business 
wins, bolt-on acquisitions 
and entrance into a new 
complementary vertical in  
the financial trading space. 
We have also seen further 
penetration of our mobile 
offering in key markets, 
phenomenal results with our 
omni-channel Playtech ONE 
offering with a significant 
partner as well as providing 
our customers with enhanced 
capabilities, through business 
intelligence, and real time 
analytics.
32     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Review of 2015
Financial review continued Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Playtech launches Apple 
Watch sports betting App
In April 2015, Playtech launched a 
wearable sports betting App available 
to all licensees – including full Cash Out 
functionality – for the new Apple Watch 
which went on sale that day, with Coral 
the first operator to brand the ground-
breaking product in an extension to 
its pioneering omni-channel ‘Connect’ 
solution.
A team of senior Playtech mobile developers built 
on the Company’s previous Android Wear sports 
betting release and worked intensively to develop 
the Apple Watch betting App, submitting it as soon 
as Apple opened its submission window at the 
beginning of April.
The App enables first adopters of the watch to 
initiate bets, browse live and forthcoming sporting 
events, monitor promotions, and receive alerts via 
technology linked to a user’s iOS mobile application.
Uniquely, and unlike other Apple Watch applications, 
once a bet is in progress Coral Players have access 
to Cash Out functionality enabling them to instantly 
profit from winning positions in real-time.
A player simply touches the Coral App on the Apple 
Watch and is given immediate access to a grid of 
eight initial sports including football and tennis. 
After selecting a preferred sport they are able to view 
a list of ongoing and upcoming games complete 
with a series of betting options, as well as the choice 
of accessing ‘My Bets’ that displays current bet status 
and betting history.
Read more at www.playtech.com
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     33 In addition to total cash and cash 
equivalents, available-for-sale investments 
were €237.1m, an increase of €212.9m in the 
year, mostly comprising holdings in Plus500 
and in Ladbrokes.
Contingent and deferred consideration 
liability was €145.8m, primarily relating to the 
earn-out on the Markets Limited acquisition. 
Following the acquisition of Markets Limited 
(formerly TradeFX Limited) on 7 May 2015, 
the Group recognised the provisional fair 
value of certain intangible assets (including 
goodwill) in the interim accounts at 30 June 
2015. Subsequently, additional information 
became available which impacted the 
provisional fair values recognised and, in 
accordance with IFRS3, the Group has taken 
the additional information into account 
in computing the final fair value of the 
related assets recognised in these financial 
statements. 
The effect of amending the provisional 
fair values as described above was to: 
(i) decrease intangible assets (including 
goodwill) by €95m; and (ii) decrease 
contingent consideration by €95m. 
Accordingly, there was no impact on  
net assets.
Adjusted net profit and 
adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted profit increased by 8%, impacted 
by mainly lower finance income and higher 
finance cost, as detailed above, together 
with a higher share of loss from associates. 
Adjusted diluted EPS was up 3% despite an 
increase in shares from the placing in June 
2015. Adjusted diluted EPS is calculated on 
the basis of a weighted average number 
of shares in issue in 2015 of 305.5m which 
does not include the shares underlying the 
convertible bond issued in November 2014. 
Total amortisation in the period was €69.6m 
(2014: €60.1m). The increase is mainly due to 
an increase in amortisation on acquisitions 
together with the amortisation generated  
by new acquisitions and natural growth.
Cash flow
Playtech continues to be highly cash 
generative and once again delivered strong 
operating cashflows of €201.9m. In addition 
to these operating cash inflows, Playtech 
raised €313.0m through an equity placing 
to fund future acquisitions and drew down 
€200m of revolving credit facilities.
Net cash outflows from investing activities 
totalled €481.5 in the year. €178.9m of this 
related to acquisitions made in the year 
including Markets Limited and YoYo Games 
and €209.8m related to the investment in 
the shares of Ladbrokes and Plus500. Cash 
outflows from financing activities included 
€81.8m of dividend payments.
Balance sheet and financing
As at 31 December 2015, cash and cash 
equivalents amounted to €857.9m, an 
increase of €165.6m in the year. Material 
movements in cash resulted from cash 
inflows from operating activities and the 
equity placing, with cash outflows as a 
result of the acquisition of Markets Limited, 
the purchase of shares in Plus500 and 
Ladbrokes and the full drawdown of €200m 
of the revolving credit facility arranged by 
Barclays and RBS. During H2 2015, Playtech 
drew down on a further €40m unsecured 
revolving credit facility which was then fully 
repaid before the year end.
Progressive, operators’ jackpots and security 
deposits was €63.3m, an increase of €6.0m. 
And client funds increase by €40.6m to 
€43.8m, mainly due to Markets Limited client 
funds. Cash and cash equivalents net of cash 
held on behalf of client funds, progressive 
jackpot and security deposit is €750.8m. 
Adjusted profit and adjusted EPS
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Profit attributable to owners of the parent    135,810 140,327
Amortisation on acquisitions    41,751 39,057
Non-cash accrued bond interest    9,388 1,113
Professional expenses on potential acquisitions    6,792 –
Professional costs on acquisitions    6,181 212
Employee stock option expenses    4,904 364 
Movement in deferred and contingent consideration    1,088 439 
Decline in fair value of available for sale investments    – 8,668
Provision against irrecoverable cash    – 593
Adjusted profit – attributable to owners of the parent    205,915 190,773
Adjusted basic EPS (in €cents)    67.5 65.9
Adjusted diluted EPS (in €cents)    67.4 65.6
Adjusted net profit related to acquisitions    (8,720) 413
Intangible asset write off     1,210 – 
One-off facility costs    1,550 – 
Share of associate investments acquired    5,856 695
Effect of UK POC tax    17,056 1,068
Underlying adjusted profit – attributable to owners of the parent    222,866 192,949
34     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Review of 2015
Financial review continued Dividend
The Board has a stated policy of paying 40% 
of adjusted net profit by way of dividend 
with approximately one-third paid as an 
interim dividend and two-thirds as a final 
dividend. 
In October 2015 the Company paid an 
interim dividend of 9.6 €cents per share 
(2014: 8.9 €cents per share). 
The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 18.9 €cents per share (2014:  
17.5 €cents), an increase of 8% over 2014, 
taking the total dividend for 2015 to 28.5 
€cents per share being a total payout of 
€91.0m. The final dividend is subject to 
shareholder approval at the AGM in May 
2016. Given the equity placing in Q2 2015, 
the Board has recommended that the  
final dividend for 2015 will exceed the  
40% payout policy, aligning the growth  
in dividend to that of adjusted net profit.
For those shareholders wishing to receive 
their dividends in Sterling the last date for 
currency elections is 13 May 2016.
Timetable:
Ex-dividend date: 5 May 2016
Record date for dividend: 6 May 2016
Currency election date: 13 May 2016
Payment date: 3 June 2016
Directors’ responsibility 
statement
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
• the Group and Company financial 
statements, which have been prepared  
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit of the Group and Company; and
• the Annual Report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of 
the business and the financial position of 
the Group and Company, together with 
a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
 
The Directors of Playtech plc are listed  
on pages 44 and 45. A list of current  
Directors is maintained on Playtech’s 
website, www.playtech.com.
 
By order of the Board,
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Officer
25 February 2016
Ron Hoffman
Chief Financial Officer
25 February 2016
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     35
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The risks outlined below are those principal risks and uncertainties that are 
material to the Group. They do not include all the risks associated with Group 
activities and are not set out in any order of priority. How these risks are identified 
is described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 51 to 52. Achieving 
Playtech’s strategic objectives while minimising the key risks the business faces 
will deliver sustainable and long-term growth.
Minimising risk
Risk Magnitude Mitigation
Regulation – licensing requirements
The Group holds a number of licences for its activities from 
regulators. Loss of all or any of these licences may adversely 
impact on the revenues and/or reputation of the Group.
High Playtech has a fully resourced compliance team which 
constantly monitors Group activities and ensures they  
are compliant with regulatory and licensing requirements. 
Regulation – changing landscape
Group revenues could be impacted by changes in 
regulations, or failure to obtain any necessary licences. 
Medium The compliance team has developed good relationships 
with regulators throughout the world and is proactive in  
its approach to changing and evolving regulations. The 
team also works closely with its licensees compliance 
teams to ensure they are equipped to deal with the 
changing landscape of regulation.
Regulation – local requirements
New licensing regimes may impose conditions, such  
as the requirement to locate significant technical 
infrastructure within the relevant territory or establish and 
maintain real-time data interfaces with the regulator that 
present operational challenges, or may prohibit the ability 
of licensees to offer the full range of the Group’s products.
Low Playtech works closely with regulators to ensure regulators 
understand the impact of technical changes and specific 
local requirements. 
Taxation
Given the environment in which the Group operates,  
the business is exposed to continuously evolving rules  
and practices governing the taxation of e-commerce 
activity in various jurisdictions. 
Adverse changes to tax rules and changes may increase  
the Group’s underlying effective tax rate and reduce  
profits available for distribution.
Low Management remains fully appraised of developments in 
domestic and international tax laws within jurisdictions 
where the Group has a local presence, whether the 
presence is driven by assets and/or people. 
In conjunction with consultation with the Group’s 
professional advisers, management seeks to ensure that 
evolving tax rules and practices are carefully considered 
in advance of actual enactment and implementation 
of changing laws and practices which, together with 
ensuring that appropriate discipline is strictly adhered to, 
minimises the risk that potentially adverse consequences will 
significantly impact the Group’s underlying effective tax rate.
Risks relating to both the Gaming division and Financials division
36     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Risks and uncertainties Risk Magnitude Mitigation
Economic environment
Any downturn in consumer discretionary and 
macroeconomic factors outside of Playtech’s control could 
result in reduced spend by consumers on gambling and 
financial trading and the Group’s revenues would fall.
Medium Playtech’s customers and licensees are geographically 
diverse, which should mitigate reliance on any particular 
region. Management closely monitors business 
performance and, if a downturn were to occur, remedial 
action commensurate with the nature and scale of the 
slowdown could be taken.
Cash management – use of cash
Playtech has significant cash balances, which may be used 
to acquire other businesses. Such acquisitions may not 
deliver the expected synergies and/or benefits and may 
destroy shareholder value. In addition, foreign exchange 
exposures could impact on the Group’s financial position.
High The Company has made a number of very successful, 
value creating acquisitions and has an established process 
in place and experienced staff to conduct thorough due 
diligence before completing any transaction.
Key employees
The Group’s future success depends in large part on the 
continued service of a broad leadership team including 
Executive Directors, senior managers and key personnel. 
The development and retention of these employees along 
with the attraction and integration of new talent cannot  
be guaranteed.
Medium The Group provides a stimulating professional environment 
and has a comprehensive performance evaluation system 
to identify key talent and to ensure that key personnel are 
appropriately rewarded and incentivised through a mixture 
of salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives linked to 
the attainment of business objectives and revenue growth.
Business continuity & IT security
The risk of impairment to our operations for example 
through cyber and distributed denial of service (DDoS) 
attacks, technology failure or terrorist attack continues to 
be one that the Group considers to be significant. Failure  
in our systems could significantly affect the services  
offered to our licensees.
Medium The Group adopts industry-standard protections to detect 
any intrusion or other security breaches, together with 
preventative measures safeguarding against sabotage, 
hacking, viruses and cybercrime. The Group works 
continuously to improve the robustness and security  
of the Group’s information technology systems.
During 2015 the Group made significant investment in 
its Business Continuity structure. The Group has engaged 
a major UK partner to assist them in designing and 
implementing new plans throughout its key sites. 
Competitive landscape
The gambling industry is extremely competitive and so is 
the related software and services industry that supports 
it. Failure to compete effectively may result in the loss of 
licensees and also the inability to attract new licensees.
Medium The Group continues to invest significant resources 
in research and development in order to enhance its 
technology, products, content and services, and in  
making acquisitions to broaden the range of technologies, 
products and services that it can offer to licensees.
Additional risks relating to the Gaming division
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     37
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Magnitude Mitigation
Market exposure
The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities 
could adversely fluctuate due to movements in market 
prices of foreign exchange rates, commodity prices,  
equity and index prices.
Medium Market exposure is monitored 24 hours a day on a real-time 
basis, using our proprietary automated reporting systems 
to measure client exposure on all open positions.
Where exposure levels and client behaviour, whether in 
total or on specific instruments, reaches certain levels, our 
risk management policy requires that mitigating actions, 
such as reducing exposure through hedging or liquidity 
arrangements, are considered. 
Regulatory – capital adequacy
The requirement to maintain adequate regulatory  
capital may affect the Group’s ability to conduct  
its business and may reduce profitability.
Medium Capital adequacy is monitored 24 hours a day on a real-
time basis, using our proprietary automated reporting 
system, and considered within pre-determined limits set 
by the risk management committee which include an 
approved level of ‘buffer’ to ensure that levels determined 
by our regulators are not breached.
Where the capital adequacy levels approach the pre-
determined limits, necessary steps are taken to ensure that 
exposures are managed so as to not fall foul of regulatory 
requirements.
Trading volume
Low volatility within foreign exchange rates, commodity 
prices, equity and index prices may reduce profitability.
Medium Trading volumes are monitored in real-time and the 
number of instruments available for clients to trade 
continues to increase in order to ensure that potential for 
market volatility is captured within our offering.
Where markets become volatile within specific instruments, 
our technology allows for specific and tailored material 
to be released which highlights such instances to attract 
trading volume.
Additional risks relating to the Financials division
38     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Risks and uncertainties continued Playtech signs five-year 
Sun Bingo deal
In November 2015, Virtue Fusion, 
Playtech’s bingo division, agreed  
a five-year deal with News UK to 
operate its Sun Bingo and Fabulous 
Bingo websites and mobile variants.
The sites will launch in August 2016 following the 
migration of existing players to Virtue Fusion’s 
leading UK bingo network.
The agreement is aligned with Playtech’s core 
strategy of supplying the world’s leading operators, 
sportsbooks and media brands with market-leading 
software and services in regulated markets.
Sun Bingo was established in 2005 and is one  
of the UK’s largest and most popular bingo sites.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer at Playtech:
“The Playtech-powered Sun Bingo will use cutting-
edge technology to offer best-performing and highly 
innovative bingo and side games, with fantastic 
promotions and prizes and the industry’s largest 
jackpots. This is a fantastic partnership that  
is aligned with our ongoing strategy of working with 
the best operators and media brands in regulated 
markets. We look forward to working closely with 
News UK to deliver a first-class product.”
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     39 Valuing our people
Playtech’s market-leading position is a 
significant asset in its efforts to attract the 
best talent in the industry. Candidates are 
drawn to Playtech by the combination of 
its highly motivated, entrepreneurial team 
culture, its breadth of knowledge and ability 
to harness cutting-edge technology. This has 
also been an important factor in Playtech’s 
corporate acquisitions, where the potential 
to benefit from such a large and experienced 
support network has been a key discussion 
point and decision factor for a management 
team assessing the benefits of joining 
Playtech.
A formal onboarding process exists in 
Playtech’s major employment centres 
including various employee handbooks  
and guides, formally structured meetings 
with HR, and the new employee’s line 
manager. Additional training provides  
a broader overview of the Group and  
its culture, and any specialist technical 
training or regulatory training as required.
Playtech’s culture focuses on the continued 
improvement of its workforce, driven by  
a strong ethos of innovation, technological 
development and the delivery of market-
leading performance. Many of Playtech’s 
new employees are referred by existing  
staff, reflecting the Company’s focus  
on developing a close-knit, collegiate,  
corporate culture. Ongoing training  
and career development are important 
elements of Playtech’s sustainability efforts.
Welfare activities
Playtech recognises the value in keeping 
employees engaged and well-motivated. 
Welfare programmes run through the year 
and are tailored to each country. Each site 
has a generous budget for local activities 
such as team building, parties, birthday gifts 
and a yearly site trip. 
Enhancing trust
By embracing policies  
and behaviours that govern 
responsible conduct, the 
Company strives to create  
more valuable relationships 
with its stakeholders, enhancing 
trust by demonstrating its  
focus on, and management  
of, the material non-financial  
risks in the business. 
Playtech believes that a responsible 
approach to these challenges, together 
with risk assessment and mitigation, will 
positively impact its ability to succeed 
operationally and strategically. 
Playtech continues to improve its 
understanding and monitoring of  
material non-financial risks, despite 
operating in a highly-dynamic and  
rapidly-changing environment. 
#1 Workplace
The well-being of our employees,  
and how we attract, develop and 
retain the best talent
Employees
Playtech understands that the success  
of its business is due to the vital contribution 
made by its employees. It is therefore 
essential to the Company’s continued 
growth and development that it is able  
to attract and retain talented employees 
who will contribute to the long-term  
success of the business. 
The Group is fully committed to equality 
of opportunity and dignity at work for all. 
Its primary aim in this area is to recruit the 
best and most appropriate employees, 
irrespective of race, religion, ethnic or 
national origins, gender, sexuality, disability, 
class or age, working to the highest 
standards across the Group. 
Playtech operates in a highly competitive 
industry, where retaining key staff is a priority. 
The Company provides financial rewards and 
a positive working environment, developing 
employees’ skills for improved performance 
and increased job satisfaction levels.
Locations and people
Playtech is headquartered in the Isle of 
Man and has offices in 12 other countries, 
including its principal software development 
centres in Estonia, Ukraine, the UK, Sweden 
and Bulgaria. Live dealer facilities are located 
in Latvia and the Philippines. A central 
finance function is located in Cyprus and 
marketing from Israel.
In 2015, Playtech employed an average 
of 4,300 people. At the end of the year,  
total headcount was over 5,000 people.
40     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Sustainability  Employee performance 
While the development of market-leading 
software and products is at the heart of 
Playtech’s growth, licensees naturally expect 
24/7 operational performance and efficient 
delivery. The Company’s business units are 
integral to ensuring Playtech meets the 
requirements of its licensees and employees 
are rewarded accordingly. 
Playtech’s appraisal system is based around 
individual business unit and Group-wide 
objectives, which are directly aligned 
to Group strategy and specific areas of 
implementation and execution. Employees 
have clearly defined objectives and targets 
that are set in each review period, and their 
performance is routinely measured against 
these objectives. Being in a fast changing 
industry, the objectives area on performance 
evaluation system stays open throughout  
the year.
Employee remuneration includes 
competitive salaries, an annual bonus, 
annual salary review, non-cash and ad-hoc 
bonuses, which are set by reference to 
the achievement of the aforementioned 
objectives, and by the demonstration of 
other competencies and contributions  
to the Group. A refresh and new long-term, 
share-based incentive scheme to attract  
and retain the best operational and business 
managers was implemented in 2015. 
Governance
Playtech’s Board is responsible for 
the Group’s financial and operational 
performance, ensuring the continued 
success and sustainability of the business 
by directing and supervising the Company’s 
policies and strategies. 
In an industry that continues to undergo 
significant structural changes, the Board’s 
role has never been more important. The 
identification of significant risks facing the 
business, and processes to monitor and 
mitigate them, is covered in more detail  
on pages 36 to 38.
Marketplace 
Playtech’s CSR marketplace metrics focus on 
stakeholder perceptions of the Company’s 
relationships with licensees and its 
responsiveness to their requirements; and 
on Playtech’s relationships with regulators 
and other industry bodies. 
The Company will look to report on these in 
due course, and include conduct surveys to 
ensure that it properly understands external 
perceptions of the business and manages  
its reputation. 
Customer service lies at the heart of 
Playtech’s business, and Playtech strives to 
deliver a high quality service to its licensees 
so that they can offer the best player 
experience. The Company works to monitor 
customer satisfaction levels across the 
licensee base as the retention of licensees 
is central to the sustainability of its business 
model. Playtech places great value on its 
relationships with gambling regulators 
around the world and works with them 
to ensure all aspects of the business meet  
or exceed their standards. 
The Group has an experienced Head of 
Regulatory Affairs and Compliance who 
focuses the Company’s efforts on regulatory 
matters, and this is of particular significance 
as Playtech continues to expand its 
regulated markets offering.
An ‘employee of the quarter’ programme 
recognises exceptional performance with  
a small financial reward. 
Employee engagement surveys are 
conducted around the business and in 
Estonia, the ‘Fish Programme’, which has 
been running for over 10 years has benefited 
both Playtech Estonia and Videobet by 
improving retention.
Employee conduct 
Playtech continues to monitor our Code  
of Conduct and Anti Bribery policy.  
The aim of these policies is to:
 
•  set standards of behaviour,  
organisational values and business  
ethics for Playtech; and 
•  provide structures for reporting. 
Training initiatives are in place to ensure  
that both policies are communicated to  
and understood by employees. 
#3 Marketplace
Working with regulators, partners 
and licensees to ensure the highest 
reputational standards
#2 Governance
Maintaining high standards  
of corporate governance to  
monitor and mitigate risks  
associated with the business
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     41
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Community
The Company values the positive  
influence on its employees’ personal  
and professional development that can  
be found through volunteer work, and  
sees it as important for the business over 
the long term. The Company’s employees 
are actively engaged in supporting charities 
and Playtech has expanded its Social 
Involvement programme to focus on 
initiatives that deliver educational support 
and assistance to disadvantaged children  
in those countries where the Group  
has operations. 
In 2015 Playtech gave approximately 
€350,000 to charitable organisations  
working in the fields of education and 
research into, vulnerable populations, 
associations for children with cancer and 
some other non profit organisations which 
help poor people with food and clothing.
Environment
In comparison to other global companies, 
Playtech has a relatively low environmental 
impact, by virtue of the fact that it is 
primarily an online business with a limited 
number of local office locations. The day-to-
day running of the business will inevitably 
have an environmental impact, particularly 
in terms of energy consumption and travel, 
and the Company has put in place processes 
to monitor its carbon dioxide emissions from 
air travel and reduce any unnecessary travel.
Where it is necessary to take new office 
space, consideration is made for the 
implementation of greater energy-efficient 
measures. In Estonia, the building was 
designed with a highly efficient cooling 
system for the computer room, and in all 
new locations there has been a move to 
reduce energy consumption. With a ratio  
of employees to printers of over 30, the 
offices can be seen to be increasingly 
paperless environments. In addition, bottled 
water has been largely replaced by water 
fountains, and where local schemes exist, 
waste is separated and recycled, as are 
printer toner cartridges. All offices have 
secure bicycle parking, and in the UK, the 
Company participates in a scheme whereby 
employees can purchase a bicycle in a 
tax efficient manner. In Israel, Estonia and 
Bulgaria the Company operates a recycle 
programme separating bottles, papers  
and other trash.
 150
People providing a 24/7 
support service to licensees.
€350,000
In 2015 Playtech gave approximately 
€350,000 to charitable organisations.
#4 Community
Our broader community-related 
obligations in those locations where 
our employees, business partners  
and licensees live and work
#5 Environment
Mitigating the Company’s 
environmental impact, where relevant 
and appropriate, to reflect the nature 
and scale of its business
Customer service
The service-orientated philosophy 
underpinning Playtech’s content 
development activities is replicated in  
its product and infrastructure operations,  
with a team of over 150 people providing  
a 24/7 support service to licensees.
From the beginning of every project, 
Playtech supports its licensees, drawing on 
its extensive experience. Dedicated teams, 
staffed by professionals from all disciplines, 
provide complete project and launch 
management, assisting with strategy and 
business planning, through to recruitment 
and team building.
Playtech provides its customers’ operational 
teams with an intensive two-week training 
programme ahead of launch. Thereafter, 
each licensee is assigned an experienced 
account manager who provides day-
to-day support and a point of contact. 
Customers can draw on a pool of product 
and technology specialists to advise on 
any issues, and a consulting team provides 
value-added input to optimise the tools 
available on the Playtech platform.
42     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Sustainability  Philosophy 
As a software provider, the Company is not 
typically directly in contact with players, but 
responsible gambling nonetheless remains 
a fundamental issue for the Company in 
safeguarding its business and reputation, 
and for the continued development of the 
industry in a sustainable manner. 
Within PTTS, Playtech works with its 
licensees in relation to player acquisition and 
retention, and is consequently dedicated, 
with its operators, to a substantial focus on 
the proper management of the relevant 
responsible gambling protocols. 
Technology to support 
responsible gambling 
The Company’s fully-integrated 
management system provides operators 
with the latest responsible gambling 
protocols. Embedded systems and controls 
ensure fair play through fraud-detection 
services and facilitate responsible gambling 
tools for players and ensure a safe playing 
environment for all. 
Playtech is an executive member of the 
Remote Gambling Association (RGA), which 
has developed an industry code of practice 
on social responsibility and age verification, 
which the Company fully supports. As part 
of the certification process, Playtech’s games 
and their software engines – including the 
random number generators – are regularly 
tested and certified by leading industry 
bodies to ensure consistency and fair play.
Playtech also supports the Gaming 
Standards Association, an organisation 
working towards global shared technology 
standards. 
The Group holds a certificate of evaluation 
from the accredited testing facility TST which 
is part of Gaming Laboratories International 
(GLI), the world’s largest independent 
gambling testing and certification laboratory 
Playtech is certified and licensed by the 
Alderney Gambling Control Commission 
(AGCC), the United Kingdom Gambling 
Commission, the Dirección General de 
Ordenación del Juego (DGoJ) in Spain 
and the Malta Gaming Authority (MGA). 
Additionally in Italy, Bulgaria, France, Estonia 
and Finland, Playtech’s software has been 
reviewed and passed for use by the  
local regulators.
Fraud, money laundering and fair play 
An integral part of Playtech’s technology 
platform is its ability to monitor and identify 
potential fraud and money laundering. 
Playtech employs a dedicated security team 
focused on ensuring that it is at the forefront 
of industry best practice in this area. With 
comprehensive monitoring of transactions 
and gambling behaviour, licensees are  
able to ensure that players cannot gain  
an advantage through unfair means.  
This is a particular focus in player-to-player 
games such as poker, to minimise any  
risk of player collusion.
#6 Responsible gambling 
Responsible gambling is an integral 
part of Playtech’s institutional mindset 
and a significant factor in all of its 
activities
Every licensee is provided with Playtech’s 
transparency toolkit, which is embedded 
in the Company’s software and includes 
viewable player protection content and  
the following elements: 
•  compulsive gambling prevention; 
•  age verification; 
•  deposit limits; 
•  bet limits; 
•  session time limits; and
•  self-exclusion tools.
The Company also provides comprehensive 
training and ongoing support to licensees 
to allow them to provide the maximum 
protection to their customers. 
Where Playtech provides external and/or 
internal marketing services to a licensee, it 
puts in place clear protocols and procedures 
for player engagement. Playtech’s 
technology platform provides tools to 
operators that can identify and manage any 
player thought to be showing indications 
of problem gambling, and regular dialogue, 
reporting and joint training exercises with 
licensees address any concerns that arise. 
This dialogue focuses on the early 
identification by the operator of the small 
percentage of players that have the potential, 
under certain circumstances, to develop 
gambling related problems and the smaller 
group who demonstrate an inability to 
control their gambling habits or actions. 
The Group contributes financially to  
the work of the Responsible Gambling  
Trust (formerly the Great Foundation)  
and GamCare, UK charities dedicated  
to supporting research into problem 
gambling, education and training. 
Playtech is also an associate member of the 
World Lottery Association (WLA), the global 
professional association for state lottery and 
gambling organisations. The WLA and its 
members are committed to maintaining  
the highest ethical standards of gambling. 
Certification and regulation 
As a responsible supplier to the regulated 
gambling industry, Playtech’s systems 
comply with all the guidelines published by 
the variety of regulated jurisdictions in which 
its licensees operate. The Company partners 
with regulatory and governmental bodies  
to ensure its systems are compliant. 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     43
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance
Board of Directors
Alan Jackson
Non-executive Chairman
Appointment to the Board:
Alan was appointed to the Board  
in 2006 on the Company’s flotation on  
the Alternative Investment Market and 
became Chairman in October 2013. 
Career: 
Alan has over 40 years’ experience in 
the leisure industry. From 1973 to 1991, 
he occupied a number of positions 
at Whitbread, both in the UK and 
internationally, principally as Managing 
Director of Beefeater Steak Houses and also 
the Whitbread restaurant division where 
he was responsible for the creation and 
development of the Beefeater, Travel Inn 
and TGI Friday brands and was responsible 
for Whitbread’s international restaurant 
development. In 1991, he founded Inn 
Business Group plc, which was acquired 
by Punch Taverns plc in 1999. He has been 
Chairman of The Restaurant Group plc since 
2001. He stepped down from his role as 
Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-executive 
Director at Redrow plc in September 2014. 
Skills, competences and experience: 
Having held several Board positions in both 
an executive and non-executive capacity  
in a variety of listed companies in the UK,  
he brings substantial experience of working 
in public and private companies, along with 
strategic and leadership experience. 
Board Committees: 
He is Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration and Risk & Compliance 
Committees.
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Officer
Appointment to the Board:
Mor was appointed as Playtech’s  
Chief Executive Officer in May 2007. 
Career: 
Prior to being appointed CEO, Mor was 
the Chief Executive Officer of one of the 
Group’s subsidiaries, Techplay Marketing 
Ltd., which required him to oversee the 
Group’s licensee relationship management, 
product management for new licensees 
and the Group’s marketing activities. Before 
joining Playtech, Mor worked for Oracle for 
over four years, initially as a development 
consultant and then as a product manager, 
which involved creating sales and consulting 
channels on behalf of Oracle Israel and 
Oracle Europe, the Middle East and Africa. 
Earlier in his career, he worked in a variety  
of roles, including as an auditor and financial 
consultant for PricewaterhouseCoopers 
and a system analyst for Tadiran Electronic 
Systems Limited, an Israeli company that 
designs electronic warfare systems. 
Skills, competences and experience: 
Mor is a qualified accountant and brings 
considerable international sales and 
management experience in a hi-tech 
environment and extensive knowledge  
of the online gambling industry. Until  
June 2013 he was a Non-executive  
Director of Sportech PLC as the Company’s 
representative, and resigned when  
Playtech disposed of its shareholding.
 
Board Committees: 
He chairs the Management Committee and 
attends the Remuneration, Risk & Compliance 
and Nominations Committees at the 
invitation of the Chairs of those Committees.
Ron Hoffman
Chief Financial Officer
Appointment to the Board:
Ron was appointed as Playtech’s  
Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2013, 
having joined the Group in 2004. 
Career: 
Ron is a qualified accountant and  
worked at Ernst & Young where he rose  
to the position of Senior Manager. Ron 
joined Playtech shortly after its formation. 
He spent eight years at Playtech as Vice 
President of Finance, managing the finance 
department, including its listing on AIM 
in 2006, the transition to the Main Market 
in 2012 and supporting the growth of the 
business through its operations, acquisitions, 
financial planning and reporting. 
Skills, competences and experience: 
Ron brings over 10 years’ experience 
and expertise in relation to the online 
gambling industry. He is responsible for 
the finance, tax, treasury and accounting 
teams at Playtech and provides strategic 
and operational financial experience 
to the Group including in relation 
to investment arrangements.
Board Committees: 
Ron sits on the Management Committee 
and attends meetings of the Audit 
Committee and the Risk & Compliance 
Committees at the invitation of the  
Chairs of those Committees. 
Committed to high standards
44     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
John Jackson
Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board:
John was appointed to the Board in  
January 2016. 
Career: 
John is a qualified accountant and  
his previous roles include Group Chief 
Executive of Jamie Oliver Holdings Limited 
from 2007 to 2015 and Group Retail and 
Leisure Director of Virgin Group Limited from 
1998 to 2007. He is currently Non-executive 
Chairman of Rick Stein Group, a senior 
independent director of Game Digital plc; 
and a Non-executive Director of Wilkinson’s 
Hardware Stores Limited. 
Skills, competences and experience: 
John brings a wealth of consumer industry 
experience combined with a strong 
accountancy and finance background.
Board Committees: 
John is Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and sits on the Audit Committee, 
Risk & Compliance Committee and 
Nominations Committee.
Andrew Thomas
Senior Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board:
Andrew was appointed to the Board in 
June 2012, shortly before the Company’s 
admission to the Main Market. 
Career: 
Andrew has enjoyed a career as an 
accountant and businessman, much of 
which has been within the leisure industry. 
Andrew is currently Chairman of Randalls 
Limited, a family-owned pub company in 
Jersey, where he lives. Andrew previously 
served as Chairman of The Greenalls Group 
plc and as a Non-executive Director of a 
number of private and public companies. 
He is the founding partner of the Cheshire-
based accounting firm, Moors Andrew 
Thomas & Co. LLP. Andrew is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England & Wales and a member of the 
Institute of Taxation. 
Skills, competences and experience: 
Andrew combines many years’ detailed 
experience of advising on taxation  
matters, with financial expertise both  
as a Chartered Accountant and sitting  
as a Non-executive Director of a number  
of publicly listed companies. 
Board Committees: 
Andrew chairs the Audit Committee,  
which oversees the work of the internal 
auditors and sits on the Remuneration, 
Nomination and Risk & Compliance 
Committees. He is also the Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director. 
Paul Hewitt
Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board:
Paul was appointed to the Board in  
August 2015. 
Career: 
Paul is a qualified accountant, and  
his recent executive responsibilities  
included being the Deputy Group Chief 
Executive and Chief Financial Officer of the 
Co-Operative Group from 2003 to 2007;  
and Finance and IT Director of the RAC plc 
from 1999 to 2003. Since starting to build  
a portfolio of non-executive roles in 2007,  
Paul has helped many management  
teams adapt their business models to 
respond to, and anticipate, changes in  
their regulatory environments, including  
as Non-executive Director and Chairman  
of the Audit Committee of Tesco Bank  
from 2012 to 2014. 
Skills, competences and experience: 
Paul brings a wealth of experience across  
a variety of sectors, including in the financial 
services industry.
Board Committees: 
Paul is Chair of the Risk & Compliance 
Committee and sits on the Audit  
Committee, Remuneration Committee  
and Nominations Committee.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     45 Governance
Chairman’s introduction to governance
Dear Shareholder 
I am pleased to present Playtech’s 
Governance Reports to shareholders. 
The Board continues to believe that 
high standards of corporate governance 
contributes to Playtech’s performance and 
continued success. This was a busy year for 
the Group during which time the Board has 
been able to provide strategic leadership 
and I would like to pass on my gratitude 
for the enthusiasm and dedication which 
the Directors and senior management have 
demonstrated. We have, however, continued 
to focus on ensuring that we have an 
appropriate governance framework in place.
The Board has confidence in the future 
of the Group and sees significant growth 
opportunities, and remains focused on  
looking for such opportunities in regulated 
and soon-to-be regulated markets. We 
continue to work closely with regulators in 
various markets to ensure our compliance 
with local laws and regulations.
The first half of the year saw the creation 
of our new Financials division through the 
acquisition of TradeFX Limited, which was 
subsequently renamed Markets Limited.  
The regulatory backdrop under which 
Markets Limited operates has become 
increasingly developed and against this 
backdrop, we are taking a risk adverse 
approach with an ongoing review of 
our business model to further enhance 
compliance, control and oversight, setting 
industry-leading standards in these areas. 
The Board is cognisant of the need to strike 
a careful balance to ensure that shareholders 
and other stakeholders are appropriately 
protected by robust processes and 
procedures while providing an environment 
that fosters an entrepreneurial spirit that 
allows our senior management team and 
employees to continue to deliver the year-
on-year growth that we have achieved 
in recent years. This balance enables us 
to clearly focus on the key risks facing 
the Group but to be flexible enough in 
our approach to accommodate changes 
resulting from developments in our strategy 
or changes in the regulatory environment. 
We have set out in the following sections 
how we seek to manage the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the business, more 
details on our governance framework and 
have sought to explain how our corporate 
governance practises support our strategy. 
 
The annual general meeting (“AGM”)  
is an important opportunity for the Board 
to meet with shareholders, particularly 
those who may not otherwise have the 
chance to engage with the Board and senior 
management. Our 2016 AGM is scheduled 
for 10.00 am on 18 May 2016 at The Sefton 
Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man and we look 
forward to seeing you there.
Alan Jackson
Chairman
25 February 2016
During 2015, PwC were engaged to perform 
a review on internal audit exercises covering 
key areas of our business – both in terms  
of a review of the effectiveness of our 
processes and procedures, together with 
focused work on the identification and 
mitigation of risk to include IT security  
and disaster recovery arrangements. We 
recently recruited two experienced internal 
auditors managers to report directly to 
Robert Penfold, our Head of Internal Audit. 
The relationship with PwC has therefore 
moved to a co-sourced arrangement.
We continued to listen to and understand 
the views of our shareholders. In addition 
to the usual processes, we met with 
institutional shareholders, particularly around 
results announcements and at different 
investor conferences with a focus on the 
strategic vision of the Group and the quickly 
evolving developments in our industry in 
terms of innovation, regulation and tax.
The Board continues to strive to ensure that 
the Group’s governance structure protects 
the sustainability of its businesses and the 
communities in which it operates, while 
maximising shareholder value and treating 
all shareholders fairly. The Board also sets the 
tone for the Company. The way in which it 
conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, 
its definitions of success and the assessment 
of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere 
within which the executive team works. 
 “The Board continues to believe  
that high standards of corporate  
governance contributes to Playtech’s 
performance and continued success.”
Alan Jackson
Chairman
46     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Directors’ governance report
Introduction 
Responsibility for corporate governance 
lies with the Board, which is committed to 
maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance and is ultimately accountable 
to shareholders. The report which follows 
explains our most important governance 
processes and how they support the Group’s 
business. In particular, we have applied the 
principles of good governance advocated 
by the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”). The Code applied to Playtech 
throughout the financial year ended  
31 December 2015. A copy of the code 
is available at www.frc.org.uk/Our-Work/
Codes-Standards/Corporate-governance/
UK-Corporate-Governance-Code.aspx.
Compliance statement 
We continued to make improvements 
during the year both to our Board structure 
and our governance procedures and I am 
delighted to be able to report that it is the 
view of the Board that the Company has 
been fully compliant with the principles  
of the Code during 2015 save in relation  
to C.3.1 of the Code. 
As regards C.3.1 of the Code, following 
the Company qualifying for inclusion in 
the FTSE 350 the Board concluded that 
the composition of the Audit Committee 
(comprising the three Non-executive 
Directors including the Chairman) was 
sufficiently robust for the Committee to fulfil 
its responsibilities without the need for the 
appointment of a further Non-executive 
Director. Nevertheless, the Board reviewed 
the position during the course of the year 
and following the appointment of John 
Jackson as a Non-executive Director in 
As detailed in Note 26 to the financial 
statements, Hilary’s husband, Jean-Pierre 
Houareau, was engaged during 2015 by  
the Group as a consultant and also owns  
a company which is a small supplier to the 
Group. Mr Houareau has worked in the 
online gaming industry for non-related 
companies, such as PKR, for 10 years and 
has been retained to assist in connection 
with some of the Group’s consumer facing 
activities in the UK and other regulated 
markets. Hilary was not involved in the 
decision to retain Mr Houareau and did  
not participate in discussions relating  
to fee arrangements.
The Board considered that Hilary was 
independent for the purposes of the Code 
during her tenure.
The Company’s auditor, BDO LLP, is required 
to review whether the above statement 
reflects the Company’s compliance with the 
Code by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing 
Authority and to report if it does not reflect 
such compliance. No such negative report 
has been made.
The Board is accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders for good governance and  
the statement set out below describes  
how the Group applies the principles 
identified in the Code. 
 
January 2016, the Chairman stepped down 
as a member of the Audit Committee.  
The Committee now consists of three  
Non-executive Directors.
It is the current policy of the Remuneration 
Committee to ensure that any option awards 
to Directors are subject to challenging 
performance criteria.
Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed as a 
Non-executive Director on 9 October 2013 
and resigned as a Director on 31 December 
2015. Hilary is a leading international  
expert in gambling law and has over  
20 years’ experience advising companies 
on gambling-related matters and was, at 
the time of her appointment, a partner in 
the firm of DLA Piper LLP (the “Firm”). She 
stepped down from that role in May 2014 
and has since been engaged as a consultant 
to the Firm. The Firm has provided, and 
continues to provide, regulatory and legal 
advice to the Company from time to time, 
however, given the overall size of the Firm 
and the relatively small scale of fees received, 
this relationship was not considered to 
impact on her independence. During 
her tenure, Hilary was considered to be 
independent by the Board. In addition, in 
order to reinforce her independence, it was 
agreed that following her appointment and 
up to and including her date of resignation, 
Hilary would not be involved in the provision 
of advice by the Firm to the Group, her 
remuneration from the Firm would not be 
linked, directly or indirectly, to the receipt of 
fees from the Group, and that any potential 
residual conflicts will be managed carefully.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     47 Governance
Directors’ governance report
continued
The Board
Composition 
As at 31 December 2015, the Board 
comprised the Non-executive Chairman, the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer, a Non-executive Deputy Chairman 
and two independent Non-executive 
Directors. Save for Hilary Stewart-Jones  
who resigned as Non-executive Deputy 
Chairman on 31 December 2015, the list  
of Directors holding office during the year to  
31 December 2015 and their responsibilities 
are set out on pages 44 and 45. 
With the exception of Paul Hewitt who 
was appointed as a Non-executive Director 
in August 2015, the Directors served 
throughout the financial year. 
John Jackson was appointed as a  
Non-executive Director on 1 January 2016.
Board operation 
The roles of the Chairman (Alan Jackson)  
and the Chief Executive Officer (Mor Weizer) 
are separated, clearly defined and  
their respective responsibilities are 
summarised below.
Chairman 
• overall effectiveness of the  
running of the Board; 
• ensuring the Board as a whole  
plays a full part in the development  
and determination of the Group’s 
strategic objectives; 
• keeping the other Directors informed  
of shareholders’ attitudes towards  
the Company; 
• safeguarding the good reputation  
of the Company and representing  
it both externally and internally; 
• acting as the guardian of the Board’s 
decision-making processes; and 
• promoting the highest standards 
of integrity, probity and corporate 
governance throughout the Company 
and particularly at Board level. 
Chief Executive Officer 
• executive leadership of the Company’s 
business on a day-to-day basis; 
• developing the overall commercial 
objectives of the Group and proposing 
and developing the strategy of the 
Group in conjunction with the Board  
as a whole; 
• responsibility, together with his senior 
management team, for the execution of 
the Group’s strategy and implementation 
of Board decisions; 
• recommendations on senior 
appointments and development  
of the management team; and 
• ensuring that the affairs of the Group  
are conducted with the highest 
standards of integrity, probity and 
corporate governance. 
 
Director’s name Title
Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman
Mor Weizer Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer
Ron Hoffman Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer
Hilary Stewart-Jones Non-executive Deputy Chairman (resigned on 31 December 2015)
Andrew Thomas Non-executive Senior Independent Director
Paul Hewitt Non-executive Director (appointed on 27 August 2015)
John Jackson Non-executive Director (appointed on 1 January 2016)
The Non-executive Directors are all 
considered by the Board to be independent 
of management and free of any relationship 
which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of their independent judgement,  
as explained above. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary 
to the Board and its Committees and his 
appointment and removal is a matter for  
the Board as a whole. The Company 
Secretary is a member of the Group’s 
management team and all the Directors 
have access to his advice and services. 
48     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Matters considered by the Board in 2015
Month Material matters considered
January • Review of operations
• Senior Management recruitment
• Overview of proposed acquisitions
February • Review of the 2014 financial results and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014 
• Consideration of a final dividend 
• Budget Approval
April • Approval of acquisition of TradeFX Limited
• Consideration of proposal to invest in Lottosport Limited
• Consideration of forthcoming regulatory changes in key markets
May • Consideration of the acquisition of Ava Trade Limited
• Preparation for the AGM
• Consideration of the acquisition of Plus500 
June • Approval of placing of new ordinary shares 
• Approval of debt financing
• Integration of Trade FX Limited
• Tax & Transfer Pricing review
August • Review of interim results
• Consideration of interim dividend 
• Appointment of Paul Hewitt as a Non-Executive Director
October • Review of progress on acquisitions of Ava Trade Limited and Plus500
• Purchase of property in Riga
• Review of Operations
• Consideration of potential transactions within the gaming sector
November • Review of Financial division
• Termination of proposed acquisition of Ava Trade Limited
• Termination of proposed acquisition of Plus500
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     49 Governance
Directors’ governance report
continued
Responsibility and delegation
The Chairman is primarily responsible  
for the efficient functioning of the Board.  
He ensures that all Directors receive 
sufficient relevant information on financial, 
business and corporate issues prior to 
meetings. The Chief Executive Officer’s 
responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the 
Group’s business and implementing Group 
strategy. Regular interaction between 
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
between meetings ensures the Board 
remains fully informed of developments  
in the business at all times.
There remains in place a formal schedule 
of matters specifically reserved for Board 
consideration and approval, which includes 
the matters set out below: 
• approval of the Group’s long-term 
objectives and commercial strategy; 
• approval of the annual operating and 
capital expenditure budgets and any 
changes to them; 
• major investments or capital projects; 
• the extension of the Group’s activities 
into any new business or geographic 
areas, or to cease any material 
operations; 
• changes in the Company’s capital 
structure or management and  
control structure; 
In addition to receiving reports from the 
Board’s Committees, reviewing the financial 
and operational performance of the Group 
and receiving regular reports on M&A, legal, 
regulatory and investor relations matters at 
the Board meetings, the other key matters 
considered by the Board during 2015 are set 
out in the table page 49.
Board meetings are generally held at the 
registered office of the Company on the Isle 
of Man, though during the year a meeting 
was held in Cyprus.
Directors are provided with comprehensive 
background information for each meeting 
and all Directors were available to participate 
fully and on an informed basis in Board 
decisions. In addition, certain members  
of the senior management team including 
the Chief Operating Officer, the General 
Counsel, the Head of Regulatory and 
Compliance and the Head of Investor 
Relations are invited to attend the whole or 
parts of the meetings to deliver their reports 
on the business. Any specific actions arising 
during meetings are agreed by the Board 
and a comprehensive follow-up procedure 
ensures their completion.
Details of the attendance of the Directors  
at meetings of the Board and its Committees 
are set out in the table below.
How the Board functions 
In accordance with the Code, the Board 
is collectively responsible for the long-
term success of the Company. The Board 
provides entrepreneurial leadership for the 
Company within a framework of prudent 
and effective controls that enable risk to be 
assessed and managed. The Board sets the 
Company’s strategic aims, and ensures that 
the necessary resources are in place for the 
Company to meet its objectives and reviews 
management performance. 
The Board meets regularly and frequently, 
with eleven meetings scheduled and held in 
2015. During the year, it was also necessary 
for the Board to hold two unscheduled 
Board meetings by telephone in accordance 
with the articles of association, in connection 
with the proposed acquisitions of Ava  
Trade Limited and Plus500. In addition,  
a Committee of the Directors met to 
consider and approve a Placing of shares. 
During the year, the Chairman met the other 
Non-executive Directors in the absence 
of the Executive Directors to re-confirm 
and take account of their views. All Non-
executive Directors have sufficient time to 
fulfil their commitments to the Company.
Number of meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk
Alan Jackson 11 of 11 4 of 4 6 of 6 1 of 1 4 of 4
Mor Weizer 11 of 11 – – – –
Ron Hoffman 11 of 11 – – – –
Hilary Stewart-Jones 10 of 11 4 of 4 5 of 6 1 of 1 4 of 4
Andrew Thomas 11 of 11 4 of 4 6 of 6 1 of 1 4 of 4
Paul Hewitt 2 of 11 1 of 4 3 of 6 _ 1 of 4
50     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
In addition, PwC LLP, in their capacity as 
providers of internal audit services, and 
members of the Group’s senior management 
including the Chief Security Officer, the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 
Chief Operating Officer may be invited to 
attend meetings to present matters or for 
the Committee to have the benefit of their 
experience. 
The primary responsibilities delegated to, 
and discharged by, the Committee include: 
• review management’s identification 
and mitigation of key risks to the 
achievement of the Company’s 
objectives; 
• monitor incidents and remedial activity; 
• agree and monitor the risk assessment 
programme including, in particular, 
changes to the regulation of online 
gambling and the assessment of 
licensees’ suitability; 
• agree on behalf of the Board and 
continually review a risk management 
strategy and relevant policies for the 
Group, including the employee code of 
conduct, anti-bribery policy, anti-money 
laundering policy and wider social 
responsibility issues; 
•  satisfy itself and report to the Board 
that the structures, processes and 
responsibilities for identifying and 
managing risks are adequate; and
• monitor and procure ongoing 
compliance with the conditions of the 
regulatory licenses held by the Group.
The Audit Committee’s report is set out 
on pages 55 to 57 and details the Audit 
Committee’s membership, activities during 
the year, significant issues that it considered 
in relation to the financial statements and 
how those issues were addressed. The report 
also contains an explanation of how the 
Committee assessed the effectiveness of 
the external audit process and the approach 
taken in relation to the appointment or 
reappointment of the auditors. 
 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible 
for making recommendations to the Board 
on remuneration policy for the Chairman, 
Executive Directors and senior management. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is 
set out on pages 58 to 72 and contains 
details the Remuneration Committee’s 
membership, activities during the year and 
the policy on remuneration. The Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee attends the 
annual general meeting to respond to any 
questions that shareholders might raise on 
the Remuneration Committee’s activities. 
Risk & Compliance Committee 
Under the Code, the Board is responsible 
for determining the nature and extent of 
the significant risks it is willing to take in 
achieving its strategic objectives. The Board 
should maintain a sound system of risk 
management and internal control systems 
(Main Principle C.2). 
The Risk & Compliance Committee is chaired 
by Paul Hewitt. The other members of the 
Committee are Alan Jackson (Non-executive 
Chairman), Andrew Thomas (Non-executive 
Director) and John Jackson (Non-executive 
Director). Ian Ince (Head of Regulatory 
and Compliance), Robert Penfold (Head of 
Internal Audit) and Eyal Wagner (Head of 
Compliance –Markets Limited) attend the 
Committee. The Company Secretary, Brian 
Moore, is secretary to the Committee. 
• approval of the Annual Report and 
Accounts, preliminary and half-
yearly financial statements; interim 
management statements and 
announcements regarding dividends; 
• approval of treasury policies, including 
foreign currency exposures and use  
of financial derivatives; 
• ensuring the maintenance of a sound 
system of internal control and risk 
management; 
• entering into agreements that are  
not in the ordinary course of business  
or material strategically or by reason  
of their size; 
• changes to the size, composition 
or structure of the Board and its 
Committees; and 
• corporate governance matters. 
In addition, the Board has adopted a formal 
delegation of authorities memorandum 
which sets out levels of authority for 
employees in the business. 
The Board has delegated certain of its 
responsibilities to a number of Committees 
of the Board to assist in the discharge of its 
duties. The principal Committees currently 
are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee, the Risk & Compliance 
Committee and the Nominations 
Committee. The minutes of each of these 
Committees are circulated to and reviewed 
by their members. The Company Secretary 
is secretary to each of these Committees. 
The Terms of Reference for each of the 
Committees are available to view on the 
Company’s website www.playtech.com.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee’s key objectives are 
the provision of effective governance over 
the appropriateness of the Group’s financial 
reporting, including the adequacy of related 
disclosures, the performance of both the 
internal and external audit function, and  
the management of the Group’s systems  
of internal control, business risks and  
related compliance activities.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     51 Governance
Directors’ governance report
continued
The Nominations Committee has not 
set itself any formal targets for diversity, 
including gender, and believes that 
appointments should be based on merit, 
compared against objective criteria, with 
the ultimate aim of ensuring the Board has 
the right skills, knowledge and experience 
that enable it to discharge its responsibilities 
properly. 
The Nominations Committee meets on 
an as-needed basis. One formal meeting 
was held in 2015. The meeting focused 
on the consideration of candidates for the 
appointment of additional Non-executive 
Directors that led, after a process involving 
the review of a number of potential 
candidates, to the appointment of Paul 
Hewitt in August 2015. No external search 
consultancy was used in the appointment 
of Paul Hewitt; however a list of candidates 
from a range of backgrounds was prepared 
and the Nominations Committee agreed  
a shortlist to be interviewed. Following  
a number of meetings between members 
and prospective candidates, the Nominations 
Committee went on to recommend Paul 
Hewitt’s appointment as a Non-executive 
Director of the Company having considered 
in detail his skills, knowledge and experience 
particularly with regard to the financial 
services industry given the expansion of the 
Group’s operations to include the Financials 
division. Paul Hewitt will formally stand for 
election at the next annual general meeting 
to be held on 18 May 2016. 
Disclosure Committee 
The Disclosure Committee ensures accuracy 
and timeliness of public announcements of 
the Company and monitors the Company’s 
obligations under the Listing Rules and 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the 
UK Listing Authority. Meetings are held 
as required. At the date of this Report the 
Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew 
Thomas (Chairman of the Audit Committee), 
Ron Hoffman (Chief Financial Officer),  
Brian Moore (Company Secretary) and 
Andrew Smith (Head of Investor Relations). 
A table setting out the principal significant 
risks identified by the Group (including 
with the oversight and input of the Risk & 
Compliance Committee) and the mitigating 
actions that have been undertaken by the 
Group in relation to these is set out on pages 
36 to 38 of this document. 
Nominations Committee 
The Board is required by the Code to 
establish a Nominations Committee 
which should lead the process for Board 
appointments and make recommendations 
for appointments to the Board. A majority 
of members of the Nominations Committee 
should be independent Non-executive 
Directors. The Nomination Committee’s 
key objective is to ensure that the Board 
comprises individuals with the necessary 
skills, knowledge and experience to  
ensure that it is effective in discharging  
its responsibilities.
The Nominations Committee comprises  
Alan Jackson (Chairman), Andrew Thomas, 
Paul Hewitt and John Jackson. 
The Nominations Committee reviews 
the structure, size and composition of 
the Board and its Committees and makes 
recommendations with regard to any 
changes considered necessary in the 
identification and nomination of new 
Directors, the reappointment of existing 
Directors and appointment of members  
to the Board’s Committees. It also assesses 
the roles of the existing Directors in  
office to ensure that there continues  
to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, 
knowledge, experience and diversity.  
The Nominations Committee reviews 
the senior leadership needs of the Group 
to enable it to compete effectively in 
the marketplace. The Nominations 
Committee also advises the Board on 
succession planning for Executive Director 
appointments although the Board itself 
is responsible for succession generally.
The Risk & Compliance Committee met 
formally four times during the year and in 
addition held a number of conference calls 
throughout the year, and a summary of the 
key matters considered by the Committee 
during 2015 are set out below: 
• monitor the regulatory position in  
a number of jurisdictions including  
those which are of relative importance 
to the Group financially and those  
where changes may represent a risk  
or opportunity for the Group; 
• consider the costs and regulatory 
requirements for the Group to seek 
relevant licenses in newly regulating 
markets; 
• applications by or on behalf of the 
Group for licences in existing or newly 
regulated markets; 
• monitor developments in relation  
to changes in the regulatory regime 
in the United Kingdom and receiving 
reports in relation to the likely impact 
on the Group and the need for entities 
within the Group to apply for licences; 
• consider the overall effectiveness  
of the compliance strategy and the 
regulatory risks to the Group’s  
operations and revenues; 
• receive and consider reports on 
discussions with, and the results  
of audits by, regulators; 
• monitoring compliance with regulatory 
licences held in all jurisdictions and 
adapting procedures, products and 
technology as appropriate;
• review reports by PwC as external 
advisers on risk management; 
consideration of the risks identified  
from the Group’s risk register and  
of the effectiveness of actions  
taken to mitigate such risks; and
• consideration of the key risks associated 
with the new Financials division.
The Committee has been kept informed  
of any changes to the regulatory position  
in any significant jurisdiction where the 
Group, through its licensees, and Financials 
division, may be exposed and updated  
on progress in relation to agreed action 
items on a regular basis. The Committee  
can also convene meetings on a more 
frequent basis or as when matters arise,  
if it is determined that enhanced monitoring 
of a specific risk is warranted. 
52     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Evaluation 
The Board is committed to an ongoing 
evaluation process of itself and its 
Committees to assess their performance and 
identify areas in which their effectiveness, 
policies and processes might be enhanced. 
Alan Jackson, in discussion with the Senior 
Non-executive Director, undertook a review 
of the performance of individual Directors. 
Andrew Thomas as Senior Non-executive 
Director considered the performance of Mr 
Jackson taking into account the views of the 
Executive Directors. There were no material 
areas of concern highlighted and the main 
outcome of the evaluation this year was to 
shape and define the Board’s objectives for 
the coming year, continuing the focus on 
Group strategy and ensuring the structures, 
capabilities and reporting are in place to 
achieve the Board’s goals. 
A review of the Board’s effectiveness 
was conducted in late 2015. The review 
was facilitated by Independent Audit 
Limited, using their Thinking Board online 
assessment service. Their facilitation helped 
ensure that the review was rigorous and 
covered the important influences on the 
Board’s effectiveness. The Board is in the 
process of considering the findings from 
this review and will continue to adopt and 
implement plans to further develop the 
effectiveness of the Board during 2016. 
Newly appointed Directors can expect  
a detailed and systematic induction on 
joining the Board. They meet various 
members of senior management and 
familiarise themselves with all core 
aspects of the Group’s operations. On 
request, meetings can be arranged with 
major shareholders. Members of senior 
management are invited to attend Board 
meetings from time to time to present  
on specific areas of the Group’s business. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the 
articles of association, the Board has decided 
to comply with the Code requirements that 
Directors of companies in the FTSE350 Index 
submit themselves for re-election annually. 
Therefore, all Directors are seeking their 
reappointment at this year’s AGM. 
The Board has collectively agreed that 
the Directors proposed for re-election at 
this year’s AGM have made significant 
contributions to the business since their  
last re-election and each has a key role  
to play in the formulation of the Group’s 
future strategy.
In certain circumstances, Directors are 
entitled to seek independent professional 
advice under an agreed Board procedure, 
which would then be organised by the 
Company Secretary, and in this regard  
the Company would meet their reasonable 
legal expenses. 
Balance of the Board 
The Board comprises individuals with  
wide business experience gained in various 
industry sectors related to the Group’s 
current business and it is the intention  
of the Board to ensure that the balance  
of the Directors reflects the changing  
needs of the business. 
The Board considers that it is of a size 
and has the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and independence that is 
appropriate for the Group’s current business. 
While not having a specific policy regarding 
the constitution and balance of the Board, 
potential new Directors are considered on 
their own merits with regard to their skills, 
knowledge, experience and credentials.
The Non-executive Directors continue to 
contribute their considerable collective 
experience and wide-ranging skills to the 
Board and provide a valuable independent 
perspective; where necessary constructively 
challenging proposals, policy and practices 
of executive management. In addition, they 
help formulate the Group’s strategy. 
 
Management Committee 
The senior management committee is the 
key management committee for the Group. 
The standing members of the Committee 
are Mor Weizer (Chief Executive Officer), Ron 
Hoffman (Chief Financial Officer), Shimon 
Akad (Chief Operating Officer), Uri Levy 
(VP Business Development), Ian Ince (Head 
of Regulatory and Compliance) and Brian 
Moore (Company Secretary). Other members 
of senior management are invited to the 
Committee as and when required. The 
Committee considers and discusses plans 
and recommendations coming from the 
operational side of the business and from 
the various product verticals, in the light the 
Group’s strategy and capital expenditure 
and investment budgets, including the 
implications of those plans (in areas such as 
resources, budget, legal and compliance). 
The Committee either approves the plans or 
as necessary refers the proposal for formal 
Board review and approval in accordance 
with the Company’s formal matters reserved 
for the Board. 
Board tenure 
In accordance with the Company’s articles 
of association, every new Director appointed 
in the year is required to stand for re-
election by shareholders at the annual 
general meeting (“AGM”) next following 
their appointment. Also, under the articles 
of association, at each AGM one-third of 
the Directors (excluding any Director who 
has been appointed by the Board since the 
previous AGM) or, if their number is not 
an integral multiple of three, the number 
nearest to one-third but not exceeding  
one-third shall retire from office (but so that 
if there are fewer than three Directors who 
are subject to retirement by rotation under 
the articles one shall retire).
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     53 Governance
Investor relations and 
communications 
The Company has well-established Investor 
Relations (“IR”) processes, which support  
a structured programme of communications 
with existing and potential investors and 
analysts. Executive Directors and members 
of the IR team participated in a number 
of investor events, attending industry 
conferences and regularly meet or are 
in contact with existing and potential 
institutional investors from around the 
world, ensuring that Group performance  
and strategy is effectively communicated, 
within regulatory constraints. Other 
representatives of the Board and senior 
management meet with investors from time 
to time. The Head of IR provides regular 
reports to the Board on related matters, 
issues of concern to investors, and analyst’s 
views and opinions. 
Whenever required, the Executive  
Directors and the Chairman communicate 
with Canaccord Genuity to confirm 
shareholder sentiment and to consult  
on governance issues. 
During 2015, 52 regulatory announcements 
were released informing the market of 
acquisitions, corporate actions, important 
customer contracts, financial results, 
the results of annual general meetings 
and Board changes. Copies of these 
announcements, together with other IR 
information and documents, are available  
on the Group website www.playtech.com. 
Summary 
In presenting this report, and having 
monitored, reviewed or approved all 
shareholder communications in 2015 and 
since the end of the financial year, the Board 
is confident that it has presented a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the 
Company’s position and prospects.
Alan Jackson
Chairman
25 February 2016
On 14 November 2014, the Company  
and Brickington entered into a variation 
to the relationship agreement (the 
“Relationship Agreement”) in order to ensure 
compliance with amendments made to 
the Listing Rules during 2014. The principal 
change to the Relationship Agreement was 
to provide that Brickington would not take 
steps to prevent the articles of association 
from permitting the election or re-election  
of independent Directors.
The Board believes that the provisions  
of the Relationship Agreement provides 
reassurance that Brickington will not seek  
to exercise its shareholding capriciously  
and re-enforces the independence  
of the Company. 
The Board confirms that, during 2015:
• the Company has complied with the 
independence provisions included  
in the Relationship Agreement;
• so far as the Company is aware, the 
independence provisions included in 
the Relationship Agreement have been 
complied with by Brickington and its 
associates; and
• so far as the Company is aware, the 
procurement obligations included  
in the Relationship Agreement, have 
been complied with by Brickington  
and its associates. 
Separately, Mr Sagi entered into an 
agreement with the Company in 2012 
pursuant to which he will, as and when 
requested to do so by the Board, provide 
advisory services to the Company for  
a nominal fee of €1 per annum until  
either Mr Sagi ceases to be interested 
(whether legally or beneficially) in any 
Ordinary Shares or either party terminates 
the agreement following its fifth anniversary, 
whichever is the earlier. During the year,  
the Company has sought advisory services 
on occasion in relation to certain significant 
strategic matters.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate 
in the Company’s AGM, at which the 
Chairman will present the key highlights  
of the Group’s performance. The Board will 
be available at the AGM to answer questions 
from shareholders.
Directors’ governance report
continued
Relationship with shareholders 
Primary responsibility for effective 
communication with shareholders lies 
with the Chairman, but all the Company’s 
Directors are available to meet with 
shareholders throughout the year. Alan 
Jackson, Mor Weizer and Ron Hoffman  
met with a number of shareholders to 
discuss the Company’s business strategy 
throughout the year. The Executive Directors 
prepare a general presentation for analysts 
and institutional shareholders following the 
interim and preliminary announcements. 
Details of these presentations together 
with the Group’s financial statements and 
other announcements can be found on the 
investor relations section of the Company’s 
website. Further presentations are also 
prepared following significant acquisitions 
and whenever the Board considers it 
beneficial to shareholders to do so. Regular 
meetings with shareholders and potential 
shareholders are also held by the Head of 
Investor Relations, and in conjunction with 
either the Chief Executive Officer or the  
Chief Financial Officer.
The Company endeavours to answer all 
queries raised by shareholders promptly.
The Company’s largest shareholder is 
Brickington Trading Limited (“Brickington”). 
Brickington is a wholly owned subsidiary 
of a trust, one of the ultimate beneficiaries 
of which is Teddy Sagi, one of the Group’s 
founders. In connection with the Company’s 
premium listing on the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange, the Company 
and Brickington entered into a relationship 
agreement, pursuant to which Brickington 
has agreed that: (i) it will vote its shares in 
such a manner so as to procure that each 
member of the Group is capable of carrying 
on its business independently of Brickington 
and its associates; and (ii) it will not exercise 
any of the voting rights attaching to its 
shares in such a manner so as to procure  
any amendment to the articles of association 
which would be inconsistent with, undermine 
or breach any of the provisions of the 
relationship agreement. Brickington also 
agreed that all transactions and relationships 
between it (or any of its associates) and the 
Company will be on arm’s length terms and 
on a normal commercial basis. 
 
54     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Audit Committee report
Composition 
The Audit Committee comprises three 
independent Non-executive Directors  
and is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who 
is a qualified Chartered Accountant and 
member of the Institute of Taxation. 
Therefore Andrew has recent relevant 
financial experience, in compliance with the 
Code provision C3.1, and was appointed to 
chair the Committee on his appointment to 
the Board in June 2012. The other members 
of the Audit Committee are Paul Hewitt and 
John Jackson, both Non-executive Directors. 
Alan Jackson, Non-executive Chairman, 
resigned from the Committee in February 
2016. The Committee is authorised to obtain 
independent advice if considered necessary. 
The Chief Financial Officer attended all 
meetings of the Audit Committee by 
invitation, and the Head of Finance was 
invited to attend the meetings of the 
Committee that considered the audited 
accounts and the interim financial 
statements, as was the external auditor,  
BDO LLP (“BDO”). The members of the 
Committee were also able to meet the 
auditors without any Executive Directors 
being present in order to receive feedback 
from them on matters such as the quality  
of interaction with management. The 
Chairman of the Committee also met with 
BDO separately on several occasions to 
discuss matters involving the audit process. 
During the year, the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee met, individually and in 
private, with members of the management 
team in order to understand more fully 
the context and challenges of Playtech’s 
business operations and thereby ensure the 
Committee’s time was used most effectively. 
He also visited various operations of the 
business. The activities of the Committee 
members during the last year have enabled 
it to gain a good understanding of the 
culture of the organisation, the risks and 
challenges faced and the adequacy and 
timeliness of the action being taken to 
address them. 
• reviewing promptly all reports on the 
Company from the internal auditors and 
reviewing and assess the annual internal 
audit plan; 
• monitoring the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity, including 
the effectiveness of the audit services;
• monitoring and approving the scope 
and costs of audit; and 
• ensuring audit independence and  
pre-approving any significant non-audit 
services to be provided by the auditor. 
Audit Committee’s activities 
In 2015, the Audit Committee met formally 
four times.
Matters that were considered by the 
Committee during the year included:
• valuation of available-for-sale 
investments held by the Group;
• management of the Group’s cash 
balances (in particular the effectiveness 
of the Group’s treasury management and 
hedging practices) and stability of the 
Group’s banking relationships;
• adoption of an updated risk register  
for the Group;
• effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal controls and risk management; 
• entry into related party transactions and 
structured agreements;
• updates on people risk, and 
cybersecurity risks;
• results of internal audit reviews, 
management action plans to resolve  
any issues arising and the tracking  
of their resolution; and
• review of committee Terms  
of Reference.
Its work also included reviewing the final 
and interim financial statements and matters 
raised by management and BDO. After 
discussions with both management and the 
external auditor, to include the consideration 
of acquisition accounting relating to Markets 
Limited, the Committee determined that 
the key risks of misstatement of the Group’s 
financial statements, related to the following 
areas (which are described in the relevant 
accounting policies and detailed in the 
Notes to the financial statements on  
pages 94 to 123).
Responsibilities 
The Audit Committee’s primary function 
is to assist the Board in fulfilling its 
financial oversight responsibilities. The 
Board is required by the Code to establish 
formal and transparent arrangements for 
considering how it should apply required 
financial reporting standards and internal 
control principles and also for maintaining 
appropriate relationships with the 
Company’s external auditors, BDO.  
The Committee’s terms of reference  
can be viewed on the Company’s website 
www.playtech.com. 
In particular, the Code calls for the 
description of the work of the Audit 
Committee to include the significant 
issues considered in relation to the 
financial statements and how they were 
addressed, how the Committee assessed 
the effectiveness of the external audit 
process, the approach of the Committee to 
appointing the auditors and how objectivity 
and independence are safeguarded relative 
to non-audit services. 
The primary responsibilities delegated to, 
and discharged by, the Committee included: 
• monitoring and challenging the 
effectiveness of internal control and 
associated functions; 
• approving and amending Group 
accounting policies; 
• reviewing and ensuring the integrity of 
interim and annual financial statements, 
in particular the actions and judgements 
of management in relation thereto 
before submission to the Board; 
• monitoring the implementation  
of the Company’s Code of Business 
Ethics (“Code of Ethics”) and compliance 
with their provisions; 
• reviewing the Company’s arrangements 
for its employees to raise concerns, 
anonymously or in confidence and 
without fear of retaliation, about  
possible wrongdoing in financial 
reporting or other matters arising  
under the Code of Ethics; 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     55 Governance
Audit Committee report
continued
operates continue to evolve, based on the 
aforementioned external and internal advice 
received, the Audit Committee considered 
developments and pending changes in 
domestic and international tax laws and 
was satisfied that adequate tax provisions 
and disclosures were being made for any 
potential liabilities. 
Related party transactions 
The Audit Committee examined the 
practices and procedures adopted by 
the Group to ensure that related party 
transactions are conducted on arm’s 
length terms. The Committee considered 
the processes followed in relation to such 
transactions that were entered into during 
2015 and concluded that the process had 
worked effectively and that all related party 
transactions had been properly conducted 
on an arm’s length basis and appropriately 
disclosed in the financial statements. BDO 
undertook a review of this area as part  
of its audit work.
Financial statements
The Group’s financial statements are 
reviewed by the Audit Committee in 
advance of their consideration by the 
Board. The Committee confirms that it 
is satisfied that the auditor has fulfilled 
its responsibilities with diligence and 
professionalism.
Having undertaken the processes described 
above, the Committee is satisfied that the 
financial statements appropriately address 
the critical judgements and key estimates 
(both in respect to the amounts reported 
and the disclosures).
On the basis of the above, the Committee 
consider that the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, 
understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model  
and strategy.
calculation were reviewed. The Committee 
received a report on the outcome of 
the impairment review performed by 
management. The impairment review 
was also an area of focus for the external 
auditor, who reported their findings to the 
Committee. The Committee satisfied itself 
that no material impairments were required 
to the carrying value of goodwill or other 
intangible assets.
Legal, regulatory and taxation
Given the developing nature of the 
gambling sector in many countries across 
the world, there is a risk that potential 
material legal or regulatory matters are not 
disclosed or provided for in the financial 
statements and therefore the Committee 
considered with the Group’s compliance 
and legal departments whether there were 
any known instances of material breaches 
in regulatory and licence compliance that 
needed to be disclosed or other claims 
that required provisions to be made in 
the financial statements. In particular, 
the Committee considered forthcoming 
changes in the regulatory environment  
in a number of jurisdictions in which the 
Group’s licensees operate, in particular in 
the United Kingdom where a new licensing 
regime was introduced during 2014 that 
required the Group to obtain regulatory 
licences. The Committee considered the 
control systems adopted to identify potential 
regulatory issues and the compliance control 
systems operating in the Group. Discussions 
were held with both the Head of Regulatory 
and Compliance and the General Counsel. 
Following this review, the Committee 
were satisfied that adequate provisions 
and disclosures were being made for any 
potential contingent liabilities.
The Audit Committee reviewed and 
approved the overall tax management  
and strategy of the Group during the year 
in light of external and internal advice 
sought by management and reviewed 
how the Group considers tax as part of its 
overall business planning. Consideration 
was given to transfer pricing studies carried 
out on behalf of the Group in the period, 
and assessed, in respect of earlier studies, 
whether there had been any change in the 
basis of operations in the relevant territories. 
Furthermore, given that the tax rules and 
practices governing the e-commerce 
environment in which the Group 
Revenue Recognition 
The Audit Committee reviewed the 
judgements made in respect of revenue 
recognition, in particular to assess the 
recognition of revenue from turnkey and 
other contracts where the Group is to be 
remunerated other than by way of a simple 
revenue share arrangement, and undertook 
a review of key contracts. Following 
this review, to include consideration of 
the acquisition of Markets Limited, the 
Committee concluded that the timing  
of revenue recognition continues to be  
in line with IFRS requirements. BDO 
performed detailed audit procedures on 
revenue recognition and reported their 
findings to the Committee, which was 
satisfied as a result of the review process  
that the approach taken by the Group  
in the financial statements was appropriate. 
Business combinations
The Audit Committee reviewed the 
judgements made in connection with 
the accounting treatment for business 
combinations during the year. In particular 
the acquisition of Markets Limited (formerly 
TradeFX), to determine whether the assets 
and liabilities recognised in the financial 
statements are carried at an appropriate 
fair value. The Committee reviewed the 
purchase price allocation (prepared by 
professional advisers), together with the 
underlying judgements and forecasts used 
to determine the fair value of intangible 
assets and contingent consideration, and 
satisfied itself that the approach to the 
accounting treatment taken by the Group 
was appropriate and in accordance with  
IFRS requirements and accounting practice.
Goodwill and intangible assets 
During the year, the Audit Committee also 
considered the judgements made in relation 
to the valuation methodology adopted by 
management to support the carrying value 
of goodwill and other intangible assets 
to determine whether there was a risk of 
material misstatement in the carrying value 
of these assets and whether an impairment 
should be recognised. The Committee 
considered the assumptions, estimates 
and judgements made by management 
to support the models that underpin the 
valuation of intangible assets in the balance 
sheet. Business plans and cash-flow forecasts 
prepared by management supporting the 
future performance expectations used in the 
56     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
The Audit Committee will continue to assess 
the effectiveness and independence of the 
external auditors. In doing so, the Audit 
Committee will consider a formal tender 
process in accordance with the provisions 
of the Code. The Audit Committee will 
continue to comply with the Competition 
Commission Order relating to the statutory 
audit market for FTSE 350 companies, which 
came into effect from 1 October 2014. The 
Audit Committee expects a formal tender 
process to be held no later than 2018. 
Andrew Thomas 
Chairman of Audit Committee 
25 February 2016
The Board confirms that any necessary 
action will be taken to remedy any 
significant failings or weaknesses identified 
from any Internal Audit reviews. The system 
of internal controls and audit is designed to 
ensure local legal and regulatory compliance 
and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives. It 
can therefore only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
Auditor’s independence 
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the 
Board, undertakes a formal assessment  
of the auditor’s independence each year, 
which includes: 
• a review of non-audit related services 
provided by BDO and related fees; 
• a discussion with the auditor of a written 
report detailing all relationships with the 
Group and any other parties which could 
affect independence or the perception 
of independence; 
• a review of the auditor’s own procedures 
for ensuring independence of the audit 
firm and partners and staff involved in 
the audit, including the periodic rotation 
of the audit partner; 
• obtaining written confirmation from the 
auditors that they are independent; and 
• a review of fees paid to the auditors in 
respect of audit and non-audit services. 
During the year the auditors undertook 
certain specific pieces of non-audit 
work (including work in relation to tax 
matters and the evaluation of potential 
acquisition targets). BDO were selected 
to undertake these tasks due to their 
familiarity with the gambling industry 
and, as regards tax, their alignment with 
work carried out under the audit. In order 
to maintain BDO’s independence and 
objectivity, BDO undertook its standard 
independence procedures in relation to 
those engagements. Further details of the 
non-audit fees are included in Note 6 to the 
financial statements on page 89. 
Internal control 
In 2013, the Company established an 
out-sourced Internal Audit function 
responsible for reviewing, reporting and 
monitoring improvements in internal control 
performance across its operations, involving 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”).
In January 2015, we appointed Robert 
Penfold, a risk professional with extensive 
sector experience, who acts as the Group’s 
Head of Internal Audit. Robert reports to 
the Audit Committee on a regular basis and 
engages with PwC and other specialists 
where appropriate. 
During the year, PwC were engaged to 
perform a review of a number of areas of 
the Group including I.T security and disaster 
recovery arrangements. In addition to 
these audit services, they provided regular 
business updates to the Head of Audit 
on matters of corporate governance. The 
output of these audits was considered by 
the Audit Committee and members of 
the Risk & Compliance Committee; and in 
light of the recommendations made by the 
PwC and the Head of Audit, certain actions 
were agreed to mitigate the risks identified 
and to improve existing processes. Further 
work is being undertaken to focus on key 
risk processes and is intended to provide 
ongoing independent assurance that these 
key processes remain effective.
In recognition of the increasing levels  
of complexity in relation to internal controls 
and a desired commitment to having  
a dedicated in-house function, we recently 
appointed two experienced Internal Auditors 
to report directly to the Head of Internal 
Audit. The relationship between PwC and 
Playtech has therefore moved to a co-
sourced arrangement. However, PWC will 
continue to support the Internal Audit Team 
where necessary given their experience of the 
Group and the specialist services they offer. 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     57 Governance
Remuneration report – annual statement
Dear Shareholder 
On behalf of the Board, I welcome  
the opportunity to present the 
Remuneration Committee’s report on 
Directors’ remuneration for the year to  
31 December 2015. This report, as required 
by the Code, describes how the Board has 
applied the principles of the Code  
to Directors’ remuneration. 
Although Playtech is an Isle of Man 
incorporated entity and, as such, is not 
required to comply with the UK regulations 
on Directors’ remuneration, we recognise 
the importance of shareholder transparency. 
Accordingly, we can confirm that the 
Company adheres to the UK regulations  
 and the report below is divided into: (i) this 
Annual Statement; (ii) the Remuneration 
Policy Report containing a re-presentation  
of the Group’s Remuneration Policy, as 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM 
and which is not being amended at this time; 
and (iii) the Annual Report on Remuneration 
(or “ARR”) that reports on the implementation  
of the Company’s stated Remuneration  
Policy for the year to 31 December 2015.  
The ARR and this Statement will be the 
subject of an advisory shareholder resolution 
at the forthcoming AGM.
Philosophy
Our Remuneration Policy, which is set out 
in more detail in this report, is designed 
to reward the contributions of senior 
management but also to incentivise them  
to maintain and enhance Playtech’s position 
as the software and services provider of 
choice to the gambling sector and to deliver 
in line with Playtech’s M&A strategy. 
Remuneration is delivered via relatively 
modest fixed remuneration and simple and 
transparent incentive-based plans enabling 
the Executive Directors to be rewarded for 
delivering strong financial performance and 
sustainable returns to shareholders. In fast 
moving sectors such as ours we need to 
apply the policy flexibly in order to deliver 
the right level of overall pay to Directors.
The Committee is satisfied that the 
total remuneration of the Executive 
Directors is reasonable in the context of 
performance delivered and is below the 
total remuneration delivered in comparable 
businesses in the Gaming sector.
Implementation of 
remuneration policy for 2016
No changes are proposed to the 
Remuneration Policy from that presented 
and approved at the annual general  
meeting held in May 2014. Further details  
of the Company’s Remuneration Policy  
and structure are provided in this report.  
The Remuneration Committee believes  
the current policy reinforces the Company’s 
strategy to create a business with significant 
scale and a full product and service 
capability, underpinned by a pre-eminent 
technology platform. We believe that 
the Remuneration Policy and incentive 
framework we have in place can support  
the Company’s strategy in the current 
economic environment and help to retain 
and motivate our management team  
in order to assist in driving strong returns  
for our shareholders. 
For this year the Committee has reviewed 
and expanded the recovery and withholding 
provisions for annual bonus and LTIP awards 
to ensure that they remain in line with 
modern standards.
The Committee will review the continued 
appropriateness of the Remuneration Policy 
during 2016 ahead of the next shareholder 
vote on our policy at the 2017 AGM. The 
Remuneration Committee encourages 
dialogue with the Company’s shareholders 
and will discuss any changes to our policy 
with major institutional investors ahead of 
the 2017 AGM. The Committee and I hope 
we can count on your continued support  
at the 2016 AGM.
John Jackson 
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee
25 February 2016 
Performance outcome  
for 2015 
2015 was an extremely busy year for 
Playtech with outstanding operational  
and financial performance. Progress  
has been driven through strong organic 
growth and successful acquisitions and 
strategic agreements. 
This excellent performance resulted in 
achieving impressive results across our  
key financial performance measures including 
growth in revenue (38%), adjusted EBITDA 
(22%), adjusted net profit (8%) and adjusted 
diluted EPS (3%). The 2015 results significantly 
exceeded both internal forecasts and external 
market expectations against a backdrop of an 
ever evolving regulatory and tax landscape. 
Given the strong financial and operational 
results, the Remuneration Committee 
considered that the Executive Directors had 
exceeded both the challenging financial 
targets and the other strategic objectives 
given to them at the start of 2015, including 
successful negotiations with new and 
existing customers, expanding the business  
in regulated and soon-to-be regulated 
markets, strengthening the Group’s 
regulatory functions in light of increased 
regulation in the UK and elsewhere and  
the successful integration of Markets Limited 
(formerly TradeFX Limited). Accordingly, 
in recognition of this strong performance, 
the Committee has, consistent with our 
Remuneration Policy, awarded a bonus 
of 175% of salary to the CEO and 125% 
of salary to the CFO. The Committee is 
very comfortable that this level of bonus 
reflects the delivery of superior financial 
performance together with the strong 
personal performance of the Executive 
Directors during 2015. Further details  
of the bonuses are set out in the ARR.
As outlined in our annual report for  
2014, the Remuneration Committee 
considered the position of grants to 
Executive Directors pursuant to the Group’s 
Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 and made 
grants to them in December 2015. Further 
details of the grants are set out in the ARR. 
No LTIP awards vested by reference to 
performance in 2015 as the first awards 
under the LTIP were only granted in the year.
58     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Remuneration policy report
The Remuneration Policy was approved 
by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, with 
the expectation it would be applied for a 
period of three years from that date. The 
Remuneration Policy is re-presented here 
for completeness and transparency. Some 
minor amendments have been made to  
(i) references to particular years, (ii) page  
and Note references, and (iii) the removal  
of the Total Remuneration Opportunity 
charts which were in relation to 2014 pay 
levels. The full original report can be viewed 
at http://playtech-ir.production.investis.com/ 
~/media/Files/P/Playtech-IR/results- 
reports-webcasts/2016/2015-report-and- 
accounts.pdf. 
The Remuneration Committee reviews 
the Company’s remuneration philosophy 
and structure each year to ensure that the 
remuneration framework remains effective 
in supporting the Company’s strategic 
objectives, is in line with best practice and 
fairly rewards individuals for the contribution 
that they make to the business, having 
regard to the international nature, size and 
complexity of the Group’s operations and 
the need to attract and motivate employees 
of the highest calibre. 
Remuneration packages are designed to 
reward the Executive Directors and members 
of the senior management team fairly for 
their contributions, whilst remaining within 
the range of benefits offered by similar 
companies in the sector. 
The Remuneration Committee believes 
that its remuneration policy creates a 
coherent and appropriate framework for 
remunerating Executive Directors and other 
senior executives of the Company and draws 
a clearer link between performance and 
reward. The details of this policy are clearly 
set out in the following pages. 
The Committee considers that the targets 
set for the different components of 
performance related remuneration are both 
appropriate and sufficiently demanding in 
the context of the business environment 
and the challenges with which the Group 
is faced as well as complying with the 
provisions of the Code. 
 
The Committee believes that the individual 
contributions made by Executive Directors 
and senior management are fundamental  
to the successful performance of the 
Company. The Committee after discussion 
with the Executive Directors and its  
advisers, New Bridge Street, has therefore 
adopted a remuneration policy with the 
following objectives: 
• seek to pay executives competitively, 
recognising that they have highly 
marketable skills to companies already 
in (and those considering entry to) 
the online gambling industry, but 
acknowledge local market levels, and 
where appropriate, practices; 
• incentivise and reward behaviours  
that will contribute to superior  
Company performance; 
• avoid the need to make ad-hoc 
payments outside the formal structure; 
• enable the Company to attract and 
retain international executives at the 
required calibre, particularly in potential 
new markets; 
• be simple and understandable; 
• provide good lock-in of key employees 
through deferred elements; and 
• avoid reward for failure. 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     59 Governance
Remuneration policy report
continued
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
The following table gives an overview of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors:
Element and  
maximum
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Salary To attract, retain and 
motivate high calibre 
individuals for the role and 
duties required
To provide market 
competitive salary relative 
to the external market
To reflect appropriate 
skills, development and 
experience over time
Normally reviewed annually 
by the Committee, effective 
in June
Takes account of the 
external market and other 
relevant factors including 
internal relativities and 
individual performance
Other than when an 
executive changes roles 
or where benchmarking 
indicates individual salaries 
require realignment, 
annual increases will not 
exceed the general level of 
increases for the Group’s 
employees, taking into 
account the country where 
the executive ordinarily 
works
Where benchmarking 
indicates that any individual 
salaries require realignment, 
these may be spread over 
a period of time if the 
required adjustment is 
particularly large
N/A
Bonus Clear and direct incentive 
linked to annual 
performance targets
Incentivise annual delivery 
of financial measures and 
personal performance
Corporate measures 
selected consistent with 
and complement the 
budget and strategic plan
Paid in cash Normally 150% of salary for 
the CEO (but 200% in very 
exceptional circumstances 
as described below) and 
100% of salary for other 
Executive Directors (but 
150% in very exceptional 
circumstances). The 
additional limit will only be 
used in truly exceptional 
circumstances where 
performance significantly 
exceeds the targets already 
set for bonus and reflects 
the unique and challenging 
environment in which the 
Company operates
Based on a mixture of 
financial performance 
(including adjusted EBITDA) 
and performance against 
strategic objectives
No less than 70% of the 
bonus will be dependent 
on financial performance
Bonus is paid on a sliding 
scale of 0% for threshold 
increasing to 100% for 
maximum performance
60     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Element and  
maximum
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”)
Aligned to key strategic 
objective of delivering 
strong returns to 
shareholders and  
earnings performance
Grant of performance 
shares, restricted shares  
or options
Awards may be subject 
to clawback in certain 
circumstances
150% and 100% of salary in 
performance shares for the 
CEO and CFO respectively
Performance measured 
over three years
Performance targets 
aligned with the Group’s 
strategy of delivering strong 
returns to shareholders and 
earnings performance
25% of the awards vest for 
threshold performance
Pension Provide retirement benefits Provision of cash allowance 5% of salary N/A
Other benefits To help attract and retain 
high calibre individuals
Provision of private 
medical, permanent health 
insurance, life insurance and 
rental and accommodation 
expenses on relocation
Non pensionable
N/A N/A
Share 
ownership 
guidelines
The Company has a policy 
of encouraging Directors  
to build a shareholding in 
the Company
Executive Directors  
are required to retain  
50% of the net of tax  
out-turn from the vesting  
of awards under the LTIP 
until a shareholding with  
a minimum value has  
been achieved
N/A N/A
Non-executive 
Directors
To provide a competitive 
fee for the performance 
of NED duties, sufficient 
to attract high calibre 
individuals to the role
Fees are set in conjunction 
with the duties undertaken
Other than when  
an individual changes  
roles or where 
benchmarking indicates 
fees require realignment, 
annual increases will not 
exceed the general level  
of increases for the  
Group’s employees
N/A
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     61 Governance
For the appointment of a new Chairman  
or Non-executive Director, the fee 
arrangement would be set in accordance 
with the approved remuneration policy  
in force at that time. 
Service contracts and  
exit payments 
Executive Directors 
The service agreements of the Executive 
Directors are with PTVB Management 
Limited, a wholly owned Isle of Man 
incorporated subsidiary of the Company. 
The service agreement of the Chief Financial 
Officer was entered into on 5 December 
2012 and effective from 1 January 2013  
and the service agreement of the Chief 
Executive Officer was amended effective 
from 1 January 2013. Both service 
agreements are for an indefinite term  
and provide for formal notice of 12 months 
to be served to terminate the agreement, 
either by the Company or the Director. 
Future service contracts will provide for  
a notice period of up to 12 months. Set  
out in the table below are the other key 
terms of the Executive Directors’ terms  
and conditions of employment: 
Normal policy will be for the new Director 
to participate in the remuneration structure 
detailed above, including the maximum 
incentive levels of 350% and 250% of salary 
for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer respectively. The Committee 
may decide that different performance 
criteria will apply to awards made in the 
year of appointment from those stated in 
the policy above. The Committee may also 
provide relocation expenses/arrangements, 
legal fees and costs.
The variable pay elements that may be 
offered will be subject to the maximum limits 
stated in the policy table. The Remuneration 
Committee may consider it necessary and 
in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders to offer additional cash and/
or make a grant of shares (including use 
of awards made under section 9.4.2 of the 
Listing Rules) in order to compensate the 
individual for remuneration that would be 
forfeited from the current employer. Where 
possible such awards would be structured 
to mirror the value, form and structure of the 
forfeited awards or to provide alignment with 
existing shareholders. 
In the case of an internal promotion, any 
commitments entered into prior to the 
promotion shall continue to apply. Any 
variable pay elements shall be entitled to pay 
out according to its original terms on grant. 
Remuneration policy report
continued
Explanation of chosen 
performance measures  
and target setting 
Performance measures have been  
selected to reflect the key performance 
indicators which are critical to the realisation 
of our business strategy and delivery of 
shareholder returns. 
The performance targets are reviewed  
each year to ensure that they are sufficiently 
challenging. When setting these targets the 
Committee will take into account a number 
of different reference points including, for 
financial targets, the Company’s business 
plan and consensus analyst forecasts of the 
Company’s performance. Full vesting will only 
occur for what the Remuneration Committee 
considers to be stretching performance. 
Policy on recruitment or 
promotion of Executive 
Directors 
Base salary levels will be set to reflect the 
experience of the individual, appropriate 
market data and internal relativities. The 
Remuneration Committee may feel it is 
appropriate to appoint a new Director 
on a below market salary with a view to 
making above market and workforce annual 
increases over a number of years to reach 
the desired salary positioning subject to 
individual and Company performance.
Provision Detail
Remuneration Base salary and benefits 
Company car
Private health insurance for Director and dependents
Life assurance
25 days’ paid annual leave in the case of the CFO and 30 days’ paid annual leave  
in the case of the CEO
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules
Participation in LTIP , subject to rules plan
Contribution equal to 5% of salary to personal pension plan
Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a change of control
Notice period 12 months’ notice on either side
Termination payment The Company may make a payment in lieu of notice equal to basic salary plus benefits  
for the period of notice served
Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months thereafter
62     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consideration of employment 
conditions elsewhere 
The Remuneration Committee when  
setting the policy for Executive Directors 
takes into consideration the pay and 
employment conditions through the 
Company as a whole. 
In determining salary increases for Executive 
Directors, the Committee considers the 
general level of salary increase across the 
Company. Typically salary increases will 
be aligned with those received elsewhere 
in the Company unless the Remuneration 
Committee considers that specific 
circumstances require a different level of 
salary increase for Executive Directors. 
The Company extends its annual bonus plan 
and share awards to senior management 
and other key members of the workforce  
as the Remuneration Committee feels that  
it is important to incentivise and retain these 
employees in order for the Company to 
continue its development.
Consideration of  
shareholder views 
The Company is committed to engagement 
with shareholders and will seek major 
shareholders’ views in advance of  
making significant changes to its 
remuneration policies. 
Non-executive Directors 
The Non-executive Directors each have 
specific letters of appointment, rather 
than service contracts. Their remuneration 
is determined by the Board within limits 
set by the articles of association and is set 
taking into account market data as obtained 
from independent Non-executive Director 
fee surveys and their responsibilities. Non-
executive Directors are appointed for 
an initial term of three years and, under 
normal circumstances would be expected 
to serve for additional three-year terms, 
up to a maximum of nine years, subject to 
satisfactory performance and re-election at 
the annual general meeting as required. 
On his appointment as Chairman of the 
Board being announced, Alan Jackson 
entered into a new letter of appointment 
(effective from 9 October 2013) when Roger 
Withers announced his decision to retire as 
Chairman of the Board in August 2013. 
The table below is a summary of the key 
terms of the letters of appointment for the 
Non-executive Directors. 
In accordance with provision B.3.2 of the 
Code the letters of appointment of the 
Non-executive Directors are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered 
office and will be available before and after 
the forthcoming AGM.
A bonus is not ordinarily payable unless 
the individual is employed and not under 
notice on the payment date. However, the 
Remuneration Committee may exercise its 
discretion to award a bonus payment for the 
notice period served (not on garden leave).
The LTIP rules provide that other than in 
certain “good leaver” circumstances awards 
lapse on cessation of employment. Where an 
individual is a “good leaver” the Committee’s 
policy is for the award to vest on the normal 
vesting date (or cessation of employment  
in the event of death) following the 
application of performance targets and  
a pro-rata reduction to take account of the 
proportion of the vesting period that has 
elapsed. The Committee has discretion to 
partly or completely dis-apply pro-rating  
or to permit awards to vest on cessation  
of employment. The Committee 
acknowledges that Executive Directors 
leave for a variety of reasons that do not 
necessarily fall within the prescribed 
categories in the plan rules. It therefore 
retains discretion to deem an individual  
to be a “good leaver” in accordance with  
the plan rules and in making that decision 
will take into account the performance  
of the individual in office and their reason  
for leaving. 
Name Date Term Termination
Alan Jackson 29 August 2013 Until third AGM after appointment 
unless not re-elected
120 days’ notice on either side  
or if not re-elected, disqualification 
or commits gross misconduct
Andrew Thomas 19 June 2012 Until third AGM after appointment 
unless not re-elected
120 days’ notice on either side  
or if not re-elected, disqualification 
or commits gross misconduct
Paul Hewitt 27 August 2015 Until third AGM after appointment 
unless not re-elected
90 days’ notice on either side  
or if not re-elected, disqualification 
or commits gross misconduct
John Jackson 1 January 2016 Until third AGM after appointment 
unless not re-elected
90 days’ notice on either side  
or if not re-elected, disqualification 
or commits gross misconduct
Note:  Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed a Non-executive Director on 9 October 2013 and accepted the position of Deputy Chairman with effect from 1 December 2014. Hilary resigned  
as a Director on 31 December 2015.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     63 Governance
Remuneration policy report
continued
In relation to the annual bonus plan,  
the Remuneration Committee retains 
discretion over: 
• the participants; 
• the timing of a payment; 
• the determination of the amount  
of a bonus payment; 
• determination of the treatment  
of leavers; and 
• the annual review of performance 
measures and weighting, and targets for 
the annual bonus plan from year to year. 
In relation to both the Company’s LTIP  
and annual bonus plan, the Committee 
retains the ability to adjust the targets  
and/or set different measures if events occur 
(e.g. material acquisition and/or divestment 
of a Group business) which cause it to 
determine that the conditions are no longer 
appropriate and the amendment is required 
so that the conditions achieve their original 
purpose and are not materially less difficult 
to satisfy. Given the unique, fast-changing 
and challenging environment in which 
the Group operates, the Remuneration 
Committee considers that it needs some 
discretion if, acting fairly and reasonably, 
it feels that the pay-out is inconsistent 
with the Company’s overall performance 
taking account of any factors it considers 
relevant. Any use of the above discretions 
would, where relevant, be explained in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as 
appropriate, be the subject of consultation 
with the Company’s major shareholders. 
Legacy arrangements 
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving  
the Remuneration Policy, authority is 
given to the Company to honour any 
commitments previously entered into with 
current or former Directors that have been 
disclosed previously to shareholders.
The policy described above includes 
some flexibility to allow the Remuneration 
Committee discretion to increase the 
maximum bonus payment to an Executive 
Director; it was considered that given the 
unique, fast-changing and challenging 
environment in which the Group operates, 
the Committee needed some discretion if, 
acting fairly and reasonably it feels that the 
pay-out is inconsistent with the Company’s 
overall performance taking account of any 
factors it considers relevant. 
Discretion vested in the 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee will operate 
the annual bonus and LTIP according to their 
respective rules (or relevant documents) 
and in accordance with the Listing Rules 
where relevant. The Committee retains 
discretion, consistent with market practice, 
in a number of regards to the operation and 
administration of these plans. These include, 
but are not limited to, the following in 
relation to the LTIP: 
• the participants; 
• the timing of grant of an award; 
• the size of an award; 
• the determination of vesting; 
• discretion required when dealing  
with a change of control or restructuring 
of the Group; 
• determination of the treatment of 
leavers based on the rules of the plan 
and the appropriate treatment chosen; 
• adjustments required in certain 
circumstances (e.g. rights issues, 
corporate restructuring events and 
special dividends); and 
• the annual review of performance 
measures and weighting, and targets  
for the LTIP from year to year. 
64     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Annual report on remuneration
The sections of this report subject to audit have been highlighted. 
Directors’ emoluments (in €) (Audited)
   Mor Weizer  Ron Hoffman
Executive Director  2015 2014 2015 2014
Salary
1
  761,425 543,019 480,656 270,035
Bonus
2
  1,306,113  1,150,200 636,094 575,100
Long-term incentives  313,176 – 130,488 3,790
Benefits
3
  29,663 19,356 30,099 23,868
Pension  39,043 27,151 24,033 13,534
Total emoluments  2,449,420 1,739,726 1,301,370 886,327
1 Basic salary of the Executive Directors is determined in pounds sterling and then converted into euros at the average exchange rate applicable during the relevant financial year for the purpose 
of this report. As noted on page 67, the salary for Ron Hoffman was increased from £300,000 to £375,000 with effect from 1 June 2015 and the salary of Mor Weizer of £550,000 was effective 
from 1 January 2015. 
2 The figure for bonuses in 2015 above represents a payment as determined by the Remuneration Committee for the Executive Directors given the excellent performance during the period  
and by reference to their salaries as at 31 December 2015. The bonuses were determined in pounds sterling and then converted into euros at the exchange applicable as at 31 December 2015. 
Details of (a) how the annual performance bonus for the Executive Directors was determined; and (b) the timing of bonus payments, is set out below. 
3 Benefits include private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, car and life assurance. 
Non-executive Directors’ emoluments (in €) (Audited)
 Fees Annual bonus Benefits Pension Total emoluments
Director 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Alan Jackson 531,251 478,314 – – – – – – 531,251 478,314
Andrew Thomas 138,347 124,561 – – – – – – 138,347 124,561
Hilary Stewart-Jones
1
 276,693 135,211 – – – – – – 276,693 135,211
Paul Hewitt
2
 47,620 – – – – – – – 47,620 –
1 Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed to the Board on 9 October 2013. Her annual fees were increased from £100,000 to £200,000 per annum upon her appointment as Deputy Chairman  
on 1 December 2014. Hilary resigned as a Director on 31 December 2015.
2 Paul Hewitt was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 27 August 2015.
Determination of 2015 bonus 
In accordance with the Company’s Remuneration Policy, the CEO and CFO had the opportunity to earn a normal bonus in respect of 2015 
of 150% and 100% of salary respectively and a further 50% of salary each in exceptional circumstances. The 2015 performance was assessed 
against a mixture of financial and non-financial targets. 
The financial targets (representing 70% of bonus opportunity) were based on the achievement of Adjusted EBITDA of €220 million payable 
on a scale of 90%–105% around this target, with 0% of bonus payable below 90% of target and 100% of bonus payable for on or over 105%  
of target. 
 
Adjusted EBITDA was selected as an appropriate measure as it is the key financial performance metric of the Company, most closely 
representing the underlying trading performance of the business and is calculated after adding back certain non-cash charges, cash 
expenses relating to professional costs on acquisitions, gains on sale of investments and certain one-off charges as set out in the financial 
statements on page 104. The non-financial performance targets were selected to underpin key strategic objectives of the Group, in 
particular recognising the challenges of expanding the business into regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets and strengthening  
the Group’s regulatory functions in light of increased regulation in the UK and elsewhere. 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     65 Governance
When reviewing the performance during 2015 the Committee noted that the adjusted EBITDA for the financial year ended 31 December 
2015 was €251.9 million (consolidated) with €236 million for the gaming division and the balance for Markets Limited, representing a 22% 
increase on the prior year. This was achieved at the same time as a significant improvement in other key financial indicators including 
growth in revenue (22%), adjusted net profit (8%) and adjusted EPS (3%). The operational highlights set out in the Strategic Report on  
page 2 demonstrate that a number of the key strategic objectives set for executives have already been successfully implemented, 
particularly as regards securing business in regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets .The Committee also took account of the 
exceptional work and effort undertaken as part of the successful integration of Markets Limited (formerly TradeFX Limited) and the 
proposed acquisitions of Ava Trade Limited and Plus500 Limited. It was noted that the Company had received overwhelming support from 
shareholders in respect of these proposed acquisitions and that the reasons for non-completion were outside of the Company’s control. 
The Committee considered that the 2015 performance was excellent as it far surpassed expectations and the targets set at the start of 
the financial year. The Committee felt it was fair and reasonable to recognise this exceptional Group and individual performance for the 
Executive Directors. The Committee therefore approved the use of the facility within the approved policy whereby up to an additional  
50% of salary can be payable to Executive Directors in exceptional circumstances where performance significantly exceeds the targets  
set. On this basis the Committee approved additional bonuses of 25% of salary for the CEO and CFO. 
Accordingly, the Committee determined that the bonus payable for 2015 was €1.3 million for the CEO (175% of salary) and a bonus  
of €0.6 million for the CFO (125% of salary). 
The bonus payments were awarded based on the salary rate at the end of 2015, it being noted that Ron Hoffman received a salary  
increase during the year. This was considered appropriate in view of Mr Hoffman’s previous salary having been significantly below  
the mid-market position, and the increased scope of responsibility including his new role as Chief Executive Officer of Markets Limited 
(formerly TradeFX Limited). 
As noted in the annual report for 2014, the Committee, in exercising its discretion, decided that 50% of the exceptional element  
of Mr Hoffman’s bonus for 2014 (being €102,121) fell due for payment on 31 December 2015 conditional only on Mr Hoffman not  
having ceased to be employed by the Group in customary “bad leaver” circumstances. Mr. Hoffman continues to be employed by  
the Group and payment was made in January 2016. 
The Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus payments to Executive Directors are a fair reflection of corporate and individual 
performance during the year and that overall remuneration is not excessive given the size and complexity of the Group’s business  
and the industry in which it operates.
LTIP Awards (Audited) 
On 17 December 2015 the following awards were made to Executive Directors under the LTIP:   
    % of award
    vesting for
  Type  Total Number Aggregate threshold Performance
 of award of awards Market Value (€) performance period
Mor Weizer Nil-cost option 103,708 1,125,379 25% 1.1.15 – 31.12.17
Ron Hoffman Nil-cost option  43,211  468,901 25% 1.1.15 – 31.12.17
1 Awards represent 150% and 100% of salary respectively based on a share price on grant of 795.5 pence.
When considering these awards, the Committee took into account the long delay in making the awards due to the Company being  
in an almost constant close period during 2015. Therefore, it was decided that the vesting period would commence from 1 March 2015.  
In the normal course of events these awards will vest on the third anniversary of the start of the vesting period, 1 March 2018, subject  
to the satisfaction of the performance conditions. 
Awards granted in 2015 are subject to the achievement of a mixture of performance conditions: 70% of the award is subject to a 
performance condition that the Company’s simple annual EPS growth must match a threshold determined by the Committee for 25% 
of this portion of the award to vest, increasing to full vesting for achieving a maximum performance level. EPS will be measured over 
three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is granted. The remaining 30% of the award is subject to a 
performance condition comparing the Company’s total shareholder return against a comparator group of other international gambling 
companies over three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is granted.
For median performance 25% of this portion of the award will vest increasing to full vesting for performance at the upper quartile.  
The comparator group includes consists of William Hill, 888 Holdings, BWIN Party, Ladbrokes, Betfair Group, Paddy Power, Betsson,  
Unibet, Scientific Games, Sportech, Rank Group, GVC and Amaya.
Annual report on remuneration
continued
1
1
66     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
The EPS performance condition is that the Company’s simple annual EPS growth must match or exceed 4% per annum in the  
performance period. 
The EPS Tranche shall vest over a number of shares determined as follows:
Company’s simple annual EPS growth % of EPS Tranche that Vests 
10% or more per annum  100%
Between 4% and 10% per annum On a straight line basis between 25% and 100% 
4% per annum 25%
Less than 4% per annum 0%
When setting the EPS performance range the Committee considered both internal financial targets and external market consensus.  
The target range is considered to be challenging given the current view of the business and wider macroeconomic factors, but is achievable 
without incentivising any undue risk behaviours. 
Termination Payments (Audited)
No termination payments to Directors were made in 2015.
Payments to past Directors (Audited)
Following his retirement from the Board in October 2013, Roger Withers continued to be retained as a special adviser to the Board until  
30 September 2015. During 2015, Roger received advisory fees of €103,569. 
 
Implementation of Policy for 2016 
Salary pay review 
The Remuneration Committee takes into account individual performance and experience, the size and nature of the role, the relative 
performance of the Company, pay policy within the Company (including the general pay and employment terms of all employees in the 
Group) and salaries in comparable companies. 
Mr Weizer’s salary was set at £550,000 with effect from 1 January 2015 and was not subject to any increase during the year. 
As reported in last year’s annual report, Mr Hoffman’s salary was set at £300,000 with effect from 1 November 2014. Taking account of  
Mr. Hoffman’s increasing importance to the Group and his new role as Chief Executive Officer of Markets Limited (formerly TradeFX Limited), 
the Committee reviewed Mr Hoffman’s salary during the year and effective 1 June 2015, his salary was increased to £375,000. 
The Committee considers that even with the above increase, the salaries of both the Executive Directors remain below the mid-market 
position. In view of this, the Committee intends to re-evaluate the salaries for both Executive Directors as part of the annual review in 2016, 
which is expected to commence in June.
The current basic salary levels of the Executive Directors are: 
• M. Weizer: £550,000 (equivalent to €761,425 at the average exchange rate between £ and € used in the accounts) which was effective  
1 January 2015; and 
• R. Hoffman: £375,000 (equivalent to €519,153 at the average exchange rate between £ and € used in the accounts) which was effective 
from 1 June 2015.
Fees currently payable to Non-executive Directors are:
• Chairman: £384,000 (equivalent to €531,251 at the average exchange rate between £ and € used in the accounts);
• Deputy Chairman: £200,000 (equivalent to €276,693 at the average exchange rate between £ and € used in the accounts); and
• Non-executive Director base fee: £100,000 (equivalent to €138,347 at the average exchange rate between £ and € used in the accounts).
The Non-executive Director fees recognise core responsibilities and additional duties as Chair of a Board Committee. 
Benefits and pension
Benefit and pension provision will continue to be set in line with the approved policy.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     67 Governance
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Annual bonus 
For 2016, bonuses for the Executive Directors will be based on the following: 
    Performance target Weighting
Adjusted EBITDA   Commercially confidential 70%
Non-financial and strategic objectives   Commercially confidential 30%
When setting the adjusted EBITDA target, the Committee was mindful of a number of factors and believe that the targets set are  
very challenging.
The level of bonus payable by reference to the financial performance of the Company will be determined on a sliding scale based on  
the Company’s budget for the forthcoming financial year. 
The annual bonus will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions in relation to material misstatement, gross misconduct,  
material error in calculation and for a serious reputational event. These provisions will apply for a period of three years after payment. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) 
Awards made to Executive Directors will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to (i) participants remaining in employment  
(other than in certain “good leaver” circumstances) and (ii) achievement of challenging performance targets.
Awards granted in 2016 will continue to be subject a combination of EPS growth (70% of awards) and relative TSR (30% of awards). 
Threshold performance will result in 25% of each element vesting.
As with the awards granted in 2015, the relative TSR measure will be measured over three financial years and requires at least median 
performance for 25% of this portion of the award to vest, increasing to full vesting for performance at the upper quartile. The comparator 
group will feature other international gaming companies.
EPS will be measured over three financial years. At the time of preparing this report EPS targets for 2016 have not been determined by 
the Remuneration Committee. The EPS targets will be stretching and demanding and these targets will be set out in Stock Exchange 
announcements when these awards are made.
LTIP awards granted from 2016 will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions in relation to material misstatement, gross misconduct, 
material error in calculation and for a serious reputational event. These provisions will apply for a period of three years post vesting. 
Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, market purchase shares or may be cashed-out, subject to the tax treatment in the  
hands of the recipient. 
Dilution limits 
All of the Company’s equity based incentive plans (other than the Option Plan which was established before the Company’s admission  
to AIM in 2006) incorporate the current Investment Association Guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans 
should not exceed 10% over a 10-year period in relation to the Company’s issued share capital (or reissue of treasury shares), with a further 
limitation of 5% in any 10-year period for executive plans. The Committee monitors the position and prior to the making of any award 
considers the effect of potential vesting of options or share awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits. Any awards 
which are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations. No treasury shares were held or utilised 
in the year ended 31 December 2015. 
68     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Review of performance 
The following graph shows the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance over the past five years: the Company’s TSR  
is compared with a broad equity market index. The index chosen here is the FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure Index, which is considered  
the most appropriate published index.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the current Remuneration Policy and the supporting reward structure provide a clear alignment 
with the strategic objectives and performance of the Company. To maintain this relationship, the Remuneration Committee constantly 
reviews the business priorities and the environment in which the Company operates. The table below shows the total remuneration of  
Mor Weizer over the last five years and his achieved annual variable and long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the plan maxima.
     Year ending 31 December
 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration (€’000) 826 808 800 1,381 1,740 2,449 
Annual bonus (%) 48% 34% 150% 150% 200% 175%
LTIP vesting (%)
2
 – – – – – –
1 For the financial year ended 31 December 2012, Mor Weizer decided in light of his overall aggregate remuneration, to waive approximately three-quarters of his earned bonus for that year. 
2 As awards previously granted were share options without performance conditions, under the Regulations they are not required to be shown in this table. 
Mar-11
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1,000
Sep-11
Playtech
FTSE 350 T&L
Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     69 Governance
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer 
In the financial year ended 31 December 2015, Mr Weizer’s salary was increased by (38%) effective 1 January 2015 and was awarded an 
exceptional bonus of 175% of salary compared with 200% of salary in the year ended 31 December 2014. On a value basis the increase was 
41% which reflects the 38% increase in salary and also in part reflected movements in exchange rates. The average percentage changes 
for all UK-based full-time employees were 13% salary increase, 11% increase in benefits and 46% increase in bonus payments respectively. 
The UK workforce was chosen as a comparator group as the Remuneration Committee looks to benchmark the remuneration of the Chief 
Executive Officer with reference mainly to the UK market (albeit that he has a global role and responsibilities, and remuneration packages 
across the Group vary widely depending on local market practises and conditions). 
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The following table sets out the amounts paid in share buybacks, dividends, and total remuneration paid to all employees as follows: 
   2015 2014 Change
Pay-outs (€m)   €m €m %
Dividends
1
   91.0 76.3  19 %
Share buy-backs    – – n/a
Total employee remuneration
2
   224.6 157.9  42 % 
1 The total dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 is calculated on the basis that the shareholders approve the proposed final dividends of 16.2 €cents per share. 
2 Total employee remuneration for continuing and discontinued operations, includes wages and salaries, social security costs, share-based payments and pension costs for all employees, 
including the Directors. The average number of employees, including Executive Directors and part-time employees in continuing and discontinued operations was 5,161 during the financial 
year to 31 December 2015.
Directors’ interests in Ordinary Shares (Audited)
     Total
      interests at
  Ordinary Shares  Share options 31 December
Director 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 
Executive Directors
1, 3, 4
          
Mor Weizer 36,000 36,000 103,708 – 139,708
Ron Hoffman 10,000 10,000 43,211  53,211
Non-executive Directors
2
          
Alan Jackson 15,000 15,000 – – 15,000
Andrew Thomas 7,500 7,500 – – 7,500
Hilary Stewart-Jones – – – – –
Paul Hewitt 2,524 – – – 2,524
John Jackson – – – – –
1 Mor Weizer and Ron Hoffman currently hold shares to the value of 54% and 22% of salary (based on salaries as of 31 December 2015 respectively and based on the closing share price  
on 31 December 2015). The Committee will continue to monitor progress towards the share ownership guidelines of 100% of salary.
2 Paul Hewitt acquired 2,524 shares on 8 December 2015 (2,223 shares at a price of 791.6 pence per share and 301 shares at a price of 793.14 pence per share). 
3  Share options are granted for nil consideration. 
4 These options were granted in accordance with the Rules of the Playtech Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 (the “Option Plan”). Options under the Option Plan are granted as nil cost options  
and in the case of Executive Directors exclusively, the options vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the notional grant date. Unexercised options expire 10 years after the  
date of grant, unless the relevant employee leaves the Group’s employment, in which case the unvested options lapse and any vested options lapse three months after the date that the 
employment ends. 
None of the Non-executive Directors have any options over shares in the Company. 
70     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Role and membership 
The Remuneration Committee is currently comprised entirely of four independent Non-executive Directors as defined in the Code.  
John Jackson was appointed as Chair on 1 February 2016. The other members are Andrew Thomas, Alan Jackson and Paul Hewitt. 
During the year under review Hilary Stewart-Jones served as Committee Chair until 27 August 2015. Paul Hewitt served as Chair from  
his appointment on 27 August 2015. Hilary Stewart-Jones served on the Committee until she stepped down from the Board on  
31 December 2015. Details of attendance at the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 50 and their biographies and experience  
on pages 44 and 45. 
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference detailing its authority and responsibilities. The Committee’s terms of reference 
were reviewed and updated during 2016 and are available for inspection on the Company’s website www.playtech.com and include: 
• determining and agreeing the policy for the remuneration of the CEO, CFO, the Chairman and other members of the  
senior management team; 
• review of the broad policy framework for remuneration to ensure it remains appropriate and relevant; 
• review of the design of and determine targets for any performance-related pay and the annual level of payments under such plans; 
• review of the design of and approve any changes to long-term incentive or option plans; and 
• ensuring that contractual terms on termination and payments made are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure  
is not rewarded.
The Remuneration Committee also considers the terms and conditions of employment and overall remuneration of Executive Directors, the 
Company Secretary and members of the senior management team and has regard to the Company’s overall approach to the remuneration 
of all employees. Within this context the Committee determines the overall level of salaries, incentive payments and performance related 
pay due to Executive Directors and senior management. The Committee also determines the performance targets and the extent of their 
achievement for both annual and long-term incentive awards operated by the Company and affecting the senior management. No Director 
is involved in any decisions as to his/her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee takes advice from both inside and outside the Group on a range of matters, including the scale and 
composition of the total remuneration package payable to people with similar responsibilities, skills and experience in comparable 
companies that have extensive operations inside and outside the UK.
During the year the Remuneration Committee received material assistance and advice from the Company Secretary (who is also secretary  
to the Committee). 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     71 Governance
Annual report on remuneration
continued
The Remuneration Committee has a planned schedule of at least four meetings throughout the year, with additional meetings and calls 
held when necessary. During 2015, the Committee met in person 6 times and these meetings, together with a number of conference calls, 
addressed a wide variety of issues, including: 
External advisers 
New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited) is the Committee’s independent adviser. New Bridge Street is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct. New Bridge Street does not provide any other services to the 
Company. New Bridge Street was paid €68,375 in relation to advice provided during 2015. 
Engagement with shareholders and shareholder voting 
The Remuneration Committee is committed to ensuring open dialogue with shareholders in relation to remuneration and would normally 
consult with major shareholders regarding any significant future changes to remuneration policy. 
The voting outcome at the AGM held on 20 May 2015 in respect of the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 
2014 was as follows: 
   For Against Withheld
Approval of Remuneration Report   189,792,715 30,206,230 3,096,883
    (86.27%)  (13.73%)  
At 19 May 2015, the issued share capital of the Company was 293,532,617 Ordinary Shares of no par value.
By order of the Board 
John Jackson 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
25 February 2016
Month Principal activity
February • Approving bonus and other incentivisation arrangements in relation to Executive Directors and 
certain members of senior management
April • To set financial targets for 2016 bonuses
May • To discuss long term incentive arrangements for Executive Directors
October •  To review senior management salaries
November • To review senior management salaries
December • Approval of grant of nil cost options for a limited number of Group personnel
72     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Directors’ report
The Directors are pleased to present to shareholders their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
The Directors’ Report should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report; the Strategic Report, Corporate 
Responsibility Report and the Remuneration Report, all of which are incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference.
The following also form part of this report:
• the reports on corporate governance set out on pages 44 to 72;
• information relating to financial instruments, as provided in the Notes to the financial statements; and
• related party transactions as set out in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts
The Directors are aware of the responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report. The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy. The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities appears on page 80.
Principal activities and business review 
The Group’s principal activities are the development and licensing of software and the provision of ancillary services for the online and 
land-based gambling industries and since its acquisition of Markets Limited in May 2015 and online trading platform to retail customers 
which enables them to trade CFD (Contracts for Difference) on a variety of instruments which fall under the general categories of Foreign 
exchange Commodities. Playtech plc is a public listed company, with a premium listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange. 
It is incorporated and domiciled in the Isle of Man. 
The information that fulfils the requirement for a management report as required by Rule 4.1.5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules applicable to the Group can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43, which also includes an analysis, the development, 
performance and position of the Group’s business. A statement of the key risks and uncertainties facing the business of the Group at the 
end of the year is found on pages 36 to 38 of this Annual Report and details of the policies and the use of financial instruments is set out  
in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Directors and Directors’ indemnity 
The Directors of the Company who held office during the 2015 year and to date are: 
     Appointed Resigned
Alan Jackson    28.03.2006 –
Mor Weizer    02.05.2007 –
Andrew Thomas    19.06 2012 –
Ron Hoffman    31.12.2012 –
Hilary Stewart-Jones    09.10.2013 31.12.2015 
Paul Hewitt    27.08.2015 –
John Jackson    01.01.2016 –
All the Directors stand for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Save as set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, no Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service 
contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its operating companies at any time during the year.
As at the date of this report, an indemnity is in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify Alan Jackson who held office 
during the year ended 31 December 2015, to the extent permitted by law and by the Company’s articles of association, in respect of all 
liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of his duties as a Director of the Company or its subsidiaries. A copy of the indemnity 
is available for review at the Company’s registered office. The Company also purchased, and maintained throughout 2015, Directors’ and 
Officers’ Liability in respect of itself and its Directors.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     73 Governance
Directors’ report
continued
Corporate governance statement 
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors’ 
report. Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Governance Report on pages 
44 to 72 and is incorporated into this report by reference. 
Disclaimer 
The purpose of these financial statements (including this report) is to provide information to the members of the Company. The financial 
statements have been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons. The Company, its 
Directors and employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document  
is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
The financial statements contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of 
the Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments 
to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of 
preparation of these financial statements and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing 
in this document should be construed as a profit forecast. 
Results and dividend 
The results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 are set out on pages 89 to 126. On 25 February 2016, the Board 
recommended the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 18.9 €cents per share which will be paid to 
shareholders on the register as at 6 May 2016. The payment of the final dividend requires shareholder approval which will be sought at  
the Company’s annual general meeting to be held at the Sefton Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man on 18 May 2016. If approved, the final dividend 
will be paid on 3 June 2016 and together with the interim dividend of 9.6 €cents per share paid on 26 October 2015 makes a total dividend 
(expressed in €) of 28.5 €cents per share for the year.
Shareholders who wish to receive their final dividend in sterling rather than euros will be required to return currency election forms to the 
Company’s registrars by 13 May 2016. Currency election forms are contained with the notice of annual general meeting that accompanies 
the Annual Report and further copies are available from the Company’s website www.playtech.com.
Going concern, viability, responsibilities and disclosure
The current activities of the Group and those factors likely to affect its future development, together with a description of its financial 
position, are described in the Strategic Report. Principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate these 
risks are described on pages 36 to 38. Critical accounting estimates affecting the carrying values of assets and liabilities of the Group are 
discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements. 
During 2015, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those factors that would threaten 
its future performance, solvency or liquidity. This ongoing assessment will form part of the Group’s three year strategic plan, currently under 
development. 
After making appropriate enquiries and having regard to the Group’s cash balances and normal business planning and control procedures, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. As part of this assessment, the Directors considered the going concern status for a period in excess of 12 months 
from the date of signing this report, which is considered to be an appropriate period over which the Group can predict its revenue, cost 
base and cash flows with a higher degree of certainty, as opposed to more arbitrary forms of forecasts based solely on percentage increases. 
Notwithstanding, due to the significant cash reserves and projected profitability over the next 12 months, the Directors have no reason 
to believe that the Group’s viability will be threatened over a period longer than that covered by the positive confirmation of long term 
viability above. Given the above, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
74     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Significant shareholdings 
As of 31 January 2015 the Company had been advised of the following significant shareholders each holding more than 3% of the 
Company’s issued share capital, based on 322,624,603 Ordinary Shares in issue:
     No. of
Shareholder    % Ordinary Shares
Brickington Trading Limited    33.6 108,408,441
FMR LLC    7.36 23,750,863
Legal and General Investment Mgt    3.2 10,319,215
Newton Investment Mgt    3.0 9,850,665
The persons set out in the table above have notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their 
interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
The Company has not been notified of any changes to the above shareholders between 31 January 2016 and the date of this report. 
Capital structure 
As at 31 December 2015 and 31 January 2016, the Company had 322,624,603 issued shares of no par value. The Company has one class  
of Ordinary Share and each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and to participate in any dividends 
declared in accordance with the articles of association. No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital.
The authorities under the Company’s articles of association granted at the last annual general meeting for the Directors to issue new shares 
for cash and purchase its own shares remain valid until the forthcoming annual general meeting when it is intended that resolutions will be 
put forward to shareholders to renew the authority for the Company to issue shares for cash and purchase its own shares. The Company did 
not acquire any of its own shares during the year. 
Articles of association 
The Company’s articles of association do not contain any specific restrictions on the size of a shareholder’s holding.
Voting rights 
Subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any shares by or in accordance with the articles of association, on a show 
of hands every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member who is present  
in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
 
Restrictions on voting 
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders 
of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or to exercise any right as a member unless all calls  
or other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid to the Company. In addition, any member who having  
been served with a notice by the Company requiring such member to disclose to the Board in writing within such reasonable period as may 
be specified in such notice, details of any past or present beneficial interest of any third party in the shares or any other interest of any kind 
whatsoever which a third party may have in the shares and the identity of the third party having or having had any such interest, fails to do  
so may be disenfranchised by service of a notice by the Board.
Transfer 
Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any 
usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve. The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument  
of transfer of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has a lien. The Board may also decline to register  
a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: (i) delivered for registration to the registered agent, or at such other  
place as the Board may decide, for registration; and (ii) accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred except in the case  
of a transfer where a certificate has not been required to be issued) by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and/or such other 
evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution by him of the transferor, if the  
transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so, provided that where any such shares are 
admitted to AIM, the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority or another recognised investment exchange.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     75 Governance
Directors’ report
continued
Amendment of the Company’s articles of association 
Any amendments to the Company’s articles of association may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies  
Act 2006 by way of special resolution. 
Appointment and removal of Directors 
Unless and until otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution, the number of Directors (other than any alternate Directors) 
shall not be less than two and there shall be no maximum number of Directors. 
Powers of Directors 
Subject to the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006, the memorandum and articles of association of the Company and to any 
directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of 
the Company. 
Appointment of Directors 
Subject to the articles of association, the Company may by ordinary resolution appoint a person who is willing to act to be a Director,  
either to fill a vacancy, or as an addition to the existing Board, and may also determine the rotation in which any Directors are to retire. 
Without prejudice to the power of the Company to appoint any person to be a Director pursuant to the articles of association, the Board 
shall have power at any time to appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing 
Board, but the total number of Directors shall not exceed any maximum number fixed in accordance with the articles of association.  
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next annual general meeting of the Company following such appointment and 
shall then be eligible for re-election but shall not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation 
at that meeting.
Retirement of Directors 
At each annual general meeting one-third of the Directors (excluding any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the  
previous annual general meeting) or, if their number is not an integral multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third but not exceeding 
one-third shall retire from office (but so that if there are fewer than three Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation under this 
Article one shall retire).
Removal of Directors 
The Company may by ordinary resolution passed at a meeting called for such purpose or by written resolution consented to by 
members holding at least 75% of the voting rights in relation thereto, remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office 
notwithstanding anything in the articles of association or in any agreement between the Company and such Director and, without 
prejudice to any claim for damages which he may have for breach of any contract of service between him and the Company, may (subject 
to the articles) by ordinary resolution, appoint another person who is willing to act as a Director in his place. A Director may also be removed 
from office by the service on him of a notice to that effect signed by all the other Directors. 
Significant agreements 
There are no agreements or arrangements to which the Company is a party that are affected by a change in control of the Company 
following a takeover bid, and which are considered individually significant in terms of their impact on the business of the Group as a whole. 
The rules of certain of the Company’s incentive plans include provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction.
Related party transactions 
Details of all related party transactions are set out in Note 28 to the financial statements. Internal controls are in place to ensure that any 
related party transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an arm’s length basis and are disclosed in the 
financial statements.
Political and charitable donations 
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group made charitable donations of €208,888, primarily to charities that fund research into 
and treatment of problem gambling but also to a variety of charities operating in countries in which the Company’s subsidiaries are based.
The Group made no political donations during this period (2014: nil). 
76     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Sustainability and employees 
Information with respect to the Group’s impact on the environment and other matters concerning sustainability can be found on pages 
40 to 43. Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitude and ability 
of the applicant concerned. The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them 
informed of matters affecting them as employees and on the performance of the Group and has run information days for employees in 
different locations across the Group during the year. Some employees are stakeholders in the Company through participation in share 
option plans. Information provided by the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the 
regulatory information services and the Company’s website, www.playtech.com. 
Branches
The Company’s subsidiaries Playtech Retail Limited and PT Turnkey Services Limited have established branch offices in the Philippines.
Regulatory disclosures
The information in the following tables is provided in compliance with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTRs”).
The DTRs also require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors’ Report. Information 
that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Governance Report on pages 46 to 54 and is 
incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference.
 
Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.4C
Listing Rule Information included Disclosure
9.8.4(1) Interest capitalised by the Group None
9.8.4(2) Unaudited financial information None
9.8.4(4) Long-term incentive scheme only involving a Director None
9.8.4(5) Directors’ waivers of emoluments None
9.8.4(6) Directors’ waiver of future emoluments None
9.8.4(7) Non pro-rata allotments for cash None
9.8.4(8) Non pro-rata allotments for cash by major subsidiaries None
9.8.4(9) Listed company is a subsidiary of another Not applicable
9.8.4(10) Contracts of significance involving a Director None
9.8.4(11) Contracts of significance involving a controlling 
shareholder
Note 28 to of the financial statements sets out  
details of transactions with the controlling shareholder  
as a related party
9.8.4(12) Waivers of dividends None
9.8.4(12) Waivers of future dividends None
9.8.4(14) Agreement with a controlling shareholder See disclosure against LR 9.8.4 (11)
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     77 Governance
Directors’ report
continued
Additional information provided pursuant to LR9.8.6
 
Listing Rule Information included Disclosure
9.8.6(1) Interests of Directors (and their connected persons) in the 
shares of the Company at the year end and not more than 
one month prior to the date of the notice of AGM
See page 71
9.8.6(2) Interests in Playtech shares disclosed under DTR5 at the 
year end and at not more than one month prior to the 
date of the notice of AGM
See page 75
9.8.6(3) The going concern statement See page 74
9.8.6(4)(a) Amount of the authority to purchase own shares available 
at the year end
29,353,261 Ordinary Shares which authority will expire  
at the AGM and not be renewed
9.8.6(4)(b) Off market purchases of own shares during the year None
9.8.6(4)(c) Off market purchases of own shares after the year-end None
9.8.6(4)(d) Non pro-rata sales of treasury shares during the year None
9.8.6(5) Compliance with the main principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
See the statement on page 47
9.8.6(6) Details of non-compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
See the statement on page 47
9.8.6(7) Re Directors proposed for re-election: the unexpired term 
of their service contract and a statement about Directors 
without a service contract
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors serve 
under letters of appointment described on page 63
78     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Additional information under Rule 4.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
DTR Requirement How fulfilled
4.1.3 Publication of Annual Financial Report 
within four months of the end of the 
financial year
This document is dated 25 February 2016 being a date less than four months 
after the year end
4.1.5 Content of Annual Financial Report The audited financial statements are set out on page 82 to page 126
The information that fulfils the requirement for a management report  
can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities can be found on page 80
4.1.6 Audited financial statements The audited financial statements set out on page 82 to page 126 comprise 
consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS and the accounts  
of the Company
4.1.7 Auditing of financial statements The financial statements have been audited by BDO LLP
4.1.8 & 4.1.9 Content of management report The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43, includes an analysis, using financial key 
performance indicators, of the development, performance and position of the 
Company’s business, a review of the Company’s business and on pages 36 to 
38 a description of the principal risk and uncertainties
4.1.11(1) Important events since the year end There have been no material events since the year end which require reporting
4.1.11(2) Future development The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43, gives an indication of the likely future 
development of the Company
4.1.11(3) Research & development The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43, gives an indication of ongoing research 
and development activities 
4.1.11(4) Purchase of own shares See disclosure pursuant to LR9.8.6(4) above
4.1.11(5) Branch offices See the statement on page 77
4.1.11(6) Use of financial instruments See note 2 to the audited financial statements on pages 94 to 100
4.1.12 & 13 Responsibility statement See the statement of the Directors on page 80
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     79 Governance
Directors’ report
continued
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
The Directors have elected to prepare the Annual Report and the financial statements for the Company and the Group in accordance  
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS). 
The Directors are responsible under applicable law and regulation for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention  
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Accounting Standard 1 (revised) requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Group’s financial 
position, financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and 
conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International 
Accounting Standards Board’s “Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements”. In virtually all circumstances, a fair 
presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards. A fair presentation also requires 
the Directors to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
In addition, the Directors at the date of this report consider that the financial statements taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Website publication
Financial statements are published on the Company’s website. The maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website is the 
responsibility of the Directors. The Directors’ responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained 
therein.
Directors’ responsibilities pursuant to DTR4
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed within the Governance section on pages 44 and 45 confirm that, to the best  
of their knowledge: 
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit of the Group; and 
• The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group 
and the Company, together with a description or the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
 
80     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Annual general meeting 
The annual general meeting in 2015 was held in May in Douglas, Isle of Man. With the exception of Ron Hoffman, who was travelling on 
urgent company business, all Directors were present and made themselves available to answer questions from shareholders. The annual 
general meeting provides an opportunity for the Directors to communicate personally performance and future strategy to non-institutional 
shareholders and for those shareholders to meet with and question the Board. All Directors plan to be present at the 2016 annual general 
meeting. All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review at the meeting, recorded in the minutes of the meeting and 
communicated to the market and via the Group website.
The annual general meeting for 2016 will be held at the Sefton Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 2RW on Wednesday 18 May 2016  
at 10.00 am. The notice convening the annual general meeting for this year, and an explanation of the items of non-routine business,  
are set out in the circular that accompanies the Annual Report. 
Auditors 
So far as each Director is aware, at the date of the approval of the financial statements there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware. Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make 
themselves aware of any information needed by the Group’s auditors for the purposes of their audit and to establish that the auditors  
are aware of that information. 
A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Company’s auditors will be submitted to the shareholders at this year’s AGM. 
Approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board 
Ron Hoffman
Chief Financial Officer 
25 February 2016 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     81 Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
To the members of Playtech plc
Opinion on financial statements of Playtech Plc
In our opinion:
• The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015  
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’)  
as adopted by the European Union; and
• The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union  
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Playtech plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the:
• Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income;
• Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Financial Position; 
• Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity; 
• Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cashflows, and 
• Related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements and significant accounting estimates that 
involved making assumptions and considering future events that are, by their nature, inherently uncertain (see note 3 to the consolidated 
financial statements). We primarily focussed our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, 
including the risk of management override and bias, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial 
statements.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit in the current year are noted below. This is not a 
complete list of all risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit. We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. Their  
report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 55 to 57:
82     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Title Risk Response
Revenue recognition The Group has a number of revenue streams.  
The details of the accounting policies applied 
during the period are given in Note 2 to the 
financial statements. 
Management make certain judgements around 
revenue recognition and the treatment of 
contractual arrangements for revenue streams 
entered into.
During the year, the Group completed the 
acquisition of the Financial Trading Division  
and as such have given consideration to the  
nature of revenue generated by this Group and  
the relevant accounting treatment. 
There is a potential risk that revenue is recorded 
incorrectly from a timing perspective and 
inappropriately recognised on a gross versus  
net basis.
We assessed the design and implementation  
of the controls over the Group’s revenue cycle. 
We assessed whether the revenue recognition 
policies adopted by the group comply with  
IFRS as adopted by the European Union and 
Industry standard.
We considered the audit risks associated with new 
revenue streams in the period including those of 
the Financial Trading Division and designed our 
testing strategy to mitigate the assessed risks.
We tested revenue through a combination 
of analytical and substantive procedures. Our 
work included the use of IT audit data analytic 
techniques to underpin our substantive testing  
of the revenue recognised by both the Gaming  
and Financial Trading Divisions. 
We reviewed a sample of key contracts entered into 
during the year to assess whether the revenue had 
been recognised in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy and whether any other terms 
within the contract had any material accounting  
or disclosure implications. 
Impairment of Goodwill, 
capitalised development 
costs and other intangibles
In accordance with IAS 36, the Group monitors the 
carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles 
for indications of impairment. The Group 
performs annual impairment reviews for goodwill, 
other intangibles where there are indicators of 
impairment and for capitalised development costs 
relating to projects not launched as at the year end.
Impairment reviews require significant judgement 
from management and are inherently based on 
assumptions in respect of future profitability.
If the carrying value of these assets exceed their 
recoverable amount there is a risk of material 
misstatement in the carrying value of these assets.
We considered whether there were any indications 
of impairment in respect of intangible assets. 
In conjunction with our internal valuation 
specialists, we challenged the appropriateness of 
the key assumptions used in the discounted cash 
flow models prepared by management and applied 
sensitivities to assess the potential impairment of 
goodwill and those assets where indications of 
impairment were present. Our work was based 
on our assessment of the historical accuracy of 
the Group’s estimates in previous periods, our 
understanding of the commercial prospects of the 
assets, identification and analysis of changes in 
assumptions from prior periods and an assessment 
of the consistency of assumptions across the 
impairment reviews.
IAS 36 also requires management to test intangible 
assets not yet available for use (such as projects  
in development) for impairment. We selected  
a sample of projects not yet launched at the balance 
sheet date and confirmed that there remains  
a future intent to launch. Further to this we 
reviewed the results of management’s impairment 
review of these assets on a portfolio basis.
We considered the appropriateness of the  
related disclosure provided in the Group  
financial statements.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     83
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
continued
Title Risk Response
Compliance risk – Legal, 
regulatory and taxation
Given the continual changes in the regulatory 
environment of the gambling and financial trading 
sectors in many countries across the world, there 
is a risk that potential material legal or regulatory 
matters are not disclosed or provided for.
The Group have compliance obligations that range 
from administration of their licences to assessing 
the impact of changes in Country-specific and pan-
regional rules and regulations on its businesses. 
The e-commerce business and operational 
structure of the Playtech Group requires 
management judgement with regard to the 
assessment and interpretation of domestic and 
international tax laws. The taxation of e-commerce 
is still an evolving matter for tax authorities.
The Group makes certain provisions and disclosures 
required under IFRS for outstanding legal and 
regulatory disputes based on Management’s best 
estimate of where there is a probable outflow 
of economic benefits. Where the Group do not 
consider the likelihood of a provision being 
probable, the Group will disclose the existence  
of a contingent liability (unless that likelihood  
of occurrence is considered to be remote when  
no disclosure is required).
We considered how the Group monitors legal and 
regulatory developments and their assessment 
of the potential impact on the business, and also 
considered the internal and external advice taken 
in respect of these developments. We discussed 
with Management how they manage, control 
and operate Group companies in the countries in 
which they are registered. This included how the 
Group considers tax as part of the overall business 
planning and how they monitor the rules and 
practices governing the taxation of e-commerce 
activity that is evolving in many countries.
We discussed with the Group’s Compliance and 
Legal teams whether there were any known 
instances of material breaches in regulatory and 
licence compliance that required disclosure or 
required provisions to be made in the financial 
statements. We discussed the assertions of the 
Group’s Compliance and Legal teams with the 
Group’s principal external legal advisors, with  
no matters to report. 
We discussed with senior management how they 
manage, control and operate Group companies 
in the countries in which they are incorporated or 
registered. This included how the Group considers 
tax as part of the overall business planning 
and how they monitor the rules and practices 
governing the taxation of e-commerce activity  
that is evolving in many countries.
As part of the audit team we have tax specialists 
who assessed the risks in the jurisdictions in which 
Playtech has a significant presence. As part of 
this process we liaised with the local audit teams 
and tax specialists in those jurisdictions to assess 
the provisioning for current and deferred taxes. 
We considered the latest externally prepared 
advice received by management with regard to 
any exposure to taxation in existing or proposed 
territories in which the Group operates or intends 
to operate, and confirmed that there is currently no 
correspondence from tax authorities which would 
indicate a material risk in respect of tax. 
84     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Title Risk Response
Related party transactions There is a risk that disclosures in respect of related 
party transactions are incomplete or that the 
assertion that the related party transactions are  
on an arm’s length basis is unsupported. 
We assessed the design and implementation of the 
Group’s policies and procedures in respect of the 
capturing of related party transactions.
We obtained a list of related parties from 
Management. We gave consideration to the 
completeness of the list based on our knowledge 
of related parties and those confirmed by the 
substantial shareholder and the directors of 
the Company. We ensured all transactions and 
balances with those entities identified as related 
parties were disclosed in accordance with IAS 
24, including consideration of whether material 
transactions with the substantial shareholder or 
companies under their control were correctly 
disclosed as being on an arm’s length basis. 
Business combinations – 
TradeFX 
On 7 May 2015, the Group acquired TradeFX (now 
renamed Markets Limited) and created its Financial 
Trading Division.
Management are required to make significant 
judgements in assessing the fair values of 
contingent consideration and of the assets and 
liabilities acquired. Management have engaged 
external valuations experts to prepare the purchase 
price allocation exercise. 
Following the acquisition of Markets Limited 
management completed their provisional 
assessment of the fair value of the consideration 
and the assets acquired as part of the interim 
accounts to 30 June 2015. As permitted by IFRS 
3, management have given consideration to 
information that has become available since 
the acquisition that provides better information 
about the circumstances that existed at the 
date of acquisition. As such the accounting for 
the acquisition has been finalised taking this 
information into account. 
We challenged the assumptions underpinning 
the significant judgements used by management 
including the assessment of contingent 
consideration and the fact that the additional 
information that has become available since the 
acquisition provides better information about 
the circumstances that existed at the date of 
acquisition. 
We used our valuation specialists to review and 
evaluate the fair value of assets and liabilities 
recognised and consider the judgemental areas 
and those subject to significant estimation.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     85
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
continued
Changes in the assessment of risks from the prior year
As part of the 2015 year end audit we have reassessed the significance of certain risks which were disclosed in the period year audit report:
Capitalised development costs
We had previously assessed the capitalisation of development costs as a significant risk reported within our audit report. Having reflected  
on the level of capitalised development costs in the overall context of the business and the lack of any concerns arising from our testing  
in previous years we no longer consider this to be a significant risk.
Business combinations
Business combinations had not been considered a risk to report in our 2014 audit report. Given the significance of the acquisition of the 
Trade FX business in the period this was considered to be a significant risk to be reported in our audit report for the current year.
Our consideration of materiality 
We consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions  
of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We apply materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the 
financial statements. We use a lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing required in order to 
reduce the probability to an appropriately low level that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed materiality.
Level of materiality applied and rationale 
We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be the critical performance measure for the Group. Using this benchmark we set materiality at €12.1m 
(2014: €10.4m) being 5% (2014: 5%) of Adjusted EBITDA. In setting this level of materiality we considered the quantum of materiality was 
appropriate in comparison to other benchmarks: 1.9% of revenue; 0.6% of total assets. Our materiality level is higher than the previous year 
reflecting the continued growth in earnings of the Group.
Performance materiality was set at 75% of materiality. In setting the level of performance materiality we considered a number of factors 
including the expected total value of known and likely misstatements (based on past experience and other factors) and Management’s 
attitude toward proposed adjustments.
Component materiality
We set materiality for each component of the Group based on a percentage of materiality dependent on the size and our assessment  
of the risk of material misstatement of that component. Component materiality ranged from €3.15m to €6.3m. 
Agreement with the Audit Committee
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences individually in excess of €500k. We also 
agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Misstatements below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of the identified 
misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a whole.
Overview of the scope of our audit
In determining the scope of our audit we considered the level of work to be performed at each component in order to ensure that sufficient 
assurance was gained to allow us to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group as a whole. 
We tailored the extent of the work to be performed at each component, either by us, as the Group audit team, component auditors  
within the BDO network or non-BDO member firms, based on our assessment of the risk of material misstatement at each component. 
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing  
risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
86     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Classification of components
The 5 components that are considered significant components (defined as those that were greater than 15% of Adjusted EBITDA,  
or where the risks of the component were significantly different to the group risks) were audited by the Group audit team. 
The Group audit team centrally performed the audit of 100% of group revenue and the audit of intangible assets including development 
costs using the materiality levels set out above.
For the 24 components not considered significant, the component auditors were asked to perform review procedures or specific scope 
procedures on certain balances based on their relative size, risks in the business and our knowledge of those entities appropriate to respond 
to the risk of material misstatement. 
Review and specific scope procedures were performed by the Group audit team or BDO network firms on 21 reporting components and  
by non-BDO member firms on a further 3 reporting components. 
Summary audit scope
Revenue Adjusted EBITDA Total assets
Full audit
Speciﬁc procedures
Group level procedures
 
Based on the above scope we were able to conclude that sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis to form 
our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course  
of performing our audit; or 
• is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement on page 47 relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
100% 99% 92%
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     87
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
continued
Statement regarding the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the company
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity,
• the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated,
• the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis  
of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over  
a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements, and
• the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done 
so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that 
the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 80, the Directors are responsible for preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements and in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements performed in accordance with ISAs (UK and Ireland)
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the  
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent  
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements  
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the members of the 
Company, as a body
Our report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 80C of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters that we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matthew White
For and on behalf of BDO LLP
Chartered Accountants
London 
United Kingdom
25 February 2016
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number OC305127).
88     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015        2015   2014
  Actual Adjusted Actual Adjusted
  Notes   €’000   €’000   €’000   €’000 
Revenue 4 630,086 630,086 456,980 456,980
Distribution costs before depreciation and amortisation  (331,705) (327,791) (211,756) (211,442)
Administrative expenses before depreciation and amortisation  (64,370) (50,407) (47,321) (38,391)
EBITDA   234,011 251,888 197,903 207,147
Depreciation and amortisation  (85,398) (43,647) (69,790) (30,733)
Finance income 7 14,631 14,631 19,157 19,157
Finance cost – movement in deferred and contingent consideration  (1,088) – (439) –
Finance cost – other  (14,578) (5,190) (2,403) (697)
Total financing cost 7 (15,666) (5,190) (2,842) (697)
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures 13a 229 229 (92) (92)
Share of loss from associates 13b (5,856) (5,856) (695) (695)
Profit before taxation  141,951 212,055 143,641 194,087
Tax expenses 8 (5,646) (5,646) (2,923) (2,923)
Profit for the year  136,305 206,409 140,718 191,164
Other comprehensive income for the year:
Items that have been classified to profit or loss:
Change in fair value of available for sale equity instruments 14 1,160 1,160 (774) (774)
Exchange gains arising on translation of foreign operations  3,491 3,491 – –
Total items that will be classified to profit or loss  4,651 4,651 (774) (774)
Total comprehensive income for the year  140,956 211,060 139,944 190,390
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the parent  135,810 205,914 140,327 190,773
Non-controlling interest  495 495 391 391
  136,305 206,409 140,718 191,164
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent  140,236 210,340 139,553 189,999
Non-controlling interest  720 720 391 391
  140,956 211,060 139,944 190,390
Earnings per share for profit attributable to the owners  
 of the parent during the year:
Basic (cents) 9 44.5 67.5 48.4 65.9
Diluted (cents) 9 44.5 67.4 48.2 65.6
* Adjusted numbers relate to certain non-cash and one-off items including amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions, professional costs on acquisitions and abandoned acquisitions  
and irrecoverable deposit, finance costs on acquisitions, change in fair value of available-for-sale investments in the income statement, non-cash accrued bond interest, provision against 
irrecoverable cash and additional various non-cash charges. The Directors believe that the adjusted profit represents more closely the consistent trading performance of the business.  
A full reconciliation between the actual and adjusted results is provided in Note 5.
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     89
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
       Total
     Convertible  attributable
 Additional  Available-  Employee bond Foreign to equity Non-
 paid in  for-sale Retained benefit option exchange holders of controlling Total
 capital reserve earnings trust reserve reserve parent interest equity
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Balance at 1 Jan 2015 324,774 804 537,692 (36,154) 45,392 – 872,508 675 873,183
Changes in equity for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year – 1,160 135,810 – – 3,266 140,236 720 140,956
Dividend paid – – (81,805) – – – (81,805) – (81,805)
Issue of share capital (net of issue cost) 313,032 – – – – – 313,032 – 313,032
Exercise of options 403 – (4,381) 8,659 – – 4,681 140 4,821
Employee stock option scheme – – 4,735 – – – 4,735 169 4,904
Acquisition of minority interest – – – – – – – 131 131
Minority interest acquired  
 on business combination – – – – – – – 5,473 5,473
Balance at 31 December 2015 638,209 1,964 592,051 (27,495) 45,392 3,266 1,253,387 7,308 1,260,695
Balance at 1 Jan 2014 323,187 1,578 596,256 – – – 921,021 – 921,021
Changes in equity for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year – (774) 140,327 – – – 139,553 391 139,944
Dividend paid – – (192,258) – – – (192,258) – (192,258)
Purchase of employee Benefit Trust – – – (48,545) – – (48,545) – (48,545)
Exercise of options 1,587 – (6,292) 12,391 – – 7,686 – 7,686
Issue of convertible bonds – – – – 45,392 – 45,392 – 45,392
Purchase of share options – – (706) – – – (706) – (706)
Employee stock option scheme – – 365 – – – 365 – 365
Acquisition of minority interest – – – – – – – 284 284
Balance at 31 December 2014 324,774 804 537,692 (36,154) 45,392 – 872,508 675 873,183
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
90     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Consolidated balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2015
      2015 2014
    Notes  €’000   €’000 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
Property, plant and equipment    11 51,337   38,319 
Intangible assets    12  750,872  381,145 
Investments in equity accounted associates & joint ventures   13  51,778   33,826 
Available for sale investments    14  237,100   24,219 
Other non-current assets   15 20,830  16,644 
      1,111,917  494,153 
CURRENT ASSETS 
Trade receivables   16  74,632   45,056 
Other receivables   17 27,806  22,396 
Cash and cash equivalents    18  857,898   692,347 
      960,336  759,799 
TOTAL ASSETS     2,072,253  1,253,952 
       
EQUITY 
Additional paid in capital    19  638,209   324,774 
Available-for-sale reserve    1,964   804 
Employee Benefit Trust   19  (27,495)  (36,154)
Convertible bonds option reserve   21  45,392   45,392 
Foreign exchange reserve    3,266 –
Retained earnings      592,051   537,692 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent      1,253,387   872,508 
Non-controlling interest    7,308   675 
TOTAL EQUITY     1,260,695  873,183 
NON CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Loans and borrowings   20 200,000 –
Convertible bonds   21  256,429   247,040 
Deferred revenues      3,235   6,398 
Deferred tax liability   24 14,049   4,904 
Progressive operators’ jackpots, security deposits      –   15,000 
Contingent consideration   22 141,347 1,088
Other non-current liabilities      1,175   1,284 
      616,235   275,714 
CURRENT LIABILITIES       
Trade payables    23  17,411  16,426 
Progressive operators’ jackpots, security deposits    63,340   42,367 
Client funds    43,761 3,195
Tax liabilities     5,910   990 
Deferred revenues      4,355   3,442 
Contingent consideration   22 4,491 1,823
Other payables    25 56,055   36,812 
      195,323  105,055 
 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES      2,072,253   1,253,952 
The financial information was approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 25 February 2016.
Mor Weizer  Ron Hoffman
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     91
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
    2015 2014
   Notes €’000 €’000
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit after tax    136,305 140,718
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities (see below)   71,061 85,842
Income taxes paid    (5,487) (5,798)
Net cash provided by operating activities    201,879 220,762
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Other non-current assets    (6,386) (2,547)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment   11 (27,327) (25,164)
Return on investment in joint ventures   13a 2,362 3,393
Investment in joint ventures   13a – (7,373)
Acquisition of intangible assets   12 (4,331) (6,251)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired    (178,927) (43,353)
Capitalised development costs   12 (31,357) (21,806)
Investment in equity-accounted associates   13b,13c (25,503) (26,450)
Investment in available-for-sale investments   14 (209,797) –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment    398 374
Acquisition of minority interest    (598) –
Net cash used in investing activities    (481,466) (129,177)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid to the holders of the parent    (81,805) (192,258)
Issue of convertible bonds, net of issue costs   21 – 291,145
Issue of share capital, net of issue costs    313,032 –
Purchase of shares for Employee Benefit Trust   19b – (48,545)
Cancellation of options    – (706)
Interest paid on convertible bonds    (1,485) –
Proceeds from bank borrowings   20 200,000 –
Exercise of options    4,818 7,686
Net cash from financing activities    434,560 57,322
INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS    154,973 148,907
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR    692,347 527,394
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents    10,578 16,046
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR    857,898 692,347
Consolidated statement of cash flows
92     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Consolidated statement of cash flows
continued
    2015 2014
   Notes €’000 €’000
ADJUSTMENT TO RECONCILE NET INCOME TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Income and expenses not affecting operating cash flows:
Depreciation    14,578 9,665
Amortisation    69,610 60,125
Impairment    1,210 –
Share of (profit)/loss from joint ventures    (229) 92
Share of loss from associates    5,856 695
Decline in fair value of available-for-sale investment    – 8,668
Non-cash accrued bond interest    9,388 1,287
Income tax expense    5,646 2,923
Employee stock option plan expenses    4,904 364
Movement in deferred and contingent consideration    1,088 438
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents    (10,578) (16,046)
Other    230 170
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Increase/(decrease) in trade receivables    (29,010) 74
Increase/(decrease) in other receivables    (3,169) 5,166
Increase in trade payables    (6,842) (4,835)
Increase in progressive, operators jackpot, security deposits    5,973 9,306
Increase/(decrease) in client funds    (6,496) 2,712
Increase in other payables    11,153 7,003
Decrease in deferred revenues    (2,251) (1,965)
    71,061 85,842
    2015 2014
   Notes €’000 €’000
ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARY, NET OF CASH ACQUIRED
Acquisitions in the year
A. Acquisition of Yoyo Games Limited   26a 14,208 –
B. Acquisition of Markets Limited   26b 159,042 –
C. Other acquisitions   26c 3,552 –
Acquisitions in previous years
A. Acquisition of Aristocrat Lotteries    – 11,556
B. Other acquisitions    2,125 3,069
C. Acquisition of Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited    – 728
D. Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited    – 28,000
    178,927 43,353
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     93
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Note 1 – General
Playtech plc and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) develop unified software platforms for the online and land-based gambling industry, targeting online and  
land-based operators and since May 2015 also offered an online trading platform to retail customer which enabled them to trade CFD (Contracts for Differences) 
on a variety of instruments which fall under the general categories of Foreign exchange, Commodities, Equities and indices. In the context of this activity, the 
Group acts as a market-maker in a, predominantly, B2C environment. Playtech’s gaming applications – online casino, poker and other P2P games, bingo, mobile, 
live gaming, land-based terminal and fixed-odds game are fully inter-compatible and can be freely incorporated as stand-alone applications, accessed and 
funded by the operators’ players through the same user account and managed by the operator by means of a single, powerful management interface. 
Basis of preparation
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements. 
Note 2 – Significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies followed in the preparation of the financial information, on a consistent basis, are:
Accounting principles
This financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting standards and 
interpretations (collectively IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the European Union (“adopted IFRSs”).  
In the current year the Group has adopted all of the new and revised standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and the International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) of the IASB, as they have been adopted by the European Union, that are relevant to its operations and  
effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2015. 
New standards, interpretations and amendments effective from 1 January 2015
There are no new standards, interpretations or amendments which are effective for periods beginning on or before 1 January 2015 which have a material 
effect on the Group’s financial information. 
The Directors are still considering the potential impact of IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers, and IFRS 16: Leases, but do not expect that  
these or any other new standards, interpretations and amendments which are effective for periods beginning after 1 January 2015 to have a material effect 
on the Group’s future financial information. 
Basis of consolidation
Where the company has control over an investee it is classified as a subsidiary. The company controls an investee if all three of the following elements  
are present: power over the investee; exposure to variable returns from the investee; and the ability of the investor to use its power to affect those variable 
returns. Control is reassessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change in any of these elements of control.
The consolidated financial information presents the results of the Group as if they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between 
Group companies are therefore eliminated in full.
The consolidated financial information incorporates the results of business combinations using the acquisition method. In the statement of financial position, 
the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The results of acquired 
operations are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained. They are deconsolidated from 
the date on which control ceases.
Notes to the financial statements
94     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 2 – Significant accounting policies continued
Foreign currency
The financial information of the gaming division, which includes the Company and some of its subsidiaries is prepared in euros (the functional currency), 
which is the currency that best reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances relevant to the gaming division. Transactions 
and balances in foreign currencies are converted into euros in accordance with the principles set forth by International Accounting Standard (IAS) 21  
(“The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates”). Accordingly, transactions and balances have been converted into the presentation currency  
of euros as follows: 
• Monetary assets and liabilities – at the rate of exchange applicable at the balance sheet date; 
• Income and expense items – at exchange rates applicable as of the date of recognition of those items. Non-monetary items are converted at the rate 
of exchange used to convert the related balance sheet items i.e. at the time of the transaction. Exchange gains and losses from the aforementioned 
conversion are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The financial information of the financial division is prepared in US Dollars (the functional currency), which is the currency that best reflects the economic 
substance of the underlying events and circumstances relevant to the financial division. The transactions and balances are converted into the presentation 
currency of euros as follows: 
• Assets and liabilities – at the rate of exchange applicable at the balance sheet date; 
• Income and expense items – at average exchange rates applicable at the period of recognition of those items; 
• Equity- at historic rate.
Exchange gains and losses from the aforementioned conversion are recognised in the foreign exchange reserve.
Revenue recognition 
The Group’s principal revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments are discussed below:
Royalty income
Royalty income relating to licensed technology and the provision of certain services provided via various distribution channels (online, mobile or land-based 
interfaces). Royalty income is based on the underlying gaming revenue earned by our licensees and is recognised in the accounting periods in which the 
gaming transactions occur.
Trading income
Trading income represents gains (including commission) and losses arising on client trading activity, primarily in contracts for difference on shares, indexes, 
commodities and foreign exchange. Open client positions are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised  
in revenue as well as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed.
Fixed-fee income
Other revenue includes revenue derived from the provision of certain services and licensed technology for which charges are based on a fixed-fee and varies 
according to the usage of the service/technology in each accounting period. Income is recognised over the period of service once the obligations under the 
contracts have passed. Where amounts are billed and obligations not met, revenue is deferred.
Fixed-term arrangements
Other income receivable under fixed-term arrangements is recognised as revenue over the term of the agreement on a straight line basis.
Distribution costs
Distribution costs represent the direct costs of the function of providing services to customers, costs of the development function and advertising costs.
Share-based payments
Certain employees participate in the Group’s share option plans which commenced with effect from 1 December 2005. The fair value of the equity settled 
options granted is charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the vesting period and the credit is taken  
to equity, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Fair value is determined by the Black-Scholes and Binomial valuation model.  
The share options plan does not have any performance conditions other than continued service. Where equity settled share options are settled in cash  
at the group’s discretion the debit is taken to equity.
The Group has also granted awards to be distributed from the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust. The fair value of these awards is based on the market price  
at the date of the grant, some of the grants have performance conditions. 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     95
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 2 – Significant accounting policies continued
Income taxes and deferred taxation
Provision for income taxes is calculated in accordance with the tax legislations and applicable tax rates in force at the balance sheet date in the countries  
in which the Group companies are incorporated. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet differs from its tax base, 
except for differences arising on:
• the initial recognition of goodwill;
• the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither 
accounting or taxable profit; and
• investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable 
that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected  
to apply when the deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are settled/(recovered).
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax assets 
and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either:
• the same taxable Group company; or
• different Group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities 
simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Dividend distribution
Final dividends are recorded in the Group’s financial information in the period in which they are approved by the Group’s shareholders. Interim dividends  
are recognised when paid.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment comprise computers and gaming machines, buildings and leasehold and buildings improvements, office furniture and 
equipment, and motor vehicles and are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Carrying amounts are reviewed on each balance sheet date for 
impairment. Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable 
amount.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets on a straight line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. The principal 
annual rates used for this purpose, which are consistent with those of the previous years, are: 
     %
Computers and gaming machines     33
Office furniture and equipment     7-33
Buildings and Leasehold and buildings improvements   10-20, or over the length of the lease
Motor vehicles     15
Subsequent expenditures are included in the asset carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income 
statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount and are included in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.
Business combinations
The consolidated financial information incorporate the results of business combinations using the purchase method. In the consolidated balance sheet, 
the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The results of acquired 
operations are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained. 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recognised at cost less, if any, provision for impairment.
96     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 2 – Significant accounting policies continued
Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise externally acquired patents, domains and customer lists. Intangible assets also include internally generated capitalised software 
development costs. All such intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Where intangible assets are acquired as part of a business 
combination they are recorded initially at their fair value. Carrying amounts are reviewed on each balance sheet date for impairment. Where the carrying 
amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down to its recoverable amount.
 
Amortisation is calculated at annual rates estimated to write off the costs of the assets over their expected useful lives and is charged to operating expenses 
from the point the asset is brought into use. The principal annual rates used for this purpose, which are consistent with those of the previous years, are:
      %
Domain names   Nil
Internally generated capitalised development costs   20-33
Technology IP   13-33
Customer lists    In line with projected cash flows or 7-20
Affiliate contracts   5-12.5
Patents and license   Over the expected useful lives 10-33
Management believes that the useful life of the domain names is indefinite. Domain names are reviewed for impairment annually.
Expenditure incurred on development activities including the Group’s software development is capitalised only where the expenditure will lead to new or 
substantially improved products, the products are technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development. 
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only where it clearly increases the economic benefits to be derived from the asset to 
which it relates. All other expenditure, including that incurred in order to maintain an intangible assets current level of performance, is expensed as incurred.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over, in the case of business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2010, the 
Group’s interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and, in the case of business combinations completed  
on or after 1 January 2010, the total acquisition date fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
For business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2010, cost comprised the fair value of assets given, and liabilities assumed, plus any direct costs 
of acquisition. Changes in the estimated value of contingent consideration arising on business combinations completed by this date were treated as an 
adjustment to cost and, in consequence, resulted in a change in the carrying value of goodwill.
For business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010, cost comprises the fair value of assets given and liabilities assumed, plus the amount of any 
non-controlling interests in the acquired business. Contingent consideration is included in cost at its acquisition date fair value and, in the case of contingent 
consideration classified as a financial liability, remeasured subsequently through profit or loss. For combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010, direct 
costs of acquisition are recognised immediately as an expense in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, within administrative costs.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the consolidated income statement. Goodwill is not 
amortised and is reviewed for impairment, annually or more specifically if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken annually at the financial year end. Other 
non-financial assets are subject to annual impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be 
recoverable. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the asset is 
written down accordingly.
Where it is not possible to establish the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the asset’s cash generating unit  
(i.e. the lowest group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there are separately identifiable cash flows). Goodwill is allocated on initial recognition  
to each of the group’s cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination giving rise to the goodwill.
Impairment charges are included in the administrative expenses line item in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, except to the extent they 
reverse gains previously recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     97
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 2 – Significant accounting policies continued
Associates and structured agreements
Where the Group has the power to participate in (but not control) the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity, it is classified as an associate. 
Associates are initially recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost. Subsequently associates are accounted for using the equity 
method, where the Group’s share of post-acquisition profits and losses and other comprehensive income is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss and other comprehensive income (except for losses in excess of the Group’s investment in the associate unless there is an obligation to make good 
those losses).
Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors’ interests in the 
associate. The investor’s share in the associate’s profits and losses resulting from these transactions is eliminated against the carrying value of the associate.
Any premium paid for an associate above the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is capitalised 
and included in the carrying amount of the associate. Where there is objective evidence that the investment in an associate has been impaired the carrying 
amount of the investment is tested for impairment in the same way as other non-financial assets.
Joint ventures
The group is a party to a joint arrangement when there is a contractual arrangement that confers joint control over the relevant activities of the arrangement 
to the Group and at least one other party. Joint control is assessed under the same principles as control over subsidiaries.
The Group classifies its interests in joint arrangements as either:
Joint ventures – where the group has rights to only the net assets of the joint arrangement; or
Joint operations – where the group has rights to both the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the joint arrangement.
In assessing the classification of interests in joint arrangements, the Group considers:
• The structure of the joint arrangement;
• The legal form of joint arrangements structured through a separate vehicle;
• The contractual terms of the joint arrangement agreement; and
• Any other facts and circumstances (including any other contractual arrangements).
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures in the same manner as investments in Associates (i.e. using the equity method – refer above).
Any premium paid for an investment in a joint venture above the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired is capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the investment in joint venture. Where there is objective evidence that the investment  
in a joint venture has been impaired the carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment in the same way as other non-financial assets.
The Group accounts for its interests joint operations by recognising its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in accordance with its contractually 
conferred rights and obligations.
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the categories discussed below, depending on the purpose for which the asset was acquired. The Group 
has not classified any of its financial assets as held to maturity. The Group does not hold any financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Loans and receivables 
These assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise principally through 
the provision of services to customers (e.g. trade receivables), but also incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset. They are initially recognised  
at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to their acquisition or issue and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
The Group’s receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and loans to customers in the balance sheet.
Trade receivables which principally represent amounts due from licensees are carried at original invoice value less an estimate made for bad and doubtful 
debts based on a review of all outstanding amounts at the year-end. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is objective evidence that the  
Group will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities  
of three months or less. Where cash is on deposit with maturity dates greater than three months, it is disclosed within other receivables. 
Loans to customers are in respect of formal loan agreements entered into between the Group and its customers, which are carried at original advanced  
value less provision for impairment. They are classified between current and non-current assets in accordance with the contractual repayment terms  
of each loan agreement.
98     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 2 – Significant accounting policies continued
Financial assets continued
Available-for-sale financial assets
Non-derivative financial assets classified as available-for-sale comprise the Group’s strategic investments in entities not qualifying as subsidiaries, associates  
or jointly controlled entities. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value generally recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
the available for sale reserve. In accordance with IAS 39, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset is recognised 
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
Purchases and sales of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised on settlement date with any change in fair value between trade date and settlement 
date being recognised in the available-for-sale reserve. On sale, the amount held in the available-for-sale reserve associated with that asset is removed from 
equity and recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities
Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Several of the Group’s licensees participate in progressive jackpot games. Each time a progressive jackpot game is played, a preset amount is added to  
a cumulative jackpot for that specific game. The accrual for the jackpot at the consolidated balance sheet date is included in progressive jackpot and other 
operator’s jackpot liabilities.
The Group’s liability in connection with client funds includes customer deposits offset by the fair value of open positions, the movement on which is 
recognised through profit or loss. Such open positions are classified as short term financial derivatives in the balance sheet.
Liability components of convertible loan notes are measured as described further below.
Loans and bank borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of any transaction costs directly attributable to the issue of the instrument. Such interest 
bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any interest expense over the 
period to repayment is at a constant rate on the balance of the liability carried in the consolidated balance sheet. Interest expense in this context includes 
initial transaction costs and premia payable on redemption, as well as any interest or coupon payable while the liability is outstanding.
Fair value measurement hierarchy
IFRS 7 requires certain disclosure which require the classification of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value using a fair value hierarchy 
that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the fair value measurement (see note 30). The fair value hierarchy has the following levels:
a) Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1);
b) Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly  
(i.e. – derived from prices) (Level 2); and
c) Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the financial asset or financial liability is categorized is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement. Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified in their entirety into only one of the three levels. The Group 
measures its Available-for-sale investments at fair value – refer to Note 15 for more detailed information in respect of the fair value measurement.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity and are stated at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Employee Benefit Trust
Consideration paid/received for the purchase/sale of shares subsequently put in the Employee Benefit Trust is recognised directly in equity. The cost of 
treasury shares held is presented as a separate reserve (the “Employee Benefit Trust reserve”). Any excess of the consideration received on the sale of treasury 
shares over the weighted average cost of the shares sold is credited to retained earnings.
Convertible bond
The proceeds received on issue of the Group’s convertible bond are allocated into their liability and equity components. The amount initially attributed to the 
debt component equals the discounted cash flows using a market rate of interest that would be payable on a similar debt instrument that does not include 
an option to convert. Subsequently, the debt component is accounted for as a financial liability measured at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion 
or maturity of the bond, where the option meets the definition of an equity instrument. The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option 
and is recognised in the “Convertible bond option reserve” within shareholders’ equity.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     99
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 2 – Significant accounting policies continued
Long term liabilities
Long term liabilities are those liabilities that are due for repayment or settlement in more than twelve months from balance sheet date.
Provisions 
Provisions, which are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past events,  
if it is probable that an outflow of funds will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Leases
Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are not transferred to the Group (an “operating lease”), the total rentals payable under 
the lease are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The aggregate benefit of lease 
incentives is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interest is recognised at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable  
net assets. The total comprehensive income of non-wholly owned subsidiaries is attributed to owners of the parent and to the non-controlling interests  
in proportion to their relative ownership interests.
Adjusted results
Adjusted results are amended for income or expense that helps to better understand the trading performance of the business. 
Such exclusions include:
• Material non-cash items, e.g. amortisation of intangibles on acquisition, change in fair value of available-for-sale investments in the income statement  
and Employee Share Option Plan expenses.
• Material one-off items, e.g. gain on sale of investment in associates, professional services cost related to acquisitions, irrecoverable deposit and professional 
fees on abandoned acquisitions and other exceptional projects.
Underlying adjusted results excludes the following items in order to present a more accurate ‘like for like’ comparison over the comparable period:
• The impact of acquisitions made in the period or in the comparable period; and
• Specific material agreements, adjustments to previous years or currency fluctuations affecting the results in the period and the comparable period.
A full reconciliation of adjustments is included in note 5.
Note 3 – Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial information in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial information and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events 
and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgments that may potentially have a significant impact on the Group’s earnings and financial position 
are detailed below.
 
Estimates and assumptions
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles
The Group is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill, intangible assets not yet in use and indefinite life assets have suffered any impairment. 
The Group is required to test other intangibles if events of changes in circumstances indicated that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.  
The recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and  
the choice of a discount rate in order to calculate the present value of the cash flows. Such estimates are based on management’s experience of the  
business, but actual outcomes may vary. More details including carrying values are included in Note 12.
Amortisation of development costs and other intangible assets and the useful life of property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives. Useful lives are based on management’s estimates  
of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. 
Changes to estimates can result in significant variations in the amounts charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in specific periods. 
More details including carrying values are included in Notes 11 and 12.
100     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 3 – Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued
Compliance risk – Legal, regulatory and taxation
Legal proceedings and contingent liabilities
Management regularly monitors the key risks affecting the Group, including the regulatory environment in which the Group operates. A provision will be 
made where there is a present obligation from a past event, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and the amount of costs of the transfer can be 
estimated reliably. In instances where the criteria are not met, a contingent liability may be disclosed in the notes to the financial information. More details  
are included in Note 31.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income tax in jurisdictions in which its companies are incorporated and registered and judgment is required in determining the 
provision for income taxes. The Group is basing its tax provisions on current (and enacted but not yet implemented) tax rules and practices, together with 
advice received from professional advisers, and believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open enquiry years based on its assessment 
of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. The Group constantly monitors changes in legislation and update its accruals 
accordingly. The principal risks relating to the Group’s tax liabilities, and the sustainability of the underlying effective tax rate, arise from domestic and 
international tax laws and practices in the e-commerce environment continuing to evolve, including the corporate tax rates in jurisdictions where the  
Group has a significant asset or people presence. More details are included in Note 8.
Regulatory
The Group’s subsidiary, Safecap investments Limited (“Safecap”), is primarily regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission. The regulatory 
environment is regularly changing and imposes significant demands of the resources of the subsidiary. As the subsidiary’s activities expand, offering new 
products and penetrating new markets, these regulatory demands will inevitably increase. The increasing complexity of the Group’s operations require 
training and recruitment be tailored to meet these regulatory demands and the costs of compliance are expected to increase.
In addition to the above, Safecap manages it capital resources on the basis of capital adequacy requirements as prescribed it regulator, together with its 
own assessment of other business risks and sensitivities which may impact the business. Capital adequacy requirements are monitored on a real-time basis, 
including a ‘buffer’ which is deemed sufficient by management to ensure that capital requirements are not breached at any time.
Structured agreements
For all arrangements structured in separate vehicles the Group must assess the substance of the arrangement in determining whether it meets the definition 
to be classified as an associate or joint venture. Factors the group must consider include:
• Structure
• Legal form
• Contractual agreement
• Other facts and circumstances.
Upon consideration of these factors, the Group has determined that all of its arrangements structured through separate vehicles give it significant influence 
but not joint control rights to the net assets and are therefore classified as associates.
Share-based payments
The Group has a share-based remuneration scheme for employees. The fair value of share options is estimated by using the Black-Scholes and Binomial 
models, on the date of grant based on certain assumptions. Those assumptions are described in Note 10 and include, among others, the dividend growth 
rate, expected share price volatility, expected life of the options and number of options expected to vest. 
Determination of fair value of intangible assets acquired on business combinations 
The fair value of the intangible assets acquired is based on the discounted cash flows expected to be derived from the use of the asset. Further information  
in relation to the determination of fair value of intangible assets acquired is given in Notes 26 and 27.
Determination of the fair value of contingent consideration
The fair value of contingent consideration is based on the probability of expected cash flow outcomes and the assessment of present values using 
appropriate discount rates. Further information in relation to the determination of the fair value of contingent consideration is given in Note 26 and 27.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     101
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 4 – Segment information
The Group’s reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services. 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating 
decision maker has been identified as the management team including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The operating segments identified are:
• Gaming: including Casino, Services, Sport, Bingo, Poker and Land-based
• Financial: including CFD
The Group-wide profit measures are adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net profit (see Note 5). Management believes the adjusted profit measures represent  
more closely the underlying trading performance of the business. No other differences exist between the basis of preparation of the performance measures 
used by management and the figures in the Group financial information.
There is no allocation of operating expenses, profit measures, assets and liabilities to individual products within the segments. 
Year ended 31 December 2015
    Land-    Total Total
  Casino   Services   Sport  based Bingo Poker  Other Gaming Financial Consolidated
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Total revenue  308,712 155,625  32,206  29,749  20,468  11,241  12,079  570,080  60,006  630,086
adjusted EBITDA        236,022 15,866 251,888
adjusted net profit        192,176 14,233 206,409
Total assets        1,911,203  161,050  2,072,253
Total liabilities         672,164  139,394 811,558
Year ended 31 December 2014
          Total
    Casino   Services   Sport  Land-based Bingo Poker  Other Gaming
   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Total revenue    244,235  132,792   26,306  16,612   17,468   13,813   5,754   456,980 
In 2015, there were two licensees (2014: Three licensees) who individually accounted for more than 10% of the total gaming revenue and the total revenue  
of the Group. Aggregate revenue from these licensees totalled €192.3 million (2014: €185.9 million).
102     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 4 – Segment information continued
Geographical analysis of revenues by jurisdiction of gaming license
Analysis by geographical regions is made according to the jurisdiction of the gaming license of the licensee. This does not reflect the region of the end users 
of the Group’s licensees whose locations are worldwide.
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000 
Philippines    199,608   134,052 
UK    179,510  23,672 
Rest of World     65,025   55,610 
Antigua    53,512   63,302 
Gibraltar    30,285   103,148 
Italy    15,591   13,299 
Malta    10,798   15,867 
Curacao     10,426   13,614 
Alderney    5,325   34,416 
    570,080  456,980 
Geographical analysis of non-current assets
The Group’s information about its non-current assets by location of the domicile are detailed below:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000 
Isle of Man    675,154   183,300 
British Virgin Islands    205,325   215,876 
Cyprus     76,436   32,974 
Luxembourg    65,884 –
Sweden     19,194   20,255 
Netherlands    18,579   7,990 
Latvia    11,069 –
UK     10,220   5,229 
Rest of World    30,056  28,529
    1,111,917   494,153 
The Group’s information about its non-current assets by location of the assets are detailed below:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000 
Isle of Man    515,013   163,489 
UK     236,235   25,040 
British Virgin Islands    194,240   211,468 
Cyprus     76,436   32,974 
Sweden     19,194   20,255 
Netherlands    18,579   7,990 
Philippines    12,929 6,537
Latvia    11,069 2,670
Rest of World    28,222  23,730
    1,111,917   494,153 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     103
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 5 – Adjusted items
The following tables give a full reconciliation between adjusted and actual results:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000 
Distribution costs before depreciation and amortisation    331,705  211,756 
Employee stock option expenses     (3,914)  (314)
Adjusted distribution costs before depreciation and amortisation     327,791   211,442 
Administrative expenses before depreciation and amortisation      64,370   47,321 
Employee stock option expenses     (990)  (50)
Professional fees on acquisitions     (6,181)  (212)
Irrecoverable deposit and professional fees on abandoned acquisitions    (6,792) –
Decline in fair value of available-for-sale investment    –  (8,668)
Total adjusted items     (13,963)  (8,930)
Adjusted administrative expenses before depreciation and amortisation     50,407   38,391 
Depreciation – distribution costs    12,653  8,300 
Depreciation – administrative costs     1,925   1,365 
Amortisation – distribution costs     69,610   60,125 
Impairment    1,210 –
Total depreciation and amortisation    85,398   69,790 
Amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions – distribution costs     (41,751)   (39,057) 
Adjusted depreciation and amortisation    43,647  30,733 
Revenue    630,086 456,980
Revenue related to acquisitions    (74,162) (5,601)
Adjustment due to UK Point of Consumption (“POC”) tax    13,259 906
Underlying revenue    569,182 452,284
EBITDA    234,011 197,903
Decline in fair value of available-for-sale investments     –   8,668 
Employee stock option expenses    4,904   364 
Professional expenses on acquisitions     6,181   212 
Irrecoverable deposit and professional fees on abandoned acquisitions    6,792 –
Adjusted EBITDA     251,888   207,147 
EBITDA related to acquisitions     (13,374)  (766)
Adjustment due to UK POC tax    17,056 1,068
Underlying adjusted EBITDA      255,570  207,449 
Profit for the year- attributable to owners of parent     135,810  140,327 
Amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions      41,751   39,057 
Decline in fair value of available-for-sale investments     –   8,668 
Employee stock option expenses    4,904   364 
Professional expenses on acquisitions     6,181   212 
Irrecoverable deposit and professional fees on abandoned acquisitions    6,792 –
Non-cash accrued bond interest     9,388   1,113 
Movement in deferred and contingent consideration    1,088   439 
Provision against irrecoverable cash    –   593 
Adjusted profit for the year – attributable to owners of the parent    205,914   190,773 
Adjusted net profit related to acquisitions     (8,720)  413
Impairment    1,210 –
One off facility costs    1,550 –
Share of loss from associates    5,856 695
Effect of UK POC tax    17,056 1,068
Underlying adjusted profit for the year – attributable to owners of the parent     222,866   192,949 
104     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  NOTE 6 – EBITDA
EBITDA is stated after charging:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000 
Directors compensation
Short-term benefits of Directors    2,359 1,635
Share-based benefits of Directors    444 4
Bonuses to executive Directors    1,942 1,725
    4,745 3,364
Auditor’s remuneration
Audit services:
Parent company and Group audit     529   395 
Audit of overseas subsidiaries     571   381 
Total audit fees     1,100   776 
Non-audit services:
Other acquisition and assurance services     943   397 
Taxation compliance     213   23 
Total non-audit fees    1,156   420 
Development costs (including capitalised development costs of €29.7 million (2014: €20.1 million)    80,988   48,707
Note 7 – Financing income and costs
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000 
A. Finance income
Interest received     1,741   1,551 
Dividends received from available-for-sale investments      2,311   1,560 
Exchange differences     10,579   16,046 
     14,631   19,157 
B. Finance cost
Finance cost – movement in contingent consideration     (1,088)  (439)
Interest expenses on convertible bonds     (10,873)  (1,287)
One-off provision against irrecoverable cash    –  (593)
Bank charges and interest paid     (3,705)  (523)
     (15,666)  (2,842)
Net financing income    1,035   16,315 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     105
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Note 8 – Taxation
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000 
Current income tax
Income tax on profits of subsidiary operations     7,759   3,953 
Deferred tax (Note 24)     (2,113)  (1,030)
Total tax charge     5,646  2,923 
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to accounting profit as follows:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000 
Profit before taxation    141,951  143,641 
Tax at effective rate in Isle of Man     –   – 
Higher rates of current income tax in overseas jurisdictions     5,646  2,923 
The group is tax registered, managed and controlled from the Isle of Man where the corporate tax rate is set to zero. The majority of profits arise in Isle of Man 
and British Virgin Islands, in which the corporate tax is set to zero as well. The Group’s subsidiaries are located in different jurisdictions. The subsidiaries are 
taxed on their residual profit.
The deferred tax is due to the reversal of temporary differences arising on the acquisition of certain businesses in the current and prior years.
Note 9 – Earnings per share
Earnings per share have been calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue during the relevant financial periods. The weighted average 
number of equity shares in issue and the earnings, being profit after tax is as follows:
   2015 2015 2014 2014
  Actual Adjusted Actual Adjusted
   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent   135,810   205,914   140,327   190,773 
Basic (cents)  44.5 67.5 48.4 65.9
Diluted (cents)  44.5 67.4 48.2 65.6
    Number Number
    2015 2014*
Denominator – basic
Weighted average number of equity shares    305,086,266 289,658,548
Denominator – diluted
Weighted average number of equity shares     305,086,266  289,658,548
Weighted average number of option shares     411,618  1,209,873 
Weighted average number of shares     305,497,884 290,868,421
* 2014 comparable was recalculated to reflect the exclusion of the Group’s EBT.
As at 31 December 2015, out of the entire share options outstanding none (2014: 10,667) have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS as their 
exercise price is greater than the weighted average share price during the year (i.e. they are out of the money) and therefore it would not be advantageous  
for the holders to exercise those options. The total number of options in issue is disclosed in Note 10. 
Notes to the financial statements
continued
106     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 10 – Employee benefits
Total staff costs comprise the following:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Salaries and employee-related costs    219,676 157,579
Employee stock option costs    4,904 364
    224,580 157,943
Average number of employees:
Distribution     4,837 3,738
General and administration    324 234
    5,161 3,972
The Group has the following employee share option plans (“ESOP”) for the granting of non-transferable options to certain employees: 
• Playtech 2005 Share Option Plan (“the Plan”) and Israeli plans, options granted under the plans vest on the first day on which they become exercisable 
which is typically between one to four years after grant date. 
• GTS 2010 Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”), options granted under the plan vest on the first day on which they become exercisable which is three 
years after grant date.
• Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 (“LTIP”), awards (options, conditional awards or a forfeitable share award) granted under the plan vest on the first day  
on which they become exercisable which is typically between eighteen to thirty six months after grant date.
The overall term of the ESOP is five to ten years. These options are settled in equity once exercised. Option prices are either denominated in $ or £, depending 
on the option grant terms.
During 2012, the Group amended some of the rules of the equity based Plan. The amendments allow the Group, at the employees consent, to settle fully 
vested and exercisable options for cash instead of issuing shares. 
The Group granted 156,716 and 203,487 nil cost awards in the end of 2014 and 2015 respectively.
At 31 December 2015, options under these schemes were outstanding over:
    2015 2014
    Number Number
Shares vested on 30 November 2008 at an exercise price of £1.45 per share    – 38,899
Shares vested between 21 June 2007 and 21 June 2009 at an exercise price of $5.75 per share   1,667 6,867
Shares vested between 21 June 2007 and 21 June 2009 at an exercise price of £3.16 per share   10,000 10,000
Shares vested between 11 December 2007 and 11 December 2009 at an exercise price of $4.35 per share  – 25,000
Shares vested between 11 December 2007 and 11 December 2009 at an exercise price of £2.21 per share  5,334 22,334
Shares vested between 16 May 2008 and 16 May 2010 at an exercise price of £3.79 per share   – 8,000
Shares vested between 18 June 2008 and 18 June 2010 at an exercise price of $7.79 per share   – 4,900
Shares vested between 18 June 2008 and 18 June 2010 at an exercise price of £3.96 per share   6,267 14,084
Shares vested between 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2010 at an exercise price of $7.68 per share  3,000 3,000
Shares vested between 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2010 at an exercise price of £3.86 per share  7,000 12,667
Shares vested between 10 October 2008 and 10 October 2011 at an exercise price of £3.51 per share   – 75,000
Shares vested between 25 April 2009 and 25 April 2012 at an exercise price of £4.35 per share   10,000 40,000
Shares vested between 28 November 2009 and 28 November 2012 at an exercise price of £3.20 per share  37,518 49,689
Shares vested on 22 May 2012 at an exercise price of £4.155 per share    20,000 95,000
Shares vested between 18 April 2012 and 18 April 2013 at an exercise price of £5.12 per share   23,200 73,000
Shares vested between 3 June 2012 and 3 June 2013 at an exercise price of £4.84 per share   – 7,500
Shares vested between 26 August 2012 and 26 August 2013 at an exercise price of £4.16 per share   37,111 70,633
Shares vested on 10 March 2014 at an exercise price of £3.5225 per share    73,000 283,300
Shares vested on 23 June 2015 at an exercise price of £3.48 per share    13,000 370,000
Shares will vest between 17 June 2016 and 17 June 2017 at nil cost    57,425 –
Shares will vest on 1 March 2017 at nil cost    99,291 –
Shares will vest on 1 March 2018 at nil cost    146,919 –
Shares will vest between 1 September 2016 and 1 March 2018 at nil cost    56,568 –
    607,300 1,209,873
Total number of shares exercisable as of 31 December 2015 is 247,097 (2014: 839,873). 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     107
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Note 10 – Employee benefits continued
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices of shares options for the ESOP .
    2015 2014
  2015 2014 Weighted Weighted 
  Number of  Number of average average
  options options exercise price exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year  1,209,873 3,021,223 $5.27, £3.64 $4.36, £3.70
Granted  360,203 – nil nil
Forfeited  (25,041) (12,869) £4.44 £3.42
Exercised  (937,735) (1,798,481) $4.99, £3.64 $7.5, £3.72
Outstanding at the end of the year   607,300 1,209,873 $6.99, £1.52 $5.27, £3.64
Nil options exercised during the year (2014: 113,869) where a cash alternative was received. 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options was £8.036 (2014: £7.36). 
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices:
    2015 2014
Expiry date Exercise price Number Number
1 December 2015 $2.50 and between £1.45 and £2.32 – 38,899
Between 6 February 2016 and 11 December 2016 Between $4.35 and $5.75 and between £1.72 and £3.16 17,001 64,201
Between 15 May 2017 and 31 December 2017 Between $7.19 and $7.79 and between £3.39 and £3.96 16,267 117,651
Between 25 April 2018 and 31 December 2018 $4.35 and between £3.17 and £5.31 47,518 89,689
Between 22 May 2019 and 6 November 2019 Between £3.70 and £4.16 20,000 95,000
Between 18 April 2020 and 26 August 2020 Between £4.16 and £5.12 60,311 151,133
Between 10 March 2021 and 16 December 2021  Between £2.30 and £3.52 73,000 283,300
21 June 2022 £3.48 13,000 370,000
17 December 2024 Nil 156,716 –
17 December 2025 Nil 203,487 –
  607,300 1,209,873
Markets ESOP
Options granted under TradeFX 2009 Global Share Option Plan (“TradeFX Plan”) vest on the first day on which they become exercisable which is typically 
between one to four years after grant date.
As of the date of acquisition of Markets total outstanding unvested share options amount was 172,386. Markets options were granted between 2010 and  
1 April 2015: 7,375 with exercise price of $4; 17,325 options with exercise price of $12; and 147,686 with exercise price of $70. All share are in the money as  
 of 31 December 2015.
In the period since the acquisition date and until 31 December 2015, 3,062 options were forfeited and 425 were exercised. The options are exercised into 
Markets shares and therefore dilute the Group’s holding percentage. 
As of 31 December 2015, 168,999 options are outstanding, of this 19,752 are vested and exercisable.
Notes to the financial statements
continued
108     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 11 – Property, plant and equipment
    Buildings and
 Computers Office   Leasehold and
 and gaming  furniture and Motor buildings
 machines equipment vehicles improvements Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 39,577 2,885 491 8,909 51,862
Additions 16,033 2,745 40 6,346 25,164
Acquired through business
combinations 542 637 – 350 1,529
Disposals (1,295) (546) (75) (264) (2,180)
At 31 December 2014 54,857 5,721 456 15,341 76,375
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 26,895 1,073 136 1,923 30,027
Charge 7,623 929 94 1,019 9,665
Disposals (901) (421) (50) (264) (1,636)
At 31 December 2014 33,617 1,581 180 2,678 38,056
Net Book Value
At 31 December 2014 21,240 4,140 276 12,663 38,319
At 31 December 2013 12,682 1,812 355 6,986 21,835
    Buildings and
 Computers Office   Leasehold and
 and gaming  furniture and Motor buildings
 machines equipment vehicles improvements Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 54,857 5,721 456 15,341 76,375
Additions 13,435 2,490 202 11,200 27,327
Acquired through business combinations 621 435 – 66 1,122
Disposals (1,723) (190) (144) (9) (2,066)
Foreign exchange Movements 1 3 – – 4
At 31 December 2015 67,191 8,459 514 26,598 102,762
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 33,617 1,581 180 2,678 38,056
Charge 10,770 1,856 83 1,869 14,578
Disposals (976) (172) (61) – (1,209)
Foreign exchange Movements – – – – –
At 31 December 2015 43,411 3,265 202 4,547 51,425
Net Book Value
At 31 December 2015 23,780 5,194 312 22,051 51,337
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     109
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Note 12 – Intangible assets 
 Patents, 
 Domain names   Development Customer List
 and license Technology IP costs & Affiliates Goodwill Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost
As of 1 January 2014 22,576 20,881 66,514 220,853 197,208 528,032
Additions 592 1,670 21,806 3,989 – 28,057
Assets acquired on business combinations  – 4,110 1,825 1,998 7,889 15,822
As of 31 December 2014 23,168 26,661 90,145 226,840 205,097 571,911
Accumulated amortisation
As of 1 January 2014 6,682 10,346 28,615 89,268 – 134,911
Provision 1,992 2,803 15,731 35,329 – 55,855
As of 31 December 2014 8,674 13,149 44,346 124,597 – 190,766
Net Book Value 
As of 31 December 2014 14,494 13,512 45,799 102,243 205,097 381,145
As of 31 December 2013 15,894 10,535 37,899 131,585 197,208 393,121
 Patents, 
 Domain names   Development Customer List
 and license Technology IP costs & Affiliates Goodwill Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost
As of 1 January 2015 23,168 26,661 90,145 226,840 205,097 571,911
Additions 4,331 – 31,357 – – 35,688
Assets acquired on business combinations  35,059 16,416 2,177 81,536 261,834 397,022
Written off of an intangible asset – – (1,210) – – (1,210)
Foreign exchange Movements 333 105 41 775 2,282 3,536
As of 31 December 2015 62,891 43,182 122,510 309,151 469,213 1,006,947
Accumulated amortisation 
As of 1 January 2015 8,674 13,149 44,346 124,597 – 190,766
Provision 5,713 3,930 20,249 35,448 – 65,340
Foreign exchange Movements (6) (25) 30 (30) – (31)
As of 31 December 2015 14,381 17,054 64,625 160,015 – 256,075
Net Book Value 
As of 31 December 2015 48,510 26,128 57,885 149,136 469,213 750,872
The Group amortisation charge of €69.6 million also includes €4.2 million (2014: €4.2 million) in relation to the release of the buyout of reseller agreement 
(note 15 and 17).
Notes to the financial statements
continued
110     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 12 – Intangible assets continued
In accordance with IAS 36, the Group regularly monitors the carrying value of its intangible assets, including goodwill. Goodwill is allocated to fourteen  
(2014: twelve) cash generating units (“CGU”) Management determines which of those CGU’s are significant in relation to the total carrying value of goodwill  
as follows:
• Carrying value exceeds 10% of total goodwill; or
• Acquisition during the year; or
• Contingent consideration exists at the balance sheet date.
Based on the above criteria in respect of the goodwill, management has concluded that the following CGUs are significant:
• Markets, with a carrying value of €240.6 million (2014: nil); 
• Services, with a carrying value of €108.6 million (2014: €98.1 million);
• Casino product, with a carrying value of €34.0 million (2014: €27.1 million);
• Yoyo, with a carrying value of €13.2 million (2014: nil).
The recoverable amounts of all the CGUs have been determined from value in use calculations based on cash flow projections from formally approved 
budgets covering one year period to 31 December 2016 in addition to 2-3 years period forecasts. Beyond this period, management has applied an annual 
growth rate of between 2% and 5% based on the underlying economic environment in which the CGU operates. Management has applied a discount rates 
to the cash flow projections between 12.0% and 18.4% (2014: between 15.0% and 17.4%).
The results of the review indicated that there was no impairment of goodwill at 31 December 2015. Management has also reviewed the key assumptions  
and forecasts for the customer lists, brands and affiliates, applying the above same key assumptions. The results of the reviews indicated that there was  
no impairment of the intangible assets at 31 December 2015.
Note 13 – Investments in equity accounted associates & joint ventures
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Investment in joint ventures comprise:
A. Investment in International Terminal Leasing    3,388 5,521
Investment in equity accounted associates:
B. Investment in associates    17,254 15,328
C. Investment in structured agreements    31,136 12,977
    51,778 33,826
A. Investment in International Terminal Leasing
On 8 March 2011, the Group entered into an agreement with Scientific Games to form a partnership called International Terminal Leasing (“ITL”), which relates 
to the strategic partnership with Scientific Games Corporation.
The Group’s future profit share from this joint venture varies depending on the commercial arrangements in which ITL and its partners enter into with third 
parties. However, the group’s share of profit is expected to be between 20%-50%. 
The Group received a return on investments of €2.4 million during the year (2014: €3.4 million). 
Movements in the carrying value of the investment during the year are as follows:
     €’000
Investment in joint venture at 31 December 2014     5,521
Share of profit in joint venture     229
Return of investment     (2,362)
Investment in joint venture at 31 December 2015     3,388
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     111
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Note 13 – Investments in equity accounted associates & joint ventures continued
B. Investment in associates
Investment in BGO
In August 2014, the Group acquired 33.33% of the shares of BGO Limited for a total consideration of £10 million (€12.5 million). During the year the Group 
invested additional £0.7 million (€0.9 million).
The purpose of this investment is to further enhance BGO gaming applications on the Group’s platform and to enable BGO to further invest in its successful 
brands and grow into international markets.
Other individually immaterial investments
During the year the Group acquired non-controlling interest in several companies for a total consideration of €6.6 million and €0.3 million additional 
consideration to non-controlling investments acquired in previous years (2014: €2.6 million were reclassified from other non-current assets to investment  
in associates and additional €0.9 million was invested). 
Total associates:
     €’000
Investment in associates at 1 January 2015      15,328
Investment in associates in the year      7,783
Investment in associate acquired on business combination     438
Share of loss     (5,856)
Disposal of investment in associate     (439)
Investment in associates at 31 December 2015     17,254
Aggregated amounts relating to BGO Limited are as follows:
     2015  2014 
     €’000 €’000
Total non-current assets    1,667 206 
Total current assets    8,676 14,236 
Total current liabilities    (6,954) (3,800) 
Revenues    28,972 4,733 
Loss    (12,762) (2,203) 
C. Investment in structured agreements
During the year the Group entered into three new structured agreements, which include agreements covering software licensing and services provisions,  
for total cash investment of €8.9 million and additional €9.3 million invested in existing agreements (2014: three agreements of a total cash investment of 
€13.0 million). These structured agreements are individually immaterial.
Ladbrokes software and services agreement
In 2013, Group entered into a landmark transaction with Ladbrokes plc (“Ladbrokes”), which includes three significant agreements covering software 
licensing, marketing and advisory services.
As part of the advisory services agreement, the Group through its marketing division will have significant influence over the financial and operational decision 
making of the Ladbrokes digital business. The Group will receive a share of profit based on the EBITDA performance of the Ladbrokes digital business in the 
financial year ended 31 December 2017 over and above that achieved in the financial year ended 31 December 2012, as adjusted (the “Base EBITDA”). 
On 27 July 2015, the Group agreed to an early settlement of its marketing services.
With effect and subject to the Completion of the merger between Ladbrokes and Coral Group, the Group shall become entitled to receive £75 million.  
Of this, £40 million will be satisfied by way of the issue of shares in Ladbrokes on Completion. A further £35 million will be guaranteed in cash to be received 
upon delivery of key operational milestones by the Group but, in any event, within 42 months following completion of the merger. 
Total structured agreements:
     €’000
Investment in structured agreements at 1 January 2015      12,977
Investment in structured agreements in the year      18,159
Investment in structured agreements at 31 December 2015     31,136
Notes to the financial statements
continued
112     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 14 – Available-for-sale investments
     2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Investment in available-for-sale investments at 1 January      24,219  33,661 
Investment in the year     209,797 –
Gains recycled to income statement      –   1,578 
Unrealised valuation movement recognised in equity      1,160  (774)
Decline in fair value recognised in income statement     –  (10,246)
Foreign exchange Movements     1,924 –
Investment in available-for-sale investments at 31 December      237,100   24,219 
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:
Quoted:
Equity securities – UK    226,015   19,811 
Equity securities – Asia     11,085   4,408 
     237,100   24,219 
The fair value of quoted investments is based on published market prices. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of the financial assets classified as available-for-sale.
Note 15 – Other non-current assets
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Loans to customers    7,199 7,144
Loan to affiliate    2,825 1,414
Rent and car lease deposits    3,312 2,049
Guarantee for gaming licenses    2,000 1,000
Buyout of reseller agreement    – 3,265
Related parties (Note 28)    3,561 1,511
Non-current prepayments    766 –
Other    1,167 261
    20,830 16,644
Note 16 – Trade receivables
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Customers    72,341 41,092
Related parties (Note 28)    2,291 3,964
    74,632 45,056
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     113
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 17 – Other receivables
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Prepaid expenses    14,340 7,699
VAT and other taxes    6,785 4,595
Advances to suppliers    380 1,240
Buyout of reseller agreement    3,308 4,313
Other receivables    2,993 4,549
    27,806 22,396
Note 18 – Cash and cash equivalents
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Cash at bank    501,336 481,991
Deposits    356,562 210,356
    857,898 692,347
The Group held cash balances which include monies held on behalf of operators in respect of operators’ jackpot games and poker and casino operations  
and client funds with respect to CFD activity. 
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Funds attributed to jackpots    30,886 25,169
Security deposits    32,454 32,198
Client funds     43,761 3,195
    107,101 60,562
Note 19 – Shareholders’ equity
A. Share Capital
Share capital is comprised of no par value shares as follows:
    2015 2014
    Number of  Number of
    Shares Shares
Authorised*    N/A N/A
Issued and paid up    322,624,603 293,492,617
*  The Group has no authorised share capital but is authorised under its memorandum and article of association to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares of no par value.
During the year the Group has issued 29,050,000 shares of no par value.
B. Employee Benefit Trust
During 2014 the Group established an Employee Benefit Trust by acquiring 5,517,241 shares for a total consideration of €48.5 million. During the year 855,749 
shares (2014: 1,381,403) were sold with a cost of €8.7 million (2014: €12.4 million), and as of 31 December 2015, a balance of 3,280,089 (2014: 4,135,838) shares 
remains in the trust with a cost of €27.5 million (2014: €36.2 million).
C. Share options exercised
During the year 81,986 (2014: 303,209) share options were exercised. The Group did not cash-settled share options during the year (2014: 113,869, resulted  
in cash payments of €0.4 million). 
114     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 19 – Shareholders’ equity continued
D. Distribution of Dividend
In June 2015, the Group distributed €51,171,493 as a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 (17.5 € cents per share).
In October 2015, the Group distributed €30,633,827 as an interim dividend in respect of the period ended 30 June 2015 (12.8 € cents per share).
 
E. Reserves
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within owner’s equity:
Reserve Description and purpose
Additional paid in capital Share premium (i.e. amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value)
Available-for-sale reserve Changes in fair value of available-for-sale investments (Note 14)
Employee Benefit Trust Cost of own shares held in treasury by the trust
Foreign exchange reserve Gains/losses arising on retranslating the net assets of overseas operations
Convertible bond option reserve   Amount of proceeds on issue of convertible debt relating to the equity component  
(i.e. option to convert the debt into share capital)
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Note 20 – Loans and borrowings
The loan balance as of 31 December 2015 is €200 million. The loan is a revolving credit facility available until July 2018. Interest payable on the loan is based  
on a margin on Euro Libor rates.
The Group has undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2015 of €40.0 million.
Note 21 – Convertible bonds
On 12 November 2014 the Group issued €297.0 million of senior, unsecured convertible bonds due 2019 and convertible into fully paid Ordinary Shares  
of Playtech plc (the “Bonds”). The net proceeds of issuing the Bonds, after deducting commissions and other direct costs of issue, totalled €291.1 million. 
The Bonds were issued at par and will be redeemed (if not converted before) on 19 November 2019 at their principal amount. The Bonds bear interest  
at 0.5% per annum, payable annually in arrears on 19 November. 
Upon conversion, Bondholders are entitled to receive Ordinary Shares at the conversion price of €10.1325 per Ordinary Share, subject to adjustment 
in respect of (i) any dividend or distribution by the Company, (ii) a change of control and (iii) customary anti-dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share 
consolidations, share splits and rights issues. 
The fair value of the liability component, included in non-current borrowings, at inception was calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent 
instrument without conversion option of 4%.
The fair value of the liability component, which is immateriality different to the amortised cost, of the Bonds (including accrued interest) at 31 December 2015 
amounted to €256.4 million (2014: €247.0 million), which was calculated using cash flow projections discounted at 4%.
The fair value at inception of the equity component of the bonds at 31 December 2015 was €45.4 million (2014: €45.4 million).
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     115
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 22 – Contingent consideration
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Non-current contingent consideration consists:
Acquisition of Markets Limited (Note 26b)    138,196   – 
Other acquisitions (Note 26c)    3,151 1,088
     141,347   1,088
Current contingent consideration consists:
Acquisition of Yoyo Games Limited (Note 26a)     2,036  – 
Other acquisitions (Note 26c)     2,455  1,823 
     4,491  1,823 
Note 23 – Trade payables
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Suppliers    14,907 10,934
Customer liabilities    1,292 2,467
Related parties (Note 28)    200 1,630
Other    1,012 1,395
    17,411 16,426
Note 24 – Deferred tax liability
The deferred tax liability is due to temporary differences on the acquisition of certain businesses.
The movement on the deferred tax liability is as shown below:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the year    4,904 5,083
Arising on the acquisitions during the year (Note 26)    11,258 851
Reversal of temporary differences, recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (Note 8)   (2,113)  (1,030)
     14,049 4,904
Note 25 – Other payables
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Payroll and related expenses    35,147 24,351
Accrued expenses    15,955 8,882
Related parties (Note 28)    353 –
Other payables    4,600 3,579
    56,055 36,812
116     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 26 – Acquisitions during the year
A. Acquisition of Yoyo Games Limited
On 13 February 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Yoyo Games Limited (“Yoyo”). Yoyo is the home of Game Maker: Studio™ (“GMS”), a mobile 
driven cross-platform casual game development technology that enables developers to create games using a single programming code and then publish 
them to run natively across most common platforms. 
The Group paid total cash consideration of €14.4 million ($16.4 million) and additional consideration capped at €2.2 million ($2.5 million) in cash will be 
payable subject to achieving target EBITDA.
Details of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill, are as follows:
       Fair value on 
     acquisition 
      €’000
Property, plant and equipment      168 
Intangible assets      4,650 
Trade receivables      52 
Cash and cash equivalent      219 
Trade payables      (836)
Deferred tax liability      (930)
Net identified assets      3,323 
Goodwill      13,241 
Fair value of consideration      16,564 
     €’000
Cash consideration       14,423 
Current contingent consideration       2,204 
Finance cost arising on discounting of contingent consideration      (63)
Fair value of consideration      16,564 
Cash purchased      (219)
Net cash payable       16,345 
Adjustments to fair value include the following:
     Amount Amortisation
     €’000 %
IP Technology     4,650  17
The main factor leading to the recognition of goodwill is the database of users and time to market benefit. In accordance with IAS36, the Group will regularly 
monitor the carrying value of its interest in Yoyo.
The key assumptions used by management to determine the value in use of the IP Technology within Yoyo are as follows:
• The income approach, in particular, the excess earnings.
• The discount rate assumed is equivalent to the WACC for the IP Technology.
• The growth rates and attrition rates were based on market analysis.
Management has not disclosed Yoyo contribution to the Group profit since the acquisition nor has the impact the acquisition would have had on the Group’s 
revenue and profits if it had occurred on 1 January 2015 been disclosed, because the amounts are not material.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     117
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 26 – Acquisitions during the year continued
B. Acquisition of Markets Limited (previously named TradeFX Limited)
On 8 May 2015, the Group acquired 95.05% of the shares of Markets Limited (“Markets”), 91.1% on fully diluted basis. The sellers included a company related  
to the significant shareholder, Telesphere services Limited.
Markets is online CFDs broker and trading platform provider, operates a platform for CFDs trading across multiple channels. In addition, Markets provides  
a turnkey offering, including a white label solution, for B2B clients, in return for a revenue share.
The Group paid total cash consideration of €208 million, and additional consideration capped at €250 million in cash will be payable subject to achieving 
target EBITDA.
Details of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill, are as follows:
      Fair value on
     acquisition
      €’000
Property, plant and equipment      954 
Intangible assets     129,814 
Investments in equity accounted associates & joint ventures      439 
Other non-current assets      1,839 
Accounts receivables      486 
Other receivables      2,159 
Cash and cash equivalent      48,945 
Other non-current liabilities       (2,228)
Trade payables       (6,827)
Client funds      (45,206)
Other liabilities      (9,748)
Deferred tax liability     (10,192)
Net identified assets      110,435
Goodwill      240,593
Non-controlling interest      (5,473)
Fair value of consideration     345,555
     €’000
Cash consideration       207,987 
Current contingent consideration       154,693 
Finance cost arising on discounting of contingent consideration      (17,125)
Fair value of consideration     345,555 
Cash purchased      (53,945)
Net cash payable      291,610
Adjustments to fair value include the following:
     Amount Amortisation
     €’000 %
IP Technology     11,085   20 
Customer lists     81,536  6-25
Domains     31,333 7 
The main factor leading to the recognition of goodwill is the time to market benefit. In accordance with IAS 36, the Group will regularly monitor the carrying 
value of its interest in these acquisitions.
118     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 26 – Acquisitions during the year continued
B. Acquisition of Markets Limited (previously named TradeFX Limited) continued
The key assumptions used by management to determine the value in use of the IP Technology, Customer lists and Domains within these acquisitions  
are as follows:
• The income approach, in particular, the multi period excess earnings method.
• The royalty rate was based on a third party market participant assumption for use of the IP Technology and Domains, considering market competition, 
quality, absolute and relative profitability.
• The discount rate assumed is equivalent to the WACC for the IP Technology, Customer lists and Domains.
• The growth rates and attrition rates were based on market analysis.
The non-controlling interest calculation was based on the net identified assets, and also included fair value adjustment due to unvested share options  
as of the date of acquisition. This adjustment has increased the goodwill. 
Following the acquisition of Markets Limited (formerly TradeFX Limited) on 7 May 2015, the Group recognised the provisional fair value of certain intangible 
assets (including goodwill) in the interim accounts at 30 June 2015. Subsequently, additional information became available which impacted the provisional 
fair values recognised on the acquisition date and, in accordance with IFRS3, the Group has taken the additional information into account in computing the 
final fair value of the related assets recognised in these financial statements. 
The effect of amending the provisional fair values as described above was to: (i) decrease intangible assets (including goodwill) by €95m; and (ii) decrease 
contingent consideration by €95m. Accordingly, there was no impact on net assets.
Since the acquisition date, Markets has contributed €60.0 million to the Group revenue in the period, €14.2 million to the adjusted net profits and €15.9 million 
and adjusted EBITDA. The combined Group revenues as if the Markets acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2015 would have been higher by €90.2 million,  
the combined Group adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net profit would have been higher by €25.9 million and €19.1 million respectively.
C. Other acquisitions
During the period the Group acquired 100% of the shares of various companies for a total initial consideration of €3.5 million and additional consideration 
capped at €4.9 million in cash will be payable subject to the achievement of certain operational targets.
Details of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill, are as follows:
      Fair value on
     acquisition
      €’000
Intangible assets      682 
Trade and other receivables      110 
Cash and cash equivalent      323 
Trade and other payables      (160)
Deferred tax liability      (136)
Net identified assets      819 
Goodwill     7,310 
Total fair value of consideration      8,129 
     €’000
Cash consideration      3,535 
Current contingent consideration       4,943 
Finance cost arising on discounting of contingent consideration       (349)
Fair value of consideration      8,129
Cash purchased       (323)
Net cash payable       7,806 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     119
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 26 – Acquisitions during the year continued
C. Other acquisitions continued
Adjustments to fair value include the following:
     Amount Amortisation
     €’000 %
IP Technology     682  17
The main factor leading to the recognition of goodwill is the unique workforce and time to market benefit. In accordance with IAS36, the Group will regularly 
monitor the carrying value of its interest in these acquisitions.
The key assumptions used by management to determine the value in use of the IP Technology within these acquisitions are as follows:
• The income approach, in particular, the multi period excess earnings method.
• The discount rate assumed is equivalent to the WACC for the IP Technology.
• The growth rates and attrition rates were based on market analysis.
Management has not disclosed other acquisitions contribution to the Group profit since these acquisitions nor has the impact the acquisition would have 
had on the Group’s revenue and profits if it had occurred on 1 January 2015 been disclosed, because the amounts are not material.
Note 27 – Acquisitions in previous year
A. Acquisition of Aristocrat Lotteries
On 30 September 2014, the Group entered into share and assets purchase agreement with various subsidiaries of Aristocrat Leisure Limited, provider  
of TruServ Video Lottery Terminal (“VLT”). The Group acquired the IP Technology and 100% of the issued share capital of Aristocrat Lotteries AB and  
Aristocrat Lotteries Italia S.r.l. (“Aristocrat Lotteries”). Aristocrat Lotteries provide a server-based gaming platform for VLTs and Casino (Class III) markets  
to two leading retail VLT operators in Norway and Italy, marketed under the ‘TruServTM brand.
The Group paid total cash consideration of €11.7 million, including working capital adjustment. Up to €1.0 million may be repaid to the Group subject  
to the number of VLT’s on the first anniversary.
B. Other acquisitions
During 2014 the Group acquired the shares of various companies for a total cash consideration of €4.2 million and additional consideration capped  
at €7.5 million in cash will be payable subject to the achievement of certain operational targets or achieving target EBITDA.
Note 28 – Related parties and shareholders
Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party’s making  
of financial or operational decisions, or if both parties are controlled by the same third party. Also, a party is considered to be related if a member of the  
key management personnel has the ability to control the other party.
Skywind Holdings Limited (“Skywind”), SafeCharge Limited, Crossrider Technologies Ltd (“Crossrider”), Royalfield Limited, Easydock Investments Ltd. 
(“Easydock”), Selfmade Holdings, Anise Development Limited and Anise Residential Limited (together “Anise”) are related by virtue of a common  
significant shareholder. 
Jean-Pierre Houareau, a long standing industry specialist, who is married to Hilary Stewart-Jones, is the ultimate beneficiary of a trust that owns PT Games 
Limited, a supplier to the Group, and Niceidea Investments Limited (“Niceidea”), to which the Group advanced a loan of €1.5 million, with a Euribor+3% per 
annum interest which is repayable on or before July 2019. Jean-Pierre also provides the Group with consultancy services for an annual fee of £150,000.
Hillary resigned as a Director on 31 December 2015.
International Terminal Leasing (“ITL”) is a joint venture and the structured agreements are associates of the Group by virtue of the Group’s significant influence 
over those arrangements. 
120     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 28 – Related parties and shareholders continued
The following transactions arose with related parties:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Revenue including revenue from associates
Skywind     1,562   680 
Structured agreements and associates    35,531 21,655
Share of profit (loss) in joint venture     229   (92) 
Share of loss in associates    5,856  695 
Operating expenses/(credit)
SafeCharge Limited     6,674  1,599 
Skywind, net of capitalised cost     3,438   6,444 
Crossrider     2,472  2,079 
Structured agreements    1,910 833
Anise     1,174  1,008 
Easydock     358  –
PT Games    220 507
Selfmade Holdings    52 –
Glispa    6 –
Royalfield Limited     (272)  (42)
Interest payable
Niceidea    46 52
The following are year-end balances:
Intangible assets
Skywind    1,037 2,043
Cash and cash equivalent
Safecharge Limited    5,341 –
Niceidea    1,596 1,511
Structured agreements and associates    1,965 –
Total non-current related party receivables    3,561 1,511
Structured agreements and associates    1,435 3,964
Skywind    582 –
Crossrider    266 –
PT Games Limited    8 –
Total current related party receivables    2,291 3,964
SafeCharge Limited     200   400 
Skywind    353  666 
Crossrider     –   400 
PT Games Limited    – 164
Total related party payables    553   1,630 
Revenue from related parties was made at an arm’s length basis at the Group’s usual royalty rate. Operating expenses and interest were charged on an arm’s 
length basis at market price. 
In 2014 the Group established an Employee Benefit Trust by acquiring 5,517,241 shares from Brickington Trading Limited (“Brickington”), the Company’s 
largest shareholder, for a total consideration of €48.5 million.
On 31 December 2015, Brickington held 33.61% (31 December 2014: 33.61%) of Playtech plc shares. 
Mr. Teddy Sagi, the ultimate beneficiary of a trust that owns Brickington, provides advisory services to the Group for a total annual consideration of €1.
Step by step was acquired during the year as part of Markets acquisition and therefore the comparable amount was removed.
The details of key management compensation (being the remuneration of the Directors) are set out in Note 6.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     121
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 29 – Subsidiaries 
Details of the Group’s principal subsidiaries as at the end of the year are set out below:
  Proportion of 
  voting rights and 
 Country of ordinary share
Name incorporation capital held Nature of business
Playtech Software Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Main trading company of the Group, owns the intellectual 
property rights and licenses the software to customers
OU Playtech (Estonia) Estonia 100%  Designs, develops and manufactures online software
Techplay Marketing Limited Israel 100%  Marketing and advertising
Video B Holding Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Trading company for the Videobet software, owns the 
intellectual property rights of Videobet and licenses  
it to customers
OU Videobet Estonia 100%  Develops software for fixed odds betting terminals  
and casino machines (as opposed to online software)
Playtech Bulgaria Bulgaria 100%  Designs, develops and manufactures online software
PTVB Management Limited Isle of Man 100%  Management
Evermore Trading Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Holding company
Playtech Services (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100%  Activates the ipoker Network in regulated markets. Owns the 
intellectual property of GTS, Ash and Geneity businesses
VB (Video) Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100%  Trading company for the Videobet product to Romanian 
companies
Techplay S.A. Software Limited Israel 100%  Develops online software
Technology Trading IOM Limited Isle of Man 100%  Owns the intellectual property rights of Virtue Fusion business
Gaming Technology Solutions Limited UK 100%  Holding company of VS Gaming and VS Technology
VS Gaming Limited UK 100%  Develops software and casino games
VS Technology Limited UK 100%  Develops EdGE platform 
Virtue Fusion (Alderney) Limited Alderney 100%  Online bingo and casino software provider
Virtue Fusion CM Limited  UK 100%  Chat moderation services provider to end users of VF licensees
Playtech Software (Alderney) Limited Alderney 100%  To hold the company’s Alderney Gaming license
Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited UK 100%  Casino management systems to land based businesses
VF 2011 Limited Alderney 100%  Holds license in Alderney for online gaming
PT Turnkey Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Holding company of the Turnkey Services group
PT Turnkey EU Services Limited Cyprus 100%  Turnkey services for EU online gaming operators
PT Entertenimiento Online EAD Bulgaria 100%  Poker & Bingo network for Spain
PT Marketing Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Marketing services to online gaming operators
PT Operational Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Operational & hosting services to online gaming operators
Tech Hosting Limited Alderney 100%  Alderney Hosting services
Paragon International  British Virgin Island & branch 100% English Customer support, chat, fraud, finance, dedicated 
Customer Care Limited office in the Philippines  employees services to parent company
CSMS Limited Bulgaria 100%  Consulting and online technical support, data mining 
processing and advertising services to parent company
TCSP Limited Serbia 100%  Operational services for Serbia
S-Tech Limited British Virgin Islands & branch  100% Live games services to Asia 
 office in the Philippines
PT Advisory Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Holds PT processing Advisory Ltd
PT Processing Advisory Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Advisory services for processing & cashier to online  
gaming operators
PT Processing EU Advisory Limited Cyprus 100%  Advisory services for processing & cashier for EU online 
gaming operators
PT Network Management Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Manages the ipoker network
Playtech Mobile (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100%  Holds the IP of Mobenga AB
Playtech Holding Sweden AB Limited Sweden 100%  Holding company of Mobenga AB
122     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 29 – Subsidiaries continued
  Proportion of 
  voting rights and 
 Country of ordinary share
Name incorporation capital held Nature of business
Mobenga AB Limited Sweden 100%  Mobile sportsbook betting platform developer
Ash Gaming Limited UK 100%  Develops interactive gambling and betting games
Geneity Limited UK 100%  Develops Sportsbook and Lottery software
Factime Limited Cyprus 100%  Holding company of Juego
Juego Online EAD Bulgaria 100%  Gaming operator. Holds a license in Spain
PlayLot Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Distributing lottery software 
PokerStrategy Ltd. Gibraltar 100%  Operates poker community business 
Videobet Interactive Sweden AB Sweden 100%  Trading company for the Aristocrat Lotteries VLT’s
V.B. Video (Italia) S.r.l. Italy 100%  Trading company for the Aristocrat Lotteries VLT’s
PT Entertainment Services LTD Antigua 100%  Holding gaming license in the UK
Markets Limited British Virgin Islands 95.044%  Owns the intellectual property rights and marketing  
and technology contracts of the financial division
Safecap Limited Cyprus 95.044%  Primary trading company of the financial division. Licensed 
investment firm and regulated by Cysec
TradeFXIL limited Israel 95.044%  Financial division sales, client retention, R&D and marketing 
ICCS BG Bulgaria 95.044%  Financial division back office customer support
Stronglogic Services Limited Cyprus 95.044%  Maintains the financial division marketing function  
for EU operations
Yoyo Games Limited UK 100% Casual game development technology
Note 30 – Financial instruments and risk management
The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks, which results from its financing, operating and investing activities. The objective of financial risk 
management is to contain, where appropriate, exposures in these financial risks to limit any negative impact on the Group’s financial performance and 
position. The Group’s financial instruments are its cash, available-for-sale financial assets, trade receivables, loan receivables, bank borrowings, accounts 
payable and accrued expenses. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operation. The Group actively measures, 
monitors and manages its financial risk exposures by various functions pursuant to the segregation of duties and principals. The risks arising from the Group’s 
financial instruments are credit risk and market price risk, which include interest rate risk, currency risk and equity price risk. The risk management policies 
employed by the Group to manage these risks are discussed below. 
A. Market risk 
Market risk changes in line with fluctuations in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equities and commodities prices. These market 
prices affect the Group’s income or the value of its holding in financial instruments.
Exposure to market risk
In the financial trading division, the Group has exposure to market risk to the extent that it has open positions. The Group’s exposure to market risk at any 
point in time depends primarily on short-term market conditions and client activities during the trading day. The exposure at each reporting date is therefore 
not considered representative of the market risk exposure faced by the Group over the year.
The Group’s exposure to market risk is mainly determined by the clients’ open position. The most significant market risk faced by the Group on the CFD 
products it offers changes in line with market changes and the volume of clients’ transactions.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates. The Group’s income and operating  
cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest changes. The management monitors interest rate fluctuations on a continuous basis 
and acts accordingly. 
Where the Group has generated a significant amount of cash, it will invest in higher earning interest deposit accounts. These deposit accounts are short term 
and the Group is not unduly exposed to market interest rate fluctuations.
During the year the group advanced loans to affiliates and customers for a total amount of €2.3 million (2014: €3.1 million). The average interest on the  
loans is 5%.
A 1% change in deposit interest rates would impact on the profit before tax by €23 thousands.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     123
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 30 – Financial instruments and risk management continued
B. Credit risk
Credit risk arises when a failure by counterparties to discharge their obligations could reduce the amount of future cash inflows from financial assets on hand 
at the balance sheet date.
The Group closely monitors the activities of its counterparties and controls the access to its intellectual property which enables it to ensure the prompt 
collection of customers’ balances.
The Group’s main financial assets are cash and cash equivalents as well as trade and other receivables and represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit 
risk in connection with its financial assets. Trade and other receivables are carried on the balance sheet net of bad debt provisions estimated by the Directors 
based on prior year experience and an evaluation of prevailing economic circumstances.
Wherever possible and commercially practical the Group invests cash with major financial institutions that have a rating of at least A- as defined by Standard 
& Poors. While the majority of money is held in line with the above policy, a small amount is held at various institutions with no rating. The Group also holds 
small deposits in Cypriot and Spanish financial institutions, as required by the respective gaming regulators that have a rating below A-. The Group holds 
approximately 2% of its funds (2014: 3%) in financial institutions below A- rate and 3% in payment methods with no rating.
    Financial Financial 
    institutions institutions
    with A- and  below A- rating
   Total above rating and no rating
   €’000 €’000 €’000
At 31 December 2015   857,898 813,164 44,734
At 31 December 2014   692,347 674,925 17,422
The Group has no credit risk to clients since all accounts have an automatic margin call, which relates to a guaranteed stop such that the client’s maximum 
loss is covered by the deposit. The Group has risk management and monitoring processes for clients’ accounts and this is achieved via margin calling and 
close-out process. 
The ageing of trade receivables that are past due but not impaired can be analysed as follows:
     More than
    1-2 months 2 months
  Total Not past due overdue past due
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At 31 December 2015  74,632 47,945 12,849 13,838
At 31 December 2014  45,056 30,605 8,423 6,028
The above balances relate to customers with no default history and management estimate full recoverability given the provision below.
A provision for doubtful debtors is included within trade receivables that can be reconciled as follows:
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Provision at the beginning of the year    908 932
Charged to income statement    – –
Utilised    (822) (24)
Provision at end of year    86 908
Related party receivables included in Note 16 are not past due. 
124     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 30 – Financial instruments and risk management continued
C. Currency risk
Currency risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. 
Foreign exchange risk arises because the Group has operations located in various parts of the world. However, the functional currency of those operations  
is the same as the Group’s primary functional currency (Euro) and the Group is not substantially exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates in respect of assets 
held overseas.
Foreign exchange risk also arises when Group operations are entered into, and when the Group holds cash balances, in currencies denominated in a currency 
other than the functional currency. 
The Group’s policy is not to enter into any currency hedging transactions.
D. Equity price risk
The Group’s balance sheet is exposed to market risk by way of holding some investments in other companies on a short term basis (Note 14). Variations in 
market value over the life of these investments have or will have an impact on the balance sheet and the income statement.
The Directors believe that the exposure to market price risk is acceptable in the Group’s circumstances.
The Group’s balance sheet at 31 December 2015 includes available-for-sale investments with a value of €237.1 million (2014: €24.2 million) which are subject 
to fluctuations in the underlying share price. 
A change of 1% in shares price will have an impact of €23.7 million on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and the fair value of the 
available for sale investments will change by the same amount.
E. Capital disclosures
The Group seeks to maintain a capital structure which enables it to continue as a going concern and which supports its business strategy. The Group’s capital 
is provided by equity and debt funding. The Group manages its capital structure through cash flow from operations, returns to shareholders primarily in the 
form of dividends and the raising or repayment of debt.
F. Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital and the financial charges on its debt instruments. 
Financial division liquidity risk
Positions can be closed at any time by clients and can also be closed by the Group, in accordance with the Group’s margining rules. If after closing a position  
a client is in surplus, then the amount owing is repayable on demand by the Group. When client positions are closed, any corresponding positions relating  
to the hedged position (if applicable) are closed with brokers.
Liquidity risk arises if the Group encounters difficulty in meeting obligations which arise following profitable positions being closed by clients. This risk is 
managed through the Group holding client funds in separately segregated accounts whereby cash is transferred to or from the segregated accounts on a 
daily basis to ensure that no material mismatch arises between the aggregate of client deposits and the fair value of open positions, and segregated cash. 
Through this risk management process, the Group considers liquidity risk to be low.
     2015
     €’000
Client deposits     64,875
Open position     (21,114)
Client funds     43,761
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     125
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Note 30 – Financial instruments and risk management continued
The following are the contractual maturities (representing undiscounted contractual cash flows) of the Group’s financial liabilities:
  Total Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
2015
Trade payables  17,411 17,411 – –
Other accounts payable  56,055 56,055 – –
Loans and borrowings  200,000 – – 200,000
Progressive and other operators’ jackpots  63,340 63,340 – –
Client funds  43,761 43,761 – –
Contingent consideration  145,838 4,491 141,347 –
Other non-current liabilities  1,175 – – 1,175
2014
Trade payables  16,426 16,426 – –
Other accounts payable   36,812  36,812 – –
Progressive and other operators’ jackpots  57,637 42,367 15,000 –
Client funds  3,195 3,195
Contingent consideration  2,911 1,823 – 1,088
Other non-current liabilities  1,284 – – 1,284
G. Total financial assets and liabilities
The fair value together with the carrying amount of the financial assets and liabilities shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
  2015 2015 2014 2014
  Fair Carrying Fair Carrying
  value amount value amount 
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cash and cash equivalent   857,898  857,898  692,347   692,347
Available-for-sale investments   237,100  237,100  24,219   24,219 
Other assets  123,268 123,268 84,096 84,096
Deferred and contingent consideration  145,838 145,838 2,911 2,911
Convertible bonds  256,429 256,429 247,040 247,040
Loans and borrowings  200,000 200,000 – –
Other liabilities  102,190 102,190 70,256 70,256
Available for sale investments are measured at fair value using level 1. Refer to Note 14 for further detail. These are the Group’s only financial assets and 
liabilities which are measured at fair value.
Note 31 – Contingent liabilities
As part of the Board’s ongoing regulatory compliance process, the Board continues to monitor legal and regulatory developments and their potential impact 
on the Group.
Management is not aware of any contingencies that may have a significant impact on the financial position of the Group.
Note 32 – Operating lease commitment
The Group has a variety of leased properties. The terms of property leases vary from country to country, although they tend to be tenant repairing with rent 
reviews every 2 to 5 years and many have break clauses. Total operating lease cost in the year was €13.8 million (2014: €8.9 million).
The total future value of minimum lease payments is due as follows:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Not later than one year    15,846 11,122
Later than one year and not later than five years    44,001 27,738
Later than five years    8,370 9,121
    68,217 47,981
126     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Company balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2015
    2015 2014
   Notes  €’000   €’000 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment     109 101
Intangible assets     177 205
Investments    1 211,740 210,332
Available for sale investments    2 160,141 19,811
Other non-current assets     279 213
    372,446 230,662
    
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade receivables and other receivables   3 523,095 180,773
Cash and cash equivalents    4 541,321 521,299
    1,064,416 702,072
    
TOTAL ASSETS    1,436,862 932,734
   
EQUITY
Additional paid in capital     638,209 324,774
Available for sale reserve    (7,714) –
Convertible bond reserve    45,392 45,392
Retained earnings     158,225 271,528
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    5 834,112 641,694
   
NON CURRENT LIABILITIES    
Long-term loan   6 200,000 –
Convertible bond   7 256,429 247,040
    456,429 247,040
    
CURRENT LIABILITIES    
Trade payables and other payables   8 146,321 44,000
    146,321 44,000
    
 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES     1,436,862 932,734
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     127
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
     Total equity
 Additional  Available- Convertible  attributable
 paid in  for-sale bond Retained to holders
 capital reserve reserve earnings of parent
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
     
Balance at 1 January 2015 324,774 – 45,392 271,528 641,694
Changes in equity for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year – (7,714) – (28,603) (36,317)
Dividend paid – – – (81,805) (81,805)
Exercise of options 403 – – (4,367) (3,964)
Issue of share capital 313,032 – – – 313,032
Employee stock option scheme – – – 1,472 1,472
Balance at 31 December 2015  638,209 (7,714) 45,392 158,225 834,112
     
Balance at 1 January 2014 323,187 1,578 – 474,847 799,612
Changes in equity for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year – (1,578) – (4,427) (6,005)
Dividend paid – – – (192,258) (192,258)
Exercise of options 1,587 – – (6,292) (4,705)
Issue of convertible bond – – 45,392 – 45,392
Purchase of share options – – – (707) (707)
Employee stock option scheme – – – 365 365
Balance at 31 December 2014  324,774 – 45,392 271,528 641,694
    
128     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Company statement of cash flows
     2015  2014
      €’000   €’000 
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net profit     (28,603) (4,427)
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities (see below)    (236,467) 42,282
Net cash provided by operating activities     (265,070) 37,855
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES   
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment     (67) (45)
Investment in available-for-sale investments    (148,044) –
Investment in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired    – (28,369)
Net cash used in investing activities     (148,111) (28,414)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES   
Dividends paid to the holders of the parent    (81,805) (192,258)
Purchase of share options    – (707)
Issue of share capital    313,032 –
Issue of convertible bond    – 291,145
Proceeds from borrowing    200,000 –
Exercise of options     (3,964) (4,705)
Net cash used in financing activities     427,263 93,475
INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS     14,082 102,916
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR     521,299 402,114
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents    5,940 16,269
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR     541,321 521,299
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
ADJUSTMENT TO RECONCILE NET INCOME TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Income and expenses not affecting operating cash flows:  
Depreciation     59 51
Amortisation    28 28
Movement in deferred and contingent consideration    – 97
Employee stock option plan expenses     85 365
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents    (5,940)  (16,269)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:   
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables     (342,191) 31,000
(Decrease)/increase in other receivables     (218) 234
Decline in fair value of available-for-sale investment    – 8,668
Interest accrued on convertible bond    9,389 1,287
Increase in trade and other payables     102,321 16,821
     (236,467) 42,282
 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     129
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements
Note 1 – Investments
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Investment in subsidiary undertaking – Cost    211,740 210,332
Details of investments in subsidiary undertakings as at the end of the year are set out below:
  Proportion of 
  voting rights and 
 Country of ordinary share
Name incorporation capital held Nature of business
Playtech Software Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Main trading company of the Group, owns the intellectual 
property rights and licenses the software to customers
Video B Holding Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Trading company for the Videobet software, owns  
the intellectual property rights of Videobet and licenses  
it to customers
PTVB Management Limited Isle of Man 100%  Management
Technology Trading IOM Limited Isle of Man 100%  Owns the intellectual property rights of Virtue Fusion business
PT Turnkey Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100%   Holding company of the Turnkey Services group
Playtech Holding Sweden AB Limited Sweden 100%  Holding company of Mobenga AB
PlayLot Limited British Virgin Islands 100%  Distributing lottery software 
Roxwell Investments Limited Isle of Man 100%  Holds the Employee Benefit Trust
PT Gaming Limited Isle of Man 100%  Holding company of Factime investments Ltd
Dowie Investments Limited Isle of Man 100% Holding company of Markets Limited
Note 2 – Available-for-sale investments
Available for sale investments comprise:
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Investment in available-for-sale investments at 1 January     19,811 30,057
Additions    148,044 –
Gains recycled to income statement    – 1,578
Unrealised valuation movement recognised in equity    (7,714) (1,578)
Decline in fair value recognised in income statement    – (10,246)
Investment in available-for-sale investments at 31 December    160,141 19,811
All of the available-for-sale assets are equity securities quoted in the UK.
The fair value of quoted investments is based on published market prices. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of the financial assets classified as available-for-sale.
130     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Note 3 – Trade and other receivables
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Other receivables    1,077 925
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings    522,018 179,848
    523,095 180,773
Note 4 – Cash and cash equivalents
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Cash at bank    229,781 329,032
Deposits    311,540 192,267
    541,321 521,299
Note 5 – Shareholders’ equity
A. Share capital 
    2015 2014
    Number of  Number of
    shares shares
Authorised*    N/A N/A
Issued and paid up    322,624,603 293,492,617
* The Company has no authorised share capital but is authorised under its memorandum and article of association to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares of no par value. 
During the year the company has issued 29,050,000 shares of no par value.
B. Share option exercised 
During the year 81,986 (2014: 303,209) share options were exercised. The Company did not cash-settled share options during the year (2014: 113,869 resulting 
in cash payments of €0.4 million). 
C. Distribution of Dividend 
In June 2015, the Group distributed €51,171,493 as a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 (17.5 € cents per share).
In October 2015, the Group distributed €30,633,827 as an interim dividend in respect of the period ended 30 June 2015 (12.8 € cents per share).
D. Reserves
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within owner’s equity:
Reserve Description and purpose
Additional paid in capital Share premium (i.e. amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value)
Available-for-sale reserve Changes in fair value of available-for-sale investments (Note 14)
Convertible bond option reserve   Amount of proceeds on issue of convertible debt relating to the equity component (i.e. option  
to convert the debt into share capital)
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     131
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements
continued
Note 6 – Loans and borrowings
The loan balance as of 31 December 2015 is €200 million. The loan is a revolving credit facility available until July 2018. Interest payable on the loan  
is based on a margin on Euro Libor rates.
The Company has undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2015 of €40.0 million.
Note 7 – Convertible bonds
On 12 November 2014 the Company issued €297.0 million of senior, unsecured convertible bonds due 2019 and convertible into fully paid Ordinary Shares  
of Playtech plc (the “Bonds”). The net proceeds of issuing the Bonds, after deducting commissions and other direct costs of issue, totalled €291.1 million. 
The Bonds were issued at par and will be redeemed (if not converted before) on 19 November 2019 at their principal amount. The Bonds bear interest  
at 0.5% per annum, payable annually in arrears on 19 November. 
Upon conversion, Bondholders are entitled to receive Ordinary Shares at the conversion price of €10.1325 per Ordinary Share, subject to adjustment 
in respect of (i) any dividend or distribution by the Company, (ii) a change of control and (iii) customary anti-dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share 
consolidations, share splits and rights issues. 
The fair value of the liability component, included in non-current borrowings, at inception was calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent 
instrument without conversion option of 4%.
The fair value of the liability component, which is immateriality different to the amortised cost, of the Bonds (including accrued interest) at 31 December 2015 
amounted to €256.4 million (2014: €247.0 million), which was calculated using cash flow projections discounted at 4%.
The fair value at inception of the equity component of the bonds at 31 December 2015 was €45.4 million (2014: €45.4 million).
Note 8 – Trade and other payables
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000
Suppliers and accrued expenses    3,715 4,624
Payroll and related expenses    14,736 8,982
Amounts owed to Group undertakings    127,870 30,394
    146,321 44,000
132     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015   2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 
Income statement           
Total revenues 630.1 457.0 367.2 317.5 207.5 
Associate income – – 18.1 50.6 36.1 
Gross income 630.1 457.0 385.3 368.1 243.6 
Adjusted EBITDA 251.9 207.1 159.4 186.7 125.5 
Adjusted net profit 205.9 190.8 148.3 168.3 112.8 
Balance sheet           
Non-current assets 1,111.9 494.2 470.8 589.2 564.9 
Current assets 960.3 759.8 595.2 195.2 216.0 
Current liabilities 195.3 105.0 117.6 181.9 120.1
Non-current liabilities 616.2 275.7 27.4 88.4 182.1 
Net assets 1,260.7 873.2 921.0 514.2 478.7 
Equity           
Additional paid in capital 638.2 324.8 323.2 310.5 307.9 
Available-for-sale reserve 2.0 0.8 1.6 17.2 2.0 
Employee benefit trust (27.5) (36.2)
Convertible bonds option reserve 45.4 45.4
Foreign exchange reserve 3.3 –
Retained earnings 592.1 537.7 596.3 186.4 168.9 
Statistics           
Basic adjusted EPS (in euro cents) 67.5 65.9 50.7 58.1 46.2 
Diluted adjusted EPS (in euro cents) 67.4 65.6 50.2 57.1 45.7 
Ordinary dividend per share (in euro cents) 28.5 26.4 23.2 23.2 16.5 
Share price low/high 636p/924p 579p/836.5p 422.5p/761.5p 262.25p/435p 210p/424.75p 
Five-year financial summary
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Registered Office
Ground Floor
St George’s Court
Upper Church Street
Douglas
Isle of Man IM1 1EE
Corporate Broker
Canaccord Genuity
9th Floor
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 7QR
Auditors
BDO LLP
55 Baker Street
London W1U 7EU
Financial PR
Pelham Bell Pottinger
5th Floor
Holborn Gate
330 High Holborn
London WC1V 7QD
Solicitors
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP
Adelaide House
London Bridge
London EC4R 9HA
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services
(Isle of Man Limited)
International House
Castle Hill
Victoria Road
Douglas
Isle of Man IM2 4RB
www.playtech.com
