 Porta Communications Plc Annual Report For the year ended 31 December 2015
Porta Communications Plc  
Annual Report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 Overview and Highlights 
2 Highlights: Porta at a glance 
5 Chairman’s Statement
6 Group Overview
 
Strategic Report
13 Chief Executive’s Business Review
15 Divisional Performance Review
31 Group Finance Director’s Review
38 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
43 Our Place in the Community
 
Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance
45 Chairman’s Introduction to Corporate Governance
46 Board of Directors
47 Directors’ Report
50 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
51 Corporate Governance Report
55 Report of the Remuneration Committee
 
Financial Reporting
61 Independent Auditor’s Report
62 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
63 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
64 Company Statement of Financial Position 
65 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
66 Company Statement of Cash Flows 
67 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
69 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
70 Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Information for Shareholders
118 Notice of Annual General Meeting
124 Company Information 
125 Form of Proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting 
Contents 1 Highlights
05 10 15 20 25 30
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
26.9
19.4
9.3
3.1
0.7
Gross Proﬁt, £ million
01234567
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
6.2
5.6
3.2
3.3
0.0
Net debt, £ million
-1.0 -0.5 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2.6
2.0
0.7
3.1
-0.3
Headline EBITDA, £ million
-0.5
Gross profit +39%
£26.9m
Operating cash flow
+£1.3m
Client base up to 836
+38%
Reported EBITDA
1
+447%
Headline pre-tax profit
£0.8m
Headline EBITDA +27%
£2.6m
Organic growth
+14%
2 2 
1
  Reported EBITDA in 2014 included £0.5m gain on 
acquisition of WSM businesses. GROSS PROFIT BY BRANDS
GROSS PROFIT BY GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENT
2015 2014 2013
UK £18,090,899 £11,867,995 £5,332,702
Europe – £467,872 £643,517
Asia-Pacific £8,858,006 £7,069,462 £2,296,225
£26,948,905 £19,405,329 £8,272,444
3
2%
2%
11%
14% 10%
48%
13%
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC Our objectives
• Create a Porta brand differentiation against peer group
•  Continue to develop our integrated model within our 
equity partnership structure
•  Manage our group companies to drive revenue and 
reduce costs
•  Bring the international network into marketing and 
revenue dialogue
• Promote a culture for talent attraction and retention
•  Consider strategic acquisitions that add value, enhance 
the product mix and accelerate growth
Our  
objectives
4
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC Our  
objectives
Performance
Our strategy of developing operational and geographical 
diversity delivered high levels of organic growth combined 
with a positive cash performance. Two metrics stand out: 
gross profit from continuing operations up at almost 
40 per cent to £26.9 million and reported EBITDA
1
 nearly 
5.5 times higher than in the previous year.
In essence, this was an important, pivotal period in which 
we saw the benefits of more internal integration of the 
acquired businesses coupled with cost optimisation 
achieved through a detail revision and revaluation of each 
operational unit. As a result, we saw a significant 
improvement in operating cash inflow at £1.3 million 
compared with an outflow the previous year of £3.4 million. 
A more detailed picture appears later in this report.
There is clear evidence that Porta can continue to sustain 
high levels of organic growth and maintain its positive cash 
performance. Since the company was established in 2011, 
organic growth has averaged 105 per cent, despite some 
underperforming operations. In 2015, for example, the 
client base grew by 231 or approximately 38 per cent to 
836 – testimony to our "buy, build and grow strategy" and 
to the talent of our people. 
The arrival of Steffan Williams, as Group Managing Director, 
and the appointment of Gavin Devine, as Chief Operating 
Officer, has increased the focus on organic growth from 
existing operations while freeing management resources 
elsewhere to focus on strategic expansion.
As I write this report, the forthcoming Brexit vote looms 
large and this has certainly meant some temporary 
slowdown in several industries we service in the UK 
economy. Nevertheless, the Board is confident that it has 
established a strong platform with an operational structure 
and international footprint across strongly performing 
markets and is well placed to take advantage of its unique 
positioning in marketing and communications services. 
The Board and Governance
Membership of the board has been refreshed and during 
the year Steffan Williams joined us as a Group Managing 
Director. Steffan brings substantial experience working within 
the field of strategic communications both in the UK and 
internationally. The Board continued to be active and efficient 
during the year, assessing the opportunities presented by 
management and assisting in the strategic direction of the 
Group and by referring new businesses to Porta companies. 
The overall contribution continues to be invaluable.
During the year the Board focused on the Group’s strategic 
direction and performance. The Board has determined that 
the 2015 Annual Report as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable. It provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the performance and the strategy 
of the Group.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 
11:00am on 30 June 2016 and the Notice of Meeting and 
explanatory notes which accompany this Annual Report 
can also be found on our website.
Our people
Our people are our biggest asset. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank all of our people for their loyalty, 
devotion, passion and the hard work over the past year. 
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support.
Bob Morton  
Chairman
2 June 2016 
1
 Reported EBITDA in 2014 included £475,394 gain on WSM acquisition.
Chairman’s Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Bob Morton 
Chairman
I am pleased to report that 2015 was a hugely productive 
and progressive year for the Porta Group. Our financial results  
for the year clearly demonstrate the further progress that has  
been achieved.
“
”
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
5 Group Overview
6
Who we are, what we do
Porta Communications was founded in 2010 with 
the intention of quickly building an integrated global 
communications business through organic growth and 
by acquisition. It was a very ambitious project but the 
previous experience of senior management in running 
and growing some of the best known names in the 
industry, gave considerable grounds for optimism.
Today we are an international communications and 
marketing business with 16 offices in 6 countries. 
Through specialist advice we enable clients to maximise 
their communication competitive advantage on a global 
basis benefiting from our individual and integrated 
marketing services including public relations, advertising, 
digital and research. We constantly look to innovate new 
products and ideas to enhance and expand these services
With the huge impact of technology in the world today, we still 
believe the success of communication is about bringing people 
together.
With Porta there are currently two divisions which between 
them provide the synergy to build a successful international 
business. These divisions are Public Relations (including 
financial, corporate, consumer, public affairs research and 
digital) and Marketing and Advertising (including marketing 
communications, digital services and media planning & buying).
The success of the Company will continue to be delivered 
through:
•  The continued development of our integrated model within 
our equity partnership structure
•  The recruitment of key executives with proven track 
records within the industry, who are committed to the 
Board’s and the CEO’s vision  
Our  
values
Our Values
Our values are the fundamental beliefs of our international 
organisation which guide our actions and behaviours. 
They influence the way we work with each other, treat our 
shareholders, customers, suppliers and the way we engage with 
our communities. Our values give us confidence. We use the 
same principles in our business across all international locations 
to help us make right choices and fair decisions.
Our Purpose
Bringing good people together
…  to meet our clients’ demands 
and global ambitions
…  to build a world class 
international marketing  
service group
…  to drive innovation in a  
digital world
…  to deliver specialist  
sector knowledge
…  to deliver maximum 
shareholder value
Our Vision
Attract the best talent and 
develop that talent, building a 
world-class marketing services 
platform offering clients 
integrated communications 
solutions globally.
7
1
2
3
4
Integrity, respect and fair treatment
 Work together as one team effectively, sharing 
responsibility, accountability and reward
 Building relationships with all stakeholders
 Fostering and strengthening long-term strategic 
alliances with key partners Our Offices and Network Companies
16
31
14 15
10
1 Brisbane
2 Canberra
3 Melbourne
4 Sydney
5 Hong Kong
6 Singapore
7 Abu Dhabi
8 United Kingdom
  Aberdeen
 Bristol 
 Cardiff
 Edinburgh 
 London
 Manchester
 Tunbridge Wells
9 Beijing
10 New York
11 Paris
12 Milan
13 Madrid
14 Toronto
15 Miami
16 Connecticut
17 Johannesburg
18 Doha
19 Shanghai
20 Lisbon
21 Hanoi
22 Ho Chi Minh City
23 Macau
24 Luanda (Angola)
25 Seoul
26 Taiwan
27 Jakarta
28 Kuala Lumpur
29 Manila
30 Taipei
31 Washington D.C.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
8 6
5
9
2
3
1
11
12
21 22
13
17
27
28
29
30
23
19
24
20
25
26
Porta Group offices
Associated network companies
Aberdeen
Bristol 
Cardiff
Edinburgh 
London
Manchester
Tunbridge Wells
 8
4
18
7
8
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
9 Five year track record
November 2010
Porta Communications established
September 2011
Newgate Communications 
established
August 2013
Newgate Australia opens
December 2013
Newgate Abu Dhabi 
office opens
April 2014
Porta acquires Redleaf Polhill
October 2014
Porta acquires PPS Group
November 2014
Porta acquires Publicasity
June 2014
Newgate Singapore 
office opens
January 2013
Newgate Hong Kong 
office opens
October 2014
Newgate Beijing office opens
March 2014
Porta acquires Digital and 
Print & Design units from 
WSM Communications 
Group Limited
November 2014
Porta acquires controlling 
stake in Thirteen 
Communications
November 2011
Porta acquires Threadneedle 
Communications Limited
July 2015
Capital Access Group
September 2012
Porta launches advertising 
and marketing business: 
2112 Communications
January 2013
Porta acquires assets from 
direct and digital marketing 
agency Crazy Horse
10 Beijing
Hanoi
Ho Chi Minh City
Hong Kong
Jakarta
Kuala Lumpur
Macau
Manila
Seoul
Shanghai
Singapore
Taiwan
Taipei
Abu Dhabi
Connecticut
Doha
Johannesburg
Luanda
Miami
Toronto  
Washington DC
New York
Aberdeen
Bristol 
Cardiff
Edinburgh 
London
Manchester 
Tunbridge Wells
Lisbon
Madrid
Milan
Paris
Brisbane
Canberra
Melbourne
Sydney
Over the period Porta has grown from:
3 employees in 2010 to 292 in 2015
 
 
1 office to 16 11 of which were start-ups
Operating in 6 countries
 
 
           Reported EBITDA of £1.1m
Headline pre-tax profit of £0.8m
11 Porta strategy
Build a diversified 
international 
communications and 
marketing group…
… with clear synergy 
between each division  
and office
Achieved by  
start-ups  
bolstered by  
income producing  
strategic  
acquisitions
1  Recruit the best quality  
people in our sectors
 
2  Growing international  
network
 
3  Provide a full range  
of services
 
4  Target large,  
multi-national clients
    Our 
Strategy
Helping clients to communicate more effectively as:
 
• Stakeholder groups are increasingly interwoven
• Communications challenges require multi-discipline, multi-territory solutions
• Social media increases the ‘noise levels’
•  Technology enables new opportunities but also disrupts traditional 
communications techniques
•  Changing stockbroker/quoted company relationships are effecting how 
companies deliver information to investors
12 Chief Executive’s Business Review
For the year ended 31 December 2015
The success of the Group’s integrated multi-service 
multi-product communications offering on a global basis 
continues to drive the growth at Porta. All aspects of the 
Group covering financial, corporate, consumer public 
relations, public affairs and research together with the 
multi-media creative communications agency are 
increasingly pitching together with very encouraging results. 
This is reflected in the 39 percent growth in gross profit (fee 
income) to £26.9 million but more importantly the organic 
growth of 14 percent (stripping out first time contributions 
from acquisition) was considerably higher than the low single 
figure average for the sector.
Reported EBITDA
1
 at nearly £1.1 million after all costs is 
nearly five and a half times higher than the £196k of 2014 
maintaining the outstanding trend seen over the last four 
years. Exceptional costs continue to reduce in the absence 
of any start-up costs, while the level of reorganisation costs 
reflecting the closure of unprofitable offices and teams, is 
expected to be much lower in the current year. Operating 
cash flow of £1.3 million in the year was positive for the first 
time since the formation of Porta.
In just over four years we have built a very exciting 
integrated business platform that will fuel continued growth 
in the Group. Our reputation is growing in the market place 
to the extent that we are attracting some of the best talent 
in our industry which augurs well for the future. 
Communications
In the UK the acquisition of PPS at the end of 2014 gave 
Newgate access to a network of regional offices in 
Aberdeen, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh and Manchester. In 
addition the management team of the enlarged company 
took the opportunity to undertake a strategic review of its 
operations and decided to close its Brussels and Frankfurt 
offices as they lacked critical mass to make an impact in 
these markets and they had been loss making. As part of 
the strategic review, the growth company team was 
completely restructured and fully integrated. The benefits 
from these measures are now starting to flow through. 
Client wins towards the end of 2015 confirmed the success 
of this approach.
The integration of PPS into Newgate was successfully 
completed although it was decided that the PPS name 
should be maintained (at least for the medium term) given 
the strong brand value. Trading at PPS in its first full year 
was in-line with management expectations but more 
encouraging was the number of joint pitches undertaken 
with other parts of the Group.
David Wright 
Chief Executive Officer
The success of the Group’s integrated multi-service 
multi-product communications offering on a global 
basis continues to drive the growth at Porta. In just 
over four years we have built a very exciting integrated 
business platform that will fuel continued growth in the 
Group. Our reputation is growing in the market place to 
the extent that we are attracting some of the best 
talent in our industry which augurs well for the future.
13
“
”
    Our 
Strategy
1
 Reported EBITDA in 2014 included £475,394 gain on WSM acquisition.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC Outside of the UK Newgate has been particularly strong 
with Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore all enjoying a 
strong trading performance throughout the year.
Newgate Australia, in its second full year, had another 
exceptional 12 months expanding staff levels by around 
30 percent while organic growth in fee income was over 
12 percent and an EBITDA margin of 24 percent. Project 
highlights for the year included advising on the successful 
A$10.2bn long-term lease of power transmission operator 
Transgrid. The sale represented the largest government 
trade sale in Australian history. In addition Newgate 
Australia advised on the biggest infrastructure project in 
Australia, the Sydney Metro Project. The Group is now 
planning to double the size of its Australian operation.
Newgate Hong Kong, another start-up, also had a very 
strong year generating an EBITDA margin of 34 percent. 
The office was appointed to advise on a number of high 
profile contested situations including hedge fund Elliot’s 
proxy battle with Samsung in South Korea. 
Despite a difficult year for the South East Asia economy 
the Singapore office successfully built on the strong 
foundation of 2014, its first full year of operations. The 
corporate communications practice saw rapid growth 
driven by several large new clients in the financial services, 
professional services and real estate sectors. Capital 
markets remained weak throughout the year, although 
the investor relations business still showed growth.
Redleaf in its first full 12 months in the Porta stable 
reported a record year both in terms of fee income and 
profits. Strong growth was recorded across all of its three 
specialist teams, Capital Markets, Professional and 
Financial Services and Property. The success and quality 
of Redleaf was recognised with the agency winning 
Grant Thornton PR firm of the year and Best Adviser 
Financial PR in the KPMG UK Stock Market Awards.
In the current year Porta will be acquiring a further 
15 percent of the Redleaf equity taking its stake up to 
66 percent on terms outlined at the time of the acquisition 
in April 2014. 
On the consumer PR side, Publicasity had a strong year 
under its new management team adding ten new brands 
to its client roster with an impressive conversion rate of 
45 percent. The more noticeable wins included electronic 
cigarette brand Blu, the Caribbean tourist destination of 
St Lucia, and the German appliances manufacturer Bosch. 
13 Communications increased fee income by over 
50 percent, with a number of high profile new business 
wins but produced a loss on the year, albeit substantially 
down on the 2014 figure. Costs have now been brought in 
line with fees and the company is now trading profitably. 
Marketing and Advertising
The multi-capability creative agency 2112 increased fee 
income by 27 percent in the year. BNY Mellon, the largest 
account in the agency, was developed further and 
now represents 30 percent of the agency’s fee income. 
The relationship with Blind Veterans UK, the largest direct 
marketing client, has been particularly strong with the 
Christmas fundraising mailing achieving the best ever results 
in the charity’s history. New business won included 
Henderson Global Investors, Pfizer and Towergate Insurance 
which are now making an impact in the current year. 
Outlook
Although the current year has started well with growth 
ahead of budget in the first quarter a slowdown in project 
work in the UK ahead of the EU Referendum makes it 
difficult to predict the outcome for the next three or four 
months. 
The Board remain confident that organic growth in fee 
income will remain strong, particularly as the planned 
recruitment of a number of high quality executives gains 
momentum, although these inevitably will have some 
impact on the bottom line in the short term.
David Wright 
Chief Executive Officer
2 June 2016
Chief Executive’s Business Review (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
14 MARKETING AND ADVERTISING
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
Divisional Performance Review 
from the Chief Executive
For the year ended 31 December 2015
COMMUNICATIONS
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
15
1
 Reported EBUTDA in 2014 included £475,394 gain on WSM aquisition. COMMUNICATIONS
Newgate London
Newgate Communications entered a new phase in its 
four year history when Porta acquired PPS Group at the 
end of 2014. This added to the range of services it could 
offer clients with its focus on local and national public 
affairs, local community consultation and a 25 year track 
record as one of the UK’s leading property and 
infrastructure specialists.
The acquisition also gave Newgate access to a network 
of regional offices and it can now service clients with 
requirements in Aberdeen, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh 
and Manchester.
In 2015 the management of the enlarged company took 
the opportunity to undertake a strategic review of its 
operations and decided to close its Brussels and 
Frankfurt offices as they did not have the scale to make 
an impact in those markets and they had been loss-
making. Subsequently Newgate entered into an 
affiliate relationship in order to service its clients’ needs 
in Brussels. 
The company also restructured its senior management 
team to refresh its integrated communications approach 
that is able to target multiple audiences using a precise 
combination of content and channels. Client wins in 2015 
confirmed the success of that approach as we were able 
to sell several services from within Newgate and 
companies within the wider Porta group to organisations 
ranging from FTSE 100s to young, growing companies. 
The Growth Companies team secured client wins with 
managed hosting and cloud integrator Daily Internet, 
and fast growing UK and Switzerland based wealth 
management business, European Wealth. Further to this, 
the team was appointed to work on the successful AIM 
IPO of mobile security software company Defenx, to 
which it continues to provide financial PR services on an 
ongoing basis.
The team has also been successful in introducing new 
clients to other parts of Porta’s business. This has 
resulted in retained business for Porta’s investor relations 
business, Capital Access Group. The UK technology 
sector continues to be buoyant with London a key hub 
for investment in the sector. The Growth Companies 
team is well positioned to benefit from these trends as 
the leader in terms of number of AIM technology clients, 
and with extensive experience in supporting AIM 
admissions and IPOs. 
This is already being borne out with the team having 
secured further client wins since year end in the 
technology space. In addition, the team is also currently 
engaged on several IPO transactions, which, if 
successful, are expected to complete in the 
coming months. 
During the year Newgate established a series of industry 
sector marketing teams to enable it to gather together 
the expertise of its consultants. Newgate’s strengths are 
in corporate reputation, capital markets communication, 
public policy, regulatory and crisis work. These, coupled 
with our industry expertise, give us the ability to help 
clients achieve a distinctive positioning whilst enhancing 
and protecting their reputation and maximising their 
value.
Newgate was appointed by the 2 Sisters Food Group, one 
of the UK's leading food manufacturers, as its first retained 
public relations consultancy. Newgate supports 2 Sisters, 
(which produces a third of the poultry products consumed 
in the UK every day and is the owner of well-known brands 
Fox's Biscuits and Goodfella's Pizza), in all its food safety 
programmes and animal welfare campaigns and its 
expansion and modernisation campaigns. Our role 
encompasses stakeholder and political outreach, media 
relations and capital market communications. 
As part of Newgate’s campaign to publicise 2 Sisters’ 
wide-ranging sustainability plan with targets to cut 
carbon emissions by 20% by 2018 compared to 2008 
levels and curb food waste by five per cent a year, we 
launched the world’s first bio-energy plant that converts 
surplus mashed potato from its production line into 
electricity, producing enough to supply 850 homes with 
a year’s electricity needs.
Divisional Performance Review
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
16 Newgate and its sister company 2112 were appointed 
by Civilised Investments to support the launch of a new 
UK-wide business and retail challenger bank. 
CivilisedBank, which is currently going through the final 
application for a banking licence, secured initial stage 
funding in March 2015. Both agencies are working closely 
with the board to ensure CivilisedBank has a distinctive 
positioning from the other challenger banks entering the 
market. An essential part of that positioning is to align 
Civilised with the values of fairness, transparency and 
responsibility. To reinforce this Newgate hosted an event 
with the ResPublica think-tank to support the introduction 
of the Banker’s Oath WHICH and Civilised was the first 
financial services company to sign.
Our work across international borders has increased. 
A good example of this is our work for AlixPartners, 
the global business advisory firm. Newgate is the lead 
agency globally for AlixPartners, with teams in London, 
Hong Kong, New York and Abu Dhabi managing Asian, 
European and Middle East programmes.
In the fourth quarter of the year Newgate was appointed 
to handle financial and corporate communications for 
mining and commodities giant Glencore as it sought to 
gain understanding for its future business strategy at a 
time of financial market turmoil. Newgate's knowledge 
of financial regulation led to it being appointed by Parker 
Fitzgerald, the specialist risk management consultancy, 
to advise on its marketing and corporate communications. 
The team works closely with its sister firm, 2112, to 
design, develop and share compelling content with key 
stakeholders and influencers.
2015 was a year of renewal for the business with the 
introduction of new colleagues and new services and 
growing acceptance of the power of Newgate’s 
integrated communications model.
THE COST OF 
MISCONDUCT
BANK
LARGE GLOBAL 
BANKS PAID 
FINES OVER 
THE PAST 7 
YEARS TOTALLING
$235bn 
Fines & litigation 
account for 
about 7.5% of 
operating costs
of operational 
losses are 
misconduct 
related
all of which leads to a 
1.4% 
So banks have less 
money to invest, 
profitability 
decreases and 
it is increasingly 
difficult to 
generate ROE
and Senior 
Managers are personally 
liable for the firm’s 
conduct failures
Cost of controls account 
for a further 35% of 
operating costs
35%
98%
£
£
£
1
2
4
3
2
1 www.fca.org.uk/news/wholesale-conduct-risk
2 www.standard.co.uk/business/chris-blackhurst-why-is-bad-behaviour-by-bankers-just-another-risk-a3123061.html 
3 www.risktech-forum.com/research/chartis-risktech100-2016
4 Recent Bank of England stress tests, over the five years of their stress scenario 
  www.bankofengland.co.uk/financialstability/Documents/fpc/results011215.pdf www.parker-fitzgerald.com 
capital ratio shortfall
CONDUCT BILL
For more information click here
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
17 Newgate Australia
Newgate Australia completed its second full year of 
operation in 2015 concluding another highly successful 
year of growth and development. Kicking off the year with 
staff numbers just below 40, the company continued 
strong organic growth to finish the year with more than 50 
staff – corresponding with a 12% growth in revenue and an 
EBITDA margin of 27%. The group in Australia has now 
exceeded its original 5 year growth strategy after just 2.5 
years and is now working up a new strategy to take the 
business forward.
The key to the success of the business this year was again 
the integrated offering where the mixture of financial 
communications, corporate communications, public affairs 
and social and market research through Newgate Research 
has enabled the Group to provide a full service offering to 
both corporates and government in the strategic 
communications space.
Project highlights for the year included advising on the 
successful A$10.2 billion long-term lease of power 
transmission operator Transgrid. The sale, concluded late 
in the year, represents the largest government trade sale in 
Australian history. The team provided issues management, 
stakeholder and media communications advice in the first 
of what will be a series of power and generation asset 
divestments in New South Wales and potentially other 
states in Australia.
Corporate communications and public affairs were also 
very strong contributors to the business this year and the 
firm’s four offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and 
Canberra combined to advise on some 150 private and 
government sector clients on all manner of 
communications issues and projects. Our Newgate 
Melbourne office was engaged by the receivers for major 
consumer electronics retailer, Dick Smith, to manage media 
and issues around its receivership and closure of 393 
stores with the corresponding loss of approximately 3,300 
jobs across Australia and New Zealand. This was a 
sensitive, high profile brief and is ongoing. Newgate was 
also retained in 2015 by point to point transport business 
Uber to manage its entry into the Australian market and to 
facilitate political and regulatory change to enable it to 
successfully operate in various jurisdictions around the 
nation. Our Brisbane team was also engaged in supporting 
global sugar refining business Wilmar as it confronted a 
proposal to re-regulate the sugar industry in Australia.
Another major project for the business was the biggest 
infrastructure project in Australia, the Sydney Metro Project. 
This is a A$10 – A$20 billion undertaking and Newgate has 
five staff embedded in the organisation providing full-time 
advice on stakeholder and community relations for this 
milestone project. 
Newgate Research had a particularly strong year. 
Research has underpinned Newgate’s strategic offering 
and contributed A$2.5 million in revenue representing 
a significant 19% of Australia’s total revenue for the year. 
In addition to its offerings in the qualitative and quantitative 
research areas, Newgate Research has developed an 
in-depth and sophisticated reputation measurement 
product for organisations to benchmark and drive 
reputation change. Called NewRep, the offering has been 
well received by the market.
Finally, as part of the proposed future growth plans, the 
company is developing a stand-alone business offering 
in stakeholder and community relations and late in 2015 
made a dedicated hire of an industry expert to help drive 
this new business offering in 2016.
Divisional Performance Review COMMUNICATIONS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Transport for NSW new Sydney Metro Train. Transport for NSW last tunnel boring machine being 
retrieved on Sydney Metro. 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
18 Newgate Hong Kong
Hong Kong was consolidated in the Porta accounts for 
the first time in 2015 and, after a solid and profitable first 
half with increasing momentum as the year progressed, 
the business generated an EBITDA margin of 34%.
The team has continued to grow, with a focus on 
broadening the capabilities it has to offer to clients and 
by hiring further experienced and seasoned consultants 
capable of providing advice at the most senior levels 
of client organisations. The business added to both its 
international and China market expertise and commenced 
the build-out of a digital capability to further enhance its 
existing practices. Geographically the business extended 
its reach with the opening of a wholly owned branch in 
Beijing. Though it is early days the business is already 
seeing the benefits of this small investment, in terms of 
client acquisition and Newgate’s brand building. 
Client retention remained strong through the year and was 
bolstered by further new retainer wins. The office was also 
appointed to advise on a number of contested situations 
around the region including work for hedge fund Elliott in 
its high profile proxy battle with Samsung in South Korea. 
Several other mandates were secured from private equity 
firms, including from Asia’s largest private equity firm, 
Baring Private Equity Asia. The Hong Kong office 
represented private equity firms on issues ranging from 
fundraisings to M&A as well as on communications issues 
within their portfolio companies. At the end of the year 
Newgate was appointed in Hong Kong by a number of 
offshore bondholders to provide both China-focused and 
international communications support in connection with 
Kaisa, China’s largest yet real estate debt defaulter. 
In addition to continued growth in Hong Kong, the office 
continues to export business and new business 
opportunities to the rest of the network, most recently 
including private equity client deals in Singapore 
and London.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
19 Newgate Singapore
Despite it being a difficult year for the Southeast Asian 
economies, 2015 saw the Singapore office build on the 
success and strong foundation of 2014, which had been 
the first year of operations in Singapore.
The corporate communications practice saw rapid growth, 
driven by several large new clients in the financial services, 
professional services and real estate industries. In contrast 
to previous years, the company also had a handful of 
client briefs that did not involve media relations which 
traditionally has been a mainstay of corporate 
communications mandates in their markets. These briefs 
instead focused on message and content development 
for predominantly digital dissemination. Similarly, several 
projects saw us advising clients behind-the-scenes with 
tactical execution work conducted by in-house teams or 
other agencies.
Capital markets remained weak throughout the year, with 
only a smattering of IPOs in Singapore, mainly on the 
Catalist secondary board, and with the benchmark Straits 
Times Index shedding about 15% over the year. Despite 
this, the investor relations client base continued to grow, 
with a number of new retained clients joining its roster, 
mainly ranging from medium to large cap entities. The 
weak markets also presented M&A opportunities for our 
clients, and we continued to strengthen our track record 
of advising private equity firms, and worked with Baring 
Private Equity Asia, KKR and Southern Capital on multiple 
transactions. We were also mandated by potential vendors 
on a number of high profile sell-side briefs, and handled 
a successful S$500 million retail bond offering by Frasers 
Centrepoint Limited.
Towards the end of 2015, we were pleased to announce 
that our client, UK transport operator Go-Ahead PLC, 
won a very competitive tender to operate a package of 
bus services in Singapore, as part of the government’s 
new bus contracting model. This was the culmination of 
over a year’s work for Go-Ahead, and laid the foundations 
for a higher level of activity in 2016 as the company moves 
towards starting operations.
The client mix remained stable during the year, and as with 
prior years, financial services firms, real estate groups and 
transport sector entities were the largest clients by revenue. 
The financial services clients covered investment banking, 
private banking, asset management, investment holdings, 
private equity, exchanges and related service providers, 
while the real estate clients covered most of the industry 
asset classes, including commercial, hospitality, industrial, 
residential and speciality assets, in Europe and throughout 
the Asia-Pacific region. The transport sector clients included 
logistics players, port operators and transport providers.
The year also saw the Group increasing its pro bono work 
for non-profit and charitable organisations, such as the 
Community Foundation of Singapore, which connects 
donors to charities based on philanthropic intents and also 
embarked on a programme to conduct talks at local tertiary 
education institutions, with a view to grooming the next 
generation of communicators and improving the depth of 
the local talent base.
Overall staffing levels grew incrementally from the previous 
year, and we were pleased to announce the well-deserved 
promotions of a number of consultants, all of whom had 
started as fresh graduates working with the senior team 
either at Newgate or at other agencies. We made several 
promising new hires towards the end of the year.
Divisional Performance Review COMMUNICATIONS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
20 Newgate Abu Dhabi
Newgate Abu Dhabi, in its first year being part of the Porta 
group, achieved gross profit of AED 1.5 million. Over 20% 
of this gross profit was from new business won during the 
year. Approximately 60% of this gross profit came from 
retained income. Newgate Abu Dhabi, located in the Media 
Free Zone Authority – Two Four 54, provides strategic 
communications advice and execution services for a wide 
range of public relations activities in the United Arab 
Emirates(UAE), including finance, corporate, consumer, 
and  public affairs.
With a team of consultants that have strong working 
relationships with the financial and business media in 
the region, both Arabic and English speaking, Newgate 
Abu Dhabi provides sound strategic advice on corporate 
positioning. As one of the newest offices in the Newgate 
network, Abu Dhabi has won prestigious mandates such 
as Abu Dhabi Racing, Abu Dhabi Finance and Sotheby’s 
due to its high quality advice and work for its clients. The 
team prides itself on being nimble, innovative and always 
proactive and as a constituent of the Media Free Zone is 
advising public sector bodies in the Emirate. Given the 
strong economic fundamentals of the UAE and its 
geographical position midway between Europe and 
Asia-Pacific, Newgate Abu Dhabi consultants are well 
placed to advise internationals firms entering the region 
in terms of messaging and corporate positioning.
2015 was a mixed year for the Abu Dhabi office. Going into 
2015 the office won AlixPartners as a retainer and had a 
good base of retainers with some project work keeping 
margins up. However as the year progressed, trading 
conditions deteriorated significantly caused by a localised 
recession combined with the crash in the oil price which 
caused budgets to be reassessed and projects put on hold 
region-wide. Most government departments and semi 
government entities had their budgets severely cut which 
lead to the loss of two major retainers.
Despite this the year ended on a positive note with the 
team winning a large 2 year retainer with the Abu Dhabi 
Department of Transport in late December. 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
21 Redleaf Communications
Redleaf Communications takes a fully integrated 
approach to stakeholder communications, ensuring 
that corporate messaging, thoughts, ideas and content 
are effectively communicated to all target audiences. 
The Agency works around four core practice areas: 
Capabilities prepares our clients for dealing with the 
media; Strategic Advice covers how to achieve 
business objectives; Core Communications covers 
communicating with target stakeholders; and Thought 
Leadership focuses on delivering insight and ideas 
from our clients. 
During 2015, the Agency’s achievements in delivering 
meaningful and measurable campaigns for its clients 
were recognised in the following industry awards:
● ● Grant Thornton PR Firm of the Year 2015
● ● Best Adviser Financial PR in the KPMG UK Stock 
Market Awards 2015
● ● Reactions magazine PR Agency of the Year category 
(shortlisted)
During the year, Redleaf acted for 149 clients. Its 
top 10 clients accounted for 24% of its revenues 
and no individual client represented more than 3% 
of its revenues. 2015 was also a year of increased 
investment in the Agency’s team, systems and 
infrastructure during the year. Staff retention levels 
remain very high at 4.16 years across the Agency 
and 9.58 years at the Leadership Team level. 
The Agency acts for clients across a broad range 
of sectors but is organised under three core 
specialist teams to reflect core areas of expertise: 
Capital Markets, Professional & Financial Services 
and Property. 
Capital Markets Team
Redleaf Capital Markets provides financial PR, 
corporate communications consultancy and investor 
relations services to high growth, ambitious companies. 
During the year, the team won 21 new briefs including 
PR mandates with Utilitywise PLC, Charles Stanley 
Group PLC, IMImobile PLC and Somero Enterprises. 
Alongside these, new Retail Investor Relations 
mandates included Market Tech Holdings Ltd, 
e-Therapeutics PLC and Oxford Pharmascience Group 
PLC. Notable transactions include Entertainment One 
Ltd’s acquisition of the controlling stake in Peppa Pig 
and the IPO of Ranger Direct Lending. Pleasingly, 
client retention remained exceptionally high and the 
average size of client has increased significantly over 
the prior year.
Divisional Performance Review COMMUNICATIONS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
22 Redleaf has continued to take advantage of the 
changing dynamics of the media and investor 
landscape, generating new and effective ideas for 
taking its clients’ messages to targeted audiences. 
Alongside the campaigns undertaken, events have 
included a Tech Sector Day, headlined by a leading 
fund manager, with presentations from six companies 
to an audience of investors, analysts and journalists. 
Redleaf also organised a number of networking events 
between clients and investors at its offices, and 
welcomed over 50 wealth managers at its latest 
investor networking event. 
Property
2015 was an exceptionally strong year for Redleaf’s 
Property team. Revenues increased 27% to £725,900; 
profits increased 47% to £231,471; and fee income per 
head improved 21% to £172,913. As well as working 
on retainers and projects for a range of new clients 
(including Cain Hoy, The Atlas Building, Merchant Land, 
Bravo Investment House and JC Rathbone Associates), 
more excitingly, the team worked on more diverse 
briefs. For example, it handled the branding, design, 
content and media relations around the launch of JCRA 
Laxfield, a new property finance brand; and it arranged 
Redleaf’s first ever major event, the Islington Square 
Festival of Culture, which saw almost 10,000 visitors to 
a three-day music, comedy and film festival on a 
central London building site.
Financial Services
Redleaf’s Professional & Financial Services team 
delivered excellent performance in 2015. The team 
increased net profit 141%, fee income per head by 
85.3% to £190,000/head, and net profit margin from 
15% to 32%. The team introduced a new strategy 
in late 2014 to focus on higher margin business – 
diversifying from traditional media relations into 
strategic consultancy, crisis management and thought 
leadership. It also repositioned itself from focussing 
predominantly on core financial services businesses 
to develop a centre of expertise in FinTech and 
alternative finance.
In 2015, the team increased its client base by 40%, 
adding 14 new clients across a more diverse range 
of financial services verticals. This was achieved as 
the result of the introduction of a new structured 
marketing and business development plan. The team 
also organised a series of seminars during the year 
in conjunction with leading market practitioners; 
topics included thought leadership, effective issues 
management and social media for financial services 
companies.
2015 was a record year for Redleaf and 2016 looks 
extremely promising with a very healthy new business 
pipeline, and an exceptional, strong and motivated 
team in place to deliver another year of powerful, 
award-winning results.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
23 Publicasity
Under the first full year of Porta ownership, Publicasity 
delivered a strong 2015 financial performance. Annual fee 
income totalled £2.5 million, of which no one client 
represented more than 15%. Organic growth from across 
the client base remained strong with over £300k of new 
fee revenue and all major clients continued their partnership 
with Publicasity following a dedicated focus on client 
retention from the senior team following the acquisition. 
In 2015 the Publicasity team also started to work alongside 
other Porta group companies on integrated client briefs.
Key brand campaigns included a mixture of media 
relations, influencer engagement, celebrity and brand 
partnerships, events, experiential, design services, 
broadcast, video, content creation and community 
management to drive behavioural change, increased trust, 
community development and commercial impact – in line 
with the company’s strapline ‘Outcomes Matter’.
Ten new brands were added to the client roster from new 
business acquisition with an impressive conversion rate 
of 45%. The more noticeable wins included electronic 
cigarette brand blu, the Caribbean tourist destination of 
Saint Lucia and the German appliances manufacturer, 
B/S/H which includes household brands like Bosch, 
Siemens, Gaggenau and Neff. These additions to the 
client portfolio is in line with the business strategy to further 
develop and enhance its core sector skills of fast moving 
consumer goods (FMCG), Home and Lifestyle and Travel. 
Following the acquisition by Porta and all the industry 
coverage that came with that, a concerted effort was made 
in the early part of 2015 to keep Publicasity’s own PR 
levels high, with new business wins and other industry or 
thought-leadership pieces appearing. The Directors also 
made a concerted effort to maintain their own personal 
profile by joining the PRCA Council, judging various 
industry awards and attending PR industry networking 
events both in the UK and overseas. 
Key Assignments & Creative Campaigns
Lipton Ice Tea – Day Breakers
Publicasity was tasked with amplifying a range of summer 
events targeting young, London-based adults, with the aim 
of transforming their view of Lipton Ice Tea. Amongst the 
six free to attend events was ‘Rise and Slide’ – a 100m 
water slide on Kings Cross Boulevard. The team created 
engaging content from video to influencer curated blogs to 
drive awareness and engagement with consumers and 
Divisional Performance Review COMMUNICATIONS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
24 media alike. This was underpinned by social amplification 
to drive ticket registrations and event reviews. For the 
waterslide alone, Publicasity gained coverage in seven 
national newspapers, 11 London-based media, one 
regional outlet and a variety of other online media. 
The coverage was 100% positive and all of the pieces 
featured the ‘Be a Daybreaker’ Lipton Iced Tea 
campaign messaging.
HomeSense CSR for Comic Relief
In January the Publicasity team were tasked with launching 
HomeSense’s involvement in Red Nose Day 2015. The 
core creative for the campaign was ‘Bake Something 
Funny for Money’, piggy-backing on the hugely popular 
Comic Relief Great British Bake Off. From organising 
photoshoots and media interviews with celebrities through 
to a masterclass with celebrated home baker, Georgia 
Green the team delivered a three month CSR campaign 
driving sales for HomeSense’s exclusive product. Over 
this short period our campaign reached over 76 million 
consumers and raised over £4.0 million for the Comic 
Relief charity.
Launch of Regent Street Cinema
One of the more unusual briefs received was to re-launch 
the Regent’s Street Cinema after 35 years of being closed 
to the public. The campaign involved organising an open 
house for the media the day before the official launch 
where BBC Breakfast filmed live over five segments, 
Al Jazeera created a package that aired 24 times the 
following day, as well as many other national media all 
attend and cover with half to full page feature stories. 
As a result, the cinema surpassed targets for opening week 
and was fully sold out. Following this, a red carpet gala 
event was organised to thank the supporters, including 
Sandi Toksvig and Tim Bevan, and invite others to come 
see the cinema for the first time, including Cultural Minister 
Ed Vaizey and Pink Floyd’s Nick Mason. Following the 
event requests were received from media as far afield as 
Japan wanting more details about the cinema. And the 
influencers read about the cinema and came forth to lend 
their support such as Stanley Tucci who came in on his 
own time for a Q&A before a screening of his favourite film.
Heineken Rugby World Cup
Heineken was one of the key sponsors of the 2015 Rugby 
World Cup, held in the UK, and Publicasity’s task was to 
excite and engage with retailers and publicans so they 
recognised the sales opportunity on offer. To get the trade 
engaged and keep the Heineken brand front of customers’ 
minds from launch until the end of the tournament, the 
strategy was to highlight the significant commercial 
opportunity that RWC2015 offered, through a range of 
expert advice which would help retailers and publicans 
drive incremental sales. The team were also privileged to 
enjoy access to Heineken’s rugby legends including Jonah 
Lomu, Will Carling, Matt Dawson, Scott Quinnell and John 
Smit who all helped host the official Heineken launch event 
at London’s Somerset House to mix with journalist guests 
and some lucky consumers. The campaign messages 
really got through with the Heineken brand being clearly 
seen at the heart of the action, helping to drive a 
commercially successful tournament. If only the home 
nation teams had been as successful on the pitch! 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
25 Divisional Performance Review COMMUNICATIONS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PPS Group
The integration of PPS into Newgate progressed well on 
the first full year trading as part of the Porta Group. The 
decision was made to retain the PPS name for at least the 
medium term, as it has significant brand value in the 
markets in which PPS operates – particularly property, 
residential, energy and infrastructure. There were no issues 
with client conflicts and not one client left our roster as a 
result of the acquisition.
Staff too have reacted well to the move to the Porta stable. 
Every member of the senior PPS team has remained with 
the business. They and the more junior members are 
enjoying the career opportunities that result from being part 
of a wider operation.
PPS’s client base continues to include major blue-chip 
clients and the company carried out some first-rate and 
high profile work in 2015. The company continued to 
advise Severn Trent Water on its plans to safeguard 
Birmingham’s water supply with a new water pipeline 
from the River Severn to Frankley Water Treatment works. 
This involved a two stage consultation process engaging 
communities and their political representatives along 
the route of this new pipeline. 
The work advising London Paramount on its proposal to 
build a world class global entertainment destination in 
North Kent also continued. This is the first commercial 
project to be classified as a Nationally Strategic 
Infrastructure Project and we undertook extensive work 
positioning the scheme and consulting the affected 
communities.
National Grid was advised on various schemes, the most 
significant of which has been the IFA2 interconnector with 
France; we helped EDF Energy on Hinckley Point; Tarmac 
on quarries; E.On on windfarm sites across Scotland; 
Premier Inn on hotels; Hammerson on mixed use schemes; 
top 20 housebuilders such as Linden Homes, Redrow 
Homes and Barratt Homes and a range of clients on 
student accommodation, aged care facilities and 
distribution centres.
Important steps were also made in winning new business 
with our colleagues from other Porta companies. None of 
these would have been won by PPS had it remained a 
stand-alone business or by Porta companies without PPS. 
We secured a significant retainer contract with PRS for 
Music in conjunction with Thirteen and we are now working 
jointly with Newgate Communications for Crosslane Group, 
the student housing provider. Latterly we won, with 
Newgate, a significant contract helping the Rugby Football 
Union with its proposals to redevelop the East Stand of 
Twickenham Stadium and improve its broader engagement 
with the local community.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
26 Thirteen
2015 was Thirteen’s second full year in operation and saw 
the delivery of a number of high profile client campaigns, 
whilst securing important client wins that have set the 
business up for strong growth in 2016.
Our area of expertise is born out of the new technologies, 
new behaviours and new thinking that have helped forge 
the ‘new economy’. 
The team focus on creating intelligent campaigns that 
combine news, storytelling, reputation management and 
social impact. A key client, The Silvertown Partnership, saw 
planning permission secured in April 2015 and Thirteen 
supported this announcement by securing blanket 
coverage across key news. Through a successful PR 
programme, Thirteen demonstrated the project’s ambition 
to create a ‘new piece of city’, by profiling senior 
spokespeople including Sir Stuart Lipton.
High profile work for QualitySolicitors saw Thirteen secure 
sensitive media coverage around the Lord Janner child 
abuse court case on behalf of its leading child abuse 
lawyer, Peter Garsden, to encourage other potential victims 
to come forward. Thirteen developed a twin strategy of 
releasing comment from Peter Garsden to top-tier media, 
alongside profiling alleged victims to encourage other 
victims to come forward. 
Important new client wins included the UK’s largest music 
licensing company, PRS for Music, following an integrated 
pitch between Thirteen and sister agency PPS. Among 
other highlights, 2015 saw the team create the Streamfair 
campaign for PRS to give them a platform to champion the 
rights of music creators and lobby for changes in EU policy. 
The #Streamfair digital campaign, supported by strong b2b 
messaging, national and trade briefings, garnered support 
from leading songwriters including Michael Price and 
Jimmy Napes and saw widespread coverage across the 
music trade.
Following the successful launch of BMW’s start-up 
DriveNow brand in late 2014, Thirteen proactively 
outreached to Ford and subsequently won the brief to 
create a b2b partnership programme for its ‘GoDrive’ 
car-sharing product, which saw a number of high profile 
shared economy, SME and ‘mittelstand’ businesses 
participate in the Alpha phase.
In November, Thirteen successfully delivered a project for 
newly re-branded tech industry recruiters, Dice, to generate 
social media buzz across its UK channels to support the 
launch of a new ‘tongue in cheek’ new outdoor ad 
campaign in Old Street. Over two days, more than 250,000 
tech professionals were reached by the campaign and as a 
result Thirteen was hired on a retainer basis for 2016 with a 
PR and Social media remit.
Another key win in late 2015 was the national launch of 
Evander Holyfield’s new betting brand ‘Real Deal Bet’ 
which saw the team secure high impact coverage across 
titles including the Daily Mail, TalkSport, Sky Sports News 
and Shortlist in early 2016. 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
27 21:12 Communications
2015 was a year of consolidation and growth. We have 
managed the business to maximise efficiencies and create 
a good balance of experience and youth across all the 
agency’s areas of expertise. 
Financially, we have continued to grow year on year. 
In 2015 our income increased over 27% to £2.8 million. 
As a multi-channel creative agency it was encouraging that 
income was spread fairly evenly across the key service 
areas of digital, print and direct marketing.
Clients
BNY Mellon is the largest account in the agency in terms 
of billing and activity and accounted for around 30% of 
our income in 2015. 2112 was appointed as the creative 
partner of BNY Mellon Investment Management EMEA in 
the middle of 2014 and the relationship grew during 2015. 
As one of the world’s largest financial institutions and a 
multi-boutique investment house operating across US, 
EMEA and APAC, BNY Mellon’s requirement for marketing 
and sales support material is massive. As part of an 
iterative, organic process 2112 has built a body of work 
that reflects the differing needs of the business while also 
building consistency. All of its work is designed to adapt for 
cross-channel usage that can be consumed in its entirety 
or as sections that can be deployed across earned, owned 
or paid for media. 
The agency is also the creative partner of Hermes 
Investment Management, contracted to work on all of their 
marketing, sales and exhibition materials. Members of the 
team have also been regularly seconded to work at their 
offices during exceptionally busy periods, which has built 
an increasingly close relationship. The agency will be 
looking to build on its solid foundation.
Blind Veterans UK is a significant account for 2112 Direct, 
the direct marketing arm of the agency. In 2015, the Direct 
team created eleven mailing packs for the charity that helps 
the needs of ex-Service men and women suffering from 
partial sight loss and blindness. The account goes from 
strength to strength with the latest Christmas fundraising 
mailing achieving the best ever results in the charity’s history.
MARKETING AND ADVERTISING
Divisional Performance Review (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
28 New business 
New business is important to any agency and we enjoyed 
a number of significant new business wins during 2015. 
The new clients were gained from diverse business 
sectors: charity, investment management, insurance, and 
pharmaceutical. New clients included The Children’s Trust, 
Church House Investments, The Electoral Commission, 
Hargreave Hale, Henderson Global Investors, Legg Mason 
Global Asset Management, Neilson Financial Services, 
Pfizer, Rathbones, and Towergate Insurance.
A number of these clients have already made an impact in 
2015 and we are looking to many of them for growth in 
2016, particularly Henderson Global Investors, Pfizer and 
Towergate Insurance.
Group integration
We are great supporters of the integrated agency approach 
and partner with other parts of the Porta group whenever 
possible. During 2015 we were asked to support Newgate 
with print and binding for client annual general meeting 
documents, design and bespoke printing for new business 
presentations, info-graphics and digital build. 
We also worked with Porta for several months on their 
rebrand project. We created their new brand identity and 
positioning, designed the logo and collateral material, 
and designed and built their new website.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
29 Summit Marketing Services 
Summit had a successful 2015, taking positive steps to 
drive the business forward and reinvent itself – from an 
agency with its roots in artworking and design to a 
full-service marketing agency. To achieve this, they have 
established relationships with local digital and film 
production suppliers while at the same time actively 
marketing its brand and concept development capabilities.
AXA continued to be a very active account for Summit 
despite AXA PPP deciding to undertake the services of 
an in-house agency in September 2015. The agency 
managed to retain some key areas of this business – 
specifically Individual Acquisition marketing, which involves 
some high profile print and digital campaigns. AXA 
Assistance and AXA Travel Insurance also continue to use 
Summit as an extension to their marketing teams, relying 
on it to deliver creative, accurate work to increasingly 
tight timeframes.
Early in 2015 Western Union transferred across to Summit 
and the agency has worked with them on a day to day 
basis as an extension of their internal global team. Summit 
has been involved with launching and managing 26 new 
membership portal websites and worked on various other 
global campaigns including their Christmas and New Year 
Outdoor campaign, handling both the media and 
artworking the creative for this. 
Extending our digital capabilities has started to materialise 
with numerous new website design projects coming to 
fruition in early 2016. 
intelligent design fast turnaround warm welcome
Summit Marketing Services
Summit had a successful 2015, taking positive steps to 
drive our business forward and reinvent ourselves – from an 
agency with its roots in artworking and design, to a full-service 
marketing agency. To achieve this, we have established 
relationships with local digital and film production suppliers.  
We have also marketed our brand and concept development 
capabilities to achieve some high profile projects with 
prestigious clients.
AXA continued to be a very active account for Summit despite 
AXA PPP deciding to undertake the services of an in-house 
agency in September 2015.  We are delighted to retain some 
key areas of this business – specifically Individual Acquisition 
marketing, which involves some high profile print and digital 
campaigns.  AXA Assistance and AXA Travel Insurance also 
continue to use Summit as an extension to their marketing 
teams, relying on us to deliver creative, accurate work to 
increasingly tight timeframes.
Early in 2015 Western Union transferred across to Summit 
and we have worked with them on a day to day basis as an 
extension of their internal global team.  We have been involved 
with launching and managing 26 new membership portal 
websites and worked on various other global campaigns. In 
December 2015, they engaged us manage their Christmas 
and New Year Outdoor campaign, handling both the media 
and artworking the creative for this. The campaign was very 
successful, with lots of added value, and we look forward to 
developing this relationship further in 2016.  
We were delighted to win the business of a prestigious 
Tunbridge-Wells based law firm, Thomson Snell and Passmore 
and will be working on developing a series of Brand and 
Outdoor advertisements as well as designing their regular 
magazine early in 2016.
Extending our digital capabilities has started to materialise with 
numerous new website design projects coming to fruition in 
early 2016.  
Summit has a clear new business plan in place in 2016 to 
drive the Company forward.  We will be targeting companies 
particularly within the professional and financial services 
industry where we can demonstrate our expertise and 
experience with companies such as Western Union, AXA, BDO 
and Beale and Company Solicitors.
Divisional Performance Review MARKETING AND ADVERTISING (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
30 Results for the year
The Group’s revenue for 2015 on continuing operations 
of £34.1 million was 46% higher than the prior year 
comparatives from continuing operations (2014: 
£23.3 million). This year’s revenue includes £16 million 
from businesses acquired during 2014. Although the gross 
profit margin of 79% of total revenue in 2015 was 4% lower 
than the previous year, the gross profit of £26.9 million was 
39% higher compared with gross profit generated by 
continuing operations in 2014. Of this, 14% was attributed 
to organic growth.
Administrative expenses of £28.6 million (2014: £20.2 million) 
were 42% higher mainly as a result of reporting a full 
12 months for the first time and higher amortisation 
charges on acquired intangibles (in particular brands and 
customer lists acquired late in 2014). At 31 December 
2015, the Group finished with 292 total staff (2014: 262). 
The operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, 
interest and taxation (‘EBITDA’) from continuing operations 
of £1.1 million is a significant improvement from the 
£0.2 million in 2014 (or £0.7 million which includes 2014 
gain on WSM acquisition). This positive improvement is 
down to cost reduction activities, organic growth and the 
contribution of new acquisitions in the year which are well 
established and profitable businesses.
However, the Board does not believe that the stated results 
truly reflect the underlying performance during the year as 
they include a number of exceptional and non-recurring 
costs. The Directors believe that it is more appropriate to 
analyse the results of the Group before start-up losses, 
acquisition costs, restructuring costs, non-recurring 
property costs, share based payments, impairment,  
legal and other professional costs, and amortisation of the 
acquired intangibles in order to help understand better the 
Group’s financial performance. The Group no longer treats 
bad debts as an exceptional cost and hence it was 
removed from headline adjustments for comparative 
periods. Taking these adjustments into account gives a 
core underlying adjusted positive headline EBITDA of 
£2.6 million (2014: £2.1 million which does not include the 
bad debts) and headline PBT of £0.8 million (2014: 
£0.9 million).
The Group's key performance indicators are disclosed 
on page 2.
Group Finance Director’s Review 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Gene Golembiewski  
Group Finance Director
2015 was a good financial year for the Group. This is the first 
year since formation that the Group generated £1.3m cash 
inflow from operating activities. We have reassessed the key 
drivers of operating costs across all operating units of the 
Group and took necessary actions. As a result, reported 
EBITDA after all costs of £1.1m was 447% higher than 
unadjusted EBITDA reported in 2014.
Gross Profit (continuing) 
£26.9m
up 39%  
[2014: £19.4m]
Reported EBITDA
£1.1m
up 447%  
[2014: £0.2m
1
]
Operating cash inflow
£1.3m
up 140%  
[2014: operating outflow £3.4m]
“
”
1
  Excluding the gain on WSM acquisition of £0.5m in 2014.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
31   Year ended  Year ended 
  31 December  31 December 
  2015  2014 
  £ £
EBITDA from continuing operations   1,071,612 195,970
2
Add back exceptional costs:
Start-up losses
1
   – 613,327
Acquisition costs  36,948 271,947
Restructuring costs  756,240 189,500
Non-recurring property costs  86,207 323,536
Legal and other consultancy costs  340,850 276,418
Share based payment expense  315,002 185,580
Total exceptional costs  1,535,247 1,860,308
Adjusted headline EBITDA  2,606,859 2,056,278
Loss before tax from continuing operations   (2,913,144) (1,947,848)
2
Add back
Exceptional costs
2
   1,535,247 1,860,308
Amortisation on acquired intangibles  2,207,188 1,042,160
Headline profit before tax  829,291 954,620
1
  For the purposes of the above analysis, start-up losses are defined as gross operating result in the period of entities which are organically started businesses. 
Such businesses so defined will cease being separately defined at the earlier of two years from the commencement of the activity or when the activities show 
evidence of becoming sustainably profitable.
2
  For comparative purposes, reported EBITDA from continuing operations for comparative period excludes £475,393 gain on WSM acquisition. This gain has also 
been removed from headline EBITDA adjustments and pre-tax profits.
Group Finance Director’s Review (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
32 Results for year:
  Year ended  Year ended 
  31 December  31 December 
  2015  2014 
  £ £
Continuing operations 
Revenue  34,093,005 23,273,668
Cost of sales  (7,144,100) (3,868,339)
Total operating and administrative expenses  (28,595,698) (20,182,469)
Operating loss  (1,646,793) (777,140)
Reported EBITDA  1,071,612 671,363
1
Loss before taxation on continuing operations  (2,913,144) (1,472,454)
Loss after tax:
Loss on continuing operations  (3,100,938) (1,169,924)
Loss on discontinued operations  (352,577) (2,480,674)
Loss for the year after tax  (3,453,515) (3,650,598)
EPS on continuing operations  (1.5p) (0.6p)
Year-end staff numbers  292 262
Analysis of total operating and administrative expense
(continuing operations)  £ £
Acquisition costs  (36,948) (271,947)
Restructuring costs  (756,240) (189,500)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles  (2,207,188) (1,042,160)
Depreciation and amortisation of other assets  (511,217) (406,343)
Non-recurring property costs  (86,207) (323,536)
Share based payments  (315,002) (185,580)
Legal and other consultancy costs  (340,850) (276,418)
Other operating and administrative expenses  (24,342,046) (17,486,985)
  (28,595,698) (20,182,469)
1
  Reported EBITDA in 2014 included £475,393 gain on WSM acquisition. If this gain is removed for comparative purposes, reported EBITDA would have been 
£195,970.
After taking into account amortisation and depreciation, including a charge on intangible assets such as brands and 
customer lists acquired with WSM, Redleaf, PPS and Publicasity, the overall operating loss for the year was £1,646,793 
(2014: £777,140 loss).
Finance costs for the year, including movements on exchange rates, were £1,268,314 (2014: £689,288) arising principally on 
the discounted bond from Hawk Investment Holdings Limited and a loan from Retro Grand Limited granted during the year 
to fund acquisitions.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
33 In view of the Board’s expectation that the Group will be profitable going forward, the Group has recognised the benefit of 
certain tax losses incurred during the year, combined with movements in deferred tax, however outstanding performance of 
overseas subsidiaries as well as some UK based subsidiaries which fall outside the group tax pool resulted in an overall 
charge to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year of £187,794 (2014: credit £302,530) and a deferred tax asset 
carried forward in the Statement of Financial Position of £1,601,065 (2014: £1,449,871). In addition, the Group has 
unrecognised tax losses carried forward amounting to £3,400,000 (2014: £3,400,000) which it may be able to utilise in 
relieving tax payments going forward.
The loss after tax for the Group from continuing operations for the year was £3,100,938 (2014: £1,169,924). After taking into 
account the loss on discontinued operations for the year of £352,577 (2014: £2,480,674), the loss after tax on all operations 
for the year was £3,453,515 (2014: £3,650,598).
Several Group subsidiaries, which include Limited Liability Partnerships, have non-controlling interests, either as shareholders 
or as partners, designed to retain and reward the management of those entities. There are two subsidiaries that have 
material non-controlling interests, Newgate Australia and Redleaf Polhill (note 11). In the case of the Limited Liability 
Partnerships (applicable for comparative periods only), the Partnerships’ shares due to those partners are deducted in 
arriving at operating profit or loss. However, in the case of incorporated subsidiary companies, the non-controlling 
shareholdings are shown as ‘non-controlling interests’ and their share of dividends and profits or losses are deducted after 
arriving at the profit or loss after taxation. Taking these into account, the loss attributable to the equity shareholders of the 
Group itself for the year was £4,363,548 (2014: £3,767,767). Loss per share was 1.5p for the year (2014: 0.6p loss) on 
continuing activities and loss of 1.6p (2014: 1.7p loss) for the year on continuing and discontinued activities combined.
Divisional results from continued operations:
31 December 2015  Marketing &  Other/  
£ Communications Advertising Head Office Consol.
1,2
 Total
Revenue 28,671,416 5,826,220 353,795 (758,426) 34,093,005
Gross profit 23,533,409 3,415,496 – – 26,948,905
Operating profit/(loss) 969,953 (593,949) (2,022,797) – (1,646,793)
EBITDA 3,289,008 (386,636) (1,830,760) – 1,071,612
Loss from discontinued operations – – – (352,577) (352,577)
Staff & partner numbers 207 71 14   292
31 December 2014   Marketing &  Other/ 
£ Communications Advertising Head Office Consol.
1,2
 Total
Revenue 18,778,650 4,762,555 1,116,886 (1,384,423) 23,273,668
Gross profit 16,714,182 2,539,795 151,352 – 19,405,329
Operating profit/(loss) 885,053  261,375 (1,923,568) – (777,140)
EBITDA 1,954,687 436,765 (1,720,089) – 671,363
Loss from discontinued operations – – – (2,480,674) (2,480,674)
Staff & partner numbers 203 45 14 – 262
1.  For the purpose of the above analysis, Other/Consol. column includes consolidation adjustments in relation to intercompany and results from 
discontinued operations.
2.  The loss from discontinued operations related to additional expenses incurred during the course of administration of TTMG businesses which were 
discontinued in 2014 (see note 9 to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014).
Group Finance Director’s Review (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
34 Communications
The Communications division has been particularly strong in Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore. The merger of Newgate 
Communications and Newgate Threadneedle expanded the service offering here in the UK and helped to significantly reduce 
the operating costs. The division overall has demonstrated an outstanding performance despite significant internal 
restructuring costs incurred, finishing the year reporting revenue of £28.7 million (2014: £18.8 million); gross profit of 
£23.5 (2014: £16.7 million); positive EBITDA of £3.3 million (2014: £1.95 million); operating profit of £0.97 million (2014: 
£0.88 million); and 207 staff employed (2014: 203). 
Marketing and Advertising
The Marketing and Advertising division consists of 2112 Communications Group which comprises business activities of the 
former TwentyOne Twelve Communications LLP , TwentyFour Seven Studios LLP , the acquired in 2014 digital and print 
businesses of WSM and direct marketing agency 2112 Direct (formerly Crazy Horse) all of which were merged into a single 
operating unit under the legal name of 2112 Communications Limited during November 2015. 
These businesses share the same office premises and operate closely together providing an integrated direct and digital 
marketing service including creative input, brand consultancy and advertising, strategic digital input, media planning and buying 
in the financial services, business services and not-for-profit sectors.
The division also includes Summit Marketing Services Limited, the marketing and advertising agency located in Tunbridge Wells 
which was acquired in 2013, and contributes to the professional expertise and quality of services offering of this division.
In total, the Marketing and Advertising division (continuing businesses) overall finished the year reporting revenue of £5.8 million 
(2014: £4.8 million); gross profit of £3.4 million (2014: £2.5 million); EBITDA loss of £0.39 million (2014: EBITDA profit of 
£0.44 million which was after the recognition of £0.5m gain on acquisition of WSM); operating loss of £0.6 million (2014: 
operating profit of £0.3 million, included £0.5 million gain on acquisition); and employed a total of 71 people (2014: 45).
Head office (central costs)
The central costs of the Group comprise the ongoing costs of running a growing international public company. These costs 
have been affected in 2015 by the expenses involved in acquiring companies, restructuring the business operations, relocating 
to new office premises in the UK and non-recurring legal and administrative costs in establishing the Group as it evolves into 
a global integrated business. Total central costs before taxation have slightly reduced from £2.3 million restated in 2014 to 
£2.2 million, with a £nil start-up costs incurred in 2015 compared to £0.6 million incurred in 2014, funded by the head office, 
and a 86% reduction (£0.23 million) in acquisition costs and 73% reduction (£0.24 million) in non-recurring property costs were 
offset by 70% increases (£0.13 million) in share based payments and a 23% (£0.06 million) increase in legal and professional 
consultancy costs. The increased levels of one-off and non-recurring costs were in line with management expectations for the 
scale and nature of the growing Group.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
35 Financial position and cash flow
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 
 £ £ Restated, £
Non-current assets 21,618,257 22,517,663 10,330,087
Current assets, excluding cash 8,250,876 12,309,393
1
 10,149,611
Cash 1,787,184 1,791,426 2,544,802
Current liabilities (13,521,476) (15,201,575) (12,784,075)
Non-current liabilities (6,516,005) (6,123,158) (3,916,656)
Net assets 11,618,836 15,293,749 6,323,769
Equity shareholders’ funds 9,771,774 13,118,981 5,193,875
31 December 2015  Marketing &  Other/  
£ Communications Advertising Head Office Consol Total
Non-current assets 16,565,383 1,982,800 3,070,073 – 21,618,256
Current assets, excluding cash 8,054,129 1,367,061 7,726,030 (8,896,343) 8,250,877
Cash 1,397,934 264,619 124,631 – 1,787,184
Current liabilities (7,587,658) (5,036,495) (9,793,666) 8,896,343 (13,521,476)
Non-current liabilities  (1,689,228) (362,908) (4,463,869) – (6,516,005)
Net assets 16,740,560 (1,784,923) (3,336,801) – 11,618,836
31 December 2014  Marketing &  Other/ 
£ Communications Advertising Head Office Consol Total
Non-current assets 17,333,656 2,140,206 3,043,801 – 22,517,663
Current assets, excluding cash 6,475,968 1,337,708 9,295,393 (8,233,204) 8,875,865
Cash 1,494,177 181,796 115,453 – 1,791,426
Current liabilities (6,940,998) (6,866,777) (6,193,476) 8,233,204   (11,768,047)
Non-current liabilities (2,124,449) (318,024) (3,680,685) – (6,123,158)
Net assets 16,238,354 (3,525,091) 2,580,486 – 15,293,749
31 December 2013  Marketing &  Other/ 
Restated, £ Communications Advertising Head Office Consol Total
Non-current assets 5,086,575 4,135,185 1,108,327 – 10,330,087
Current assets, excluding cash 2,914,349 6,094,991 7,150,194 (6,009,923)  10,149,611
Cash 518,228 708,347 1,318,227 – 2,544,802
Current liabilities (4,821,858) (10,954,087) (3,018,053) 6,009,923 (12,784,075)
Non-current liabilities (225,674) (1,452,963) (2,238,019) – (3,916,656)
Net assets 3,471,620 (1,468,527) 4,320,676 – 6,323,769
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 
 £ £ £
Cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 1,342,569 (3,397,485) (4,487,303)
Cash outflow from investing activities (1,017,022) (4,210,908) (973,659)
Cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (319,798) 6,858,614 7,236,973
Taxes paid (1,019,396) (219,353) (6,674)
Cash in hand at end of period 1,787,184 1,791,426 2,544,802
1
  2014 included current assets of the discontinued group.
Group Finance Director’s Review (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
36 The rapid growth of the Group has also had a significant 
impact on the cash flow position. For the first time since 
formation of the Group, we generated positive cash flow from 
operating activities of £1.3 million. The overall working capital 
cycle has been improved with both trade receivables and 
payables turnaround periods being significantly shorter 
compared with 2014. The receivables turnaround was 
reduced by 31 days or 38% and represented 56 days 
(2014: 87 days), while the trade payables turnaround 
decreased by 22 days to 65 days (2014: 87 days). Cash 
inflow from operating activities includes £1.0 million of 
taxes paid (2014: tax paid was £0.2 million). 
Net cash outflow from investing activities is almost 
£3.2 million or 76% lower as a result of decrease in the 
number of acquisitions (net of cash acquired) made 
throughout 2014. However since all acquired subsidiaries in 
2014 and their fair valued intangible assets such as customer 
lists and brands were amortised a full calendar year in 2015, 
the overall amortisation and depreciation charge has 
increased by £1.1 million or 68% compared with 2014. 
During 2015, we repaid a total of £1.9 million of borrowings 
which related to the deferred consideration for the acquisition 
of Publicasity and PPS, together with interest accrued on 
other short term loans. This was financed through the 
restructuring of the existing £3.0 million loan from Retro 
Grand to which an additional £1.7 million was added. Overall 
£0.3 million cash has been consumed by the financial 
activities. During 2014 a total of £6.9 million cash was 
generated from financial activities principally as a result of 
a £7.0 million fund raising. 
The net debt position has increased from £5.6 million at the 
beginning of the year to £6.2 million; the net debt to equity 
ratio was increased from 27% in 2014 to 35% at the end of 
the current reporting year.
Post year-end
On 15 March 2016, the Company adopted the Executive 
Share Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) wherein the Group Chief 
Executive Officer, Group Managing Director and Group Chief 
Financial Officer (“Management”) were awarded a number of 
A class Ordinary Shares in Porta Communications Midco 
Holdings Limited, (“Porta Midco”). On 17 March 2016 a 
Circular was sent to shareholders containing details of the Plan 
and calling a general meeting on 6 April 2016 to consider the 
proposed Plan which was approved at the general meeting. 
On maturity of the Plan, the A Shares will be entitled to 
15% of the growth in value of the Ordinary Shares above 
a market capitalisation of £36.3 million equal to a value of 
approximately 13p per Ordinary Share. Until this share price 
has been achieved Management will receive no value for 
their A Shares in Porta Midco. Full details can be found in 
the Circular sent to shareholders on 17 March 2016 which 
is available on Porta’s website, www.portacomms.com.
Prior to 31 December 2015, the Group agreed with Hawk 
Investment Holdings Limited to refinance its current 
borrowings. The refinancing agreements were completed on 
14 April 2016. Under the new agreements, the £2.86 million 
deep discounting bond facility, which was initially due to be 
repaid on 26 February 2016, was renewed for a further three 
year period on materially the same terms as the original facility 
repayable on 26 February 2019. At the same time the 
£0.25 million bridging loan facility provided by Hawk Investment 
Holdings Limited, initially due to be repaid on 21 January 2016, 
was also renewed on materially the same terms as the original 
facility and repayable on 21 January 2017.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
37 The Group is exposed to a range of various risks which may affect its performance. The management team of the Group 
performs regular exercises to identify, evaluate and report new risks facing the business as well as reviews the 
appropriateness and relativity of earlier identified risks by the Board. The process is designed to manage these risks and to 
ensure all necessary mitigating actions are considered and undertaken on a timely manner. However no system of control or 
mitigation can completely eliminate the risks inherent in achieving the Group’s business objectives. The existing risk 
management process adopted by the Board of Directors can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or potential loss.
The Directors identified a number of risks and uncertainties which they believe may affect the Group’s ability to deliver its 
strategic goals as at 31 December 2015. A list of these risks is summarised below. This list does not purport to be an 
exhaustive summary of the risks affecting the Group, is given in no particular order of priority and contains risks considered 
to be outside the control of the Directors.
Risk trend key:
            Increased from 2014               Decreased from 2014                       No change
Specific Risks Mitigation
Acquisitions and disposals (strategic risk)
The pursuit of our Group business strategy the 
Board of Directors views through economically 
sound development activities such as strategic 
investments, acquisitions and disposals.
Whilst good progress has been made on 
acquisitions in the past, there can be no guarantee 
that the Directors will continue to be able to agree 
the acquisitions of further suitable companies and/or 
businesses on acceptable terms or any guarantee 
that the Group will be able to raise sufficient future 
finance at such time. There is also a risk that any 
acquisition or investment is based on inaccurate 
information or assumptions, or the new business is 
not integrated effectively which may result in less 
financially beneficial than anticipated post- 
acquisition performance.
During the year we made one strategic investment 
in Capital Access Group Limited. Note 12 to the 
financial statements provides further information.
We mitigate these risks by having rigorous external 
and internal due diligence procedures to identify 
and evaluate potential risks prior to agreeing the 
acquisition or investment terms; applying robust 
valuation models; and agreeing suitable warranties 
and indemnities from the vendors. In addition, the 
consideration paid for any business typically 
includes an element of deferred consideration 
contingent upon future performance which 
mitigates the risk of overpaying for a business.
There is a clear focus on integrating acquired 
businesses over the deferred consideration period 
and close monitoring of the post-acquisition 
performances.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
38 Specific Risks Mitigation
Management of growth (strategic risk)
The ability of the Group to implement its strategy 
requires effective planning and management control 
systems. The speed at which the business 
develops may place a significant strain on the 
Group’s management, operational, financial and 
personnel resources. Failure to expand and improve 
operational, financial and management information 
and quality control systems in line with the Group’s 
growth could have a detrimental impact on the 
trading performance of the Group.
The Group has an experienced management team 
and a number of highly experienced external 
advisers. The Board of Directors continuously 
review and enhance the existing strategy for the 
integration and management of the expected 
business growth.
New markets and channels of service offering 
(strategic risk)
As we enter new markets through acquisition of 
local businesses or starting up new offices overseas 
we may achieve lower than anticipated trading 
volumes or higher costs and resources 
requirements. This may impact overall group 
profitability and negatively reflect on cash flows.
 
We have a thorough process for assessing and 
planning the entry into new markets and related 
opportunities with the help of qualified and 
experienced advisers. We continuously assess our 
performance in those new markets and the related 
opportunities and risks. 
Global economic trends and client 
dependency (economic risk)
Our Group provides an integrated service offering to 
our clients across the globe. Poor economic 
conditions in home countries of our clients can 
increase the average debtor days’ period and thus 
put pressure on the Group’s working capital. There 
is also an increased risk of bad debts occurring as 
a result of clients’ financial problems. 
 
Due to a wide spread of clients across the world 
and various industry sectors, the Group reduces its 
reliance on any particular economic environment or 
particular client. The Group performs weekly 
reviews of cash flows from all operations as well as 
regular reviews of new business wins/losses across 
all Group companies.
The Group closely reports and monitors aged debts 
and ensures the local management has an action 
plan in place to minimise the risks of any resulting 
loss. The Group also closely monitors the level of 
fees generated from each client and is continuously 
seeking opportunities to expand existing client 
portfolios. In 2015 no individual client represented 
3% of the total revenue (2014: 5%). And our top 10 
clients accounted for 21% (2014: 19%) of revenue.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
39 Specific Risks Mitigation
Future funding (strategic risk)
Although there are currently no immediate plans, 
the Company may need to raise extra capital in the 
future to develop fully the Group’s business and to 
take advantage of future acquisition opportunities. 
No assurance can be given that any such additional 
financing will be available or that, if available, it will 
be available on terms favorable to the Company or 
the Shareholders.
If further financing is obtained by issuing equity 
securities or convertible debt securities, the 
Shareholders’ holdings of Ordinary shares may be 
diluted and the new securities may carry rights, 
privileges and preferences superior to the Ordinary 
shares. The Directors may seek debt finance to 
fund all or part of any future acquisition. There can 
be no assurance that the Company will be able to 
raise such funds, either on acceptable terms or at 
all. If debt financing is obtained, the Company’s 
ability to raise funds and its ability to operate its 
business may be subject to restrictions.
A number of factors (including changes in interest 
rates, conditions in the banking market and general 
economic conditions which are beyond the 
Company’s control) may make it difficult for the 
Company to obtain new financing on attractive 
terms or even at all. If the Company’s borrowings 
become more expensive, then the Company’s 
profits will be adversely affected.
The Group has a number of short-term and 
long-term borrowing facilities to fund working 
capital and/ or acquisitions. The Board of Directors 
and executive management team closely monitor 
the level of debt and ensure all borrowings are 
utilised appropriately in accordance with terms and 
conditions of issue. Rigorous cash reviews of 
expenditures and collections are performed on a 
weekly basis across all Group companies to ensure 
the targeted cash levels are maintained at each 
reporting date. 
Restructuring activities (strategic risk)
Continuously increasing acquisitions and necessary 
integration of new businesses within the Group 
inevitably requires restructuring of our existing 
activities to streamline our business and reduce 
the cost base. This includes downsizing of under-
performing divisions and business units as a part 
of an effective costs management program.
During 2015 the Group undergone internal 
restructuring of the communication segment 
whereby underperforming business units operating 
in Europe have been closed down. These unites 
were neither material nor significant to the Group. 
Overall restructuring has progressed well and has 
had an immediate positive impact on the Group 
positioning going forward.
The Group continues to closely manage these 
activities by assigning specific internal teams 
responsible for regular and timely reporting of the 
progress and results against set targets and by 
using other internal and external expertise. The 
Group seeks to remain fair towards all members of 
staff affected by the changes through transparent 
and regular consultation with those members of 
staff during such periods. We are separately 
tracking the costs and benefits of these projects to 
ensure that we can compare their actual 
performance against our expectations while 
monitoring the underlying results of the business. 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
40 Specific Risks Mitigation
Attraction and retention of key employees 
(operational risk)
The Group depends on the continued service and 
performance of the senior management team and 
whilst it has entered into contractual arrangements 
with these individuals with the aim of securing the 
services of each of them, retention of their services 
cannot be guaranteed. The loss of the services of 
the Group Chief Executive, Group Managing 
Director and the Group Finance Director or other 
key employees could damage the Group’s 
business. Equally, the ability to attract new 
employees and senior executives with the 
appropriate expertise and skills cannot be 
guaranteed. The Group may experience difficulties 
in hiring appropriate employees and the failure to 
do so may have a detrimental effect upon the 
trading performance of the Group.
 
We recognise that it is important to motivate and 
retain talented people across our businesses to 
ensure that we are not exposed to the risk of 
unplanned staff turnover. The Group’s policy is to 
recruit both senior management and staff of the 
highest quality and to remunerate them accordingly. 
The Group carries out a succession plan and 
provides promotion opportunities as well as 
operating both short-term and long-term incentive 
plans to motivate and retain key personnel. The 
Group takes employees’ health and safety very 
seriously and has appropriate processes in place to 
monitor and address any issues accordingly. Recent 
new hires made in 2015 and 2016 indicate that the 
Group is becoming a ‘destination work-place’ 
thereby reducing the Group’s risk of not being able 
to attract experienced and skilled executives. 
Working capital (operational risk)
Lack of timely cash collections from our clients may 
result in increased working capital requirements at 
an increased cash costs to the Group.
Working capital implications are an integral 
component of contract negotiations. The Group 
seeks to agree advance billing terms whenever 
possible.
Information systems (IT) and data security 
(operational and business risks)
Any information system failure could negatively 
impact on the Group business operations, including 
delays to client work.
Unauthorised access to confidential information 
due to inadequate security of the data could 
compromise our client relationships and have a 
detrimental effect on our reputation.
Failure to maintain robust disaster recovery plans 
may result in significant loss of resources and cause 
a major disruption to overall business operations.
 
The Group maintains fit for purpose IT systems 
managed and reviewed by both in-house and third 
party IT specialists in a timely manner. All significant 
IT related investments are subject to business case 
assessments performed by the Group management 
and, where appropriate, by the Board.
Extensive business and IT disaster recovery plans 
have been implemented by each company and are 
tested frequently to minimise any disruption in the 
event of an IT failure. It is local management’s 
responsibility to perform regular reviews of those 
plans to ensure they remain dynamic and robust.
External access to data is protected by the Group’s 
IT security, which is frequently tested for malicious 
attacks and/or more general virus infections to 
ensure that the Group’s network is as secure as 
possible. Internal access to data is restricted. 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
41 Specific Risks Mitigation
Failure to maintain an acceptable standard of 
business ethics (business risk)
Both reputational and operational damage may 
arise if the Group engaged in actual or perceived 
unethical client work. Ethical matters that are not 
identified or managed appropriately could cause 
reputational damage to the Group. 
 
The Board has implemented a robust governance 
framework including a Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics that is incorporated into our Staff Hand 
Book and is communicated to all employees. The 
Code provides clear guidance on how the members 
of staff are expected to behave towards other 
colleagues, suppliers, customers, shareholders 
and on our wider responsibility to the communities 
within which we operate. All employees are 
expected to comply with the Code and any 
violations of it may be reported to local 
management or the Group HR. 
Legal and regulatory compliance 
(compliance risk)
Any failure to adhere to legislative requirements 
could affect both the reputation and performance 
as well as causing financial damage to the Group.
 
The Group is advised by external legal counsel 
throughout the world on local legal and regulatory 
requirements and minimises the risk of loss.
Policies on gifts, entertainment, share trading and 
confidentiality are communicated to all employees 
through the Staff Hand Book.
Appropriate training is given to employees to 
reduce the Group’s risk of failure to comply with 
relevant legislative and regulatory requirements.
Financial risk management
Details of the Group’s approach to financial risk management are disclosed in detail in note 7 to the financial statements.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
42 Corporate Social Responsibility 
The Board believes that acting responsibly should be a main 
consideration in everything that we do. The Group is 
therefore committed to demonstrating the importance of 
this, not only in our work for clients, but in our own working 
practices and the communities in which we live. We are 
involved in the business of managing brands and corporate 
reputations on behalf of clients and the Board acknowledges 
that being socially responsible while taking steps to minimise 
our impact on the environment through our actions and 
those of our many clients and suppliers is an important 
factor in the management of our own business.
Porta Communications Plc focuses on the key areas of the 
Community, Environment, our Marketplace and the 
Workplace we create for our teams.
Our Community
Porta’s approach is centred on working hard to maximise 
the positive in all that we do. 
The growing team of talented individuals within the business 
are encouraged to support our community in London and 
globally in the pro-bono work that we do supporting projects 
where we feel we can make a difference.
Porta has identified two charities where it believes it can 
make a difference:
     
Centrepoint’s vision is to end youth homelessness and to 
give homeless young people a future. The organisation is 
the UK’s leading charity for youth homelessness and 
provides housing and support for 1,000 homeless young 
people aged 16-25 each year. Porta is working to build a 
comprehensive partnership centred on sharing our key skills 
with the charity and our energy in fund raising and 
participating in major events.
HEART UK helps anyone affected by raised cholesterol by 
bringing people together providing information, support, 
education and campaigning for improved identification and 
standards of care. Their vision is that by 2016, the majority 
of UK adults will know their cholesterol levels, understand 
the impact and be taking any necessary action.
We believe that by working with these charities we can help 
make a difference and have an ongoing objective to support 
more industry initiatives and projects alongside our clients.
Environment
We work hard to understand our impact on the environment 
and take steps to reduce our impact through our actions, 
while promoting positive action on behalf of our clients.
We recycle, we reuse and we reduce our emissions where 
we can. The paper we use is recycled and FSC graded, 
our coffee Fairtrade, our water filtered and many of our 
team can be found walking, running and cycling into the 
office daily.
● ● The head office at 50 Basinghall Street has a 
responsive lighting system and is powered down at 
evenings and weekends to reduce any unnecessary 
power consumption and rainwater is used in the 
buildings waste disposal system.
● ● Recycling facilities including paper, glass and dry waste 
are provided through the offices.
● ● Participation in events such as Earth Hour are all part 
of our wider responsibility to reduce consumption and 
minimise waste.
● ● Office supplies – including paper – are provided by 
Bates Office which has IS014001 BSI accreditation.
● ● As a major buyer of print, we work with our supply 
chain to supply from environmentally sound sources 
including the use of FSC 55% recycled paper with 
many clients.
Our marketplace
Alongside our own activities, Porta Communications is a 
member of numerous industry bodies and participates in 
activities to improve our marketplace.
Business Community Market Principles
● ● Respect customers and support vulnerable customers
● ● Seek potential customers within excluded groups
● ● Manage the impact of product or service
● ● Actively discourage product misuse
● ● Actively manage responsibility in our supply chain
● ● Treat suppliers as partners
● ● Work with the rule makers
● ● Have consistent standards
Our Place in the Community 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
43 Our workplace
As a thriving young global business, we are consistently 
innovating and creating, while maintaining a healthy and 
lively place to work.
● ● Volunteering – we actively support our people to give 
their skills and time to support the communities in 
which we live and work. The business is a member 
of Heart of the City and is actively developing a 
programme of support for some of the brilliant charities 
that serve the hugely disadvantaged communities on 
the doorstep of the City of London.
● ● Diversity – we have an active policy to be an equal 
opportunity employer and contractor and do not 
discriminate by gender, race, age, disability or faith.
● ● Wellness – our health cover for staff is provided by Pru 
Health in the UK which offers all staff a 50% discount 
on gym membership along with our association with 
Heart UK – we understand the value of supporting our 
people to prioritise their health and take a positive 
stance to promote wellbeing. More information is 
provided in page 48 of the Directors’ Report. 
Approval of the Strategic Report
Gene Golembiewski 
Group Finance Director
2 June 2016
Our Place in the Community (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
44 Chairman’s Introduction to Corporate 
Governance
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Dear Shareholder
Welcome to the Governance Section of Porta’s 2015 Annual 
Report and Accounts. In this part of the Report and Accounts 
I intend to set out Porta’s approach to good corporate 
governance, corporate responsibility and ethical standards.
The Board
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee continues to 
evaluate the Board to ensure that the Board has sufficient 
skills and experience and the right balance of skills and 
experience to provide effective leadership for the Company 
and the Group. 
During the year we strengthened the Board with the addition 
of Steffan Williams in the capacity of Group Managing 
Director. He brings a huge wealth of knowledge in Financial 
PR and a new energy and direction to the Group and the 
Board. As well as recruiting Steffan Williams we also 
established the Porta Executive Committee which will initially 
comprise the Executive Directors and other senior 
Executives in the business. Since year end Gavin Devine has 
agreed to join the Group and he will sit on the Porta 
Executive Committee with David, Gene, Steffan and Brian 
Tyson, the Chief Executive of Newgate Australia.
We continue to apply strong and effective governance with 
the Board bearing the ultimate responsibility for the Group’s 
performance and for overseeing the management of risk 
across the Group. My leadership role as Chairman is to 
encourage open discussions in board meetings with 
constructive debate and challenge. 
Now that Steffan has joined the Board the Board comprises 
three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors, 
including the Chairman. 
Strategic Development
As I highlighted last year at this important stage in the Group’s 
development the Board continues to focus on a monthly 
basis on our short-term and long-term strategic development. 
The investment in Capital Access Group which was secured 
during 2015 was an excellent opportunity to expand the 
Group into new complimentary services.
Remuneration Policy
The remuneration policy of the Group is designed to align the 
interests of the Executive Directors and senior management 
with those of shareholders and during the year the incentive 
packages offered to the Executive Directors remained under 
review as to their effectiveness. Following year end the 
Remuneration Committee made the recommendation that the 
Company adopt the Executive Share Incentive Plan, and on 6 
April 2016 this plan was put to shareholders at a general 
meeting of the Company. The Executive Share Incentive Plan 
was overwhelmingly supported by our Shareholders. Further 
details of this Plan can be found in the Circular for the general 
meeting on our website and also on pages 55 to 60, Report 
of the Remuneration Committee.
Ethics and Values
All Directors and employees are required to act fairly, 
honestly and with integrity and to demonstrate that they have 
read and understand the Group’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics. Training is provided via a dedicated policy 
management system and all employees and Directors were 
required to carry out Anti-Bribery and Corruption training at 
the end of this year. Since year end a further course has 
been completed relating to Equality and Diversity. 
Bob Morton 
Chairman of the Board
2 June 2016
Bob Morton 
Chairman
During 2015 we have strengthened the leadership of Porta by 
the addition of Steffan Williams to the Board and the creation 
of the Porta Executive Committee.
“
”
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
45 The following Directors have held office during the year:
Bob Morton; David Wright; Gene Golembiewski; Brian Blasdale; Raymond McKeeve; Steffan Williams (appointed 
30 September 2015)
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Bob Morton, Chairman, 74 years 
Bob is a chartered accountant, successful entrepreneur and has substantial public company experience. 
He has served as Chairman to various companies including Systems Union, Maclellan and Vislink plc and is 
currently also Chairman of a number of other public and listed companies including Armour Group plc, 
Servoca plc and St Peter Port Capital Limited. In addition, he holds directorships in a wide range of private 
companies.
David Wright, Chief Executive, 71 years 
David began his career as a journalist and left the Financial Times in 1978 to start a new career in Financial 
Public Relations. He became Chief Executive of Streets Financial Strategy from 1986 to 1988 before 
establishing Citigate in late 1988. In 1997 he reversed Citigate into Incepta plc. David became Chief 
Executive of the enlarged Group later becoming Chairman. Between 1997 and 2003 when David left 
Incepta plc he built the largest international financial communications company in the world through a series 
of key acquisitions and an active recruitment programme.
Gene Golembiewski, Finance Director and Company Secretary, 58 years 
Gene started his career as a Certified Public Accountant in the U.S. at Touche Ross & Co. He switched to 
marketing services when he joined Omnicom-owned Ketchum, becoming International Finance Director 
responsible for growing its international network through acquisitions. Ten years on saw Gene become 
worldwide CFO and COO of Gavin Anderson & Company to help drive the firm’s global development, 
culminating in the international merger of Gavin Anderson & Company with another firm in 2009. Gene left 
Gavin Anderson & Company three years later, becoming Porta Group Finance Director in July 2013.
Brian Blasdale, Non-Executive Director, 65 years 
Following an early career with P&O Shipping Company, Brian held a number of senior sales & marketing 
roles with blue chip companies including Kodak Limited. Thereafter he formed his own IT outsourcing 
company, achieving success in attracting a number of major blue chip companies as clients. Subsequently 
he co-founded I-B Net Limited in March 2000 which was listed on AIM. Since this time Brian has actively 
been involved with a number of companies as Chairman and non-executive director for and on behalf of 
Lloyds Development Capital Private Equity.
Raymond McKeeve, Non-Executive Director, 44 years 
Raymond is a partner at Jones Day. He is widely regarded as a leading private equity specialist. He advises 
many of the leading private equity houses, SWFs and their investee companies as well as some of the 
leading lenders into the leverage market across all areas of corporate practice, including acquisitions, 
disposals, restructurings and ECM work. His practice covers both the domestic UK market as well as a 
broad international offering including MENA and sub Saharan Africa. Raymond also sits in a personal 
capacity on the MOD Defence Reform Unit chaired by Lord Levene.
Steffan Williams, Group Managing Director, 48 years 
Steffan has spent over 20 years working within the field of strategic communications. Most recently, he 
was a Partner at Finsbury where he worked on a number of high profile M&A transactions such as Holcim/
Lafarge, Greene King/Spirit and Crown/Rexam. He previously founded Capital Communications in 2001, 
taking it to become a top ten player within the EMEA region. He then sold it to Publicis Groupe and went 
on to lead MSLGroup’s Strategic Communications business across the EMEA region. 
Steffan was educated at Lincoln College, Oxford University, and is now an Old Members Trustee. He is the 
Vice-Chairman of the PRCA, is a member of the Development Committee at the Legatum Institute, a 
Trustee of the National Botanic Garden of Wales, a member of Swansea University’s Advisory Development 
Board and is a Special Adviser at the Iraq Britain Business Council. He provides communications advice to 
a number of charities pro bono and is a frequent guest speaker on communications. 
Board of Directors
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
46 Business review and future outlook
The review of the business for the year and the future outlook 
is given in the Chairman’s Statement on page 5 and the 
Strategic Report on pages 13 to 44.
Risks and uncertainties 
The Strategic Report deals with the principal risks and 
uncertainties. Our Group trades internationally both through 
its local offices and via direct contracts in countries where we 
do not have offices. This trade exposes the Group to political 
risks, foreign exchange risk and some locations physical 
risks. Other risks the Group is exposed to include client credit 
risk; the risk that the financial markets cause liquidity risks in 
addition to this client risks (given financial services clients); 
and cash flow risks. The Group mitigates such risks through 
monitoring, reviewing the available information and 
management’s negotiations of contractual terms. Further 
details to our risks and risks management is given on pages 
38 to 42. 
Going concern
The Group’s forecast and projections show that the Group 
should be able to operate within the level of its current 
financial means, for at least twelve months from the signing of 
these financial statements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the Company and the 
Group continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Financial instruments 
Details of the use of financial instruments and the Group’s 
approach to financial risk management are disclosed in detail 
in note 7 to the financial statements. 
Dividends
The Company is unable to pay a dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
Political contributions
During the year, the Group made no political donations and it 
incurred no political expenditures (2014: none).
Directors 
The name and biography for each Director has been provided 
on page 46. This information can also be found on our 
website (www.portacommunications.co.uk).
Directors’ interests
The Directors who served the Company during the year, 
together with their interests (including family interests) in the 
shares of the Company, were as follows:
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013
Ordinary shares of 10p each See note See note
1
 See note
Bob Morton  42,936,318 32,942,552 29,215,629
David Wright 4,055,677 2,743,727 2,471,000
Gene Golembiewski 1,412,230 769,230 –
Steffan Williams (appointed 30 September 2015)  – –  –
Brian Blasdale 3,117,322 1,817,322 1,627,332
Raymond McKeeve 4,651,618 3,250,000 3,250,000
1. Or date of appointment if later.
The details of Directors’ share options are given in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 55 to 60.
On 25 May 2016 Bob Morton purchased, via Hawk Investment Holdings Limited, a further 1,500,000 ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company increasing his holding in shares to 44,436,318.
There have been no changes in the interests of the other Directors in the shares of the Company between 31 December 
2015 and the date of this report.
 
Directors’ Report 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
47 Substantial shareholdings
As at 2 June 2016, notification has been received for the following interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of 
the Company:
 Number of Ordinary 
 shares held Percentage
Hawk Investment Holdings Limited
1
 43,586,318 14.92
Hargreave Hale 26,577,514 9.52
Fidelity 16,071,539 5.76
Ruffer LLP 13,714,413 4.91
Stephen Byfield 14,871,230 5.33
Gary Wyatt 9,000,000 3.22
1. Hawk Investment Holdings Limited is a company beneficially owned by Bob Morton and his wife.
Employment
The Directors view employees as the key asset of the Group. 
In 2015, the Group’s management continued to focus time 
and resource on the Group’s employees, including initiatives 
on subjects such as wellbeing, engagement and training.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group employed 292 people 
(2014: 262) globally in its continuing operations. The Group 
takes its responsibilities for its employees seriously and is 
committed to high standards of employment practice. The 
Group’s aim is to develop successful employees who will 
grow with the Group as it expands and who see exciting 
future employment prospects with the Group.
Employee involvement 
The Directors are committed to employee involvement 
throughout the business. Employees are kept informed 
of the performance and strategy of the Group through 
divisional and personal briefings, regular meetings, electronic 
correspondence, broadcasts and in-house presentations 
by the Chief Executive, members of the Board and other 
members of the executive management team(s) organised 
at key points in the year. 
Managing executives from each operating unit across the 
Group are committed to encourage staff to engage proactively 
in gathering ideas and initiatives on a number of areas 
including how we can better serve our clients and operate 
more efficiently.
Share options are an important part of our reward package, 
encouraging and supporting employees share ownership. 
Full details of the current schemes are given in note 22. 
Wellbeing information is provided by the administration team 
of every Group’s office in specific staff-dedicated ‘break out’ 
areas. Information on topics such as healthy eating and 
exercise are provided as well as how to seek help for issues 
such as stress, financial challenges or achieving a positive 
work-life balance. The Group also welcomes staff wellbeing 
initiatives and encourages a number of sport activities to take 
place during the lunch hours.
Through our involvement with Heart UK, the Group offered 
cholesterol testing to employees in its London office.
Directors’ Report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
48 Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy 
from recruitment and selection, through training and 
development, performance reviews and promotion to 
retirement. It is the Group’s policy to promote an 
environment free from discrimination, harassment and 
victimisation, where everyone will receive equal treatment 
regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, 
disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion. 
All decisions relating to employment practices are objective, 
free from bias and based solely upon work criteria and 
individual merits. The Group is responsive to the needs of its 
employees, customers and the community at large. We are 
an organisation that uses everyone’s talents and abilities and 
where diversity is valued. 
Employees with disabilities
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full 
and fair consideration for all vacancies. During the year we 
continued to demonstrate our commitment to interviewing 
those people with disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, 
and we endeavour to retain employees in the workforce if 
they become disabled during the employment. We will 
actively retrain and adjust their environment where possible 
to allow them to maximise their potential. 
Auditors
A resolution is proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting to appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors of 
the Company for the ensuing year.
Directors Indemnity Insurance
As permitted by Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006, 
the Company has purchased insurance cover on behalf of 
the Directors indemnifying them against certain liabilities 
which may be incurred by them in relation to the Company.
Disclosure of information to the auditors
The Directors who hold office at the date of approval of this 
report confirm that so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that 
he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make him 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement of corporate governance can be 
found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 51 to 
54 of this Report and Financial Statements. The Corporate 
Governance Report forms part of this Directors’ Report and 
is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Directors’ remuneration
The Report of the Remuneration Committee is on pages 55 
to 60 of this Report and Financial Statements. The Report of 
the Remuneration Committee forms part of this Directors’ 
Report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Annual General Meeting
A notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 30 June 2016 at 11.00 a.m. is included with this report. 
The Report of the Directors was approved by the Board on 
2 June 2016 and signed by order of the Board by:
Gene Golembiewski 
Company Secretary
2 June 2016
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
49 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic 
Report, Directors’ Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have to prepare the financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs and profit or loss of the Company and 
Group for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
•  state whether applicable IFRSs have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements;
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that: 
•  so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware; and
•  the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to 
have taken as directors in order to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
50 Compliance
The Directors recognise the value of the Principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. As an AIM company we are 
not required to comply with the Code and we do not 
comply with the Code. However, we have reported on our 
Corporate Governance arrangements by drawing upon best 
practice available, including those aspects of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code we consider to be relevant 
to the Company, given its size and best practice.
The following statement describes how the Group as at 
31 December 2015 sought to address the principles 
underlying the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board composition and responsibility
Following the appointment of Steffan Williams as Group 
Managing Director, the Board consists of three Executive 
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. All Directors 
are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the 
Group’s affairs.
The Board’s primary objective is to focus on adding value to 
the assets of the Group by assessing the performance of 
the business units, business opportunities and ensuring that 
potential risks are identified, monitored and controlled. 
Matters reserved for Board decisions include strategic 
long-term objectives and capital structure of major 
transactions. The implementation of Board decisions and 
day-to-day operations of the Group are delegated to 
management. In making commercial assessments the 
Directors review detailed plans including financial viability 
reports that, among other things, detail the impact of 
proposals in respect of return on capital, return on cash and 
the likely impact on the statement of comprehensive 
income, cash flows and gearing. Strategy is determined 
after having taken due regard of forecast domestic and 
international developments.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders of the 
Company for the strategy and future development of the 
Group and the management of its resources. It has a formal 
schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision; 
other decisions are dealt with as day-to-day matters by 
management. In broad terms, the ongoing remit of the 
Board is as follows:
● ● Approval of the Group’s annual budgets and forecasts 
and ongoing review of Group strategy and 
performance;
● ● Approval of the Annual Report and any statements 
made therein;
● ● Approval of any significant changes in accounting 
policies and practices;
● ● Appointment or removal of Directors or the Company 
Secretary;
● ● Approval of appointment of senior staff and setting of 
their remuneration;
● ● Approval of any material expenditure or capital 
commitments;
● ● Ensure maintenance of robust systems of internal 
control – including all operating and financial systems 
through annual review and assessment;
● ● Review of the Board’s own effectiveness; and
● ● Ensure continued compliance with any regulatory 
requirements.
The Non-Executive Directors have particular responsibility to 
scrutinise and assess the strategy proposed by the executive 
management, to evaluate performance, business risk and the 
integrity of financial information and controls, and to ensure 
appropriate remuneration and succession arrangements are 
put in place for the Executive Directors. Brian Blasdale and 
Raymond McKeeve are considered to be independent 
Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of the Code.
Policy on election
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the 
first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and are 
subject to re-election at least every three years thereafter. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specific term 
of office which provides for their removal in certain 
circumstances, including under Section 168 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
The Board does not automatically re-nominate Non-
Executive Directors for election by shareholders. The terms 
of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can be 
obtained, by request, from the Company Secretary.
Board meetings
The Board meets at the end of every month. Group and 
divisional budgets and quarterly financial forecasts including 
net assets and cash flow projections are formally reviewed by 
the Board on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Executive 
Directors monitor cash flows on a weekly basis. The Board 
holds other ad hoc meetings as required. The usual monthly 
agenda for the Board meeting typically contains (but is not 
limited to) the below items:
● ● Review of the minutes to the previous meeting; 
● ● Review actions from the previous meetings;
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
51 ● ● Review progress against agreed Board objectives;
● ● Review the monthly performance reports from the heads 
of each division;
● ● Review reports from senior executives and the Group 
General Counsel on key aspects of the business 
including current trading, strategy, acquisitions and 
disposals, financial results, health and safety, 
governance and HR; and
● ● Review monthly actual performance against target KPIs. 
Thirteen Board meetings were held in 2015 and there was one meeting of a duly appointed committee of the Board which 
was attended by David Wright and Gene Golembiewski. The Directors’ attendance record during the year is:
 Year ended 31 December 2015 Year ended 31 December 2015
 Maximum number of  Number of Maximum number of Number of 
 meetings available  meetings meetings available meetings 
 to be attended attended to be attended attended
Bob Morton  13 13 12 12
David Wright 13 13 12 12
Gene Golembiewski  13 13 12 12
Brian Blasdale 13 13 12 12
Raymond McKeeve 13 5 12 8
Steffan Williams 3 2 0 0
Board effectiveness
The Board and its Committees have an appropriate balance 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the 
Company which enable them to discharge their respective 
duties and responsibilities effectively. Each Director brings 
a complementary set of skills and diversity to the Board, 
having served in companies of varying size, complexity and 
market sector. Each of the Non-Executive Directors brings 
independent character and judgement to bear on strategic 
matters, the performance of the Group, the adequacy of the 
resources and standards of conduct. When combined, these 
skills give the Board the comprehensive skill set required to 
deliver strategic objectives of the Group and to ensure its 
continued success. 
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice 
at the Company’s expense in furtherance of their duties. 
During 2015, no Director felt the need to take such advice. 
On a monthly basis and in advance of the Board Meeting, 
each Director receives the Board report and other relevant 
papers for consideration and their review giving all Board 
members time to read, prepare and, where appropriate, ask 
questions prior to the meeting about the information 
supplied. The information includes detailed budgets and 
reports of the performance on a divisional level, a review of 
the Group financial position including an updated cash 
forecast and operating performance and monthly reports 
from the heads of operational divisions. 
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
52 The Board has the power at any time and from time to time 
to invite external advisers to the Board meetings where such 
invitation is deemed appropriate and necessary. During 
2015, an experienced external financial adviser, Richard 
Feigen, was invited by the Board to attend 8 out of 13 
Board meetings held. He was also invited and attended the 
Annual General Meeting held during the year. The Group 
General Counsel attends all Board meetings and minutes 
the proceedings.
For the time being, the Board itself considers its 
effectiveness, and that of its committees and Directors, on 
an ongoing basis. It considers this appropriate for a 
company of this size.
Audit and Corporate Governance Committee
The Audit and Corporate Governance Committee comprises 
two Non-Executive Directors, Brian Blasdale (Chairman) and 
Raymond McKeeve. The external auditors as well as the 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, Managing Director, 
Finance Director, Financial Controller and Group General 
Counsel could also be invited to attend these meetings as 
and when required.
The principal duties of the Committee are to review the 
half-yearly and annual financial statements before their 
submission to the Board and to consider any matters raised by 
the auditors. The Committee also reviews the independence 
and objectivity of the auditors and compliance with best 
practice in respect of corporate governance. The terms of 
reference of the Committee reflect current best practice, 
including authority to:
● ● recommend the appointment, re-appointment and 
removal of the external auditor;
● ● ensure the objectivity and independence of the auditors 
including occasions when non-audit services are 
provided; and
● ● ensure appropriate ‘whistle-blowing’ arrangements are 
in place.
During 2015, two Audit Committee meetings were held with 
the following attendances:
● ● Brian Blasdale – 2
● ● Raymond McKeeve – 0
● ● Bob Morton – 2
● ● Gene Golembiewski – 2
● ● Group Financial Controller – 2 
The Audit and Corporate Governance Committee may seek 
information from any employee of the Group and obtain 
external professional advice at the expense of the Company 
if considered necessary. Due to the relatively low number of 
personnel employed within the Group, the nature of the 
business and the current control and review systems in 
place, the Board has decided not to establish a separate 
internal audit department.
Remuneration and Nomination Committee
The Company has established a formal and transparent 
procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration 
and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual 
directors. No Director is involved in deciding his own 
remuneration. The Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee comprises Brian Blasdale (Chairman) and 
Raymond McKeeve. The Committee considers the 
employment and performance of individual Executive 
Directors and determines their terms of service and 
remuneration. The Committee meets at least once a year. 
The Committee also evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board and considers all 
new Board appointments and re-appointments against this 
evaluation.
During 2015, one Remuneration Committee was held with 
the following attendance:
● ● Brian Blasdale – 1
● ● Raymond McKeeve – 1
● ● Bob Morton – 1
Internal control and risk
The Directors are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining the Group’s system of internal control and 
reviewing its effectiveness. By its nature, such a system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Group continually reviews its internal controls and 
procedures and corrective actions taken to mitigate risks are 
identified and implemented where deemed necessary.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
53 Shareholder communication
The Board encourages regular dialogue with the Group’s 
shareholders and has a policy of making itself available to 
shareholders at all General Meetings of the Company to 
which all shareholders are invited to attend. In addition, in 
2015 the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director 
and, following his appointment, the Group Managing 
Director, had face-to-face meetings with some of the 
Company’s major shareholders following the publication of 
our full-year and half-year results.
Information is supplied during the year through 
announcements to the London Stock Exchange and, from 
time to time, the Chairman or other Directors, meet 
individual and institutional shareholders to facilitate a better 
understanding of the Group’s business and operations.
Additionally, the Board receives shareholder feedback 
reports prepared by the Nominated Adviser and Capital 
Access Group following pre-arranged meetings with 
institutional fund managers and analysts.
Bob Morton 
Chairman of the Board
2 June 2016
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
54 Report of the Remuneration Committee
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s 
report on Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 
31 December 2015.
This Remuneration Report is presented across the following 
sections:
● ● Committee activities during 2015;
● ● Remuneration Policy Report; and
● ● Annual Remuneration Report setting out remuneration 
paid to Directors in 2015 including annual bonuses.
Committee activities 
The Committee met once during the year, in addition to 
informal discussions following monthly board meetings. The 
appointment of Steffan Williams as Group Managing Director 
during the year ensured succession planning within the 
Board and added complimentary skills and experience to 
strengthen the Board.
Since year end I am pleased to note two further senior 
executives have agreed to join Newgate in London and 
Australia continues to attract high calibre applicants. The 
Porta Group is becoming a destination agency for high 
calibre, ambitious executives who want to be part of our 
exciting Group and we continue to welcome top executives 
to join our dynamic team. 
Our key principles of ‘Pay for performance’ and ‘no reward 
for failure’ remain a focus, however as I said last year, pay 
and benefits must be at a level that will attract, retain and 
motivate high-calibre people with the skills necessary to 
achieve our goal of sustained growth and financial 
performance. Following year end we put in place the 
Executive Share Incentive Plan for the three key executives 
in the Group. Essentially this aligns the Executive Directors 
more closely to Shareholder interests and was approved by 
Shareholders at a General Meeting of the Company held on 
6 April 2016.
During 2015, the Committee considered a range of issues 
including:
● ● Executive Directors’ remuneration packages 
● ● The appointment of Steffan Williams and other senior 
executives joining Newgate
● ● The Executive Share Incentive Plan.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors
Remuneration packages are developed to attract, retain and 
motivate Executive Directors without being excessive, and 
to be aligned with both the interests of shareholders and the 
business strategy of the Company. They take into account 
the current life cycle stage of the Company, the level of 
responsibilities and risks involved and the remuneration 
packages of comparable companies that have similar 
international scale. Consideration of remuneration and 
benefits across the Group’s employee population is also 
taken into account.
The current remuneration of the Executives consists of 
several elements including base salary, pension contribution, 
existing share options, and other taxable benefits as well as 
the awards made under the Executive Share Incentive Plan. 
The remuneration policy table below summarises each 
element of the current remuneration for Executive Directors 
including an explanation of the link to strategy, its operation, 
maximum opportunity and performance measures.
Brian Blasdale 
Chairman of the 
Remuneration 
Committee
Attracting and retaining high calibre executives is a key 
Company objective. We seek to reward them in a way 
that encourages the creation of value for our shareholders.
The role and composition of the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 53.
“
”
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
55 Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors (unaudited)
Type
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance 
measures
Base salary Base salary is set at 
the level to secure the 
services of talented 
Executive Directors 
with the ability to 
develop and deliver  
a long-term growth 
strategy.
Fixed contractual cash 
amount usually paid 
monthly in arrears. 
Normally reviewed 
annually, with any 
increases taking effect 
from 1 January each 
year, although the 
Committee may award 
increases at other 
times of the year if it 
considers appropriate. 
This review is 
dependent on 
continued satisfactory 
performance in the 
role of an Executive 
Director. It also 
includes a number of 
other factors, including 
experience, 
development and 
delivery of Group 
strategy, as well as 
external market 
conditions and pay 
awards across the 
Group. 
Whilst there is no set 
maximum level of 
salary, the Committee 
will usually award 
salary increases in line 
with average increases 
awarded across the 
Group. Larger 
increases may, in 
certain circumstances, 
be awarded where the 
Committee considers 
that there is a genuine 
commercial reason to 
do so, for example:
–  Due to a significant 
increase in the 
Executive Director’s 
role and duties; or
–  As a result of a 
significant change in 
profitability of the 
Company.
Not applicable
Benefits To provide Executive 
Directors with benefits 
to assist them in 
carrying out their 
duties effectively.
Executive Directors 
are entitled to a 
range of benefits 
including car and 
accommodation 
allowances, private 
health insurance and 
life assurance.
The maximum level of 
such benefits is not 
defined by the 
Committee as the cost 
may significantly vary 
depending on 
individual factors and 
circumstances 
relevant to each 
Director. The types 
and level of benefits 
granted are therefore 
thoroughly considered 
based on individual 
circumstances.
Not applicable
Report of the Remuneration Committee (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
56 Type
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance 
measures
Enterprise 
Management 
Incentives (‘EMI’) and 
unapproved share 
options plan.
No further awards will 
be made under the 
EMI share option plan 
to Executive Directors.
To provide a long- 
term performance and 
retention incentive for 
the Executive 
Directors and senior 
management team 
involving the 
Company’s equity.
Under the current 
rules, options are 
awarded on a 
discretionary basis 
over a fixed number 
of years for a fixed 
number of shares at a 
specified strike price in 
accordance with the 
relevant legislation.
Awards can only be 
settled in equity. 
The maximum value 
of option awards in 
each given year is 
determined by the 
Committee on an 
individual basis.
Typically vest subject 
to satisfaction of both 
financial and share 
price based 
performance 
conditions as 
determined from 
time to time by 
the Committee.
Pension To provide the benefit 
comparable with 
market rates, helping 
with the recruitment 
and retention of 
talented Executive 
Directors able to 
deliver a long-term 
growth strategy.
Usually paid monthly 
in arrears. 
Executive Directors 
may receive 
contribution into the 
Company’s defined 
Contribution Plan, 
a personal pension 
arrangement and/or 
payment as a cash 
allowance. 
The level of the 
pension contribution is 
determined by the 
Committee based on 
individual Executive 
Directors’ 
circumstances but 
does not usually 
exceed 10% of the 
base salary. 
Salary is the only 
pensionable element 
of an Executive 
Director’s 
remuneration. 
None
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
57 Type
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance 
measures
Annual Bonus Plan 
– brief summary 
To provide material 
incentive to drive 
Executive Directors to 
deliver stretching 
strategic and financial 
performance and to 
grow long-term 
sustainable 
shareholder value.
Paid annually based 
on performance in 
relevant financial year. 
The amount will be 
determined based on 
published full 
year results after the 
year end. 
Award levels and 
performance 
measured will be 
reviewed annually. 
The Committee’s 
responsibility will be 
to ensure that the 
performance 
measures remain 
aligned to the Group’s 
business objectives 
and strategic priorities 
for the year. 
Bonuses may be paid 
in cash or in the 
equivalent value of 
shares or be a mixture 
of both subject to the 
Committee’s decision. 
The Committee retains 
full discretion to 
amend the bonus 
payout (upward or 
downward), if in its 
opinion any calculation 
of payout does not 
produce a fair result 
for either the individual 
or the Group, taking 
into account the 
overall business 
performance of the 
Group. Any such use 
of discretion will be 
clearly reported in the 
next published 
Remuneration Report. 
A maximum of 125% 
base salary can be 
paid each year in cash 
Measures and targets 
are set annually by the 
Committee. 
Annual bonus is based 
on achieving a certain 
percentage of increase 
from the previous 
period/budget of the 
Group’s reported 
EBITDA and other key 
indicators.
The Committee 
reserves the right to 
annually vary these 
proportions and also 
the measures to 
ensure the annual 
bonus remains 
appropriate and 
challenging. 
Report of the Remuneration Committee (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
58 Directors’ remuneration (audited)
     Pension Other  
  Fees and   contri- benefits  
  salaries Bonuses butions (note 4) Total 
31 December 2015 Notes £ £ £ £ £
Executive      
David Wright  250,000 – 62,000 6,483 318,483
Gene Golembiewski  250,000 – 62,500 21,436 333,936
Steffan Williams 1 78,250 – 7,825 657 86,732
Non-executive
Bob Morton 2 30,000 – – – 30,000
Brian Blasdale 2 24,000 – 171 5,964 30,135
Raymond McKeeve 3 1 – – – 1
  632,251 – 132,496 34,540 799,287
1. Remunerated through a wholly owned subsidiary.
2. The majority of this remuneration was paid through Directors’ service companies as detailed in note 26 to the financial statements.
3. Mr McKeeve’s contract entitles him to a fee of £1 per annum.
4. Other benefits comprise payment in respect of healthcare and life insurance and similar benefits.
The remuneration of the Directors for the year amounted to £799,287 (2014: £588,586). The remuneration of the highest 
paid Director was £333,936 (2014: £271,633). No bonuses were paid to Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015 
(2014: None). In addition to the amounts disclosed above, £87,227 was charged to the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income as share based payments expense in relation the share options held by Directors during the period 
(2014: £174,932). All of the above remuneration is accounted for within continuing operations. Further information in relation 
to share based payments is disclosed in note 22 to the financial statements.
     Pension Other  
  Fees and   contri- benefits  
  salaries Bonuses butions (note 3) Total 
31 December 2014 Notes £ £ £ £ £
Executive
David Wright  250,000 – 15,406 6,227 271,633
Gene Golembiewski   250,000 – – 5,084 255,084
Non-executive
Bob Morton 1 30,000 – – – 30,000
Brian Blasdale 1 29,100 – – 2,768 31,868
Raymond McKeeve 2 1 – – – 1
  559,101 – 15,406 14,079 588,586
1. The majority of this remuneration was paid through Directors’ service companies as detailed in note 26 to the financial statements.
2. Mr McKeeve’s contract entitles him to a fee of £1 per annum.
3. Other benefits comprise payment in respect of healthcare and life insurance and similar benefits.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
59 Service agreements
The Executive Directors have service agreements which 
require not more than 12 months’ notice of termination. 
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to service contracts 
but are appointed under letters of appointment which 
provide for three months’ notice of termination.
Executive Share Incentive Plan
Following year-end, on 15 March 2016 awards were made to 
each of the Group Chief Executive, Group Managing Director 
and Group Finance Director under the terms of the Executive 
Share Incentive Plan which entitle them to be issued shares 
equal to 15% of the increase in Porta’s market capitalisation 
over £36.3 million (equivalent to approx.13p per Porta 
Ordinary Share). Full details of the Executive Share Incentive 
Plan can be found in the Circular to shareholders dated 
17 March 2016 and available on the Company’s website.
On behalf of the Board
Brian Blasdale 
Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 June 2016
Report of the Remuneration Committee (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
60 We have audited the financial statements of Porta 
Communications Plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 
which comprise the Consolidated and Company Statement 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Cash Flows, the Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union and, as regards the parent Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have 
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and 
auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 50, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial  
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
● ● the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group's and of the parent Company's 
affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group's 
loss for the year then ended; 
● ● the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union;
● ● the parent Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006; and
● ● the financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report 
and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
● ● adequate accounting records have not been kept by 
the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by 
us; or
● ● the parent Company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
● ● certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or
● ● we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Mark Henshaw 
Senior Statutory Auditor, for and behalf of  
Grant Thornton UK LLP 
Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 
 
London 
2 June 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the members of Porta Communications Plc
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
61 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
   Year ended Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
  Notes £ £
Continuing operations
Revenue  2 34,093,005 23,273,668
Cost of Sales   (7,144,100) (3,868,339)
Gross profit   26,948,905 19,405,329
Operating and administrative expenses  3 (28,595,698) (20,182,469)
Operating loss   (1,646,793) (777,140)
Finance expense  5 (1,268,314) (689,288)
Finance income  5 27,267 1,261
Share of loss in associate  12 (25,304) (7,287)
Loss before taxation on continuing operations   (2,913,144) (1,472,454)
Tax (charge)/credit  6 (187,794) 302,530
Loss for the period on continuing operations   (3,100,938) (1,169,924)
Discontinued operations
Loss for the period from discontinued operations 
   (all attributable to the owners of the Company)  9 (352,577) (2,480,674)
Loss for the period   (3,453,515) (3,650,598)
(Loss)/profit for the period attributable to: 
     Owners of the Company   (4,356,112) (3,737,939)
     Non-controlling interests   902,597 87,341
   (3,453,515) (3,650,598)
Other comprehensive income from continuing operations 
Exchange differences arising on items that may be 
   subsequently reclassified to profit or loss   (34,610) (45,581)
Total other comprehensive income, net of tax   (34,610) (45,581)
Total comprehensive income for the period   (3,488,125) (3,696,179)
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to: 
     Owners of the Company   (4,363,548) (3,767,767)
     Non-controlling interests   875,423 71,588
   (3,488,125) (3,696,179)
Loss per share – basic and diluted  13
On continuing operations   (1.5p) (0.6p)
On discontinued operations   (0.1p) (1.1p)
On continuing and discontinued operations   (1.6p) (1.7p)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
62 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December
  2015 2014 
 Notes £ £
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 15 17,056,192 18,582,868
Property, plant and equipment 16 1,181,803 1,440,714
Deferred tax asset 6 1,601,065 1,449,871
Other non-current assets 18 923,775 923,775
Other investments  9,500 1,000
Investment in associates 12 845,921 119,435
Total non-current assets  21,618,256 22,517,663
Current assets 
Current assets in relation to discontinued activities 9 – 3,433,528
Work in progress  924,662 1,115,206
Trade and other receivables 18 7,326,215 7,760,659
Cash and cash equivalents  1,787,184 1,791,426
Total current assets  10,038,061 14,100,819
Current liabilities 
Current liabilities in relation to discontinued activities 9 – (3,433,528)
Trade and other payables 19 (8,116,383) (6,527,716)
Current tax liabilities 6 (448,824) (665,338)
Loans and borrowings 23 (4,956,269) (4,574,993)
Total current liabilities  (13,521,476) (15,201,575)
Net current liabilities  (3,483,415) (1,100,756)
Non-current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 19 (462,487) –
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (1,832,413) (2,318,616)
Fair value of contingent consideration 20 (1,179,302) (981,379)
Loans and borrowings 23 (3,041,803) (2,823,163)
Total non-current liabilities  (6,516,005) (6,123,158)
Net assets  11,618,836 15,293,749
Equity
Share capital 21 28,380,791 27,405,391
Share premium  4,788,547 4,788,547
Retained losses  (22,822,085) (18,018,687)
Translation reserve  (85,631) (78,195)
Other reserves  (489,848) (978,075)
Total equity shareholders’ funds  9,771,774 13,118,981
Equity non-controlling interests 11 1,847,062 2,174,768
Total equity  11,618,836 15,293,749
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 June 2015.
Bob Morton  
Gene Golembiewski 
Directors 
Porta Communications Plc (company registration number: 05353387)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
63   2015 2014 
 Notes £ Restated, £
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 196,030 47,944
Property, plant and equipment 16 651,977 768,414
Deferred tax assets 6 1,298,290 1,303,668
Investment in subsidiaries 17 17,880,591 16,235,664
Other non-current assets 18 923,775 923,775
Investment in associates 12 751,790 –
Trade and other receivables due from related parties 26 7,107,778 6,674,537
Total non-current assets  28,810,231 25,954,002
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables 18 1,313,758 1,397,189
Cash and cash equivalents  124,631 115,453
Total current assets  1,438,389 1,512,642
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 19 (2,658,551) (1,643,723)
Loans and borrowings 23 (4,948,480) (4,567,534)
Total current liabilities  (7,607,031) (6,211,257)
Net current liabilities  (6,168,642) (4,698,615)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (462,487) –
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (9,677) (29,204)
Loans and borrowings 23 (3,021,295) (2,795,147)
Trade and other payable due to related parties 26 (2,947,443) (1,260,679)
Total non-current liabilities  (6,440,902) (4,085,030)
Net assets  16,200,687 17,170,357
Equity   
Share capital 21 28,380,791 27,405,391
Share premium  4,788,547 4,788,547
Retained losses  (17,387,881) (14,954,584)
Other reserves  419,230 (68,997)
Total equity shareholders’ funds  16,200,687 17,170,357
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 June 2015.
Bob Morton 
Gene Golembiewski 
Directors 
Porta Communications Plc (company registration number: 05353387)
Company Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
64 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
   2015 2014 
  Notes £  £
Cash flow from operating activities
Loss before taxation on continuing activities   (2,913,144) (1,472,454)
Adjusted for:
Loss before taxation from discontinued operations   (352,577) (2,529,706)
Depreciation and amortisation  3 2,718,405 1,619,846
Gain on acquisition of subsidiary  10.1 – (475,394)
Share of losses of associate  12 25,304 7,287
Tax paid   (1,019,396) (219,353)
Finance income   (27,267) (1,261)
Finance costs   1,268,314 712,897
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  16 1,713 10,252
Non-cash rent received   (105,000) –
Change in estimate of goodwill on prior year acquisition   (88,684) –
Decrease/(increase) in work in progress   142,835 (699,368)
Increase in trade and other receivables   (76,027) (1,139,675)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables   1,493,184 (767,154)
Changes in working capital relating to discontinued operations  – (235,414)
Impairment of assets of the discontinued operations   9 – 1,629,862
Equity settled share-based payments   315,002 185,580
Unrealised foreign exchange gain   (40,093) (23,430)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities   1,342,569 (3,397,485)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of intangible assets   (188,141) (16,672)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment   (164,441) (627,165)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired  10 49,102 (3,117,205)
Net investing cash flow from discontinued operations   – (60,381)
Net cash outflow from investing activities   (303,480) (3,821,423)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Proceeds from the issue of Ordinary shares (net of issue costs)  – 6,595,350
Proceeds from loans and borrowings   1,711,561 3,000,000
Repayment of loans and borrowings  23 (1,896,861) (2,577,292)
Repayment of leases   (134,498) (96,944)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests   (728,226) (340,833)
Interest received   27,267 1,261
Interest paid   (12,583) (49,912)
Net financing cash flow from discontinued operations   – (62,500)
Net cash (absorbed)/generated from financing activities  (1,033,340) 6,469,130
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   5,749 (749,778)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January   1,791,426 2,544,802
Effect of exchange rate changes   (9,991) (3,598)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December   1,787,184 1,791,426
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
65   Year ended Year ended 
  31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 Note £  £ 
Cash flow from operating activities  
Loss before taxation on continuing activities (2,317,194) (2,382,095)
Adjusted for:
Loss before taxation from discontinued operations  (244,328) (2,452,517)
Impairment of investments  – 111,685
Depreciation and amortisation  192,038 203,479
Finance costs  1,174,716 658,080
Interest received  (26,433) –
Non-cash rent received  (105,000) –
Dividends from subsidiary companies  – (248,494)
Intercompany interest charge  (92,502) (152,972)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables  127,996 (1,111,896)
Increase in amounts receivable from subsidiary companies  (79,358) (1,098,134)
Increase in trade and other payables  830,990 990,340
Equity settled share-based payments  179,029 175,270
Unrealised foreign exchange loss  42,636 47,938
Impairment of assets relating to discontinued operations  – 2,452,517
Net cash outflow from operating activities  (317,410) (2,806,799)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary company, net of cash acquired 10 – (5,217,687)
Acquisition of intangible assets  (178,944) (880)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment  (15,082) (442,524)
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (194,026) (5,661,091)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of Ordinary shares (net of issue costs)  – 6,595,350
Proceeds from loans and borrowings 22 1,711,561 3,000,000
Repayment of loans and borrowings  (1,896,861) (2,532,371)
Repayment of leases  (124,611) –
Interest received  26,433 –
Interest paid  – (46,356)
Dividend received from subsidiary company  804,092 248,494
Net cash generated from financing activities  520,614 7,265,117
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  9,178 (1,202,773)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  115,453 1,318,226
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  124,631 115,453
Company Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
66       Written Total equity   
      put/call share- Non-  
 Share Share Retained Translation Other options holders’ controlling Total 
 capital premium losses reserve Reserves over NCI funds interests equity 
 £  £  £  £  £ £ £  £  £ 
Balance at  
   1 January 2015 27,405,391 4,788,547 (18,018,687) (78,195) 813,671 (1,791,746) 13,118,981 2,174,768 15,293,749
Total comprehensive  
   income
Loss for the period – – (4,356,112) – – – (4,356,112) 902,597 (3,453,515)
Other comprehensive income – – – (7,436) – – (7,436) (27,174) (34,610)
Total comprehensive income – – (4,356,112) (7,436) – – (4,363,548) 875,423 (3,488,125)
Transactions with owners 
    Issue of ordinary shares  
   in relation to  
   business combinations 975,400 – – – – – 975,400 – 975,400
   Dividends paid to  
   non-controlling interests – – – – – – – (728,226) (728,226)
   Share based payments – – – – 315,002 – 315,002 – 315,002
   Equity component of the  
   convertible loan issued  – – – – 173,225 – 173,225 – 173,225
   Acquisition of subsidiary  
   with non-controlling  
   interest – – – – – – – 53,211 53,211
   Acquisition of  
   non-controlling interest  
   without a change in control – – (668,727) – – – (668,727) (306,673) (975,400)
   Adjustments in respect  
   of prior year disposal of  
   subsidiary with non- 
   controlling interest  – – 221,441 – – – 221,441 (221,441) –
Total transactions  
with owners 975,400 – (447,286) – 488,227 – 1,016,324 (1,203,129) (186,788)
Balance at  
31 December 2015 28,380,791 4,788,547 (22,822,085) (85,631) 1,301,898 (1,791,746) 9,771,774 1,847,062 11,618,836
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
67 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
      Written Total equity   
      put/call share- Non-  
 Share Share Retained Translation Other options holders’ controlling Total 
 capital premium losses reserve Reserves over NCI funds interests equity 
 £  £  £  £  £  £ £  £  £ 
Balance at  
   1 January 2014 16,860,101 3,117,545 (13,883,454) (48,367) (851,950) – 5,193,875 1,129,894 6,323,769
Total comprehensive  
   income    
Loss for the year – – (3,737,939) – – – (3,737,939) 87,341 (3,650,598)
Other comprehensive income – – – (29,828) – – (29,828) (15,753) (45,581)
Total comprehensive income – – (3,737,939) (29,828) – – (3,767,767) 71,588 (3,696,179)
Transactions with owners  
   of the Company
Issue of ordinary shares 5,384,615 1,615,385 – – – – 7,000,000 – 7,000,000
Issue of ordinary shares 
   in relation to business 
   combinations 5,160,675 460,267 – – – – 5,620,942 – 5,620,942
Issue costs – (404,650) – – – – (404,650) – (406,650)
Dividends paid to non- 
   controlling interests – – – – – – – (340,833) (340,833)
Share based payments – – –  185,580 – 185,580 – 185,580
Written put/call forward 
   options over non- 
   controlling interest – – – – – (1,791,746) (1,791,746) – (1,791,746)
Equity component of the 
   deferred consideration in  
   business combinations – – – – 1,246,689 – 1,246,689 – 1,246,689
Equity component of the  
   convertible loan issued  – – – – 233,352 – 233,352 – 233,352
Acquisition of subsidiary with  
   non-controlling interest – – – – – – – 1,772,825 1,772,825
Acquisition of non-controlling  
   interest without a change 
   in control – – (100,000) – – – (100,000) (756,000) (856,000)
Disposal of subsidiary with  
   non-controlling interest  – – (297,294) – – – (297,294) 297,294 –
Total transactions with the 
owners of the Company 10,545,290 1,671,002 (397, 294) – 1,665,621 (1,791,746) 11,692,873 973,286 12,666,159
Balance at  
31 December 2014 27,405,391 4,788,547 (18,018,687) (78,195) 813,671 (1,791,746) 13,118,981 2,174,768 15,293,749
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
68 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
       
      Total equity  
  Share Share Retained Other shareholders’  
  capital premium losses reserves funds 
  £ £ £ £ £
Balance at 1 January 2014  16,860,101 3,117,545 (10,598,122) (713,650) 8,665,874
Loss for the year (restated)
1
  – – (4,356,462) – (4,356,462)
Issue of Ordinary shares  5,384,615 1,615,385 – – 7,000,000
Issue of Ordinary shares related 
   to business combinations  5,160,675 460,267 – – 5,620,942
Issue costs  – (404,650) – – (404,650)
Share based payments  – – – 185,580 185,580
   Equity component of the deferred  
   consideration in business combinations  – – – 225,721 225,721
   Equity component of the  
   convertible loan issued   – – – 233,352 233,352
Balance at 1 January 2015 (restated)
1
  27,405,391 4,788,547 (14,954,584) (68,997) 17,170,357
Total comprehensive income   
Loss for the year  – – (2,433,297) – (2,433,297)
Total comprehensive income  – – (2,433,297) – (2,433,297)
Transactions with owners of 
   the Company
   Issue of ordinary shares in 
       relation to business  
       combinations  975,400 –   –  – 975,400
   Share-based payments   – –  –  315,002 315,002
   Equity component of the  
      convertible loan issued   – –  –  173,225 173,225
Total transactions with the 
   owners of the Company  975,400  – –  488,227 1,463,627
Balance at 31 December 2015  28,380,791 4,788,547 (17,387,881) 419,230 16,200,687
1. Please refer to note 1 for more details in relation to restatement of 2014.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
69 Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2015
1. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated. The Group’s accounting policies have 
been extended in order to reflect the new businesses commenced or acquired during the year. The adoption of the 
additional policies has no impact on the results, assets or liabilities of the Group for the prior year.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Company’s functional currency.
During the current year it was identified that the accounting for the put/call option in place over the remaining 49% share 
capital of Redleaf Polhill had been accounted for in the parent company financial statements by reference to the treatment 
followed in the group accounts. The put/call option over the remaining non-controlling interest in the parent company 
financial statements should be treated  as a derivative.
As a result the ‘Written put/call option reserve’ in the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for 2014 is no longer 
recognised. In addition no amount is recognised in other reserves for the ‘Equity component of the deferred consideration in 
business combinations’ in relation to this option in the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for 2014.
The impact of the prior year restatement on Other Reserves and Written put/call options over NCI in the Company Statement 
of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2014 is as follows:
   Total Other Reserves 
  Written put/call per the Statement 
 Other Reserves options over NCI of Financial Position 
 £ £ £
Balance at 31 December 2013 (713,650) – (713,650)
Share based payments 185,580 – 185,580
Written put/call forward option over 
   non-controlling interest – (1,791,746) (1,791,746)
Equity component of the deferred consideration 
   in business combinations 1,246,689 – 1,246,689
Equity component of the convertible loan issued 233,352 – 233,352
Balance at 31 December 2014 per prior year 
   financial statements 951,971 (1,791,746) (839,775)
Adjustment in respect of put/call forward option 
   over non-controlling interest (1,020,968) 1,791,746 770,778
Restated balance as at 31 December 2014 (68,997) – (68,997)
The impact on the Company Statement of Financial Position is a reduction in Other Reserves from £839,775 to £68,997 as 
disclosed above. The Fair Value of Continent Consideration has decreased from £856,334 to £nil as it is no longer being 
recognised with an adjustment to Retained losses of £85,556 as the amortisation of the put/call option previously recognised 
in the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the parent company is no longer being recognised.
No liability is recognised in 'fair value of contingent consideration' in the Company Statement of Financial Position for 2014.
There is no impact on the Statement of Financial Position as at 1 January 2014 and therefore a third Statement of Financial 
Position has not been presented.
(a) Basis of preparation of the financial statements
The Consolidated and Company financial statements of Porta Communications Plc have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC 
Interpretations and the parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for 
financial instruments and contingent consideration that have been measured at fair value.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
70 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations 
issued and effective or issued and early adopted as at the time of preparing these statements.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas 
involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated and parent company financial statements are disclosed under accounting policy (x).
New standards, interpretations and amendments that became effective as of 1 January 2015 
adopted by the Group:
● ● IAS 19 (amendment) Employee contributions; and
● ● Annual improvements (2011-2013 Cycle)
None of the new standards, interpretations or amendments effective as of 1 January 2015 had any impact on the results, 
assets, liabilities or disclosures on the Group financial statements.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective and 
have not been adopted early by the Group
A number of the new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning 
after 1 January 2015, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. Those which are/may 
be relevant to the Group and expected to have significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group are 
set out below.
● ● IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial 
liabilities. It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. 
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted 
subject to EU endorsement. The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9’s full impact.
● ● IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting 
useful information to users of financial statements. The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction 
contracts and related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and 
earlier application is permitted subject to EU endorsement. The Group is yet to assess the impact of applying IFRS 15. 
● ● IFRS 16 Leases requires that operating leases be capitalised and an asset and a financial liability recognised in respect 
of those leases. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application 
is permitted subject to EU endorsement if IFRS 15 is also applied. The Group has not yet assessed the impact of 
applying IFRS 16.
● ● IAS12 Income Taxes – amendments regarding the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses. The standard 
is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
● ● IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements – Amendments to IAS 27 allow an entity to use the equity 
method as an option to account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in an entity’s separate 
financial statements however must apply the same accounting for each category of investment. The amendment must 
be applied retrospectively and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Early adoption 
is permitted and must be disclosed.
With the exception of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, the Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and 
amendments listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in the future periods. 
The impact that IFRS 15 will have on the financial statements is yet to be quantified. The Group has different contractual 
arrangements with each of its clients which will require detailed review in order to assess the changes the Group will need 
to make to its revenue recognition policies once the standard is implemented. 
The impact that IFRS 16 will have on the financial statements is also as yet to be quantified. As a result of the Group’s 
diverse geographic portfolio of business, the Group has a significant number of leases which will need to be assessed 
individually against the requirements of the standard. 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
71 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
(b) Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Statement of Financial Position include the financial statements 
of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December 2015 and present comparative information for the 
year ended 31 December 2014.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or 
has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group’s subsidiaries include Limited Liability Partnerships where the Group does not hold 100% of the partnership 
interests. In such instances, the classification of non-group interests between non-controlling interests and liabilities is 
determined based on an assessment of the member’s rights and obligations under the relevant partnership agreement.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of 
the Group and to non-controlling interests, even if this results in non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When 
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with 
the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 
transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in ownership interest of a subsidiary without a loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the 
Group loses control over a subsidiary, it:
● ● derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary
● ● derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interests
● ● derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity
● ● recognises the fair value of the consideration received
● ● recognises the fair value of any investment retained
● ● recognises any surplus or deficit in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
● ● reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in OCI to profit or loss or retained earnings, as 
appropriate, as would be required if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when 
control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for 
the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, 
any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group 
had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may require that the amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income be reclassified to profit or loss.
(c) Going concern
The current economic conditions continue to create uncertainty particularly for (a) the level of demand for the Group’s 
services; and (b) the availability of bank finance for the foreseeable future. The Group’s forecast and projections, taking 
account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the 
level of its current finance facilities. However, the Directors have sought and received assurance from the Group’s major 
lenders that they will continue to provide financial support beyond the expiry of the existing loan facilities sufficient to enable 
the Board to conclude that the Group and the Company are going concerns.
In addition, during the first half of 2016 the Company renewed its £2.86m deep discounted bond facility, which initially was due 
to be repaid on 26 February 2016, for a further three year period on materially the same terms as the original facility repayable 
on 26 February 2019. The Company also renewed its £0.25m bridging loan facility, due to be repaid on 21 January 2016, from 
Hawk Investment Holdings Limited on materially the same terms as the original facility and repayable on 21 January 2017.
Therefore, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Therefore the Company and the Group continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
72 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
(d) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and the amount of any non-
controlling interest in the acquired entity. Non-controlling interests (‘NCI’) may be initially measured either at fair value or at 
the NCI’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement 
basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative 
expenses except where they relate to the issue of debt or equity instruments in connection with the acquisition, in which case 
they are included in finance costs.
When the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held equity interest is re-measured at its acquisition 
date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. It is then considered in determination of goodwill.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Any 
subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are adjusted against the cost of the acquisition if they 
occur within the measurement period of 12 months following the date of acquisition. Any subsequent changes to the fair 
value of the contingent consideration after the measurement period are recognised in the Income Statement Contingent 
consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured and subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
When the Group enters into options and forward contracts over shares relating to NCIs at the same time as the business 
combination, the NCI is recognised to the extent the risk and rewards of ownership of those shares remain with them. 
Irrespective of whether the NCI is recognised, a financial liability (redemption liability) is recorded to reflect the forward or put 
option. All subsequent changes to the liability are recognised in profit or loss. Where the risks and rewards of ownership 
remain with the NCIs, the recognised financial liability is a reduction in the controlling interest equity. The NCI is then 
recognised and is allocated its share of profits and losses accordingly. Where significant risks and rewards of ownership 
reside with the NCIs, the difference between the financial liability and the NCI balance is debited to controlling interest equity 
if the liability is greater than the carrying value of the NCI, otherwise the difference is attributed to NCI. Dividends paid to the 
NCIs that do not reduce the contracted purchase price are deducted from the NCI carrying value. Profits and losses are 
allocated to NCI to the extent it is necessary to cover the dividend payment so that NCI does not become negative. In those 
situations when forward or put options state that dividend payments reduce the contracted future purchase price, then the 
dividend amount is deducted from the redemption liability.
Transactions with NCIs that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as 
transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the 
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains and losses on 
disposal to NCIs are also recorded in equity.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision- 
maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
(e) Foreign currency translation
Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency).
The Consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, the Company’s functional and presentation 
currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at 
the date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement of such transactions, and from the 
translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in 
the Statement of Comprehensive Income except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow and net investment hedges.
The results and financial position of all Group companies that have a functional currency other than sterling are translated 
as follows:
● ● income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation 
of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction date, in which case income and expenses are translated 
at the date of the transaction);
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
73 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
● ● assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate at Statement of Financial Position date; and
● ● all resulting exchange differences are recognised as other comprehensive income which is a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and from 
borrowings, are taken to equity. When a foreign operation is sold such exchange differences are recognised in the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income as part of the gain or loss on sale. Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing exchange rate. Exchange 
differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
(f) Revenue and revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be 
reliably measured. Revenue represents the fees and commissions, net of discounts, derived from services provided to and 
invoiced to clients.
Revenue is recognised in the period in which the service is performed, in accordance with contractual arrangements. Income 
billed in advance of the performance of service is deferred and income in respect of work carried out but not billed at period 
end is accrued. In these cases, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion which is measured by 
reference to labour hours incurred to the period end as a percentage of the total estimated labour hours for the contract.
Where the contract outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent of the expenses recognised 
that are recoverable.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of depreciation and provision for any impairment. Depreciation is calculated 
to write down the cost of all tangible fixed assets to estimated residual value over their expected useful lives as follows:
Office improvements 5 years, straight line (or length of lease, if shorter)
Fittings and equipment 5 years, straight line
Computer equipment 3 years, straight line
Motor vehicles 5 years, straight line
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each Statement of Financial Position 
date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are 
included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
(h) Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain corporate brand names and customer relationships acquired in business 
combinations, website development costs, software and other licences.
Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings over the fair 
value of the underlying net assets, including intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of an 
entity is included in intangible assets. Gains and losses on disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill 
relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and therefore not amortised. Impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared 
to the net present value of future cash flows derived from the underlying assets using a projection period of up to five years 
for each cash-generating unit. After the projection period a steady growth rate representing an appropriate long-term growth 
rate for the industry is applied. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Corporate brand names and customer relationships acquired as part of acquisitions of businesses are capitalised separately 
from goodwill as intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and it is probable that the 
expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
74 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Expenditure on website development, software and licences is initially stated at cost.
Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset, other than 
goodwill, on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset. Estimated life and estimated residual value are 
calculated on an asset by asset basis having regard to the nature of the asset, and the cash flows generated, or to be 
generated, by the asset historically and projected.
Amortisation is calculated to write down the cost of these assets to their estimated residual value over their expected useful 
lives as follows:
Brands 10 years, straight line
Customer relationships 5 years, straight line 
Websites, software and licences 3 years, straight line
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each statement of financial position 
date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are 
included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
(i) Impairment of assets
Non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying value exceeds 
its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value 
in use is based on the present value of the future cash flows relating to the asset, and is determined over periods which are 
deemed to appropriately reflect the minimum expected period that the cash generating unit will operate for. For the purposes 
of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cashflows (cash 
generating units). Any impairment loss is immediately recognised as an expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
(j) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered 
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. Non-current assets and disposal groups classified 
as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The criteria for held for 
sale classification is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify 
for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Discontinued operations may include abandoned or closed operations which will not meet the held for sale criteria as they are 
not recovered principally through sale and therefore balance sheet presentation requirements will not be applicable to them.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as 
profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated or amortised once classified as held for sale.
(k) Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown in the Company Statement of Financial Position at cost less any provision 
for impairment.
Investments in associate entities over which the Group has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method. 
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not 
control and/or joint control over those policies.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
75 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment 
is adjusted to recognize changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition 
date. Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor 
individually tested for impairment.
The Statement of Comprehensive Income reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate. Any change 
in the Other Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’) of those investments is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. The aggregate of 
the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate is shown on the face of the Statement of Comprehensive Income outside 
operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interest in the subsidiaries of the associates.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss of its investment in its 
associates through examination of any objective evidence. The Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference 
between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, then recognizes the loss as ‘share of profit of an 
associate’ in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investments at its fair 
value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the 
retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
(l) Available for sale (‘AFS’) investments
AFS financial investments include equity instruments and debt securities. Equity instruments classified as AFS are those that 
are neither classified as held for trading nor designated at fair value through profit or loss.
After initial measurement, AFS financial instruments are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses 
recognised in OCI and credited in the AFS reserve until the investment is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain 
and loss is recognised in finance cost, or the investment is determined to be impaired, when the cumulative loss is 
reclassified from the AFS reserve to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in finance costs.
The Group evaluates whether the ability and intention to sell its AFS financial assets in the near term is still appropriate. 
When, in rare circumstances, the partnership is unable to trade these financial assets due to inactive markets, the 
partnership may elect to reclassify these financial assets if members have the ability and intention to hold the assets for 
foreseeable future or until maturity.
For the financial assets reclassified from the AFS category, the fair value carrying amount at the date of reclassification 
becomes its new amortised cost and any previous gain or loss on the asset that has been recognised in equity is amortised 
to profit or loss over the remaining life of the investment using the effective interest rate (‘EIR’). Any difference between the 
new amortised cost and the maturity amount is also amortised over the remaining life of the asset using EIR. If the asset is 
subsequently determined to be impaired, then the amount recorded in equity is reclassified to the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
(m) Work in progress
Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of 
directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete assignments. Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where it is 
probable that such costs will not be recovered from future billing.
(n) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there 
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. 
The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows. Any change in the provision is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
76 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
(o) Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flow, cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, 
other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. In the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, only bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
(p) Share capital and share premium
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Share premium represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of 
the Ordinary shares less costs of the shares issued and is classified as equity.
(q) Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less (or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method.
(r) Borrowings and compound instruments
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at 
amortised cost; any differences between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in 
the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs. In cases where these costs are settled 
at the time of the borrowing maturity and was added to the principal subject to an additional interest charge, this fee is 
capitalised as prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Borrowings issued to the Group that can be converted into share capital at the option of the issuer, and where the number of 
shares to be issued does not vary with changes in their fair value are classified by the Group as compound financial 
instruments. The liability component of a compound financial instrument is recognised initially at the fair value of a similar 
liability that does not have an equity conversion option. The equity component is recognised initially as the difference between 
the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the fair value of the liability component. Any directly 
attributable transaction costs are allocated to a liability and an equity component in proportion to the initial carrying amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument is measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method. The equity component of a compound financial instrument is not re-measured 
subsequent to initial recognition except on conversion or expiry.
(s) Taxation including deferred taxation
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the Income Statement except where 
it relates to items taken directly to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or Equity. Tax on Company profits 
is provided for at the current rate applicable in each of the relevant territories. Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the 
consolidated financial statements. However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit 
or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the Group believes it is probable that future taxable profit will be 
available against which temporary timing differences and losses from previous periods can be utilised. The Group’s 
assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets is based on a two year forecast of the future profitability of the Group.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of 
financial position date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is realised.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
77 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
(t) Share based payments
The Group makes equity-settled payments to its employees. Equity-settled share based awards are measured at fair value at 
the date of grant using an options pricing methodology and expensed over the vesting period of the award. At each 
Statement of Financial Position date, the Group reviews its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest.
Shares issued to vendors in respect of the acquisition of interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for in accordance 
with accounting policy (d) above.
Equity-settled share based payments may also be made in settlement of professional costs in relation to costs incurred in 
the issue of new shares and in acquisition of subsidiary companies. In these cases, the payments are measured at fair value 
of services provided which will normally equate to the invoiced fees where those services are provided at arms’ length in the 
normal course of trade. In the case of payments made for the issue of new shares, the fair value is charged against the share 
premium account or other reserves; charges in respect of other professional fees are expensed within the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income for the year.
(u) Leasing commitments
Group as a lessee
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. 
Rentals payable under operating leases (net of any incentives received) are charged as operating costs to the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rental incomes under operating leases which are sub let 
are recognised over the lease term on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Leases where significant risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item have been transferred to the Group are 
classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased 
assets or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance 
charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Each leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group 
will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of estimated useful life of the 
asset and the lease term.
(v) Finance costs
Finance costs, including interest, bank charges and the unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration, are recognised 
in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they are incurred using the effective interest rate method.
(w) Pensions and similar obligations
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or 
voluntary basis in respect of defined contribution plans. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions 
have been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions 
are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Payments to a defined contribution pension plan were charged as an expense to the Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
as incurred, when the related employee service is rendered. The Group has no further legal or constructive payment 
obligations once the contributions have been made.
(x) Critical accounting estimates and judgments
Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The Group makes estimates and 
assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will by definition, seldom equal the related actual 
results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
78 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
l Business Combinations
The Group has recognised customer relationships and brands relating to acquisitions it has made (see note 10). The 
determination of estimated fair values of acquired intangible assets, as well as the expected useful life ascribed, requires the 
use of significant judgment. The Group has used the discounted cash flows and relief-from-royalty models in order to 
determine the fair value of acquired intangible assets.
Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions is recognised at fair value. This is determined based on management 
estimates of the most likely outcome, discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate based on market 
inputs and management judgment.
l Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
The carrying value of goodwill and brands are subject to an impairment review both annually and when there are indications 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable, in accordance with policies (i) and (j) stated above. The recoverable amounts 
of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations which require the use of estimates.
l Recoverability of investments and debts due from subsidiaries and related parties
Whether the carrying value of the Company’s investment in subsidiaries, balances due from those subsidiaries and balances due 
from related parties is recoverable or impaired requires judgments and estimates relating to the prospects of those subsidiaries. 
The Directors assess the recoverability of these balances at each year end. Particularly in the case of start-up businesses, such 
judgments and estimates are subject to the uncertainty inherent in projections of expected future growth in revenue.
l Control in another entity with less than half of the voting rights
The Group owns a 45% equity interest in Newgate Communications Singapore Pte. Ltd together with the right to acquire at 
any time a further 6% interest which right is deemed to be highly exercisable. After taking into account the Group’s power 
over its investee, its exposure and rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and its ability to use the 
power over the investee to affect the amount of investor’s return, the Directors have concluded that the Group has a 
controlling interest in Newgate Communications Singapore Pte. Ltd and therefore the results of the acquired business since 
acquisition has been included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
2. Segmental reporting
Business segments
The Group has three reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group’s strategic divisions. The strategic 
divisions offer different products and services and are managed separately because they require different resources and 
strategies. For each of the strategic divisions, the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (the chief operating decision maker) 
reviews internal management reports on a monthly basis. The following summary describes the operations in each of the 
Group’s reportable segments:
● ● Corporate Communications includes public relations, public affairs and other corporate communication services
● ● Marketing & Advertising includes media buying, creative advertising, marketing and corporate branding services
● ● Head office, which is not an operating segment, includes services provided by the Group’s corporate function, including 
group treasury and finance and management services.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in 
note 1.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. Segment result represents operating profit, which is the 
measure reported to the Chief Executive Officer. All assets and liabilities are allocated to reportable segments with the 
exception of tax and other centrally managed balances. Goodwill is allocated to segments as described in note 15.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
79 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
31 December 2015   Marketing &  Other/
£  Communications Advertising Head Office Consol.
1
 Total
External revenue  28,302,039 5,790,966  – – 34,093,005
Inter-segment revenue  369,377 35,254 353,795 (758,426) –
Reportable segment revenue  28,671,416 5,826,220 353,795 (758,426) 34,093,005
Gross profit  23,533,409 3,415,496 – – 26,948,905
Depreciation and amortisation  (2,319,055) (207,313) (192,037) – (2,718,405)
Reportable segment result  969,953 (593,949) (2,022,797) – (1,646,793)
Finance income  61,850 1,807 179,592 (215,982) 27,267
Finance expense  (143,692) (62,520) (1,278,084) 215,982 (1,268,314)
Taxation (expense)/credit  (273,171) 71,228 14,149 – (187,794)
Reportable segment assets  26,017,446 3,614,480 10,920,734 (8,896,343) 31,656,317
Capital expenditure  140,746 8,613 44,742 – 194,101
Reportable segment liabilities  (9,276,886) (5,399,403) (14,257,535) 8,896,343 (20,037,481)
31 December 2014    Marketing &  Head Other/ 
Restated, £  Communications Advertising Office Consol.
1
 Total
External revenue  18,625,818 4,647,850 – – 23,273,668
Inter-segment revenue  152,832 114,705 1,116,886 (1,384,423) –
Reportable segment revenue  18,778,650 4,762,555 1,116,886 (1,384,423) 23,273,668
Gross profit  16,714,182 2,539,795 151,352 – 19,405,329
Depreciation and amortisation  (1,069,634) (175,390) (203,479) – (1,448,503)
Reportable segment result  885,053 261,375 (1,923,568) – (777,140)
Finance income  6,056 259 154,809 (159,863) 1,261
Finance expense  (136,066) (56,472) (656,613) 159,863 (689,288)
Taxation (expense)/credit  (207,593) 117,529 392,594 – 302,530
Reportable segment assets  25,303,801 3,659,710 12,454,647 (8,233,204) 33,184,954
Capital expenditure  171,238 20,064 826,019 – 1,017,321
Reportable segment liabilities  (9,065,447) (7,184,801) (9,874,161) 8,233,204 (17,891,205)
Geographical segments
Results
The analysis of results and assets by geographic region, based on the location of the operating company is as follows:
   UK Europe Asia- Pacific  Total 
31 December 2015 £ £ £ £
Revenue  24,140,370 – 9,952,635 34,093,005
Gross profit 18,090,899 – 8,858,006 26,948,905
Profit/(loss) on continuing operations before tax (4,744,667) (154,787) 1,986,310 (2,913,144)
Loss on discontinued operations before tax (352,577) – – (352,577)
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
80 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
 UK
1
 Europe Asia- Pacific  Total
31 December 2014 – Restated £ £ £ £
Revenue 15,160,367 509,122 7,604,179 23,273,668
Gross profit 11,867,995 467,872 7,069,462 19,405,329
Profit/(loss) on continuing operations before tax (2,547,818) (176,536) 1,251,900 (1,472,454)
Loss on discontinued operations before tax (2,529,706) – – (2,529,706)
The split of the customer based revenue as a percentage of Group revenue:
Customer based revenue  2015 2014
United Kingdom  65% 64%
Australia  21% 31%
USA  4% 0%
Europe  2% 2%
Hong Kong and Singapore  6% 1%
Other  2% 2%
No individual customer sales were greater than 5% of Group revenue.
Assets and liabilities
 UK Rest of Europe Asia-Pacific Intercompany Total
Year ended 31 December 2015 £ £ £ £ £
Non-current assets 20,497,660 – 1,120,596 – 21,618,256
Current assets 10,965,765 10,489 2,891,635 (3,829,828) 10,038,061
Current liabilities (15,471,154) (509,224) (1,370,926) 3,829,828 (13,521,476)
Long term liabilities  (6,464,433) – (51,572) – (6,516,005)
 9,527,838 (498,735) 2,589,733 – 11,618,836
 UK Rest of Europe Asia-Pacific  Intercompany
1
 Total
Year ended 31 December 2014 £ £ £ £ £
Non-current assets 22,889,023 (362,997) (4,739) (3,624) 22,517,663
Current assets 9,770,147 388,944 2,860,247 (2,352,047) 10,667,291
Current liabilities (12,260,633) (386,106) (1,476,979) 2,355,671 (11,768,047)
Long term liabilities  (6,056,338) – (66,820) – (6,123,158)
 14,342,199 (360,159) 1,311,709 – 15,293,749
1. Excludes discontinued activities.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
81 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
3. Expenses – analysis by nature
The operating loss on continuing activities is stated after charging:
   Year ended  Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
   £ £
Employment costs (see note 4)   19,962,814 13,464,465
Auditor’s remuneration:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for
   – The audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements  61,740 64,250
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their  
  associates for other services to the Group 
  – The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  36,260 37,750
  – Tax compliance services   35,000 –
  – Other services   – 2,000
Legal and other professional consultancy costs   438,157 276,418
Operating lease expense (see note 25)    1,244,148 1,455,907
Depreciation and amortisation of acquired intangible assets  2,207,188 1,042,160
Depreciation and amortisation of other fixed and intangible assets  511,217 406,343
Acquisition costs paid (see note 10)   36,948 271,947
And after crediting:
   Rental income in respect of sub-leases   183,958 21,600
The amount shown for fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements 
includes £20,000 (2014: £19,000) in respect of the Company’s own audit.
4. Employment benefit expense
Employment costs and staff numbers
Employment and guaranteed partner drawings costs relating to continuing activities during the year were as follows:
   Year ended  Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
   £ £
Continuing operations:
Wages, salaries, guaranteed drawings and non-executive fees  17,036,973 11,420,492
Pension costs   825,248 472,915
Share based payments   315,002 185,580
Social security costs   1,387,691 1,101,584
Other employment related welfare costs   397,900 283,894
Charged to comprehensive income for continuing operations  19,962,814 13,464,465
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
82 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
   Year ended  Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
   £ £
Discontinued operations:
Wages and salaries   – 1,398,451
Social security costs   – 136,573
Other employment related welfare costs   – 21,076
Charged to comprehensive income for discontinued operations  – 1,556,100
Partners’ drawings have been included in the above analysis whereby partners in Limited Liability Partnerships of the Group are 
entitled to receive guaranteed drawings in exchange for providing their services to the Group applicable for comparative periods only.
Employment costs include amounts paid to Directors’ service companies as detailed in note 26.
The average monthly number of employees and partners during the year, including Executive Directors, was as follows:
   Year ended  Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
Continuing operations:   number number
Sales   206 127
Management   40 37
Administration   43 35
   289 199
Discontinuing operations:
Sales   – 18
Management   – 3
Administration   – 5
   – 26
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the Directors for the year amounted to £799,287 (2014: £588,586). The remuneration of the highest paid 
Director was £333,936 (2014: £271,633). In addition to these amounts, £87,227 (2014: £174,932) was charged to the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income in relation to share options granted to Executive Directors during the period. All of the 
above remuneration is accounted for within continuing operations. Further details of share based payments are given in note 22.
Further details of Directors’ remuneration are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 55 to 60 which 
are incorporated into these notes by way of reference.
Retirement benefits
The Company provides for retirement benefits for Executive Directors and certain employees through contributions to a 
defined contribution plan.
5. Finance expense and finance income
   Year ended  Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
Continuing operations:   £ £
Interest on financial liabilities measured at amortised costs  1,189,937 659,176
Net foreign exchange loss   78,377 30,112
Finance costs   1,268,314 689,288
Interest income on bank deposits   27,267 1,261
Finance income   27,267 1,261
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
83 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
6. Income tax 
Group
   Year ended  Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
Continuing operations:   £ £
UK:  Current tax charge    (269,264) (110,544)
       Deferred tax credit   549,653 789,242
Total UK tax credit   280,389 678,698
Overseas: Current tax charge   (549,528) (326,084)
Deferred tax credit/(charge)   81,345 (50,084)
Total overseas tax charge   (468,183) (376,168)
Total income tax (charge)/credit for the year   (187,794) 302,530
The total tax credit for the year on all activities is as follows: 
   Year ended  Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
   £ £
Tax (charge)/credit on continuing activities (as above)   (187,794) 302,530
Tax credit on discontinued activities   – 49,032
The tax assessed for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) for the 
reasons set out in the following table:
   Year ended  Year ended 
   31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
   £ £
Loss before taxation on continuing activities   (2,913,144) (1,472,454)
Income tax credit computed at the statutory tax rate on loss 
   before taxation on all activities    589,912 316,578
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of prior periods  (50,804) (57,332)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes   (309,103) (220,557)
Income not chargeable to taxation   – 193,024
Overseas profits taxed at differing rates   (148,179) (96,963)
UK profits taxed at different rate   – 2,614
Unrecognised tax losses brought forward now utilised   175,931 –
Tax losses not relieved not recognised   (441,359) (59,041)
Change in recognised temporary differences   (554) 32,684
Change in tax rate in respect of deferred taxation   (3,638) 13,768
Group relief received in respect of discontinued operations    – 177,755
Total tax (charge)/credit for the year   (187,794) 302,530
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
The Group has tax losses of approximately £3,400,000 (2014: £3,400,000) available to be utilised against future taxable 
profits in the relevant companies in their countries of operation.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
84 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net 
31 December 2015 £ £ £
Intangible assets – (1,755,155) (1,755,155)
Fixed assets 17,813 (25,686) (7,873)
Trade and other payables 114,731 (51,572) 63,159
Tax loss carry-forward 1,468,521 – 1,468,521
Net tax liabilities 1,601,065 (1,832,413) (231,348)
Movements in the deferred tax balances during the year were as follows:
 Balance at  Recognised Exchange Acquired in Taken to Balance at 
 1 January in profit or differences business disposal 31 December 
  2015 loss* and transfers combinations  group 2015 
31 December 2015 £  £  £  £  £  £ 
Intangible assets (2,184,076) 428,921 – – – (1,755,155)
Fixed assets (134,540) 120,268 6,399 – – (7,873)
Trade and other payables 119,038 (55,879) – – – 63,159
Tax loss carry-forward 1,330,833 137,688 – – – 1,468,521
 (868,745) 630,998 6,399 – – (231,348)
* The deferred tax credit of deferred tax credit elates to continuing operations.
 Assets Liabilities Net 
31 December 2014 £ £ £
Intangible assets – (2,184,076) (2,184,076)
Fixed assets – (134,540) (134,540)
Trade and other payables 119,038 – 119,038
Tax loss carry-forward 1,330,833 – 1,330,833
Net tax assets 1,449,871 (2,318,616) (868,745)
 Balance at  Recognised Exchange Acquired in Taken to Balance at 
 1 January in profit or differences business disposal 31 December 
  2014 loss* and transfers combinations  group 2014 
31 December 2014 £  £  £  £  £  £ 
Intangible assets (361,871) (45,386) – (2,334,150) 557,331 (2,184,076)
Fixed assets (58,417) (127,303) 2,514 – 48,666 (134,540)
Trade and other payables 52,206 129,759 – – (62,927) 119,038
Tax loss carry-forward 1,068,440 831,121 – – (568,728) 1,330,833
 700,358 788,191 2,514 (2,334,150) (25,658) (868,745)
*£739,158 of deferred tax credit recognised in the profit and loss relates to continuing operations and £49,032 to 
discontinued activities.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
85 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Company
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net 
31 December 2015 £ £ £
Tangible assets – (9,677) (9,677)
Trade and other payables 112,947 – 112,947
Tax loss carry-forward 1,185,343 – 1,185,343
Net tax assets 1,298,290 (9,677) 1,288,613
 Assets Liabilities Net 
31 December 2014 £ £ £
Tangible assets – (29,204) (29,204)
Trade and other payables 118,325 – 118,325
Tax loss carry-forwards 1,185,343 – 1,185,343
Net tax assets 1,303,668 (29,204) 1,274,464
7. Financial Risk Management
Group
The Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities, as defined by IAS 32, are categorised as follows:
  Year ended  Year ended 
  31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 Notes £ £
Available for sale investments – at fair value through OCI
Quoted equity shares  9,500 1,000
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:  
Non-current assets 18 923,775 923,775
Trade receivables 18 5,205,521 5,532,508
Other debtors 18 898,313 1,463,363
Cash and cash equivalents  1,787,184 1,791,426
  8,824,293 9,712,072
Financial liabilities – held at amortised cost  
Trade payables 19 (2,233,856) (1,970,894)
Other liabilities 19 (3,664,930) (2,249,021)
Loans and borrowings 23 (7,668,140) (7,012,762)
Financial liabilities – held at fair value through profit or loss  
Contingent consideration 20 (1,179,302) (981,379)
  (14,746,228) (12,214,056)
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
86 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Company
  Year ended  Year ended 
  31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 Notes £ Restated, £
Financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:  
Non-current assets 18 923,775 923,775
Trade receivables 18 30,432 7,680
Other debtors 18 320,933 170,738
Cash and cash equivalents  124,631 115,453
  1,399,771 1,217,646
Financial liabilities – held at amortised cost  
Trade payables 19 (868,607) (675,324)
Other liabilities 19 (656,068) (1,237)
Loans and borrowings 23 (7,668,140) (7,012,762)
  (9,192,815) (7,689,323)
The management have assessed that the fair value of cash and short term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables and 
bank overdrafts and other current liabilities approximate to their carrying amounts as those items have short term maturities.
The quoted equity shares are categorised as a Level 1 investment for the purpose of the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy and are 
valued using quoted prices in active markets for these investments at the reporting date. The value of quoted shares at 
31 December 2015 is not materially different from original cost and hence no OCI movement arises.
Contingent consideration is categorised as a Level 3 investment for the purpose of the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy, valued by 
reference to valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data. Details of changes in Level 3 
financial liabilities and of the valuation process and inputs applied are given in note 20.
The fair value of other financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in 
a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Long-term fixed rate and variable-rate 
receivables/borrowings are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates, specific country risk factors 
and the individual creditworthiness of the counterparty. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken into account for the 
expected losses of these receivables. As at 31 December 2015, the carrying amounts of such receivables, net of 
allowances, were not materially different from their calculated fair values.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
87 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks and those activities involve the analysis, evaluation, acceptance 
and management of some degree of risk or combination of risks. Taking risk is core to the financial business, and the 
operational risks are an inevitable consequence of being in business. The Group’s aim is therefore to achieve an appropriate 
balance between risk and return and minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
The Group’s risk management policies are designed to identify and analyse these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and 
controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date information systems. The 
Group regularly reviews its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, products and emerging 
best practice.
Risk management is carried out by the Board of Directors. The Board is responsible for the identification of the major 
business risks faced by the Company and for determining the appropriate courses of action to manage those risks. The 
most important types of risk are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risk. Market risk includes currency risk, interest rate and 
other price risk.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligation, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers. Customers who wish to trade on 
credit terms are generally subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an 
ongoing basis.
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. In addition, a large 
number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed collectively. The calculation is based on 
actual incurred historical data. Credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis in conjunction with debt ageing and collection 
history. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets 
disclosed above.
Details of exposure to trade debtors is given in note 18.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment obligations associated with its financial liabilities when 
they fall due.
The Group financed its operations during the year from reserves (see Statement of Changes in Shareholder Equity) and from 
new loan and convertible loan facilities (see note 23). Operating companies’ cash requirements are monitored on a rolling 
working capital forecast basis and funded, where necessary, from Group funds.
Market risk
(a) Currency translation risk
The Group’s subsidiaries operate in Europe, Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong and Abu Dhabi and revenues and expenses 
are denominated in Euro (EUR), Australian Dollar (AUD) and Singapore Dollar (SGD), Hong Kong Dollar. The Group’s Sterling 
(GBP) Statement of Financial Position is not protected from movements in the exchange rate between these currencies and 
Sterling. The overall exposure to foreign currency risk is considered by management to be low.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible change in significant currencies to the Group such 
as EUR, AUD and SGD to GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Group profit before 
tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. The Group exposure to possible changes in all other 
foreign exchange currencies is not deemed material.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
88 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
  2015  2014
  +5% -5% +5% -5% 
Effect on profit before tax £ £ £ £
Euro (7,892) 7,892 (8,111) 8,111
Australian Dollar 73,852 (73,852) 58,757 (58,757)
Singapore Dollar 145 (145) 3,250 (3,250)
Hong Kong Dollar 22,298 (22,298) – –
 +5% -5% +5% -5% 
Effect on equity £ £ £ £
Euro (24,937) 24,937 (16,877) 16,877
Australian Dollar 43,745 (43,745) 77,575 (77,575)
Singapore Dollar 30,089 (30,089) 33,351 (33,351)
Hong Kong Dollar 52,594 (52,594) – –
(b) Interest rate risk
The interest rate risk profile of the Group’s financial assets, excluding work in progress, trade and other receivables, was as 
follows:
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
Cash and cash equivalents: interest rate exposure £  £
Floating rate – –
Fixed rate 187,231 84,148
Non-interest bearing 1,599,953 1,707,278
 1,787,184 1,791,426
The fixed rate cash deposits mature on various dates within one year of the year end and bear interest at 1.8% per annum 
(2014: rates between 1.8% and 2.5% per annum).
The interest rate risk profile of the Group’s financial liabilities was as follows:
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
Loans and borrowings £  £
Fixed rate convertible loans (2,812,935) (2,936,680)
Fixed rate loans and borrowings (5,185,137) (4,461,476)
Variable rate loans – –
 (7,998,072) (7,398,156)
Fixed rate interest bearing loans and borrowings excluding finance leases are subject to interest at 12% per annum 
(2014: between 6% and 12% per annum). Further details of loans are given in note 23 and further details of finance lease 
arrangements in note 24.
Sensitivity Analysis
The Group was not exposed to any variable rate loans or borrowings at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014. The 
Group does not account for any fixed rate financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, therefore a change in interest 
rates at the end of the period would not affect profit or loss or equity.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
89 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Due in six months or less 5,649,010 3,061,055
Due between six months and 1 year 4,851,386 5,778,116
Due between 1 year and 2 years 3,783,345 2,518,549
Due between 2 and 5 years 462,487 856,336
 14,746,228 12,214,056
8. Capital risk management
The capital structure of the Group comprises the equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company, comprising 
issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings. Quantitative data on these are set out in the Consolidated and 
Company Statement of Changes in Equity.
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce 
the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to 
shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors its capital structure on the basis of the gearing ratio. The ratio is 
calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current 
borrowings as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position) less cash and cash equivalents. Total equity is 
calculated as ‘equity’ as shown in the consolidated balance sheet plus net debt.
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Total borrowings (note 23) 7,998,072 7,398,156
Less: cash and cash equivalents (1,787,184) (1,791,426)
Net debt 6,210,888 5,606,730
Total equity 11,618,836 15,293,749
Total capital 17,829,724 20,900,479
Gearing ratio 34.8% 26.8%
The increase in the gearing ratio during 2015 resulted primarily from funding losses during the year.
9. Discontinued operations
On 1 December 2014 the Board committed to a plan to discontinue the trading of Twenty20 Media group (‘TTMG’), which was 
90% owned by the Group. At 31 December 2014, TTMG, historically representing the major part of the media and advertising 
operating segment within the Porta Group, was classified as a disposal group and discontinued operations and therefore is 
excluded from the analysis of continuing operations in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and related notes.
Whilst the activities of TTMG were discontinued by 31 December 2014, final insolvency procedures relating to the remaining 
liabilities of the business were not entered into until the end of February 2015. In view of the timing of the formal procedures 
relating to extinguishing the debt and in order to comply with the derecognition criteria of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’ the Group wrote down the net assets of TTMG to zero but continued to reflect the gross 
assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for the year to December 2014. This does not apply 
for the current reporting period. 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
90 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
In the course of the administration the Group incurred a number of unforeseen costs resulting in an additional loss from 
discontinued operations which was recognised in the current reporting period. 
The results of the discontinued operations for the year are as follows:
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Revenue – 10,270,926
Expenses (352,577) (11,170,770)
Loss before tax on discontinued operations – (899,844)
Impairment of assets of the discontinued operations and provision for 
   additional costs of closure – (1,629,862)
 (352,577) (2,529,706)
Taxation  – 49,032
Loss from discontinued operations after taxation (352,577) (2,480,674)
The assets and liabilities of T wenty 20 Media group classified as discontinued operations as at 31 December 2014 were as follows:
  Year ended 
  31 December 2014 
  £
Assets
Intangible assets  3,266,518
Fixed assets  54,672
Deferred tax asset  25,658
Current assets  1,695,509
Cash  21,033
Impairment of assets of the discontinued operations  (1,629,862)
Assets relating to discontinued operations  3,433,528
Liabilities  
Current liabilities   (2,214,830)
Loans and borrowings   (1,037,500)
Provisions  (181,198)
Liabilities relating to discontinued operations  (3,433,528)
Net assets directly associated with discontinued operations  –
Net cash flow incurred by TTMG was as follows:
  Year ended 
  31 December 2014 
  £
Operating  (444,049)
Investing   (60,382)
Financing  (62,500)
Net cash outflow  (566,931)
Since the year end and up to the date of approval of these financial statements no additional losses or gains have occurred 
in respect of the discontinued operations.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
91 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
10. Acquisitions
10.1  Acquisition of Newgate Communications (HK) Limited
Newgate Communications (HK) Limited (‘Newgate Hong Kong’) is a PR consultancy firm specialising in brand building and 
capital markets services which has been operating under the ‘Newgate’ brand from the commencement of its trading activity 
in late 2012.
On 1 November 2012, the Group provided Newgate Hong Kong with a revolving loan facility of up to £495,753 for general 
working capital purposes. On 1 January 2015, the Directors of both Porta and Newgate Hong Kong agreed to convert the 
full outstanding balance of the loan facility, including 1.5% annual interest accrued to that date, into 51% of the issued share 
capital of Newgate Hong Kong.
The fair value of net assets acquired at 1 January 2015 has been determined as equal to their book value. The following 
table summarises the recognised amounts of assets and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date:
 Book value of acquisition Fair Value Adjustments Fair Value 
 £ £ £
Goodwill – 451,259 451,259
Fixed assets 12,976 – 12,976
Work in progress 2,884 – 2,884
Trade and other receivables 77,178 – 77,178
Cash and cash equivalents 49,102 – 49,102
Total assets 142,140 451,259 593,399
Trade and other payables (33,546) – (33,546)
Total liabilities  (33,546) – (33,546)
Net assets acquired 108,594 451,259 559,853
Less: attributable to NCI   (53,211)
Net value attributable to Group’s equity shareholders    506,642
The goodwill arising on the transaction has been recognised as follows:
  £
The fair value of converted loan as total consideration  506,642
Less: the fair value of net identifiable assets (51%)  (55,383)
Goodwill  451,259
The goodwill is attributable mainly to the skills and knowledge of the staff acquired and the synergies expected to be 
achieved from incorporating the high calibre staff into the existing business.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
92 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
The following table shows the result of the acquired business since acquisition:
  12 months period ended 
  31 December 2015 
  £
Revenue  1,914,279
Cost of sales  (554,341)
Gross Profit  1,359,938
Operating and administrative expenses  (911,429)
Operating profit  448,509
Finance expense  (2,560)
Finance income  3
Profit before taxation  445,952
Taxation  (11,193)
Profit for the period  457,145
Total comprehensive income for the period  457,145
Attributed to:
Equity Shareholders (51%)  233,144
Non-controlling interests (49%)  224,001
The cash flows of the acquired business since acquisition were as follows:
  12 months period ended 
  31 December 2015 
  £
Net cash from operating activities   377,247
Net cash from investing activities  (273,862)
Net cash from financing activities  –
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents   103,385
Cash and cash equivalents on acquisition   49,102
Effect of exchange rate changes  4,310
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year  156,797
10.2 Acquisition of additional interest in Newgate Communications Limited and 21:12 Direct LLP
On 28 May 2015, the Group completed the reorganisation of Newgate Communications LLP (‘Newgate’) and 21:12 Direct 
LLP (‘Direct’) and, as part of this reorganisation, acquired the outstanding 49% interests in Newgate and the outstanding 
30% interest in Direct, thereby increasing the Group’s ownership interest in both businesses to 100%, for a total 
consideration of 9,754,000 Ordinary shares of 10p each in Porta.  
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
93 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
11. Non-controlling interest
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group had two subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests: Redleaf 
Polhill Limited and Newgate Communications Pty Limited in both of which the Group has 51% ownership. Summarised 
financial information before intragroup eliminations in respect of these subsidiaries is presented in table below.
 Newgate Communications Pty Limited Redleaf Polhill Limited
 Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £ £ £ £
Current assets 1,983,696 1,975,307 1,017,605 719,531
Current liabilities  (526,685) (785,107) 14,718 (671,531)
Net current assets 1,457,011 1,190,200 1,032,323 48,000
Non-current assets 118,765 143,675 3,446,150 3,919,526
Non-current liabilities (700,877) (620,422) (1,259,594) (483,958)
Net non-current assets/(liabilities) (582,112) (476,747) 2,186,556 3,435,568
Net assets 874,899 713,453 3,218,879 3,483,568
Non-controlling interests  428,701 349,592 1,577,251 1,706,949
Revenue 7,034,316 6,984,444 3,642,796 2,359,365
Profit for the year 993,649 799,018 456,390 141,119
Other comprehensive income (62,554) (24,821) – –
Total comprehensive income 931,095 774,197 456,390 141,119
Attributable to non-controlling interests 486,888 379,357 223,631 69,148
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 346,453 115,034 381,773 125,779
 Newgate Communications Pty Limited Redleaf Polhill Limited
 Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £ £ £ £
Cash flows from operating activities 852,005 464,067 667,572 684,340
Cash flows from investing activities (385,428) (237,591) (363,739) (169,383)
Cash flows from financing activities – – (180,314) –
Payment of dividend to parent  
   Company (423,260) (119,729) (339,699) (130,934)
Net increase/(decrease) of cash 
    and cash equivalents 43,317 106,747 (216,180) 384,023
Further information about non-controlling interests is given in note 17.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
94 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
12. Investment in associates
The following table summarises the financial information of the Group’s investments in its associated companies at the end 
of the financial year.
The Group has a 29.5% interest in Capital Access Group (“Capital Access”), a corporate communications, investor access 
and equity research provider, which was acquired in a non-cash acquisition on 28 July 2015. Under the acquisition 
agreement, the Group provides Capital Access with office services for 3 ½ years from acquisition and guarantees a 
maximum of £2,000,000 of debt. Any calls on the guarantee will be satisfied by the issue of ordinary shares in Porta at the 
time. Porta has a call option over the remaining equity in Capital Access, exercisable in four tranches from 1 January 2018. 
The call option is payable in ordinary shares of Porta but Porta has no obligation to purchase the outstanding equity in the 
associate.
The Group also has a 25.1% interest in Team Darwin Limited, a community powered creative business, with a call option to 
purchase up to 40% of the outstanding share capital. 
  Year ended 31 December 2015  Year ended  
Group    31 December 2014
 Capital Access Team Darwin Total Team Darwin 
 £ £ £ £
Revenue 904,136 96,856 1,000,992 134,383
Cost of sales (11,305) (32,505) (43,810) (79,470)
Administration expenses (867,491) (36,243) (903,734) (83,943)
Net finance expense (135,032) – (135,032) –
Profit/(Loss) for the period (109,692) 28,108 (81,584) (29,030)
Group ownership 29.5% 25.1%  25.1%
Profit/(Loss) attributable to the Group (32,359) 7,055 (25,304) (7,287)
Carrying value of the investment at 1 January – 119,435 119,435 126,722
Acquired during the year 751,790 – 751,790 –
Share of profit/loss in associate during the year (32,359) 7,055 (25,304) (7,287)
Carrying value of the investment 
   at 31 December 719,431 126,490 845,921 119,435
  Year ended 31 December 2015  Year ended  
Company    31 December 2014
 Capital Access Team Darwin Total Team Darwin 
 £ £ £ £
Carrying value of the investment 
   at 1 January – – – –
Acquired during the year 751,790 – 751,790 –
Carrying value of the investment 
   at 31 December 751,790   751,790 –
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
95 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
13. Loss per share
The loss per share has been calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue during the relevant financial 
year. The weighted number of equity shares in issue and the loss, being the loss after tax, used in these calculations are as 
follows:
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014
   number  number
Weighted average number of shares (ordinary and dilutive) 273,399,572 219,820,830
   £ £
Loss on continuing activities after tax (4,003,535) (1,257,265)
Loss on discontinued activities after tax (352,577) (2,480,674)
Loss on continuing and discontinued activities after tax (4,356,112) (3,737,939)
No share options or warrants outstanding at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014 were dilutive and all such potential 
Ordinary shares are therefore excluded from the weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purposes of calculating 
diluted earnings per share.
14. Profit accounted for in the parent company
As permitted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Company 
is not presented as part of these financial statements. The Company’s loss for the year, after tax, was £2,433,297 
(Restated 2014: £4,356,462). The loss after tax for 2014 includes the impairment of investments related to discontinued 
operations.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
96 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
15. Intangible assets 
Group
    Websites, 
  Customer   software 
 Goodwill relationships Brands and licences Total 
Cost £  £  £ £ £
At 1 January 2014 7,110,054 1,590,000 747,000 141,022 9,588,076
Additions in the year – acquired with subsidiaries 3,118,597 8,330,000 2,785,000 1,223 14,234,820
Other additions in the year – – – 49,822 49,822
Discontinued operations written off (2,724,601) (540,000) (345,000) (8,017) (3,617,618)
Translation differences 12,900 – – 37 12,937
At 31 December 2014 7,516,950 9,380,000 3,187,000 184,087 20,268,037
Additions in the year – acquired with subsidiaries 451,259 – – – 451,259
Re-estimate of previously acquired goodwill 88,684 – – – 88,684
Other additions in the year – – – 188,141 188,141
Translation differences 10,035 – – (35) 10,000
At 31 December 2015 8,066,928 9,380,000 3,187,000 372,193 21,006,121
Amortisation £  £  £ £ £
At 1 January 2014 – 602,158 140,300 58,152 800,610
Charge for the year – 987,996 196,664 50,989 1,235,649
Discontinued operations written off – (256,833) (86,250) (8,017) (351,100)
Translation differences – – – 10 10
At 31 December 2014 – 1,333,321 250,714 101,134 1,685,169
Charge for the year – 1,888,496 318,692 57,595 2,264,783
Translation differences – – – (23) (23)
At 31 December 2015 – 3,221,817 569,406 158,706 3,949,929
Net book value £  £  £ £ £
At 1 January 2014 7,110,054 987,842 606,700 82,870 8,787,466
At 31 December 2014 7,516,950 8,046,679 2,936,286 82,953 18,582,868
At 31 December 2015 8,066,928 6,158,183 2,617,594 213,487 17,056,192
The average remaining amortisation period for indefinite life intangible assets recognised at 31 December 2015 is 
approximately 8 years for brands (2014: 9 years) and 3 years for customer relationships (2014: 4 years).
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
97 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill
For the purpose of impairment testing, the aggregate carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit 
(CGU) as follows.
Reporting    
Segment Cost 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
  £ £
Communications ICAS Holding Limited (trading as Publicasity) 188,789 100,105
Communications Newgate Communications Limited 3,545,117 3,545,117
Communications Newgate Communications (HK) Limited 470,197 –
Communications Newgate Communications (Singapore) Pte. Ltd 433,135 442,038
Communications PPS Group Limited 588,701 588,701
Communications Redleaf Polhill Limited 1,406,358 1,406,358
Marketing 2112 Communications Limited 594,295 594,295
Marketing Summit Marketing Services Limited 346,859 346,859
 Other units without significant goodwill* 493,477 493,477
  8,066,928 7,516,950
*Other comprise of goodwill acquired with Cauldron Consulting Limited, the trade of which is now incorporated into Newgate Communications Limited and 
13 Communications Limited (both belong to the communication division) and 2112 Direct LLP , the trade of which is now incorporated into 21:12 Communications 
Limited, which belongs to the marketing division.
The recoverable amount of the cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis, determined by 
discounting future cash flows to be generated from the continuing use of the cash-generating unit.
Key assumptions used in the calculation of recoverable amounts are discount rates, terminal value growth rates, and 
forecast EBITDA. The EBITDA forecasts are based on three year forecasts approved by the Board and based on 
management’s estimate of the business within the cash-generating unit, for five years thereafter based on an average 
growth projection, and a long-term growth rate into perpetuity. For all cash-generating units the resulting cash flows have 
been discounted using a pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 13.0% (2014: 14.0%) and a terminal growth rate of 
2.5% (2014: 2.5%) has been applied in perpetuity. The discount rate was based on the risk-free rate obtained from UK 
Government Gilts, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect both the increased risk of investing in equities generally and the 
systemic risk specific to the Group.
The results of the impairment testing indicated that there is no impairment for any of the continuing Group’s cash-generating 
units. 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
98 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Company
 Websites, software  
 and licences Total 
Cost £ £
At 1 January 2014 70,681 70,681
Additions in the year 34,030 34,030
At 31 December 2014 104,711 104,711
Additions in the year 178,944 178,944
At 31 December 2015 283,655 283,655
Amortisation £ £
At 1 January 2014 30,093 30,093
Charge for the year 26,674 26,674
At 31 December 2014 56,767 56,767
Charge for the year 30,858 30,858
At 31 December 2015 87,625 87,625
Net book value £ £
At 1 January 2014 40,588 40,588
At 31 December 2014 47,944 47,944
At 31 December 2015 196,030 196,030
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
99 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
16. Property, plant and equipment 
Group 
 Office  Fittings and Computer Motor 
 improvements equipment equipment vehicles Total 
Cost £ £ £ £ £
At 1 January 2014 199,447 109,628 215,628 24,000 548,703
Additions in the year – acquired with subsidiaries 184,398 274,807 58,838 34,728 552,771
Other additions in the year 760,563 151,107 105,651 – 1,017,321
Transfers between categories (4,370) (6,551) 10,921 – –
Disposals in the year – (19,843) – – (19,843)
Discontinued operations written off (44,405) (26,864) (24,062) – (95,331)
Translation differences (2,228) (1,981) (1,620) – (5,829)
At 31 December 2014 1,093,405 480,303 365,356 58,728 1,997,792
Additions in the year – acquired with subsidiaries 5,464 2,022 5,490 – 12,976
Other additions in the year 30,798 72,078 91,225 – 194,101
Disposals in the year – – (2,266) – (2,266)
Translation differences (7,236) (5,386) (3,426) – (16,048)
At 31 December 2015 1,122,431 549,017 456,379 58,728 2,186,555
Depreciation £  £ £  £  £
At 1 January 2014 80,028 40,412 104,306 800 225,546
Charge for the year 188,189 85,820 102,978 7,210 384,197
Transfers between categories (1,035) (1,521) 2,556 – –
Disposals in the year – (9,591) – – (9,591)
Discontinued operations written off (14,805) (22,829) (3,025) – (40,659)
Translation differences (1,155) (484) (776) – (2,415)
At 31 December 2014 251,222 91,807 206,039 8,010 557,078
Charge for the year 240,556 119,181 81,005 12,880 453,622
Disposals in the year – – (553) – (553)
Translation differences (2,710) (1,476) (1,209) – (5,395)
At 31 December 2015 489,068 209,512 285,282 20,890 1,004,752
Net book value £  £ £  £  £
At 1 January 2014 119,419 69,216 111,322 23,200 323,157
At 31 December 2014 842,183 388,496 159,317 50,718 1,440,714
At 31 December 2015 633,363 339,505 171,097 37,838 1,181,803
Further details relating to additions in the year which were acquired with subsidiaries are given in note 10.
The net asset value of assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2015 was £309,070 (2014: 372,817).
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
100 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Company
 Office  Fittings and Computer Motor 
 improvements equipment equipment vehicles Total 
Cost £ £ £ £ £
At 1 January 2014 93,046 54,339 72,836 24,000 244,221
Additions in the year 718,018 91,639 16,363 – 826,020
At 31 December 2014 811,064 145,978 89,199 24,000 1,070,241
Additions in the year 15,665 2,190 26,887 – 44,472
At 31 December 2015 826,729 148,168 116,086 24,000 1,114,983
Depreciation £  £ £  £  £
At 1 January 2014 59,414 19,345 45,461 800 125,020
Charge for the year 112,703 24,726 34,578 4,800 176,807
At 31 December 2014 172,117 44,071 80,039 5,600 301,827
Charge for the year 108,634 26,473 21,272 4,800 161,179
At 31 December 2015 280,751 70,544 101,311 10,400 463,006
Net book value £  £ £  £  £
At 1 January 2014 33,632 34,994 27,375 23,200 119,201
At 31 December 2014 638,947 101,907 9,160 18,400 768,414
At 31 December 2015 545,978 77,624 14,775 13,600 651,977
17. Investment in subsidiaries – Company
 31 December 2015 
Cost and net book value £
At 1 January 2014 4,332,177
Acquired during the year 11,917,977
Share based payments to subsidiary company employees 10,311
Exchange differences (24,801)
At 31 December 2014 16,235,664
Acquired during the year 1,501,846
Share based payments to subsidiary employees (note 22) 135,974
Exchange differences 7,107
At 31 December 2015 17,880,591
Additions during the period were as follows:
Name  Note £
Newgate Communications (HK) Limited (acquisition of subsidiary)  10.1 506,642
Newgate Communications Limited (acquisition of minority interests)  10.2 980,204
21:12 Direct LLP (acquisition of minority interests)  10.2 15,000
   1,501,846
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
101 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Exchange differences incurred during the year relate to the investment in Newgate Communications Pty Limited which was 
made in Australian Dollars, the local currency of subsidiary.
At 31 December 2015, the Company held the following interests in subsidiaries, all of which have reporting dates of 
31 December and are all incorporated in England and Wales, unless otherwise stated:
Name  Share capital Percentage 
  held held Principal activity during year
13 Communications Limited  Ordinary 51% Public Relations consultancy
Clare Consultancy Limited  Ordinary* 100%  Public Relations & Public Affairs 
consultancy
ICAS Limited  Ordinary* 100%  Public Relations & Public Affairs 
consultancy
Newgate Brussels SPRL  Ordinary * 100% Public Relations consultancy 
   (incorporated in Belgium)
Newgate Communications Limited 
   (previously Newgate Integrated Limited) Ordinary 100% Public Relations consultancy (note 1)
Newgate Communications FZ-LLC  Ordinary* 76% Public Relations consultancy 
   (incorporated in the United Arab Emirates)
Newgate Communications Germany GmbH 
   (incorporated in Germany)  Ordinary* 100% Public Relations consultancy
Newgate Communications Pty Limited  Ordinary 51% Public Relations consultancy 
   (incorporated in Australia)
Newgate Communications (HK) Limited Ordinary 51% Public Relations & Public Affairs  
   (incorporated in Hong Kong)    consultancy
Newgate Communications (Singapore) Pte. Ltd Ordinary 45% Public Relations & Public Affairs 
   (incorporated in Singapore)    consultancy
Newgate Integrated LLP (previously   Corporate Partner* 100% Public Relations & Public Affairs 
   Newgate Communications LLP)    consultancy (notes 1,2)
Newgate Sponsorship Limited (previously Ordinary 85% Public Relations consultancy 
   Newgate Sports Limited and 
   Threadneedle Communications Limited)
Newgate Threadneedle Limited  Ordinary 100% Public Relations consultancy (notes 1,2)
PPS (Local and Regional) Limited  Ordinary * 100% Public Relations consultancy
Redleaf Polhill Limited  Ordinary 51% Public Relations consultancy
21:12 Communications Limited  Ordinary* 60% Marketing and Advertising consultancy
21:12 Direct LLP  Corporate Partner 60%  Marketing and Advertising consultancy 
(notes 1,2)
21:12 Print Management and Creative  Ordinary* 60% Marketing and Advertising consultancy 
   Services Limited    (note 1,3)
TwentyFour Seven Studios LLP  Corporate Partner* 60%  Marketing and Advertising consultancy  
(note 1,3)
TwentyOne Twelve Communications LLP Corporate Partner * 60%  Marketing and Advertising consultancy  
(notes 1,2)
Summit Marketing Services Limited  Ordinary * 100% Media buying
ICAS Holdings Limited  Ordinary 100% Intermediate holding company (note 2)
Newgate Media Holdings Limited  Ordinary 100% Intermediate holding company
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
102 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Newgate PR Holdings Limited  Ordinary 100% Intermediate holding company
Newgate Public Affairs Limited  Ordinary * 100% Intermediate holding company
Newgate Public Relations Limited  Ordinary 100% Intermediate holding company
PPS Group Holdings Limited  Ordinary * 100% Intermediate holding company (note 2)
PPS Group Limited  Ordinary 100% Intermediate holding company (note 2)
Twenty20 Media Group Limited  Ordinary* 90% Non-trading (note 2)
Newgate Comms LLP  Corporate Partner* 100% Dormant
Springall Gbr (incorporated in Germany) Ordinary* 100% Dormant
Velvet Consultancy Limited  Ordinary 100% Dormant
*Indirectly held through another group company 
Note 1: trade transferred to another group company 
Note 2: filed for dissolution since the year end 
Note 3: dissolved since the year end
Audit exemptions: The following Group entities are exempt from audit by virtue of Section 479A of the 
Companies Act 2006
13 Communications Limited 
Newgate Sponsorship Limited 
Clare Consultancy Limited 
Newgate PR Holdings Limited 
Newgate Public Relations Limited 
TwentyOne Twelve Communications LLP
21:12 Communications Limited 
Newgate Media Holdings Limited 
Summit Marketing Services Limited 
Twenty20 Media Group Limited 
Newgate Public Affairs Limited 
Newgate Integrated LLP 
Newgate Threadneedle Limited
Preparation & filing exemptions: The following Group entities are exempt from preparing/filing individual accounts by 
virtue of Sections 394A or 448A of the Companies Act 2006:
Velvet Consultancy Limited 
ICAS Holding Limited 
Newgate Comms LLP
PPS Group Holdings Limited 
PPS Group Limited
Statutory guarantees: Porta Communications Plc has provided statutory guarantees to the following entities 
in accordance with Section 479C of the Companies Act 2006:
13 Communications Limited 
Newgate Sponsorship Limited 
Clare Consultancy Limited 
Newgate PR Holdings Limited 
Newgate Public Relations Limited  
TwentyOne Twelve Communications LLP 
21:12 Communications Limited 
Newgate Media Holdings Limited 
Summit Marketing Services Limited 
Twenty20 Media Group Limited 
Newgate Public Affairs Limited 
Newgate Integrated LLP 
Newgate Threadneedle Limited
 Porta Communications Plc has provided statutory guarantees to the following entities 
in accordance with Section 394C of the Companies Act 2006:
Velvet Consultancy Limited 
Newgate Comms LLP 
ICAS Holding Limited
PPS Group Holdings Limited 
PPS Group Limited
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
103 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
18. Trade and other receivables
Group 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Trade receivables 5,336,814 5,743,807
Less: provision for impairment (131,293) (211,299)
 5,205,521 5,532,508
Loans – 793,633
Other debtors 898,313 669,730
Prepayments 1,222,381 764,788
 7,326,215 7,760,659
The average credit period on sales of services is 56 days (2014: 87 days). No interest has been charged on trade receivables 
during the year.
The Group provides for the impairment of trade receivables on a customer-by-customer basis having regarded past payment 
experience and the probability of future payment.
During the year, a charge for bad and doubtful debts of £176,578 (2014: £133,167) was made to the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. Identified individual bad or doubtful debtors are provided for in full to the extent that they are 
deemed irrecoverable. In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit 
quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit 
risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further 
credit provision required in excess of the allowance for impairment relating to doubtful debts. The Directors consider that the 
carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
At 31 December 2015, there were two customers who individually represented more than 5% of the trade receivables 
balance, an international drinks company and an international finance company which accounted for £442,324 (8.5%) 
and £325,324 (6.2%) of trade receivables respectively. At 31 December 2014 there were no customers who individually 
represented more than 5% of trade receivables.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
104 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
A summary of trade receivables, excluding impaired balances, categorised by due date for payment is as follows:
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Neither past due nor impaired 2,141,047 2,070,468
Past due but not impaired:  
   Past due up to 3 months 2,564,145 3,023,834
   Past due more than 3 months not more than 6 months 361,275 255,370
   Past due more than 6 months not more than 1 year 132,076 141,471
Past due more than 1 year 6,978 41,365
 5,205,521 5,532,508
The movement on impairment for the year in respect of trade receivables was as follows:
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £ £
Balance at 1 January 211,299 112,746
Acquired with subsidiaries – 31,458
Amounts written off during the year (255,573) (65,400)
Provision made during period 176,578 133,167
Translation differences (1,011) (672)
Balance at 31 December 131,293 211,299
Company 
 Year ended  Year ended 
 31 December 2015  31 December 2014 
 £ £
Trade receivables 30,432 7,680
Less provision for impairment – –
 30,432 7,680
Loans – 792,113
Other debtors 320,152 169,981
Prepayments 962,393 426,658
Receivable owned by related party (note 26) 781 757
 1,313,758 1,397,189
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
105 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Non-current other receivables
On 7 January 2014, the Company entered into a tenancy agreement relating to the new office premises located at 
50 Basinghall Street, London. The initial deposit of £923,775 and related interest is retained by the Landlord in a separate 
bank account until the termination of the lease.
19. Trade and other payables 
Current liabilities
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
Group £ £
Trade payables 2,233,856 1,970,894
Taxes and social security costs 1,550,381 1,511,988
Income received in advance 1,129,703 795,813
Other payables 433,663 223,014
Accrued expenses 2,768,780 2,026,007
  8,116,383 6,527,716
Company
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £ £
Trade payables owing to third parties  866,311 674,428
Trade payables owing to related parties (note 26) 2,296 896
 868,607 675,324
Taxes and social security costs 30,287 34,950
Other payables 193,581 1,237
Accrued expenses 1,566,076 932,212
  2,658,551 1,643,723
The average credit period taken by the Company on trade purchases was 65 days (2014: 81 days). Interest may be charged 
on overdue trade payables at varying rates up to 13% per annum depending on the contractual terms and the legal 
requirements of the country of operation. The Company manages trade payables in accordance with customer terms and 
the cash flow requirements of the business. £45 interest was charged by suppliers during the year (2014: none).
Non-current liabilities
The Group and the Company recognised £462,487 of other non-current payables in respect of the acquisition of the equity 
interest in Capital Access Group Limited (see note 12). There were no non-current trade and other payables in 2014.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
106 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
20. Contingent Consideration
Group
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £ £
At 1 January 2015 981,379 636,019
Additions: Put/call agreement  – 770,778
Utilised in the period (10,000) –
Charged/(released) in the period:
   Amortisation of put/call agreement 114,076 85,556
   Other changes in the period 93,847 (329,786)
Transferred to discontinued operations – (181,198)
At 31 December 2015 1,179,302 981,379
On 1 December 2014 the Board committed to a plan to discontinue the trading of Twenty20 Media group (‘TTMG’), which 
was 90% owned by the Group. At 31 December 2014, TTMG, historically representing the major part of the media and 
advertising operating segment within the Porta Group, was classified as a disposal group and discontinued operations and 
therefore is excluded from the analysis of continuing operations in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and related notes. 
Whilst the activities of TTMG were discontinued by 31 December 2014, final insolvency procedures relating to the remaining 
liabilities of the business were not entered into until the end of February 2015. In the course of the administration the Group 
incurred a number of unforeseen costs and made a provision of £208,892 resulting in an additional loss from discontinued 
operations which was recognised in the current reporting period. The Directors expect no further costs to be incurred as a 
result of TTMG discontinued operations.
The acquisition of Redleaf in 2014 (see note 10 in the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 
2014) involved the grant of put and call options relating to the purchase by the Company of the remaining 49% of the issued 
share capital of Redleaf which are exercisable in three tranches following the end of each of the three full financial years 
beginning 31 December 2015 on similar terms to the initial acquisition. Any additional consideration payable under the put 
and call options will be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in Ordinary Shares. 
Management has evaluated Redleaf’s three year forecasts for profit after tax in order to determine the liability component of 
deferred consideration and has discounted this using the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 14.8% at the 
time of the acquisition. At 31 December 2015 the present value of the liability component of deferred consideration is 
£970,410 (2014: £856,334).
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
107 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
21. Share capital and Reserves 
Share capital
Allotted, called up and fully paid
31 December 2015 Number  £
Ordinary shares of 10p each 277,327,895 27,732,790
Deferred shares of 0.9p each 72,000,000 648,000
  28,380,790
31 December 2014 Number  £
Ordinary shares of 10p each 267,573,895 26,757,390
Deferred shares of 0.9p each 72,000,000 648,000
  27,405,390
Ordinary shares
The movement in Ordinary shares for the year reconciles as follows:
 Number  £ nominal value
At 1 January 2015 267,573,895 26,757,390
New issues during the year 9,754,000 975,400
At 31 December 2015 277,327,895 27,732,790
During the year the Company issued 9,754,000 Ordinary shares at 10p per share to acquire the outstanding non-controlling 
interests in two businesses. Further details are given in note 10.
Deferred shares
There has been no change in the number of, or rights relating to, the Deferred shares during the year. The special rights, 
privileges, restrictions and limitations attached to the Deferred shares are set out below.
a) A holder of Deferred shares shall have no right to receive notice of or to attend or vote at any General meeting of the 
Company.
b) A holder of Deferred shares shall have no right to receive any dividend or distribution.
c) A holder of Deferred shares shall, on a return of capital in a liquidation but not otherwise, be entitled to receive a sum 
equal to the amount paid up or credited on each share but only after the sum of £1,000,000 per Ordinary share has 
been distributed amongst the holders of the Ordinary shares.
d) The Company may redeem the Deferred shares at any time for the sum of £1 payable in aggregate to all Deferred 
shareholders as a class.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign operations.
Other reserves
During the period, a net amount of £88,227 (2014: £1,665,621) was credited to other reserves relating to share based 
payments transactions (note 22) and the amortisation of the equity component of a convertible loan issued during the year 
(note 23).
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
108 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
22. Share based payments
Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) & Unapproved Share Option Plan
On 18 March 2014, the Board of the Company granted options over a total of 2,500,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the 
Company to Gene Golembiewski, the Group Finance Director. The exercise price of the options is 20p per share and, 
subject to the achievement of certain performance conditions, 50% of the options will vest on the first anniversary of the date 
of grant and the remaining 50% will vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant.
Following the acquisition of PPS Group Limited (note 10.4), the Company granted options over a total of 3,600,000 Ordinary 
Shares of 10p each in the Company to two key members of the PPS staff. The exercise price of the options is 10p per share 
and, subject to the achievement of certain performance conditions, 50% of the options will vest on the first anniversary of the 
date of grant and the remaining 50% will vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant.
On 13 May 2015 the Company granted options over an aggregate of 8,070,000 ordinary shares to certain employees of the 
Group, all with an exercise price of 10p per share under its Enterprise Management Incentive and Unapproved Share Option 
Plan (“EMI and Unapproved Plans”). The options vest in three equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversary of the 
grant of the options, and expire on the tenth anniversary of grant.
On 9 December 2015 the Company granted options over 1,500,000 ordinary shares to Steffan Williams, Group Managing 
Director. The options are exercisable at 10p per share and vest in three equal tranches on the first, second and third 
anniversary of their grant and expire on the third anniversary of the grant.
The fair value of services received in return for the share options granted is based on the fair value of the share options 
granted measured using the Black-Scholes and Binomial models. Expected volatility is estimated by considering historical 
volatility over the period commensurate with the expected term. The following inputs were used in the measurement of the 
fair values at grant date of the share based payment plans.
Option Grant Year 2012 2013 2014 2015
Option recipient Employees Directors Employees Directors Employees Directors Employees Directors
Fair value at grant date 4.96p 4.22p 9.50p 3.36p 4.93p 8.68p 4.24p 3.26p
Share price at grant date 8.00p 8.00p 14.00p 7.25p 8.25p 14.62p 7.63p 7.19p
Exercise price 10.00p 10.00p 14.00p 20.00p 10.00p 20.00p 10.00p 10.00p
Expected volatility 76% 76% 76% 76% 70% 72% 67% 66%
Option life* 6 years 6 years 6 years 6 years 6 years 6 years 6 years 6 years
Expected dividends 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Risk-free interest rate 1.1% 1.1% 3.01% 2.55% 2.25% 2.81% 2.10% 1.90%
* expected weighted average life
  Weighted average  
 Number exercise price
Balance at 1 January 2015 11,141,096 14.90p
Issued during the year 9,570,000 10.00p
Forfeited during the year (2,273,333) 10.00p
Balance at 31 December 2015 18,437,763 12.96p
The weighted average remaining contractual lives of outstanding options is 8.6 years and exercise prices range from 10p to 
20p. The weighted average fair value of options issued during the year was 4.00p.
£315,002 relating to share based payments has been recognised as an expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £185,580). 2,273,333 share options were forfeited (2014: 1,585,750) and no 
options were exercised during the year (2014: Nil).
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
109 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
23. Loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are 
measured at amortised cost. For information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk 
arising from these loans and borrowings, see note 7.
Group
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Non-current liabilities
Loans – related party 2,812,935 2,518,550
Obligations under finance leases (note 24) 228,868 304,613
 3,041,803 2,823,163
Current liabilities
Loan notes issued in relation to business combinations (note 10) 100,342 1,557,532
Convertible loans 4,754,863 2,936,680
 4,855,205 4,494,212
Obligations under finance leases (note 24) 101,064 80,781
 4,956,269 4,574,993
During 2015, the Company entered into a new loan agreement with Retro Grand Limited under which £3.0 million was borrowed. 
Subsequently the Company borrowed a further £1.7 million from Retro Grand which was added to the existing £3.0 million loan 
principal. These are due to be repaid or converted into 10p Ordinary Shares at the lender’s choice by the end of 2016. 
In February 2016 the Company re-negotiated the terms of its £2.86 million deep discounted bond facility, due to be repaid 
on the 26 February 2016, and its £0.25 million bridging loan facility, due to be repaid on 21 January 2016, from Hawk 
Investment Holdings Limited which have been combined into an amended deep discounted bond repayable in 3 years. 
Retro Grand is a Jersey registered company which is wholly owned by the Edward Trust. The Edward Trust is a trust whose 
sole beneficiary is one of Bob Morton’s sons, who is over the age of eighteen years, and is managed and administered by 
independent trustees. Bob Morton is neither a beneficiary nor a trustee of the Edward Trust, nor is he a director of Retro 
Grand Limited.
During the year, the Company repaid the loan notes bearing 6% coupon which were issued as a purchase consideration for 
acquisition of PPS Group Limited and ICAS Holdings Limited (trading as Publicasity) in 2014. One of the former Publicasity’s 
shareholders has extended £100,000 of his repayable balance on the same terms for another 12 months. 
Prior to 31 December 2015, the Group agreed with Hawk Investment Holdings Limited to refinance its current borrowings. 
The refinancing agreements were completed on 14 April 2016. Under the new agreements, the £2.86 million deep 
discounting bond facility, which was initially due to be repaid on 26 February 2016, was renewed for a further three year 
period on materially the same terms as the original facility repayable on 26 February 2019. At the same time the £0.25 million 
bridging loan facility provided by Hawk Investment Holdings Limited, initially due to be repaid on 21 January 2016, was also 
renewed on materially the same terms as the original facility and repayable on 21 January 2017.
Terms and debt repayment schedule
    2015 2014
  Nominal  Year of Face Carrying Face Carrying 
 Currency interest rate maturity Value Amount value Amount
Deep discounted bond – related party GBP 12% 2019 2,862,000 2,812,935 2,862,000 2,518,550
Convertible loan GBP 12% 2016 4,867,450 4,754,863 – –
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
110 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Loan notes GBP 6% 2016 100,000 100,342 – –
Loan notes GBP 6% 2015 – – 1,552,000 1,557,532
Convertible loan GBP 12% 2015 – – 3,067,450* 2,936,680
    7,829,450 7,668,140 7,481,450 7,012,762
* As agreed between the parties during 2015, 2% transaction costs together with £7,450 legal costs, which were capitalised in 2014, have been capitalised and 
added to the principal of £3,000,000.
Company
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Non-current liabilities
Loans – related party 2,812,935 2,518,550
Obligations under finance leases (note 24) 208,360 276,597
 3,021,295 2,795,147
Current liabilities
Convertible loans 4,754,863 2,936,680
Loan notes 100,342 1,557,532
 4,855,205 4,494,212
Obligations under finance leases (note 24) 93,275 73,322
 4,948,480 4,567,534
Terms and debt repayment schedule
    2015 2014
  Nominal  Year of Face Carrying Face Carrying 
 Currency interest rate maturity Value Amount value Amount
Deep discounted bond – related party GBP 12% 2019 2,862,000 2,812,935 2,862,000 2,518,550
Loan notes GBP 12% 2016 4,867,450 4,754,863 – –
Loan notes GBP 6% 2016 100,000 100,342 – –
Loan notes GBP 6% 2015 – – 1,552,000 1,557,532
Convertible loan GBP 12% 2015 – – 3,007,450 2,936,680
    7,829,450 7,668,140 7,421,450 7,012,762
The related party loans and convertible loan are secured over all current and future assets of both the Company and 
subsidiaries within the Group. The Group refinanced its related party borrowings, the details are given in note 27.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
111 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
24. Finance Leases
Finance lease commitments – as lessee
Group
 2015 2014
 Minimum  Present value Minimum Present value 
 payments of payments  payments of payments  
 £ £ £ £
Within one year 140,836 101,064 128,260 80,781
Between one and five years 264,279 228,868 372,780 304,613
Total minimum lease payments  405,115 329,932 501,040 385,394
Less amount representing finance charges (75,183) – (115,646) –
Present value of minimum 
   lease payments  329,932 329,932 385,394 385,394
Analysed as:  £  £
Current liability  101,064  80,781
Non-current liability  228,868  304,613
Present value of minimum 
   lease payments  329,932  385,394
Company
 2015 2014
 Minimum  Present value Minimum Present value 
 payments of payments  payments of payments  
 £ £ £ £
Within one year 131,020 93,275 118,164 73,322
Between one and five years 242,404 208,360 341,299 276,597
Total minimum lease payments  373,424 301,635 459,463 349,919
Less amount representing finance charges (71,789) – (109,544) –
Present value of minimum 
   lease payments  301,635 301,635 349,919 349,919
Analysed as:  £  £
Current liability  93,275  73,322
Non-current liability  208,360  276,597
Present value of minimum 
   lease payments  301,635  349,919
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
112 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
25. Operating leases
The Group operating leases mainly relate to office premises. The leases of office premises typically run for periods up to 10 
years. Leases for other fixed assets typically run for a period of 3 to 5 years.
At the end of the reporting period, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable 
as follows:
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Less than one year 897,650 984,495
Between one and five years 5,210,710 4,424,534
More than five years 3,098,867 4,108,265
 9,207,227 9,517,294
The Company received a two year rent free period as a lease incentive. The total minimum lease payments are allocated over 
the lease term evenly and therefore rent charge recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is different to the 
contractually committed cash outflow.
The anticipated future charge to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of operating leases is as follows:
 Year ended  
 31 December 2015 
 £
Less than one year 804,443
Between one and five years 3,217,774
More than five years 2,480,367
 6,502,584
26. Related party transactions
Key management personnel – Group and Company
In the opinion of the Board, only the Executive Directors of the Company are regarded as key management personnel. 
The Executive Directors have service agreements which require 12 months’ notice of termination from either party. 
Key management personnel compensation, including state taxes, comprised the following:
 Year ended  Year ended 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 
 £  £
Short term employee benefits 606,826 649,456
Share based payments 87,227 174,932
Post-employment benefits 132,325 22,406
 826,378 846,794
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
113 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Other related party transactions
During the year, the Company was invoiced £24,000 by Blasdales Limited (2014: £29,100 by CICS Limited), a company of 
which Brian Blasdale is a director, for non-executive director’s fees. At the year end, £1,516 was owed by the Company in 
respect of his expenses (2014: £861).
£30,000 was paid to Hawk Consulting Limited, a company of which Bob Morton is a Director, for non-executive director 
fees (2014: £30,000).
Prior to May 2013, Hawk Investment Holdings Limited (‘Hawk Investment’), a company beneficially owned by Bob Morton 
and his wife, provided the Group with a number of short term loan facilities, the outstanding balance of which was 
restructured into one loan, the deep discounted bond, with a face value of £2,862,000 and 12% fixed interest payable, 
together with the principal of the loan, on its maturity on 28 February 2016. The Group has charged a total of £294,387 
(2014: £294,387) of finance costs to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in relation to this loan.
During the year, the Group paid £90,000 (2014: £93,000) to members of Directors’ families employed by the Group.
Aqilla Limited, a company that produces accounting software packages, in which the Group’s Chairman, Bob Morton, is a 
controlling shareholder, during 2015 charged the Group £61,302 including VAT (2014: £31,902).
The following amounts were owed to/by Directors to/by the Company at the year-end in respect of expenses incurred or 
advances for expenses made in relation to expenses incurred on behalf of the Group’s business:
 Max amount outstanding   
 by Director Owed by Directors/ Owed by Directors/ 
 during the year (Owed to Directors) (Owed to Directors) 
  2015 2014 
Director £ £ £
Hawk investments Limited (Bob Morton) – (15,000) –
David Wright 7,083 781 757
Gene Golembiewski 199 (780) (35)
Brian Blasdale (and Blasdales Limited or CICS Limited) 3,974 (1,516) (861)
All related party transactions were on normal commercial terms.
Transactions with subsidiary undertakings – Company
The parent Company incurs various expenses during the year which it recharges to subsidiary companies and certain 
subsidiary companies have incurred expenses or provided services during the year which have been recharged to the parent 
Company. A summary of these transactions during the year are as follows:
 2015 2014
   Charged  Charged Charged Charged 
  by parent to parent by parent to parent 
Subsidiary Nature of transaction £ £ £ £
13 Communications Limited Expense recharges and consultancy fees 19,667 – 38,859 – 
 Rent 49,000 – 25,900 – 
 Interest 12,301 – 6,736 –
21:12 Communications Limited   Expense recharges, consultancy fees  
and group marketing and  
advertising services 81,620 – 64,374 –
 Rent 144,060 – 54,600 –
 Interest 9,336 347 33 –
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
114 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
21:12 Print Management and Expense recharges, consultancy fees 
   Creative Services Limited   and group marketing and advertising  
services 1,822 – 59,944 –
 Rent 5,600 – 39,900 –
21:12 Direct LLP  Expense recharges and consultancy fees 14,497 – 53,100 –
 Rent 21,560 – 30,320 –
 Interest  546 – 259
ICAS Limited (t/a Publicasity) Consultancy fees 72,360 – 286,610 – 
 Rent 170,800 – – – 
 Interest – 9,526 – –
Newgate Brussels SPRL Expense recharges, consultancy fees 613 – 15,524 – 
 Interest 3,487 – 6,571 –
Newgate Communications  Expense recharges and consultancy fees 120,078 – – – 
Limited Rent 202,300 – – – 
 Interest 18,652 14,122 – – 
Newgate Comms LLP Expense recharges and consultancy fees – – 63 – 
 Interest – – 4,626 –
Newgate Communications FZ-LLC Expense recharges 1,345 – – –
Newgate Communications Consultancy Fees 176,634 – 213,068 – 
   Pty Limited Interest 55,263 – 58,861 – 
 Group dividend 406,735 – 117,560 –
Newgate Communications Expense recharges and consultancy fees 40,431 – – – 
   (HK) Limited 
Newgate Communications Expense recharges and consultancy fees 20,120 – – – 
   (Singapore) Pte. Ltd Interest 1,042 – 6,114 –
Newgate Integrated LLP Expense recharges and consultancy fees 79,825 – 683,846 2,097 
 Rent 104,300 – 226,942 – 
 Interest 2,411 – 15,681 111
Newgate Public Affairs Limited Interest – 200 – 1,022
Newgate Public Relations Limited Interest 1,329 – – –
Newgate Sponsorship Limited Expense recharges 10 – – –
Newgate Threadneedle Limited Expense recharges, consultancy fees 52,541 – 139,978 37,959 
 Rent 57,820 – 64,841 – 
 Interest – 13,552 – –
PPS (Local and Regional) Limited Consultancy fees 100,604 – 633,001 – 
 Rent 148,470 – – – 
 Interest – 22,364 – –
Redleaf Polhill Limited Expense recharges and consultancy fees 58,330 – 56,637 6,000 
 Group dividend 397,357 – 130,934 –
Summit Marketing Services Expense recharges and consultancy fees 15,554 – – – 
   Limited 
TwentyOne Twelve Expense recharges and group marketing 
   Communications LLP and advertising services 142,691 – 77,138 8,656 
 Rent 190,540 – 369,087 – 
 Interest 49,338 – 97,141 –
  3,050,443 60,657 3,577,989 56,104
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
115 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
The Company also undertakes various group treasury functions receiving payments from group companies, funding group 
companies and making payments on their behalf and the net amount outstanding to or from the parent company at the year 
end is as follows:
 owed to parent/(owed by parent)
 2015 2014 
Subsidiary £ £
13 Communications Limited 639,293 441,537
21:12 Communications Limited 2,967,353 34,183
21:12 Direct LLP – (5,770)
21:12 Print Management and Creative Services Limited – 26,136
Clare Consultancy Limited (20) –
ICAS Limited (934,320) 288,796
Newgate Brussels SPRL 316,400 280,635
Newgate Comms LLP 224,217 224,217
Newgate Media Holdings Limited 538,999 503,999
Newgate PR Holdings Limited 345,421 345,421
Newgate Public Affairs Limited (32,277) (32,076)
Newgate Public Relations Limited 213,903 212,574
Newgate Communications Limited 565,076 –
Newgate Communications FZ-LLC 86,427 –
Newgate Communications Pty Limited 525,184 568,135
Newgate Communications (HK) Limited (127,795) –
Newgate Communications (Singapore) Pte. Ltd 70,542 69,500
Newgate Integrated LLP – 894,267
Newgate Sponsorship Limited (123,033) (124,940)
Newgate Threadneedle Limited – (455,111)
PPS (Local and Regional) Limited (873,351) (642,782)
Redleaf Polhill Limited (14,719) 7,030
Summit Marketing Services Limited (226,965) –
TwentyOne Twelve Communications LLP – 2,778,107
Velvet Consultancy Limited – 218,490
Net amount owed to parent Company 4,160,335 5,632,348
Less provided as bad debt – (218,490)
Total 4,160,335 5,413,858
Analysed as:  
Non-current assets 7,107,778 6,674,537
Non-current liabilities (2,947,443) (1,260,679)
Total 4,160,335 5,413,858
The Company has given undertakings to certain subsidiary companies to provide financial support for a period of at least 
12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements subject to group funding requirements.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
116 Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
The Board considers that the amounts disclosed in the table above will prove recoverable. However the timing of and 
ultimate repayment of these sums will depend on the performance and financing arrangements of the relevant subsidiary 
undertakings. Currently, the Company expects the amounts to be repaid over a number of years.
27. Subsequent events
Executive Share Incentive Plan
On the 15 March 2016, the Company adopted the Executive Share Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) and each of the Group Chief 
Executive Officer, Group Managing Director and Group Chief Financial Officer (“Management”) were awarded A Ordinary 
Shares in Porta Communications Midco Holdings Limited, (“Porta Midco”). On 17 March 2016 a Circular was sent to 
shareholders containing details of the Plan and calling a general meeting on 6 April 2016 to consider the proposed Plan 
which was approved at the general meeting shareholders approved the Plan.
On maturity of the Plan, the A Shares will be entitled to 15% of the growth in value of the Ordinary Shares above a market 
capitalisation of £36.3 million equal to a value of approximately 13p per Ordinary Share. Until this share price has been 
achieved Management will receive no value for their A Shares in Porta Midco. Full details can be found in the Circular sent 
to shareholders on 17 March 2016 which is available on Porta’s website, www.portacomms.com.
Restructuring of the borrowings 
Prior to 31 December 2015, the Group agreed with Hawk Investment Holdings Limited to refinance its current borrowings. 
The refinancing agreements were completed on 14 April 2016. Under the new agreements, the £2.86 million deep 
discounting bond facility, which was initially due to be repaid on 26 February 2016, was renewed for a further three year 
period on materially the same terms as the original facility repayable on 26 February 2019. At the same time the £0.25 million 
bridging loan facility provided by Hawk Investment Holdings Limited, initially due to be repaid on 21 January 2016, was also 
renewed on materially the same terms as the original facility and repayable on 21 January 2017.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
117 Porta Communications Plc
(incorporated and registered in England and Wales with registered number 05353387)  
Registered office: Sky Light City Tower, 50 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5DE
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting (the “AGM”) of Porta Communications Plc (the “Company”) will 
be held at the offices of Porta Communications Plc, Sky Light City Tower, 50 Basinghall Street, London, EC2V 5DE, on 
30 June 2016 at 11 a.m. for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
1. Report and Accounts
To receive the audited annual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015, together with the reports of the Directors and 
Auditor therein.
2. Re-election of Director
To re-elect Bob Morton, Chairman, who retires by rotation in accordance with the Company’s articles of association and 
who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election as a Director of the Company.
3. Re-election of Director 
To re-elect Brian Blasdale, a Director, who retires by rotation in accordance with the Company’s articles of association and 
who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election as a Director of the Company.
4. Election of Director 
To elect Steffan Williams as a Director of the Company who, having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, 
offers himself for election in accordance with the Company’s articles of association. 
5. Appointment of auditors
To appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors to the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this AGM until the 
conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
6. Auditor’s remuneration
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Special Business
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 7, and 11 will be proposed as ordinary 
resolutions and resolutions 8, 9 and 10 will be proposed as special resolutions.
7. Directors’ authority to allot shares
That, in substitution for any equivalent authorities and powers granted to the Directors prior to the passing of this resolution, 
the Directors be and they are generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 
(the “Act”) to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to 
convert any security into shares of the Company (such shares, and rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into 
shares of the Company being ‘relevant securities’) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £9,302,930.10 provided that, 
unless previously revoked, varied or extended, this authority shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual 
General Meeting of the Company and the date falling 18 months after the date of the passing of this resolution, except that 
the Company may at any time before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant 
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or 
agreement as if this authority had not expired.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
118 Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
8. Directors’ power to issue shares for cash
That, in substitution for equivalent authorities and powers granted to the Directors prior to the passing of this resolution, the 
Directors be and they are empowered to allot equity securities (as defined in Section 560 of the Act) of the Company for 
cash pursuant to the authority of the Directors under Section 551 of the Act conferred by resolution 7 above (in accordance 
with Section 570(1) of the Act) and/or by way of a sale of treasury shares (in accordance with Section 573 of the Act), in 
each case, as if Section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to such allotment provided that the power conferred by this 
resolution shall be limited to:
(a) the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer, or invitation to apply for, equity securities:
 (i)  in favour of, holders of Ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, where the equity securities respectively 
attributable to the interests of all such holders are proportionate (as nearly as practicable) to the respective number 
of Ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them; and
 (ii)  to holders of any other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors consider 
necessary,
but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with 
treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal, regulatory or practical problems arising under the laws or requirements of 
any overseas territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depository receipts or the requirements of any regulatory 
body or stock exchange in any other matter whatsoever; and
(b)  the allotment of approximately up to 3,500,000 equity securities in connection with consideration due to be paid to the 
vendors of Newgate Communications Pty Limited (Newgate Australia) pursuant to the terms of the Shareholders 
Agreement dated 30 September 2013 and in consideration for the acquisition by Porta Communications Plc of a further 
6.86 percent. of the shares in Newgate Australia; and
(c)  the allotment of approximately 4,111,220 equity securities in connection with consideration due to be paid to the 
vendors of Redleaf Polhill Limited pursuant to the terms of the Shareholders Agreement dated 23 April 2014 and in 
consideration for the acquisition by Porta Communication Plc of a further 15 percent of the shares in Redleaf Polhill 
Limited:
(d)  the allotment, otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) above, of equity securities up to an aggregate 
nominal value equal to £2,790,879.10; and
unless previously renewed, revoked, varied or extended, this power shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company and the date falling 18 months after the date of the passing of this resolution, 
except that the Company may before the expiry of this power make an offer or agreement which would or might require 
equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or 
agreement as if this power had not expired.
9. Authority to purchase shares (market purchases)
That the Company be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Act to 
make market purchases (within the meaning of Section 693(4) of the Act) of its Ordinary shares of 10p each (‘Ordinary 
Shares’) provided that:
(a) the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 27,908,790;
(b) the minimum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is 10p;
(c)  the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average middle 
market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 
business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased; and
this authority shall, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, expire on the earlier of the date falling 18 months after the 
date of the passing of this resolution and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, but the Company may enter 
into a contract for the purchase of Ordinary Shares before the expiry of this authority which would or might be completed 
(wholly or partly) after its expiry.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
119 Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
10. Adoption of new Articles of Association of the Company 
That the draft articles of association produced to the meeting and, for the purposes of identification initialled by the 
Chairman, be adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, 
the Company’s existing articles of association.
11. Political Donations
To authorise, the Company and all companies that are its subsidiaries at any time during the period for which this resolution 
has effect for the purposes of Section 366, Companies Act 2006:
(a)  to make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates (as such terms are defined in Section 
363 and 364, Companies Act), not exceeding £50,000 in aggregate;
(b)  make political donations to political organisations other than political parties (as such terms are defined in Section 363 
and 364, Companies Act), not exceeding £50,000 in aggregate;
(c)  to incur political expenditure (as such terms are defined in Section 363 and 364, Companies Act), not exceeding 
£50,000 in aggregate
provided that this authority shall expire on the earlier of the date falling 18 months after the date of the passing of this 
resolution and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and further provided that the maximum 
amounts referred to in sub-paragraph (a), (b) and (c) may comprise sums in different currencies that shall be converted at 
such rate as the Directors may in their absolute discretion determine to be appropriate.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
Gene Golembiewski 
Company Secretary
2 June 2016
Notes:
1.  As a member of the Company, you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, 
speak and vote at the AGM and you should have received a Form of Proxy with this notice of AGM. You can only appoint a 
proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the Form of Proxy. Appointment of a proxy does not 
preclude you from attending the AGM and voting in person. If you have appointed a proxy and attend the AGM in person, 
your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
2.  A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend the AGM to represent you. If you wish your proxy 
to speak on your behalf at the AGM you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy (not the Chairman) and give your 
instructions directly to them.
3.  To appoint a proxy using the Form of Proxy, the form must be: (i) completed and signed; (ii) sent or delivered to the 
Company’s Registrars, SLC Registrars, 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, KT12 1RZ marked ‘Proxy 
Return’; and (iii) received by the Company’s Registrars no later than 11.00 a.m. on 28 June 2016.
4.  Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the Form of Proxy is signed (or a duly certified copy of such 
power or authority) must be included with the form of proxy.
5.  A member that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person but can appoint 
someone to represent it. This can be done in one of two ways: either by the appointment of a proxy (described in the notes 
above) or of a corporate representative. Members considering the appointment of a corporate representative should check 
their own legal position, the Company’s articles of association and the relevant provision of the Companies Act 2006.
6.  As at 2 June 2016 (being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice) the Company’s issued share capital 
consisted of 279,087,905 Ordinary shares of 10p, carrying one vote each and 72,000,000 deferred shares of 0.9p which 
carry no right to vote. Therefore the total number of voting rights in the Company as on the date immediately prior to the 
publication of this Notice was 279,087,905.
7.  Pursuant to regulation 41(1) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 3755) the Company has specified 
that only those members registered on the Register of Members of the Company at 6.00 p.m. on 28 June 2016 shall be 
entitled to attend and vote at the AGM in respect of the number of Ordinary shares registered in their name at that time. 
Changes to the Register of Members after 6.00 p.m. on 28 June 2016 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any 
person to attend and vote at the AGM.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
120 8.  There will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours from the date of this 
notice to the date of the AGM and for 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM the following:
(a) the Memorandum and Articles of Association; 
(b) the proposed new articles of association; and 
(c)  copies of the Directors’ Service Contracts with the Company or its subsidiaries and the terms and conditions of 
appointment of Non-Executive Directors.
Explanatory notes to the Resolutions:
Resolution 1 – Report and Accounts
All companies are required by law to lay their annual accounts and reports before a general meeting of the Company, 
together with the Directors’ Report and Auditor’s report on the accounts. At the AGM, the Directors will present these 
documents to the shareholders for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
Resolution 2 – Re-election of Chairman
This resolution concerns the re-appointment of Bob Morton who is retiring at the meeting by rotation in accordance the 
Company’s articles of association. A biography of Bob Morton is set out on page 46.
Resolution 4 – Re-election of director 
This resolution concerns the re-appointment of Brian Blasdale who is retiring at the meeting by rotation in accordance the 
Company’s articles of association. A biography of Brian Blasdale is set out on page 46.
Resolution 5 – Appointment of auditors
This resolution concerns the appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the next general 
meeting at which accounts are laid that is, the next Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 6 – Auditor’s remuneration
This resolution authorises the Directors to fix the auditor’s remuneration.
Resolution 7 – Directors’ authority to allot shares
This resolution grants the Directors authority to allot shares in the capital of the Company and other relevant securities up 
to an aggregate nominal value of £9,302,930.10, representing approximately 33.33% of the nominal value of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 June 2016, being the latest practicable date before publication of this notice. 
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising the authorities conferred by this resolution but they consider it 
desirable that the specified amount of authorised but unissued share capital is available for issue so that they can more 
readily take advantage of possible opportunities. Unless revoked, varied or extended, this authority will expire at the 
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date falling 18 months from the passing of the 
resolution, whichever is the earlier.
Resolution 8 – Directors’ power to issue shares for cash
This resolution authorises the Directors in certain circumstances to allot equity securities for cash other than in accordance 
with the statutory pre-emption rights (which require a company to offer all allotments for cash first to existing shareholders in 
proportion to their holdings). The relevant circumstances are either: i) where the allotment takes place in connection with a 
rights issue; ii) the allotment of approximately up to 3,500,000 Ordinary Shares to vendors of Newgate Communications Pty 
Limited (Newgate Australia) in consideration for the acquisition by Porta Communications Plc of a further 6.86 percent. of the 
shares in Newgate Australia; iii) the allotment of approximately 4,111,220 Ordinary Shares to vendors of Redleaf Polhill 
Limited (“Redleaf”) in consideration for the acquisition by Porta Communications Plc of a further 15 percent of the shares in 
Redleaf; and iv) the allotment other than pursuant to i) to iii) above of up to a maximum nominal amount of £2,790,879.10, 
representing approximately 10 percent of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at  
2 June 2016 being the latest practicable date before publication of this notice. Unless revoked, varied or extended, this 
authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 18 months after the passing of 
the resolution, whichever is the earlier. The Directors consider that the power proposed to be granted by resolution 8 is 
necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not have any intention at the present time of exercising such power.
Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
121 Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
Resolution 9 – Authority to purchase shares (market purchases)
This resolution authorises the Board to make market purchases of up to 27,908,790 Ordinary shares (representing 
approximately 10% of the Company’s issued Ordinary shares as at 8 May 2016, being the latest practicable date before 
publication of this notice). Shares so purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares. The authority will expire at the 
end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 18 months from the passing of the resolution, whichever is the 
earlier. The Directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The minimum price that can be paid for an Ordinary share is 10p being the nominal value of an Ordinary Share. The 
maximum price that can be paid is 5% over the average of the middle market prices for an Ordinary Share, derived from the 
AIM Index of Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, for the five business days immediately before the day on 
which the share is contracted to be purchased.
The Directors intend to exercise this right only when, in light of the market conditions prevailing at the time and taking into 
account all relevant factors (for example, the effect on earnings per share), they believe that such purchases are in the best 
interests of the Company and shareholders generally. The overall position of the Company will be taken into account before 
deciding upon this course of action. The decision as to whether any such shares bought back will be cancelled or held in 
treasury will be made by the Directors on the same basis at the time of the purchase.
Resolution 10 – Adoption of Articles of association 
Under resolution 10 the Company is proposing to adopt new articles of association in substitution for the existing articles of 
association. The changes and, in particular charges, are to generally update the Articles of Association to reflect recent 
legislation and current best practice introduced by the new articles of association are summarized below:
(a)  To allow two or more share certificates to be consolidated into one by a member at their request;
(b)  To include provisions allowing members to nominate another person to enjoy or exercise all or any specified rights of 
the nominating member, in particular information rights;
(c)  To allow the Company to contact members in electronic form and via the company’s website;
(d)  To clarify the cessation of position on a director ceasing to be a director;
(e)  To increase the borrowing powers of the Company;
(f)  To include provision to allow payments to be made through the uncertificated system;
(g)  To allow the Company to publish information on its website relating to the Annual Report and Accounts and other 
documents; and
(h)  To update the Articles regarding communications with members of the Company
A copy of the Company’s existing articles of association and the proposed new articles of association will be available for 
inspection during normal business hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and bank holidays) at the Company’s registered 
office and on the Company’s website at www.portacomms.com from the date of this notice of meeting until the close of the 
meeting. The proposed new articles of association will also be available for inspection at the annual general meeting at least 
15 minutes prior to the start of the meeting and up until the close of the meeting. 
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
122 Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
Resolution 11 – Political Donations
This resolution seeks approval from shareholders to enable the Company to make donations to incur expenditure which it 
would otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the relevant provision of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘2006 
Act’). The Company’s policy is not to make donations to political parties and there is no intention to change that policy.
However the 2006 Act defines political expenditure, political donations and political organisations very broadly such that 
normal business activities which might not be thought to be political expenditure or a political donation to a political 
organisation in the usual sense may be included. For example, sponsorship of industry forums, funding of seminars and 
other functions to which politicians are invited, matching employee’s donations to certain charities, expenditure on 
organisations concerned with matters of public policy, law reform and representation of the business community and 
communicating with the Government and political parties at local, national and European level may fall under the terms of  
the 2006 Act.
Accordingly, the Company, in common with many other companies proposes to seek authority to incur a level of political 
donations to political parties, independent election candidates and political organisations as well as political expenditure, to 
cover these kinds of activities on a precautionary basis, in order to avoid possible inadvertent contravention of the 2006 Act. 
The authority does not purport to authorise any particular donation or expenditure but is expressed in general terms, as 
required by the 2006 Act. Furthermore, as permitted under the 2006 Act, the authority has been extended to cover any 
political donations made or political expenditure incurred by any subsidiaries of the Company. Therefore, as a precautionary 
measure, you will be asked to give the Company and each of its subsidiaries authority to make political donations to political 
parties or independent election candidates, to make political donations to political organisations (other than political parties) 
and to incur political expenditure. These authorities are limited to a maximum aggregate sum of £150,000.
If given, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Company’s next annual general meeting or 18 months after the date 
of passing of this resolution (whichever is earlier). It is the Directors’ intention to renew this authority each year.
Any political donation made or political expenditure incurred which is in excess of £200 will be disclosed in the Company’s 
Annual Report for the next financial year, as required by the Companies Act 2006. The authority will not be used to make 
political donations within the normal meaning of that expression.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
123 Directors: Bob Morton  
David Wright 
Gene Golembiewski 
Steffan Williams  
Brian Blasdale 
Raymond McKeeve
Secretary: Gene Golembiewski
Registered Office: Sky Light City Tower 
50 Basinghall Street 
London 
EC2V 5DE
Registered Number: 05353387 (Registered in England & Wales)
Auditors: Grant Thornton UK LLP 
30 Finsbury Square 
London 
EC2P 2YU
Registrars: SLC Registrars Limited 
42-50 Hersham Road 
Walton-on-Thames 
Surrey  
KT12 1RZ
Nominated Adviser and Broker: Allenby Capital Limited 
3 St. Helen’s Place 
London 
EC3A 6AB
Solicitors: Osborne Clark 
One London Wall 
London 
EC2Y 5EB
Bankers: HSBC Bank Plc 
9 The Boulevard 
Crawley 
West Sussex 
RH10 1UT
Company website: www.portacomms.com
Company Information
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
124 Resolutions FOR AGAINST VOTE WITHHELD
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.  To receive the Report and Accounts for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 (ordinary resolution)
2.  To re-elect Bob Morton as a Director (ordinary 
resolution)
3.  To re-elect Brian Blasdale as a Director (ordinary 
resolution)
4.  To elect Steffan Williams as a Director (Ordinary 
Resolution) 
5.  To appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors 
(ordinary resolution)
6.  To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of 
the auditors (ordinary resolution)
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
7.  To authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities 
(ordinary resolution)
8.  To empower the Directors to allot equity securities 
for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in certain 
circumstances (special resolution)
9.  To authorise the Directors to make market 
purchases of its Ordinary shares (special resolution)
10.  To adopt new articles of association of the 
Company (special resolution)
11.  To authorise the Directors to make political 
donations (ordinary resolutions)
 
I/We [insert name] ....................................................................................................................................................................
of [insert address] ....................................................................................................................................................................
being a member of the Company:
(1) hereby appoint ................................................................................................................................................................
  or, failing him/her, the Chairman of the AGM to act as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the AGM 
of the Company to be held on 30 June 2016 and at any adjournment thereof in relation to the resolutions specified in 
the notice of the AGM dated 2 June 2016 (the ‘Resolutions’) and any other business (including adjournments and 
amendments to the Resolutions) which may properly come before the AGM or any adjournment thereof;
(2)  direct my/our proxy to vote as set out above in respect of the Resolutions: (PLEASE INDICATE WITH AN ‘X’ IN THE 
BOXES ABOVE)
Signature ...................................................................................................................... Date .......................................... 2016
Form of Proxy
For use at the annual general meeting of Porta Communications Plc (the ‘Company) to be held at 
Sky Light City Tower, 50 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5DE on 30 June 2016 at 11.00 a.m. (the ‘AGM’)
✂
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
125 Notes
1.  Please indicate how you wish your votes to be cast on a poll in respect of the Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM. If 
you do not indicate how you wish your proxy to use your votes, the proxy will exercise his/her discretion both as to how 
he/she votes and as to whether or not he/she abstains from voting. Your proxy will have the authority to vote at his/her 
discretion on any amendment or other motion proposed at the AGM, including any motion to adjourn the AGM.
2.  To appoint as a proxy a person other than the Chairman of the AGM insert the full name in the space provided. A proxy 
need not be a member of the Company. You can also appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to 
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by you. The following options are available:
 a.  To appoint the Chairman as your sole proxy in respect of all your shares, simply fill in any voting instructions in the 
appropriate box and sign and date the Form of Proxy.
 b.  To appoint a person other than the Chairman as your sole proxy in respect of all your shares, delete the words ‘or, 
failing him/her, the Chairman of the AGM’ and insert the name and address of your proxy in the space provided. 
Then fill in any voting instructions in the appropriate box and sign and date the Form of Proxy.
 c.  To appoint more than one proxy, you may photocopy this form. Please indicate the proxy holder’s name and the 
number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy (which, in aggregate, should not 
exceed the number of shares held by you). Please indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions 
being given. If you wish to appoint the Chairman as one of your multiple proxies, simply write ‘the Chairman of the 
AGM’. All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
3.  Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will vote as he/she thinks fit or, at his/her discretion, abstain from voting.
4.  The Form of Proxy must arrive at SLC Registrars during usual business hours accompanied by any power of attorney 
under which it is executed (if applicable) no later than 11.00 a.m. on 28 June 2016.
5.  A corporation must execute the Form of Proxy under either its common seal or the hand of a duly authorised officer or 
attorney.
6.  The ‘Vote Withheld’ option is to enable you to abstain on any particular Resolution. Such a vote is not a vote in law and 
will not be counted in the votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a Resolution.
7.  As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those persons whose names are 
entered on the Register of Members of the Company at 6.00 p.m. on 28 June 2016 shall be entitled to attend and vote 
in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time. Changes to entries on the Register of Members 
after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and/or vote at the AGM.
8.  Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not preclude you from attending and voting in person at the AGM should 
you subsequently decide to do so.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
126  Porta Communications Plc Annual Report For the year ended 31 December 2015
Porta Communications Plc 
Sky Light City Tower 
50 Basinghall Street 
London EC2V 5DE
E: info@portacomms.com
T: +44 (0)20 7680 6500
F: +44 (0)20 7680 6510
W: portacomms.com Designed and produced by 2112 Communications, London
