 Premier Foods plc
Annual report and accounts for the 
financial period ended 4 April 2015
Investing 
for success Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Welcome to our 
2014/15 annual report 
Explore our report
Introduction
At a glance 01
Investing for success 02
Chairman’s statement 04
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s review 06
Marketplace 08
Our business model 10
Our strategy 12
— Consumers 13
— Brands 14
— Customers 15
— People 16
— Costs 17
Responsibility 18
Key performance indicators 20
Managing our risks 22
Operating and financial review 26
Governance
Chairman’s introduction 35
Directors and senior management 36
Corporate governance 38
Audit Committee report 45
Nomination Committee report 48
Directors’ Remuneration report 49
Directors’ report 62
Financial Statements
Independent auditors’ report — 
Consolidated
65
Consolidated financial statements 75
Notes to the financial statements 80
Independent auditors’ report — 
Company
128
Company financial statements 130
Notes to the Company 
financial statements 131
The Directors’ report is comprised  
of pages 1 to 63.
Look out for these icons
Read more in this annual report 
Read more on our website 
Trading profit
(Pro forma)
£131.0m
% of sales from  
new products
11.3%
Net debt/ 
EBITDA  
ratio
4.0×
Branded sales
(Pro forma)
£683.7m
Our performance
Website: 
Keep up to date with all the latest 
information about Premier Foods online, 
including: share price data; press 
releases; and results. 
Mobile: 
You can keep up to date with Premier 
Foods wherever you are with our mobile 
friendly website.
www.premierfoods.co.uk
In this report we compare either an unaudited Pro forma 52 week period ended  
4 April 2015 (2014/15) versus an unaudited Pro forma 52 week period ended 5 April 
2014 (2013/14) or an audited 15 month period ended 4 April 2015 (2015 or the 
financial period) versus an audited 12 month year ended 31 December 2013 (2013).
Reconciliation of statutory numbers (continuing 
operations) to Pro forma
The Company made a statutory loss after tax of £(123.6)m (2013: £(245.9)m),  
for a reconciliation to statutory numbers go to page 30. 
As you may have noticed, our annual report is quite different this year. We’ve reduced the 
physical size of the document, cut down on the use of photography and presented our key 
strategic messages in a clearer, more concise way. This is consistent with our drive to reduce 
cost and complexity wherever we can and work smarter with technology through encouraging 
you to visit our corporate website as the primary source of up-to-date news about the 
Company.
2013/
14
2014/
15
£139.9m
£131.0m
2013/
14
2014/
15
£712.8m
£683.7m
2015 2013 2012
4.0×
5.3×
6.3×
2013/
14
2014/
15
6.9%
11.3% Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 01
We LOVE food at Premier Foods. We’re one of Britain’s biggest food companies with a broad 
stable of leading brands; brands that you can find in around 96% of British households and 
which we are starting to bring to new international markets. Many of our brands have been part of 
daily life for more than a century. But we don’t let them stand still — we’re constantly innovating 
with fresh ideas, giving our consumers great tasting food for modern life. 
At a glance
Revenue 
(Pro forma) 
£767.4m
(2013/14: £803.3m)
Trading Profit 
(Pro forma)
£131.0m
(2013/14: £139.9m)
Colleagues
3,675
(as at 4 April 2015)
At our 13 locations across the country, our 3,675 dedicated 
colleagues work tirelessly to prepare food to the highest 
quality and safety standards, partnering with our suppliers and 
customers to make sure we deliver what our consumers love. 
We are organised into three Strategic Business Units (SBUs) 
to create the focus needed to drive category growth. We also 
maintain a 49% minority interest in two joint ventures, Hovis 
and Knighton Foods.
Company
Where we make our food
Manufacturing – Sweet Treats
Central functions and 
Business services 
Distribution and 
Logistics centre
Manufacturing – Grocery
International
Our International SBU is focused on developing new 
markets for our brands around the world. Currently 
under 5% of our sales are outside the UK with plenty 
of scope for expansion. While the business unit is in 
the early stages of development, its financial results are 
incorporated with those of the Grocery SBU.
Near-term 
opportunities
We are targeting 
opportunities in 
European and South 
East Asian markets.
Strategic 
markets
Australia 
China 
United States
Ireland 
We’re focusing on 
building a stronger 
business using 
familiar brands.
Grocery Sweet Treats 
The Grocery SBU is responsible for developing our 
portfolio of leading brands in four key categories: 
Cooking sauces & accompaniments, Flavours & 
seasonings, Light meals & soups and Ambient 
desserts.
The Sweet Treats SBU is responsible for growing the 
nation’s leading cake brands: Mr. Kipling, Cadbury and 
Lyons, and developing the ambient cake category to 
compete in the broader sweet treats market. 
Revenue 
(Pro forma)
£551.7m
Branded 
market share
1
29.2%
(2013/14: 29.6%)
1
Colleagues
1,620
(as at 4 April 2015)
Revenue 
(Pro forma)
£215.7m
Branded 
market share
1
25.4%
(2013/14: 24.9%)
1
Colleagues
2,055
(as at 4 April 2015)
Strategic Business Units
A reconciliation of statutory numbers (continuing operations) to 
Pro forma can be found on page 30. 
1
  Branded market share source: IRI data for the 52 weeks 
ending 4 April 2015 and the 52 weeks ending 5 April 2014). 02 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Investing for success
Improved 
capital 
structure
In 2014 we successfully 
completed a refinancing of 
the Company and further 
adapted our portfolio to 
provide a stable platform 
to drive future growth.
Capital Refinancing Plan
In April 2014 we completed a major Capital Refinancing Plan to reduce our leverage, diversify our 
sources of funding and provide a longer-term funding arrangement with our pension schemes, giving 
us the stability we need to focus on investing in the business. This consisted of three components: the 
raising of £353m of new equity by way of a Placing and Rights Issue; the raising of gross proceeds of 
£500m by way of a high yield bond; and a new £272m Revolving Credit Facility with a more streamlined 
lending syndicate. The Company has also agreed pension fund deficit funding payments which (unless 
the Company resumes the payment of dividends) are fixed until the end of 2019.  
Portfolio
In April 2014 we established Hovis as a joint venture with The Gores 
Group, unlocking a significant investment programme to reinvigorate 
the Hovis brand. We retained a 49% stake in Hovis allowing us to 
share in any future success of the business.
In June 2014 we announced a joint venture with Specialty Powders 
Holdings Limited for our own label and business-to-business dry 
powders business. We again retained a 49% holding in the new 
business, Knighton Foods. The deal enabled the transfer of some 
branded desserts production to our Ashford site helping improve the 
overall efficiency of our existing Grocery infrastructure. 
For 2014/15 our sales from branded products has increased to 89.1% 
(2013/14: 88.7%) of total sales.
Focused 
investment
We have focused our 
investment on the 
brands and categories 
with highest growth 
opportunities and in the 
processes and systems 
needed to work smarter.
Increased marketing and innovation
In the last six months of 2014/15 we invested over 80% more in consumer marketing for our 
brands than the equivalent prior period and successfully launched many new products.
The major re-launch of Mr. Kipling in the second half of 2014 demonstrated how investment in new 
packaging, promotional structure, TV advertising, digital and social media, PR and partnerships can 
lead to higher market share, sales and volumes. Homepride cooking sauces were also back on TV 
for the first time in 10 years as part of a revitalisation of the brand, including new packaging and 
the introduction of modern new flavours such as Hunter’s Chicken, Peri Peri and Nacho Bake. In 
addition Bisto consumers were delighted with the launch of Bisto Simply casserole pastes and Bisto 
Rich premium gravy pastes together with engaging new advertising based around the Bisto together 
project. OXO also introduced Herbs & More, an innovative new flavour enhancer which leveraged our 
consumer insights into the growing popularity of savoury meal making – again this launch was backed 
by TV advertising to inspire consumers to transform their meals with these herb infusions.
Working smarter
Investing in the right processes and technology also makes a big 
difference to our efficiency and agility. In 2014 we completed the roll-
out of common SAP systems to all our sites and we invested in a new 
bespoke trade promotions management system. We also partnered 
with Google to maximise the use of Google apps improving how we 
connect, communicate and collaborate across the Company. We 
commenced work on a £20m state-of-the-art investment in a new Mr. 
Kipling Snack Pack line at our Carlton bakery in Barnsley to double 
capacity and increase the number of pack formats we can produce. 
Following completion of the instalation, the new line became fully 
operational in May 2015.
Go to the Costs section on page 17  
Reducing 
complexity
We continued to drive 
down cost & complexity 
to improve our efficiency 
and effectiveness and fund 
our investment in branded 
growth.
Supplier rationalisation
Since 2013 we have more than halved our supplier base in response to our smaller overall portfolio. Our 
focus has been on developing fewer, more strategic supplier partnerships based on mutual benefit and 
growth. Many of our suppliers have benefited from the opportunity to take on new or additional business 
and we have been actively encouraging suppliers to share their ideas on how we can grow faster, for 
example through our dedicated online innovation web portal that we launched in 2014. 
We currently spend nearly £500m with British suppliers and farmers representing 88% of our total 
procurement budget. At the end of the financial period over half of our 1,281 suppliers were small and 
medium sized businesses. 
SKU reduction
In the period we continued to remove less profitable product codes 
or stock keeping units (SKUs) from the portfolio to help us focus on 
faster-moving product lines. Since 2013, we have removed over 700 
SKUs representing 43% of the portfolio helping us reduce costs and 
complexity without impacting our sales. Our rigorous approach means 
that every SKU is carefully evaluated to ensure it delivers value for our 
customers and provides an acceptable return.
Go to the Costs section on page 17 
More agile  
structure
We realigned our 
organisational structure 
and resources to improve 
our focus, accountability 
and agility to serve 
our customers and 
consumers better.
Strategic Business Units
In September 2014 we put in place a new Strategic Business Unit (SBU) structure to reinforce our 
category based strategy and improve our agility, focus and accountability. Our organisation is now 
arranged into three SBUs: Grocery, Sweet Treats and International. Each SBU has full accountability 
for their respective portfolios and is responsible for directing innovation, marketing, sales and logistics 
resources in support of agreed priorities and our Grocery and Sweet Treats SBUs have additonal 
responsibility for manufacturing. The new SBU structure allows more agile ways of working and is 
closely aligned to how our retail customers do business.
Go to At a glance section on page 01  
An agile team
In support of our new SBU structure, we have made a number of new 
senior appointments including new Managing Directors for our Grocery 
and Sweet Treats Business Units, each with significant experience and 
a proven track record in bringing new concepts to market.
We are also investing in strengthening our revenue generating sales, 
marketing and new product development (NPD) teams to help 
deliver our growth ambitions. And we are significantly up-weighting 
our International team as we start to look more strategically at 
opportunities outside the UK. We have also invested in our human 
resources team and in learning and development systems to ensure 
our people are equipped to deliver on our strategic priorities and 
grow their own capabilities.
Go to senior management on page 37 
02 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 03
Our investment 
strategy is working
Accelerated brand investment
+82%
We have increased consumer marketing (including TV, 
radio, print & digital marketing).
For the last quarter to 4 April 2015 Vs comparative 
period (unaudited).
Increasing sales volume
+9%
Increase in volume of product sold outperforming 
the market which grew at +1.9%.
IRI Volume and Retail sales value for the 12 weeks 
to 4 April 2015 Vs comparative period.
Improved 
capital 
structure
In 2014 we successfully 
completed a refinancing of 
the Company and further 
adapted our portfolio to 
provide a stable platform 
to drive future growth.
Capital Refinancing Plan
In April 2014 we completed a major Capital Refinancing Plan to reduce our leverage, diversify our 
sources of funding and provide a longer-term funding arrangement with our pension schemes, giving 
us the stability we need to focus on investing in the business. This consisted of three components: the 
raising of £353m of new equity by way of a Placing and Rights Issue; the raising of gross proceeds of 
£500m by way of a high yield bond; and a new £272m Revolving Credit Facility with a more streamlined 
lending syndicate. The Company has also agreed pension fund deficit funding payments which (unless 
the Company resumes the payment of dividends) are fixed until the end of 2019.  
Portfolio
In April 2014 we established Hovis as a joint venture with The Gores 
Group, unlocking a significant investment programme to reinvigorate 
the Hovis brand. We retained a 49% stake in Hovis allowing us to 
share in any future success of the business.
In June 2014 we announced a joint venture with Specialty Powders 
Holdings Limited for our own label and business-to-business dry 
powders business. We again retained a 49% holding in the new 
business, Knighton Foods. The deal enabled the transfer of some 
branded desserts production to our Ashford site helping improve the 
overall efficiency of our existing Grocery infrastructure. 
For 2014/15 our sales from branded products has increased to 89.1% 
(2013/14: 88.7%) of total sales.
Focused 
investment
We have focused our 
investment on the 
brands and categories 
with highest growth 
opportunities and in the 
processes and systems 
needed to work smarter.
Increased marketing and innovation
In the last six months of 2014/15 we invested over 80% more in consumer marketing for our 
brands than the equivalent prior period and successfully launched many new products.
The major re-launch of Mr. Kipling in the second half of 2014 demonstrated how investment in new 
packaging, promotional structure, TV advertising, digital and social media, PR and partnerships can 
lead to higher market share, sales and volumes. Homepride cooking sauces were also back on TV 
for the first time in 10 years as part of a revitalisation of the brand, including new packaging and 
the introduction of modern new flavours such as Hunter’s Chicken, Peri Peri and Nacho Bake. In 
addition Bisto consumers were delighted with the launch of Bisto Simply casserole pastes and Bisto 
Rich premium gravy pastes together with engaging new advertising based around the Bisto together 
project. OXO also introduced Herbs & More, an innovative new flavour enhancer which leveraged our 
consumer insights into the growing popularity of savoury meal making – again this launch was backed 
by TV advertising to inspire consumers to transform their meals with these herb infusions.
Working smarter
Investing in the right processes and technology also makes a big 
difference to our efficiency and agility. In 2014 we completed the roll-
out of common SAP systems to all our sites and we invested in a new 
bespoke trade promotions management system. We also partnered 
with Google to maximise the use of Google apps improving how we 
connect, communicate and collaborate across the Company. We 
commenced work on a £20m state-of-the-art investment in a new Mr. 
Kipling Snack Pack line at our Carlton bakery in Barnsley to double 
capacity and increase the number of pack formats we can produce. 
Following completion of the instalation, the new line became fully 
operational in May 2015.
Go to the Costs section on page 17  
Reducing 
complexity
We continued to drive 
down cost & complexity 
to improve our efficiency 
and effectiveness and fund 
our investment in branded 
growth.
Supplier rationalisation
Since 2013 we have more than halved our supplier base in response to our smaller overall portfolio. Our 
focus has been on developing fewer, more strategic supplier partnerships based on mutual benefit and 
growth. Many of our suppliers have benefited from the opportunity to take on new or additional business 
and we have been actively encouraging suppliers to share their ideas on how we can grow faster, for 
example through our dedicated online innovation web portal that we launched in 2014. 
We currently spend nearly £500m with British suppliers and farmers representing 88% of our total 
procurement budget. At the end of the financial period over half of our 1,281 suppliers were small and 
medium sized businesses. 
SKU reduction
In the period we continued to remove less profitable product codes 
or stock keeping units (SKUs) from the portfolio to help us focus on 
faster-moving product lines. Since 2013, we have removed over 700 
SKUs representing 43% of the portfolio helping us reduce costs and 
complexity without impacting our sales. Our rigorous approach means 
that every SKU is carefully evaluated to ensure it delivers value for our 
customers and provides an acceptable return.
Go to the Costs section on page 17 
More agile  
structure
We realigned our 
organisational structure 
and resources to improve 
our focus, accountability 
and agility to serve 
our customers and 
consumers better.
Strategic Business Units
In September 2014 we put in place a new Strategic Business Unit (SBU) structure to reinforce our 
category based strategy and improve our agility, focus and accountability. Our organisation is now 
arranged into three SBUs: Grocery, Sweet Treats and International. Each SBU has full accountability 
for their respective portfolios and is responsible for directing innovation, marketing, sales and logistics 
resources in support of agreed priorities and our Grocery and Sweet Treats SBUs have additonal 
responsibility for manufacturing. The new SBU structure allows more agile ways of working and is 
closely aligned to how our retail customers do business.
Go to At a glance section on page 01  
An agile team
In support of our new SBU structure, we have made a number of new 
senior appointments including new Managing Directors for our Grocery 
and Sweet Treats Business Units, each with significant experience and 
a proven track record in bringing new concepts to market.
We are also investing in strengthening our revenue generating sales, 
marketing and new product development (NPD) teams to help 
deliver our growth ambitions. And we are significantly up-weighting 
our International team as we start to look more strategically at 
opportunities outside the UK. We have also invested in our human 
resources team and in learning and development systems to ensure 
our people are equipped to deliver on our strategic priorities and 
grow their own capabilities.
Go to senior management on page 37 
Improving sales trend
Q1
(3.8%)
(1.6)%
(7.7%)
(5.4%)
(4.3%)
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q5
We have seen an approving sales trend for Power  
Brands since the second quarter of the financial period.
For the 15 months ending 4 April 2015 (unaudited).
Increasing sales value
+3.3%
Increase in value of product sold outperforming the 
market which was flat at +0.0%.
IRI Volume and Retail sales value for the 12 weeks 
to 4 April 2015 vs comparative period
Driving category growth
+3.8% 
Ambient cake
+4.1% 
Flavours & seasonings
Increased investment and new product launches are 
helping to drive category growth for our customers.
IRI Retail sales value for the 12 weeks to 4 April 2015  
Vs comparative period.
www.premierfoods.co.uk 04 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder,
I’m delighted to update you on what has been a truly 
transformational year for the Company. In March 2014 
we announced our Capital Refinancing Plan which was 
successfully completed in April 2014. Your Board made 
significant further personal investments in the Company as 
part of the refinancing and I would also like to thank you, 
our shareholders, for your strong support of the plan. Our 
new capital structure provides the platform we need to be 
able to invest in the business in line with our strategy. The 
agreements we reached during the year on the joint ventures 
for Hovis and Knighton Foods also help create a clearer focus 
for the Company as well as unlocking investment for these 
businesses from their respective new ownership structures. 
These important developments helped us compete in what 
has been a very challenging trading environment during last 
year. Competition amongst our retail customers has been 
intense as they respond to structural changes in shopper 
behaviour. Together with low oil prices and benign commodity 
costs, this has led to falling prices and the emergence of food 
price deflation for the first time in 10 years. In addition, 2014 
turned out to be one of the hottest years on record. These 
factors clearly had an impact on our sales, which fell by 4.5% 
in 2014/15 to £767.4m, and also on our share price. 
Despite the challenging environment, I would like to commend 
management on holding the course, continuing to invest in 
our brands and our people and delivering improved sales 
momentum since the second quarter of the financial period, 
particularly during the important Christmas trading period. I 
am greatly encouraged by how our brands and categories are 
responding to the investments we’re making. The successful 
re-launch of Mr. Kipling is a great example, and we are also 
seeing positive results from investment in other brands 
including OXO, Bisto and Homepride. 
The new organisation structure we announced in September 
2014 has been a tremendous catalyst. The creation of fully 
accountable Strategic Business Units for our Grocery and Sweet 
Treats businesses, with new leaders, has generated a new sense 
of energy and momentum behind our categories and brands. 
I’m also confident that the investment we’re making in our new 
International Business Unit will pay off in the future as we identify 
further growth opportunities beyond the UK. 
Being a responsible and sustainable business continues to be at 
the forefront of your Board’ s mind. During the period, the
Company made further improvements to its environmental 
footprint and, importantly, stepped up its focus on nutrition to 
develop more ‘better-for-you’ choices as well as clearer labelling 
and information to help our consumers. As a University trustee 
and engineer, I’m particularly pleased that the Company is 
investing more in developing skills for young people. This is a 
crucial factor for our country’ s future. The Company has taken on 
more apprentices and graduates this past year and is supporting 
exciting new developments in food engineering at Sheffield 
Hallam University. We’re also helping unemployed youngsters 
take the first steps towards finding a job through providing 
pre-employment skills training as part of the Institute of Grocery 
Distribution’ s ‘Feeding Britain’ s Future’ campaign. 
In January 2015, the Board welcomed Richard Hodgson as 
a new non-executive director. Richard has significant food 
retailing experience which is already proving invaluable in 
our discussions. I would also like to thank David Wild for 
his important contribution to the Company’s strategy over a 
number of years. Finally, Charles Miller Smith, who has served 
on the Board since June 2009, has advised the Board that 
he will step down as a director on 1 June 2015. Charles has 
had a very significant and positive impact on the Board over 
a number of years and I would like to thank him for his wise 
counsel and insight in helping to shape the current direction of 
the Company. 
Further details of these changes and the Board’s activities  
in the period are set out in my governance update on  
page 35. 
Finally, I would like to thank each and every one of 
our employees for their significant efforts during this 
transformational year. I was particularly proud that we could 
create an ownership culture by awarding 500 shares to all of 
our employees. Aligning employee and shareholder interests 
is a positive development for the future, allowing everyone to 
benefit in the longer-term success of Premier Foods.
The Board and I are looking forward to the year ahead. Our 
strategy is starting to work as we invest in our brands and 
simultaneously use free cash flows to organically reduce 
net debt. While the trading environment will undoubtedly be 
challenging, we remain as focused as ever on driving value for 
our shareholders. Thank you for your continued support.
David Beever 
Chairman
18 May 2015
I am greatly encouraged by 
how our brands and categories 
are responding to the 
investments we’re making.”
David Beever 
Chairman Strategic report
In this area of the report you can find out 
how we are creating value as a business, our 
strategic priorities that will guide us and how we 
have performed during the financial period. 
Our strategic 
priorities 
Our strategic priorities describe key 
activities in the financial period around 
Consumers, Brands, Customers, 
People and Costs which advanced our 
strategy of driving category growth.
Read more on pages 12 to 19 
How we manage 
our risks 
Identifying and mitigating risks to the 
delivery of our strategy continues 
to be a key area of focus for the 
Company in the current changing 
market environment and our outlook 
on risks has also evolved following 
our successful capital refinancing.
Read more on pages 26 to 33 
Our  
performance
The operating and financial review 
contains detailed analysis of our 
business performance for the financial 
period as reported in our preliminary 
results announcement in May 2015.
Read more on pages 22 to 25 
Our investment 
strategy is working.”
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
The strategic report on pages 6 to 33 has been approved by the Board of 
directors on 18 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
05 06 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Our investment strategy is working
Following our capital refinancing last year we’ve been investing 
behind our strategy to drive category growth. I’m encouraged 
by the progress we’ve made, especially in light of the 
challenging marketplace.
Our investment in new products, marketing, promotions, 
technology, manufacturing infrastructure and, importantly, our 
people is starting to pay off. We’re gaining momentum and I’m 
confident we’ll make further progress in the year ahead.
  How would you characterise the last 15 months for 
Premier Foods?
It’s been a period of investing in our brands and investing in 
our business. After successfully refinancing the Company 
and focusing our portfolio, it was important that we continue 
investing in developing and marketing our brands to put us in 
the best position to drive future growth. I feel we’ve come a 
long way on this journey. In the last six months of the financial 
period we invested over 80% more in marketing our brands 
than in the equivalent prior period and successfully launched 
many new products. We additionally invested in a new, 
more agile business unit structure and in strengthening our 
commercial capabilities in marketing, sales and in innovation, 
which was balanced by trimming other support functions. 
We’ve invested more in Human Resources and developing our 
people strategy.  
  Are you satisfied with the results?
Given a very challenging trading environment, I’m pleased we 
delivered our trading profit of £131m for 2014/15 in line with 
market expectations and although down £8.9m on 2013/14 
we invested an additional £8.0m in consumer marketing in this 
period. Our strategy is starting to work and during the second 
half we gained momentum in sales, volumes and market share 
reflecting the investments we’ve been making. The re-launch 
of Mr. Kipling was a particular highlight. Clearly there is more 
to do and the trading environment remains tough. But I’m 
satisfied with the progress so far.
A reconciliation of statutory numbers (continuing operations) 
to Pro forma can be found on page 30 
  How are you addressing the changing retail 
landscape and the growth of new channels such as 
discounters?
More than two-thirds of our sales are with the major 
supermarkets and as the supermarkets have been adapting 
to changing shopper behaviour, we’ve been supporting them. 
While some commentators have seen the change in shopper 
behaviour as a threat, along with our major customers, 
we also see many opportunities. Many of the things our 
customers are now doing, such as focusing on faster-
moving lines, we’ve also been doing. We’re also capturing 
opportunities in other channels. For instance, we’ve been 
using brands such as Paxo and Bird’s to offer products to 
high street discounters at the right format for this channel. 
And in the convenience channel we’re investing in ways to 
provide different packaging formats and case sizes more 
suited to this channel. We’re also working with our customers 
to strengthen our online sales through bespoke promotions 
and communications.
  How can you go on growing sales in a period when 
food prices are actually falling?
It’s certainly more difficult to grow sales in a deflationary 
environment. Our response has been to focus on driving 
volume and market share through investing in marketing 
our brands and bringing more new products to market, 
particularly in more premium areas. For example, in the 
Flavourings & seasonings category, we’ve been innovating 
with ‘wet stock’ products that encourage consumers to trade 
up to more premium variants such as OXO Herbs & More 
and Bisto Simply casserole pastes. In the coming year we’re 
doing more to capitalise on the consumer preference for 
hob-top cooking with the launch of Sharwood’s Stir Fry Melts 
and Loyd Grossman Pan Melts. Having the right approach 
to promotions is also a key factor and we’ve done a lot to 
improve our promotional efficiency over the last year through 
eliminating less profitable and loss-making promotions. 
  Why are you getting rid of the Power Brand and 
Support Brand distinction?
It was helpful to use this distinction in the early days of our 
recovery to illustrate our focus on the brands with the biggest 
near-term opportunities. As our strategy evolved to a broader 
approach of driving category growth, we’ve been successfully 
investing more in the wider portfolio, including brands such as 
Homepride cooking sauces and Cadbury cakes. These are 
brands with significant potential given the right support. Our 
reporting will therefore change to focus on total branded sales 
which are a better measure of the success of our strategy.  
www.premierfoods.co.uk
Go online to see our latest Mr. Kipling TV ad: Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 07
Financial 
Statements
Strategic objective: 
to drive category growth
We’ll achieve this by focusing on our five strategic priorities:
Consumers Brands Customers People Costs
  How will you continue to afford increased 
investment in your brands? Are there more costs 
you can take out of the business to pay for this?
Over the past couple of years we’ve made great strides in 
reducing complexity in the business and lowering our costs. 
We’ve eliminated more than 700 low-margin and slower-
selling SKUs, or product codes, from the portfolio and more 
than halved our supplier base. We’re also working smarter 
as a result of improving our systems and processes. And we 
continue to drive efficiencies in our manufacturing and logistics 
operations through attractive capex payback projects. There 
are always opportunities to do more and we have many 
projects under way to drive even lower costs. For example, 
improving the efficiency of our promotional spend, even by a 
few percentage points, helps free up significant cash to invest 
elsewhere. 
  How are your supplier relationships following 
the media focus on your ‘Invest for Growth’ 
programme?
We’ve always had strong relationships with our suppliers 
which is why the negative media attention was disappointing. 
At the time, I said publicly that we made mistakes in 
implementing some elements of our Invest for Growth 
programme and we changed it accordingly. But the 
programme has been successful overall in helping us halve 
our supplier base and enabling us to develop more strategic 
partnerships with fewer suppliers. Our remaining suppliers 
have benefited as a result, including many small and medium 
sized businesses. The results of anonymous surveys of our 
supplier base show that relationships remain strong and we’re 
working even closer with suppliers now on sharing ideas and 
innovation that can stimulate mutual growth. 
  Is international growth a big opportunity for  
Premier Foods?
There are potentially lots of growth opportunities for our 
brands beyond the UK. I think we’re only scratching the 
surface at the moment. We’re now investing in building a 
stronger International team, in a dedicated business unit, to 
go after these opportunities. Our longer-term strategic focus 
is on scale markets such as China, the United States and 
Australia. But there are plenty of near-term opportunities in 
other markets. For instance we are successfully building a 
stronger business in Ireland.
  With all the changes in recent times, what are you 
doing to engage your employees?
We conducted our first all-colleague survey a couple of years 
ago and will be repeating that in 2015. Based on feedback 
received, we spent a lot of time in the last year developing a 
clearer purpose and values for the business so that colleagues 
better understand the direction we’re heading. We’ve also 
invested time and money in improving our communications, 
upgrading the workplace environment and developing a more 
coherent people strategy. One major initiative was the granting 
of 500 free shares to all colleagues helping us motivate and 
align colleagues with shareholder interests. We’ve also had 
some great new people join us over the last year which is 
helping create positive energy across the business. 
  What is your outlook for the year ahead? Where will 
the Company be in a year’s time?
While it’s encouraging to note the return of volume growth 
to both our categories and the wider grocery market, we 
expect the near term trading environment to be challenging. 
Nevertheless I’m confident that our strategy of investing in 
our brands, innovation and infrastructure is the right one and 
we are seeing increasing evidence that this is starting to pay 
off. Over the coming year, we expect to benefit from lower 
pension deficit contributions and capital expenditure which will 
enable us to significantly reduce our Net debt. The Board is 
firmly focussed on the creation of future value and believes our 
investment strategy, combined with a continued focus on cost 
efficiency, Trading profit delivery and organic de-leveraging 
positions us well for future success.  
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
18 May 2015 08 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Ambient grocery market
We operate primarily in the ambient grocery sector which incorporates all food and drink except frozen, fresh, chilled and 
alcohol.  In 2014/15 the ambient grocery market was worth around £29.0 billion and grew by 0.9% over the year making it both 
the largest segment and the fastest growing within the total UK food and non-alcoholic drinks market.
Our categories
Our business is organised around five key categories where we have strong competitive positions based on our leading brand 
portfolio.  
Category Total market  
size
Market 
growth
Our market 
position
Our brands
Cooking sauces & accompaniments
This includes wet sauces, accompaniments, kits and 
dry rice/pasta.
£943.3m 0.0% No.1
Sharwood’s
Loyd 
Grossman
Homepride
Flavourings & seasonings
This encompasses gravy, stock (wet and dry formats), 
dried packet mixes and stuffing.
£483.7m 2.0% No.1
Bisto
OXO
Paxo
Light meals & soups
This includes instant soup, dry block flavoured  
noodles, pasta & sauce, savoury rice, pot snacks  
and instant mash.
£411.5m 2.3% No.1
Batchelors
Smash
Ambient desserts
This includes individual pots including custard, 
rice, jelly, fruit, sponge puds, toppings, custard, 
condensed milk, cream & cream toppings, evaporated 
milk, sauces, ingredient mixes, jelly, whips and rice 
puddings.
£385.8m 1.0% No.1
Ambrosia
Angel Delight
Bird’s
Ambient cake
This includes all ambient packaged cake excluding in 
store bakery.
£934.9m 0.3% No.1
Mr. Kipling
Cadbury
Lyons
Kantar Worldpanel Purchase Total Market for 52 weeks to 29 March 2015.
Marketplace
Customer channel 
The largest retail channels within the UK Grocery market are 
the major multiple retailers, such as Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury’s, 
Morrisons and Waitrose (which incorporates their online and 
convenience store formats) and the majority of the Company’s 
sales come from these major retail customers. We also sell 
to discounters (‘Hard’ discounters such as Aldi and Lidl, 
and ‘High Street’ discounters which include Iceland and 
bargain/pound stores) and smaller independent convenience 
stores. Our customers also include the food service channel 
which incorporates schools and hospitals, staff canteens, 
professional kitchens restaurants and pub chains. The relative 
sizes of these retail channels (which excludes foodservice) and 
their percentage growth are shown on the right:
Retail channel value (£bn) and % growth
Total
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
£bn
Supermarkets All
other
retailers
Hard
discounters
High
street
discounter
Multiple
convenience
Online
0.8%
£145bn
£83bn
£28bn
£13bn
£8bn
£7bn
£6bn
(2.0)%
0.0%
(0.2)%
0.8%
(2.0)%
20.2%
5.5% 15.8%
Kantar Worldpanel Purchase Total Market for 52 weeks to 29 March 2015. Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 09
Financial 
Statements
Changes in the financial period 
On this page we discuss some of the key developments 
which occured in our marketplace over the course of the 
financial period.
A changing marketplace 
As household budgets came under pressure following the 
global economic crisis, people learned how to shop differently 
in a quest for greater value. As people shop more often in a 
variety of different channels, the retail landscape is undergoing 
a structural shift that has implications for the wider food 
market.  
The big weekly shop declined as consumers tightened their 
belts, looking for the best deals in different channels; whether 
it be discounters for the basics, online for convenience, small 
stores for frequent top ups or supermarkets for the rest. As 
disposable incomes have recovered, these new shopping 
habits have remained. Discounters, online and convenience 
stores have consequently continued to grow while the major 
supermarkets have had to re-evaluate their offering, resulting 
in intense competition in terms of price, quality and service.
These changes have a significant impact for branded food 
manufacturers. Providing the right product, to the right 
customer and channel, at the right price and format is critical. 
And closer customer collaboration is key. Those companies 
with leading brands, strong insights, operational scale and 
flexibility have a clear advantage.
To read more about how Premier Foods is creating 
opportunities from these changes go to the Customers 
section on page 15. 
Deflation
As the market has become more competitive, food prices 
have come under pressure. 
This has been further exacerbated by weak oil prices and 
the impact of strong harvests in the northern and southern 
hemispheres which have led to benign commodity costs. As a 
result, towards the end of 2014 food prices in the UK entered 
a period of deflation for the first time in 10 years. 
In such an environment, growing sales revenues becomes 
more challenging and attention is shifting more to driving 
sales volumes. Using the right price points and promotions 
to encourage consumers to buy more of a particular brand 
has become increasingly important. In addition, retaining a 
tight control of costs is essential for maintaining profitability 
and continuing to invest in new products, marketing and 
technologies.
Grocery % price inflation / deflation
1.8%
Mar 14
0.8%
Jun 14
(2.0)%
Mar 15
(0.7)%
Dec 14 Sept 14
0.0%
Kantar Worldpanel Purchase Total Grocery for the 12 weeks ending 29 March 
2015.
Consumer trends
Alongside changes in the retail environment, consumer trends 
are changing too.
Modern life means people are becoming busier with less time 
on their hands to cook, despite a growing interest in food and 
bringing friends and family together around a home-cooked 
meal. The search for ways to make meal-making easier and 
tastier has never been greater; for example, hob-top cooking 
is the fastest growing cooking method as it is perceived as 
quicker than oven cooking after a busy day. This provides 
opportunities for categories such as cooking sauces or 
Flavourings & seasonings. Modern dishes, exciting flavours, 
convenient formats and simplicity of preparation all help 
capture consumers’ imaginations.
Interest in health, well-being and provenance is also growing. 
Consumers are increasingly aware of the nutritional value of 
the food they buy and the need for moderation when it comes 
to sugar, salt or fat. Healthier choices, lower in fat, sugar and 
salt or with better-for-you ingredients such as wholegrains or 
added vitamins are becoming more popular. In addition clear 
information and labelling is considered essential. 
Consumers still, however, find time for a treat. Indulgent 
categories such as sweet treats are continuing to grow as 
people look for new and exciting choices that deliver that 
moment of pleasure to brighten up the day. 10 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Our business model
Our business model is based around our purpose – we create food the nation loves 
most for modern life. We focus on our consumers to develop a deep understanding of 
the role food plays in their lives and use this knowledge to create food that they love to 
eat. We believe this will drive increased sales and create value for our shareholders.
                  Consumer
                   Focused
           Proﬁtable
                and complexity
        channels
        growth
          insights                  investment
                   Reducing cost
                  supply chain
                      Efﬁcient
       Customer
 
 
 
Leading British brands
Generating shareholder value
Experience and expertise
Operational capability
Generating shareholder value
We create 
food the nation 
loves most for 
modern life
Our core assets
Leading British brands Experience and expertise Operational capability
We have a broad stable of leading 
British brands, many with a unique 
heritage going back over 100 years. 
With at least one of our brands in 
around 96% of British households we 
have a great portfolio which we can use 
to deliver new products which meet our 
consumers’ needs.
Our management team have a deep 
understanding of today’s food industry 
and our dedicated colleagues have 
vast experience in manufacturing 
and product development. We have 
strong capability in the areas of 
consumer insights, engineering and 
food science. Our values encourage 
an entrepreneurial culture where we 
can use our experience and expertise 
to move with agility to create the 
products our consumers want today, 
and tomorrow!
Our British manufacturing base can 
produce our products in a wide variety 
of packaging formats to meet today’s 
food occasions, utilising modern 
technology and with industry leading 
standards of food and people safety.
10 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 11
Financial 
Statements
Our core processes
Consumer insights Everything we do starts with our consumers and understanding the role food plays in their lives. 
We delve deep into how they shop and when, where and why they cook and how they eat. This 
knowledge inspires the products we create to help consumers manage their busy modern lives, 
whether it’s helping them to make a delicious home made meal quickly or providing a tasty treat 
on-the-go.
Go to Consumers on page 13 
Focused investment Our investment is focused on our core assets. We invest in our brands by developing new 
products and marketing them through both traditional media, such as television, print and radio 
and aslo engaging with new digital channels. We invest in our operational assets to increase 
efficiency and we invest in our people to develop their potential.
Go to Investing for success on pages 02 and 03 
Customer channels Strong relationships with our retail customers are critical in making our products available to 
consumers. We invest in strong partnerships and joint business plans to drive mutual growth. We 
do this by managing and growing categories, which suit our customers’ needs, whether they be 
the major supermarkets, discounters or online. We also pursue customer own label contracts 
where they provide an appropriate return or facilitate increased operational efficiencies.
Go to Customers on page 15 
Efficient supply chain We partner with our suppliers to source high quality, ethically sourced ingredients, buying from 
British suppliers wherever possible and collaborating with key suppliers on innovation to create 
shared business opportunities. We continue to focus on reducing our usage of natural resources 
and our environmental footprint.
Go to Responsibility on pages 18 and 19 
Reducing cost & 
complexity 
We constantly seek to reduce costs and complexity to improve our efficiency and effectiveness 
and deliver our consumers the best quality and value we can. We embrace new technology and 
new ways of working and encourage our colleagues to treat every pound as their own. The more 
we can save, the more we can invest in our brands.
Go to Costs on page 17 
Profitable 
growth
The leveraging of our core assets through our core processes helps to fuel growth across a 
range of areas; including top line revenue growth, market share growth, brand equity growth and 
ultimately bottom line trading profit.
Go to Operating review on pages 26 to 30 
Generating shareholder value
By focusing on our consumers, investing in our brands, understanding our customers, manufacturing efficiently and 
keeping our costs under control, our business model is designed to drive profitable growth and generate the cash 
we need to pay down our debts and invest more in the business. We believe this balanced approach is central to the 
creation of value for our shareholders. And by acting responsibly and sustainably in everything we do we also bring 
wider value to our colleagues, our communities and others who touch our business.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Our strategy
The best opportunity to achieve sustainable growth is by driving category growth in the 
categories in which we operate. This aligns our business with the interests of our major 
customers. Our category leading brands ensure we benefit the most from a growing category.  
Strategic Objective:
to drive category growth
We will achieve this by focusing on our five strategic priorities:
Our priorities Key activities
Consumers
Exploiting our deep UK expertise 
to delight our consumers
•	Putting the consumer at the heart of everything we do by constantly 
updating our consumer research and refreshing our insights.
•	Gaining insights into shopper behaviour to see what motivates consumers 
when in store.
•	Translating these insights into innovation to meet evolving consumer 
trends.
Brands
Building stronger brands and 
accelerating innovation
•	Creating innovative new products to meet consumer needs.
•	Investing in new and traditional marketing for our brands.
•	Ensuring our promotional investments are effective, efficient and inspiring.
Customers
Cultivating more responsive and 
valued customer partnerships
•	Working closely with our customers to agree shared goals for our mutual 
growth.
•	Being agile to respond to the opportunities created by emerging retail 
channels.
•	Seeking strategic international opportunities for medium-term growth.
People
Unlocking our people’s potential
•	Communicating our purpose and living our values.
•	Creating a workplace that drives an entrepreneurial approach to our 
business and allows people to develop their potential. 
•	Constantly seeking improvement to our industry leading health & safety 
record.
Costs
Working smarter to reduce costs 
and drive effectiveness
•	Driving unwanted cost and complexity out of the business wherever  
we can.
•	Working smarter by improving our business processes and use of 
technology.
•	Building stronger partnerships with our key suppliers to support innovation 
and achieve mutually beneficial growth.
Being responsible and sustainable
•	 Health	and	well-being	 	 •	Investing	in	young	people	 	 •	Community	involvement	 	 •	Sustainable	supply	chain
12 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 13
Financial 
Statements
Consumers
Exploiting our 
deep UK expertise 
to delight our 
consumers
Our brands have a great British heritage, 
many stretching back over 100 years. 
They remain popular today because of 
the care we take to understand what 
our consumers are looking for. Around 
96% of British households bought 
one or more of our products last year 
demonstrating how we are successfully 
adapting to consumer trends and 
developing the tastes, flavours and 
formats that help consumers meet the 
demands of modern life. 
Consumer research
In the financial period we deepened 
our knowledge and expertise of the UK 
food market by analysing the results of 
a major research exercise focused on 
the values, attitudes and behaviours of 
30,000 British households in relation to 
time, money, cooking and brands. 
We identified seven key consumer 
profiles (see table on the right) that 
helped us understand what appeals 
to different consumer types and why. 
This gives us ideas about what new 
products to develop. And by identifying 
more accurately how the seven 
consumer types shop and the media 
they consume, we can also target our 
marketing and promotions in a more 
meaningful and effective way. The 
research is further validated by visiting 
consumers in their homes to see when, 
where and why they cook, how they eat 
their meals and what food they keep in 
their cupboards.
Shopper insights
Gaining insights into what motivates 
consumers when shopping is another 
important piece of the puzzle to 
understand where people are shopping, 
how they shop and why, and also how 
they behave once they are in store. The 
Seven consumer profiles
Smart Choices
This group are savvy in the kitchen and buy lots of ingredients to 
cook from scratch; healthy eating is never far from their minds.
Easy Value
Convenience on a budget is key as these consumers juggle 
between the need for more convenience and less spend while 
shopping locally.
Squeezed 
Families
These consumers are tight on time and money, often having to 
stretch the budget across many heads, so promotions are 
important as they seek the best deal for their families.
Club Celeb
Often with younger families these consumers love celebrity, fashion 
and social media. They are very brand aware and although not 
confident in the kitchen, they love their food.
Modern 
Foodies
These experimental cooks love to try new flavours on offer in larger 
stores and are avid followers of cooking shows on TV.
Traditional
This group is very brand loyal and often shop in the major 
multiples. Healthy eating is always a concern and they like brands 
they can trust.
Principled
This group have the income to ensure they live their values, 
shopping locally for organic products and are moderately 
interested in cooking.
availability and location of products, 
the visibility on shelf and promotional 
campaigns are all factors that have 
an influence. We talk to shoppers 
about their shopping plans, their store 
selection, their journeys around the 
store and their thoughts and decision 
making in the shopping aisle. We 
also accompany shoppers on various 
shopping missions.
Using our insights effectively helps 
us design better products and 
packaging, plan the right marketing, 
communications and promotions 
and guides discussions with our retail 
customers.
Meeting consumer trends
We believe that the consumer trends 
explored on page 09 create specific 
opportunities for us. In 2014 we 
responded to the growing trend in 
convenient home cooked meals with 
new cooking sauce flavours and 
formats under our Loyd Grossman 
and Homepride brands as well as  
premium additions to the Favourings 
& seasonings category, such as 
OXO Herbs & More and Bisto Simply 
casserole pastes.
In response to consumer interest in 
healthy eating we introduced additional 
‘better-for-you’ choices with added 
benefits such as Ambrosia Mini Pots, 
which provide kids with essential 
calcium and added vitamin D. 
And to satisfy consumer tastes for 
an indulgent treat, we launched new 
ideas such as Cadbury Sticky Puds 
which give consumers a warming, tasty 
pudding which cooks in the microwave 
in just 30 seconds! 14 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Brands
Building stronger 
brands and accelerating 
innovation
Investing in innovation and marketing 
our brands is critical to our longer-term 
growth. In the last six months of the 
financial period we invested significantly 
more in building our brands and the 
benefits of these investments are 
starting to deliver results.
Innovation
We are continually on the look out for 
fresh ideas to delight our consumers. 
Whether it’s our development chefs 
experimenting in the kitchen or our 
suppliers offering ideas through our 
dedicated online innovation portal, we 
seek inspiration from wherever we can 
to develop new products and we use 
our operational scale and technology to 
bring these to market. In 2014/15 we’ve 
invested in strengthening our innovation 
teams to accelerate the number, 
and quality, of new products we are 
launching in our core categories. 
In Flavourings & seasonings, we 
capitalised on the growing consumer 
trend in favour of ‘wet’ stock by 
launching OXO Herbs & More. These 
herb-infused stock melts come in a 
range of flavours providing consumers 
with an easy way to add flavour to their 
home cooked meals. It was developed 
from insights that revealed people are 
looking for a greater range of tastes 
but without the added cost of buying 
lots of extra ingredients, such as fresh 
herbs which often get wasted. Similarly 
we launched Bisto Simply casserole 
pastes and Bisto premium gravy offering 
consumers even more opportunities to 
make classic home-cooked dishes with 
extra flavour. 
In Cooking sauces & accompaniments, 
we re-launched our Homepride brand 
with a combination of both modern 
new flavours, such as Nacho Bake, 
as well as traditional favourites, such 
as Spaghetti Bolognese, replicating 
the experience many families enjoy 
at their local pub or restaurant. This 
was supported by TV advertising for 
the first time in 10 years, social media 
and refreshed packaging helping 
communicate how Homepride helps 
time squeezed mums quickly prepare a 
wholesome family meal within budget. 
To help our consumers create more 
premium, Gastro pub style dishes such 
as Moroccan Tagine, we also launched 
14 different flavoured sauce pouches 
under our Loyd Grossman brand. 
Marketing
Investing in marketing our brands 
is a key part of our strategy to drive 
category growth. Over the year, more 
of our brands were advertised on TV as 
we reminded consumers how great our 
brands taste and how versatile they are 
for modern life. We also invested more 
in developing digital channels and social 
media to engage people directly with 
our brands and we revitalised much of 
our packaging to communicate a more 
vibrant and contemporary image. 
2014 witnessed the most significant 
investment in marketing in years behind 
our largest brand, Mr. Kipling. The “Life 
is better with cake” campaign saw 
the creation of a new brand slogan, 
new packaging graphics, a quirky TV 
ad, radio partnership with Heart FM 
and the creation of a gigantic edible 
billboard made out of 13,360 individual 
cakes! The TV ad launched during the 
2014 premiere of The X Factor with an 
on-pack competition to attend X Factor 
live shows together with social media 
content including contestants engaging 
with the product. 
The integrated digital campaign 
also incorporated a new website 
and engaging social media activity 
to celebrate the fun and enjoyable 
experience of Mr. Kipling cakes. 
Promotions
Promotions are also an important 
way to encourage shoppers to try our 
brands, particularly in the current retail 
environment. By working closely with 
our retail customers, our strategy is to 
focus on promotions that create the 
most value for all involved, avoiding 
those that are loss-making. These 
include a range of different executions 
from price offers to competitions to 
seasonal events. 
For example, Sharwood’s has taken 
advantage of the increasing popularity of 
Chinese New Year to launch dedicated 
in-store theatre and promotions 
encouraging consumers to cook 
Chinese for this special occasion and 
demonstrating through TV advertising 
how easy this can be with Sharwood’s 
help. This works well with our retail 
customers and has been a big hit for 
Sharwood’s.
Go online to see our latest  
Homepride TV ad: 
www.premierfoods.co.uk Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 15
Financial 
Statements
Customers
Cultivating more 
responsive and valued 
customer partnerships
Effective customer partnerships 
are crucial to achieving our growth 
ambitions. Our strategy of driving 
category growth is consequently aligned 
with what matters to our customers. 
By focusing on growing the categories 
in which we operate, our customers 
benefit and with leading brands within 
these categories, we also benefit. 
Customer partnerships
The majority of our sales are with the 
major supermarkets in the UK and we 
work closely with each key customer 
to develop Joint Business Plans (JBPs) 
for the year. The JBPs set out details of 
agreed promotional plans, new product 
launches, in-store marketing activity 
and customer service expectations 
and how these can work best with 
each customer’s own strategy and 
plans. To help construct the JBPs 
we share insights and expertise with 
our customers that will maximise the 
opportunities for category growth. We 
take a similar partnership approach 
across our broader customer base.
To support this approach, we changed 
our organisational structure in 
September 2014 to create separate 
fully accountable Strategic Business 
Units for our Grocery and Sweet Treats 
businesses. In addition, to enable 
a sharper focus on the brand and 
category opportunities in these different 
sectors, the new structure aligns better 
with how many of our customers are 
organised from a buying perspective. 
Channel opportunities 
We are responding to the changing 
preference for different retail channels 
through taking a broad approach to 
capturing growth opportunities across 
all channels. This is assisted by using 
our full range of brands, packaging and 
manufacturing technologies. 
In the small stores (the convenience 
channel) where space is at a premium, 
leading brands already have an 
advantage. By offering our customers 
different case sizes and packaging 
formats we can help give our brands an 
additional advantage. In January 2014 
we announced our intention to invest 
£20m in building a new Mr. Kipling 
snack pack line at our bakery in Carlton, 
Barnsley. This will not only double our 
current capacity of snack packs to meet 
demand but also enable us to produce 
different packaging configurations 
better suited to different consumer 
and customer requirements. Following 
completion of the installation the new line 
became fully operational in May 2015. 
Well-known, leading brands also have 
an advantage in the online channel 
and increasingly we are supporting 
our customers in driving sales through 
designing promotions and offers that 
work best in the online environment. In 
the High Street discounter channel, we 
have used brands, such as Paxo gravy 
and Bird’s rice pudding, to capture 
opportunities in a format that are 
appropriate for this channel.
Opportunities for our brands are fewer 
with the hard discounters but we look 
for possibilities, both branded and own 
label, where these make sense and are 
profitable. 
International
Outside of the UK we believe there are 
significant opportunities for our brands. 
In September 2014 we invested in a 
dedicated International business unit to 
focus on these opportunities. 
Strategic markets include Australia, 
China and the United States where our 
approach is to work with partners who 
have the best local knowledge. 
During the period we secured an 
agreement with the Swire Group to 
test and launch Ambrosia rice pudding 
pots in Shanghai, China. In Australia we 
started supplying the top two retailers 
with Mr. Kipling and Cadbury cakes. We 
also continue to develop opportunities 
for Sharwood’s Indian sauces in the 
United States. 
Closer to home, we increased our sales 
capability in Ireland to take advantage 
of the recovering food market and 
we continue to exploit tactical export 
opportunities in a range of markets 
across Europe and South East Asia. 
In addition, we look for international 
products that can provide opportunities 
for us in the UK market using our 
distribution capability. For example, 
in November 2014 we partnered with 
Australian firm, Menora Foods, to bring 
their Peckish brand of rice crackers to 
the UK.  16 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
People
Unlocking our 
people’s potential
Our people are a key ingredient in the 
delivery of our strategy; it’s through their 
efforts that we can deliver category 
growth and also make Premier Foods a 
great place to work. 
Purpose and values
Following our refinancing in April 2014 
and the creation of the Hovis Joint 
Venture, we took the opportunity to 
engage with colleagues to refresh our 
purpose and create a new set of values. 
We asked people about the behaviours 
that we would need to demonstrate 
to help us to deliver our strategy, and 
the type of culture they would like to 
see that would improve the working 
environment. Our new purpose – we 
create food the nation loves most for 
modern life – emphasises the passion 
for food that lies at the heart of our 
business. We also came up with five 
core values that reflected what we 
agreed would make us more successful.
People strategy
From our purpose and values, we 
developed a new People strategy in 
the financial period with the ambition to 
create a more entrepreneurial workplace 
that better drives both business and 
personal growth. We invested in our 
central Human Resources function 
to help deliver the strategy and 
specifically strengthened our Learning 
& Development focus. New activities 
range from bespoke management 
training to vocational training at our 
sites. For example, our Ashford site 
introduced a new functional skills 
training programme in the financial 
period which will help colleagues 
improve Maths, English and ICT skills 
while working towards a Level 2 City & 
Guilds qualification.
Additionally, we doubled the intake of 
new apprentices in the financial period 
to develop our depth of engineering 
expertise, a commitment we recently 
extended for another two years. 
And we invested more in expanding 
and improving our communications, 
particularly using digital and video 
channels in support of our aspiration 
to become the best connected food 
company in the UK. 
Aligning colleagues with shareholder 
interests is another important part of 
our people strategy and in 2014 we 
awarded all colleagues 500 free shares 
to promote a broader ‘ownership’ 
culture. 
A breakdown of gender diversity at 
various levels in the business is set out 
on page 39. 
Health & Safety
Making sure that all our people arrive 
home safely after work every day is a 
top priority. Health & Safety is taken 
extremely seriously by management 
at all levels in the Company and we 
continue to have one of the lowest 
accident rates in the food industry. 
Our unique, inclusive approach to 
hazard identification and control, our 
“Total Observation Process” (TOPs), is 
a vital preventative tool in making our 
factories safer places to work and is a 
key ingredient of our industry leading 
performance.
Our strong record was again recognised 
by the Royal Society for the Prevention 
of Accidents (RoSPA) in 2014 with 
our 13 sites winning 6 Gold and 2 
Silver Achievement awards and three 
Gold Medal awards. The Gold Medal 
awards are given to those sites which 
have five or more consecutive years 
of being awarded the Gold standard. 
RoSPA also honoured us with awards 
for our SEQOHS Accredited in-house 
Occupational Health and Well-being 
Service and our management of 
occupational road risk.
Our five core values: Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 17
Financial 
Statements
Costs
Working smarter to 
reduce costs and 
drive effectiveness
Our proven capability in driving cost 
and complexity out of our business 
underpins our strategy and fuels our 
investment in innovation and marketing 
our brands.
Reducing cost & complexity
Creating a simpler business enables 
us to be more effective and efficient. 
Over the last two years we have 
eliminated 700 lower margin, slower 
selling product codes or Stock Keeping 
Units (SKUs) allowing us to focus on 
the faster-moving and more profitable 
lines. We also more than halved our 
supplier base, significantly reduced our 
number of legal entities, simplified our 
management reporting and streamlined 
our governance processes. Developing 
a mindset of reduced complexity in 
all areas of the business helps keep 
us focused on what matters most 
– creating value for our customers, 
consumers and ultimately our 
shareholders. 
Cost control is equally important and we 
continue to drive unwanted costs out 
of the business wherever we can. Our 
manufacturing and logistics operations 
have historically made year-on-year 
improvements in controlling their costs 
although this proved more challenging 
in the financial period as production 
volumes declined in line with lower 
sales volumes experienced earlier in the 
financial period. Additional opportunities 
to reduce our cost base continue to be 
explored. 
Working smarter
Working smarter by improving our 
business processes and use of 
technology is another way we are 
improving effectiveness and reducing 
costs. In the period we completed 
the roll-out of SAP software solutions 
across our sites and shared service 
centre. As a result we replaced eight 
different legacy systems enabling faster 
and more efficient operational processes 
from supplier orders, to managing stock 
levels, production runs, meeting sales 
orders and delivery to our customers. 
We have also driven our integrated 
SAP solution into the commercial 
functions improving the management 
of our trade promotions, enabling 
the generation of a ‘one number’ 
forecast and plan for the business. 
Expanding the use of Google tools and 
technology across the Company has 
improved our collaborative working 
and communications all the way from 
using shared documents, to Google 
‘hangouts’ video conferencing and 
cloud based technologies.
Supplier partnerships
We are passionate about our supplier 
relationships and work hard to develop 
close partnerships that deliver mutual 
benefit. Each year we spend nearly 
£500m with UK suppliers and farmers 
representing around 88% of our total 
procurement budget. At the end of the 
financial period we are supporting 644 
small and medium sized businesses, 
accounting for over half of our total 
supplier base. 
As the scale of our business has 
changed, our strategy has been to 
reduce our supplier base and drive fewer, 
more strategic partnerships focused 
on innovation and growth through our 
supplier “Invest for Growth” programme. 
Supplier numbers were reduced to 1,230 
by the end of 2014, less than half the 
level at the beginning of the previous 
year. 
To strengthen relationships with the 
remaining supplier base we organised a 
major conference for our top suppliers 
at which we shared our business plans 
and discussed opportunities for suppliers 
to support our innovation plans. This 
included opening a dedicated online 
innovation portal in the autumn of 2014 
which has so far generated more than a 
hundred different ideas for review. 
We also conducted an anonymous 
supplier survey in 2014 via an 
independent company to identify ways 
to continuously improve our supplier 
relationships. The survey showed that 
91% of suppliers surveyed believe their 
relationship with Premier Foods is ‘good’ 
or ‘very good’; higher than any of our 
benchmarked competitors.
In response to criticisms raised at the 
end of the year about the way some 
elements of our “Invest for Growth” 
programme had been implemented, 
we simplified our supplier negotiations 
to focus on more conventional 
arrangements. We have also supported 
proposals to improve transparency in 
payment terms in the future.  18 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Responsibility
Whilst our business has seen significant transformation over 
the last few years, taking responsibility for our social and 
environmental impacts has remained constant. 
We all want to be sure that the food we buy is sourced 
ethically, with full traceability, and in a responsible way that 
respects and protects our natural environment. We also want 
the opportunity to eat healthily and have the right information 
to make the right food choices. And we want to know that our 
business is doing what it can to create opportunities for young 
people and is contributing to the community.
Health and well-being
Eating well is important to overall health. Nutrition is therefore 
at the core of what we do. We set nutritional standards 
to guide New Product Development, reformulate existing 
products and contribute to meeting government nutritional 
goals.
Over the financial period we continued to develop better-
for-you products. For example, Ambrosia Mini Pots rice 
and flavoured custard are specially formulated for younger 
children containing calcium and additional Vitamin D which 
are essential for children’s healthy development. We also 
continued to roll-out front-of-pack ‘traffic light’ nutrition 
labelling across our branded portfolio, providing helpful 
information to consumers as well as assisting our product 
development as we seek to reduce the number of ‘red’ labels 
on our packs. 
In addition, we signed up to meet the government’s Public 
Health Responsibility Deal 2017 salt reduction targets across 
a range of categories building on the work we’ve done over 
several years that has seen us remove around 1,000 tonnes 
of salt from our products. And we are working on ways to 
reduce sugar and calories wherever we can, for instance by 
implementing calorie caps on Mr. Kipling cakes and investing 
more in individually wrapped Mr. Kipling snack pack slices, the 
majority of which are under 140 calories per slice.
Investing in young people 
Developing skills for young people continued to be an 
important priority for us over the financial period as we sought 
to attract more young people to the food industry as a career 
and support others on their journey to get on the first rungs of 
the employment ladder. 
During the period, we doubled our intake of apprentices 
and have committed to take on similar numbers for the 
next two years. We contributed to raising apprenticeship 
standards through the government’s Apprenticeship Trailblazer 
programme and continued our support for the National Skills 
Academy for Food and Drink. In addition, we continued 
to lead the Industry Advisory Board for the new National 
Centre of Excellence in Food Engineering at Sheffield Hallam 
University and supported the industry sponsored new M.Eng 
degree course in Food Engineering, also at Sheffield Hallam.
For the third year in a row we supported the Institute of Grocery 
Distribution’s (IGD) ‘Feeding Britain’s Future’ campaign. In 
the financial period all our sites took part offering 250 pre-
employment skills training opportunities to young unemployed 
people as part of a national campaign offering over 15,000 
opportunities in total. The campaign is being expanded this year 
to provide similar training to 13 to 17 year old schoolchildren 
and will aim to inform 5,000 youngsters across Great Britain.
Community involvement 
Supporting the communities in which we operate has always 
been an important part of what we do. Our people give 
generously of their time to support a wide range of charitable 
and community based activities up and down the country. 
Nationally we have a two-year partnership with a charity 
chosen by our employees to help make a bigger difference to 
a single cause. At the end of 2014, our two year partnership 
with Macmillan Cancer Support came to a conclusion. 
Through hundreds of different employee events organised 
locally and nationally, and with the generous support of our 
suppliers, we raised £320,000 - enough to fund 12,800 
Macmillan nursing hours. We are aiming to provide similar 
support for our new charity partner, Cancer Research UK. 
During the year we also expanded our support for Community 
Shop, a unique venture providing surplus food at significantly 
discounted prices to those that need it alongside a range of 
programmes to help kick start positive change in people’s lives.
Responsibility
Being responsible 
and sustainable
Find out more about our 
approach to responsibility on 
our website:
www.premierfoods.co.uk
Read more on our website Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 19
Financial 
Statements
2014/15 Target
2014/15 
Absolute
2015/16 
Target
Reduce waste sent to landfill by -20% 
(vs 2013/14) -99.3%
Maintain zero 
waste to landfill
Reduce energy consumption by -2.5% 
(vs 2013/14) -5.9% -2.5%
Reduce (non)ingredient water usage 
by -5% (vs 2013/14) -1.3% -2.3%
Reduce Carbon equivalent (CO
2
e) 
emissions by -3% (vs 2013/14) -5.2% -1.5%
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting
The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Reports) Regulations 2013 requires quoted companies to 
report on environmental matters to the extent it is necessary for 
an understanding of the company’s business within their annual 
report, including where appropriate the use of key performnace 
indicators (KPIs).
In the table below we have detailed our scope 1 & 2 GHG 
emissions for the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2014 
from a 2011 baseline year. While the financial year end of the 
the Company has changed from 31 December, the regulations 
permit environmental reporting for a period outside of a 
company’s financial year.
GHG 
Emissions
Global tonnes of CO
2
(e)
2014 2013
2011  
Base Year 
Scope 1 68,620.79 129,562.28 158,164.71 
Scope 2 64,190.74 114,611.23 133,046.62 
Total annual net 
emissions 132,811.53 244,173.51 291,211.33
Overall Intensity 
(kgCO
2
e per tonne 
of product) 208.75 162.74 143.3
Methodology  
Premier Foods’ GHG emissions (detailed above) were 
assessed and calculated by the Carbon Trust using data 
collected and provided by Premier Foods and emission factors 
from Defra’s Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 
for converting energy usage to carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO
2
e) emissions. We have followed the methodology in the 
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition). The analysis has used an operational control 
approach. 
This assessment takes into account all of the emission 
sources required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. The 
emissions data relates to all production sites within the control 
of Premier Foods during the period and includes sites that 
were divested or transferred to the Hovis and Knighton Foods 
Joint Ventures for the period they were wholly owned.
Sustainable supply chain 
Where we can, we source key ingredients from UK suppliers. 
Around 98% of the wheat, 94% of the sugar, 84% of the 
apples and 78% of the milk and milk products we buy comes 
from British farmers. This helps us keep supply chains short 
and standards high with quality we can trust. Making sure 
we source ingredients that are produced sustainably is also 
important to us and during the financial period we achieved 
our commitment to source 100% of our palm oil requirements 
from certified sustainable sources. 
In 2014/15 we continued to improve our environmental 
footprint across our manufacturing sites. To provide an 
accurate year-on-year comparison of our environmental 
performance, we are reporting on a like-for-like basis including 
all manufacturing sites over which we still have operational 
control and excluding those sites that were divested or 
transferred to the Hovis and Knighton Foods Joint Ventures 
during the financial period. 
Environmental performance 2014/15 vs 2013/14
Total waste 
sent to landfill: 
Metric tonnes
2013/14
2014/15
404
3
Total energy 
usage: 
Gigawatts
2013/14
2014/15
270
254
Total (non-
ingredient) 
water usage: 
Megalitres
2013/14
2014/15
667
658
CO
2
(e):  
Metric tonnes
2013/14
2014/15
76,327
72,374
Further information on our relations with stakeholders and  
our approach to business ethics can be found on pages  
43 and 44.  20 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Key performance indicators
Branded sales (Pro forma) Trading profit (Pro forma)
£712.8m
£683.7m
2013/14
2014/15
2013/14
2014/15
£139.9m
£131.0m
YoY growth in sales from our branded 
portfolio. 
Pro forma trading profit is defined in the 
Operating review on page 30.
Why is this important? Why is this important?
Investing behind our brands to support 
long-term sustainable growth is one of our 
strategic priorities. Focusing on branded 
products improves margin potential and 
therefore increases profitability.
Trading profit supports focus on our 
overall growth agenda and is a key 
measure used by the market.
Progress we’ve made Progress we’ve made
During the period we experienced very 
challenging market conditions, including 
price deflation. As a result branded sales 
were down by 4.1%. We have continued 
to invest in our brands and have 
been encouraged to see sales gather 
momentum in the second half of the 2014 
and in the first quarter of 2015. 
As a result of the challenging market 
conditions trading profit declined £8.9m  
in 2014/15 although an additional £8m 
was invested in consumer marketing in 
this period. Trading profit growth remains 
a strategic priority for the coming year.
Introduction
We use a large number of performance 
indicators to monitor financial, 
operational and responsibility 
performance. These are reviewed on 
a daily, weekly or monthly basis by our 
senior management teams. Strategic 
performance indicators are reviewed 
by directors at Board meetings. These 
indicators are used to encourage focus 
and measure performance across a 
range of areas and to highlight areas for 
attention and corrective action, as well 
as recognising good performance and 
celebrating success. 
Our 10 Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs) have changed a little since our last 
annual report. We expect our Selling, 
General & Administration (SG&A) base 
to be in line with current levels in the 
medium term so we have replaced 
this KPI with branded market share 
to reflect the importance of growing 
market share in our categories across 
our total branded portfolio. We have also 
amended our net debt KPI to a ratio, as 
this is tied to the Company’s ability to 
resume dividend payments. Finally we 
have updated our KPI on recurring cash 
flow to be tracked as a percentage of 
EBITDA as this is a better indicator of 
cash available for the repayment of debt.
Change in year end
We have rebased our KPIs (for current 
and prior periods) following the change 
in financial year end and to reflect the 
impact of the creation of the Hovis and 
Knighton Foods Joint Ventures. Where 
possible we have shown performance 
for the unaudited Pro forma 52 week 
period ended 4 April 2015 (2014/15) 
against an unaudited Pro forma 52 week 
period ended 5 April 2014 (2013/14). 
However, in certain cases we have 
based performance on audited numbers 
which gives a 15 month period ended 
4 April 2015 (2015) against a 12 month 
period ended 31 December 2013 
(2013). Going forward our financial year 
will be for the 52 weeks ending on the 
closest Saturday to 31 March and next 
year all our KPIs will be year-on-year 
(YoY) comparisons.
% of sales from new products
% of products testing superior or 
at par with competitors
6.9%
11.3%
2013/14
2014/15
Sales of new products as a % of our 
branded sales. New products includes 
new product launches and extensions to 
existing ranges.
(Based on IRI data to 21 March 2015)
96%
96%
2013/14
2014/15
Consumer panel blind testing of our 
major branded products against their 
main competitor, whether branded or 
own label.
Why is this important? Why is this important?
In order to generate category growth we 
must focus on innovation. This measure is 
an important indicator of whether we are 
responding to consumer trends.
This is an important measure of the 
quality of our product portfolio. It drives 
recipe improvements and ensures focus 
on consistent product quality.
Progress we’ve made Progress we’ve made
We have launched around 90 new 
products in the period including Bisto 
Simply Casserole Pastes and OXO Herbs 
& More and we have invested in our 
innovation team to bolster our innovation 
pipeline. 
Overall performance was in line with 
prior year. The review covered 68% of 
our branded portfolio (by sales value) as 
part of a two year rolling programme. 
We will continue to focus on consumer 
quality benchmarking and reformulate any 
products testing below par. Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 21
Financial 
Statements
Net debt/EBITDA ratio
Recurring cash flow as a % of 
EBITDA
Branded market share – 
Grocery & Sweet Treats
2012
2013
2015
6.3x
5.3x
4.0x
2012
2013
2015
33.3%
55.6%
(16.8)%
24.9%
25.4%
2013/14
2014/15
29.6%
29.2%
2013/14
Grocery
1
Sweet Treats
1
2014/15
The ratio measures the Company’s 
overall level of debt. It is calculated 
as the Company’s interest bearing 
borrowings, less cash, divided by its 
EBITDA.
Recurring cash flow as a % of EBITDA. 
Cash flow is before non-recurring items 
such as the proceeds from disposals 
and associated restructuring costs and 
financing fees.
For Grocery this is the percentage of the total 
sales of our branded products within the four 
Grocery categories in which we participate.  
For Sweet Treats this is our branded share of 
the Ambient Cake Category.
Why is this important? Why is this important? Why is this important?
The ratio is tied with the Company’s 
priority to organically deleverage the 
business. Our banking arrangements allow 
the resumption of dividend payments 
when the ratio drops below 3.0x.
Cash flow as a % of EBITDA is a good 
indicator of the underlying quality of 
earnings and the overall health of the 
business. It also identifies cash available 
to repay debt.
Increasing market share indicates 
consumer preference for our products and 
also demonstrates successful partnerships 
with our customers to grow the overall 
categories in which we operate. 
Progress we’ve made Progress we’ve made Progress we’ve made
Net debt reduced significantly from 
£830.8m (2013) to £585.1m (2015) in the 
financial period following the successful 
completion of the Capital Refinancing 
Plan. Cash management, working capital 
and reduction in net debt remain priorities 
for the Company. The Company’s 
medium-term leverage target is 2.5x.
The cash flow ratio was negative in the 
period primarily as a result of the change in 
financial year end which incorporates the 
phasing of pension deficit contributions, the 
seasonality of working capital and timing of 
interest payments. The business remains 
cash generative, allowing the Company 
to pay down debt and reinvest behind its 
brands.
Following initial market share declines, 
increased investment and innovation 
in the second half of 2014 has had an 
encouraging impact. In the 12 weeks to 
4 April 2015 we have seen a combined 
growth in market share of 0.9% for Grocery 
and Sweet Treats.
1. (IRI data for 52 weeks ending 4 April 2015 
versus a year ago)
% of NPD to be ‘better-for-you’ 
choices
Lost Time Accident (LTAs)
Carbon (CO
2
) equivalent emissions 
(tonnes)
37%
52%
2013/14
2014/15
Sales value of New Product Development 
(NPD) with a claimable health and 
nutritional benefit.
2014/15 0.21
LTA rate per 100,000 hours worked. 
An LTA is an accident which results in a 
colleague having to take any time off work.
76,327
72,374
2013/14
2014/15
YoY reduction in Carbon (CO
2
) equivalent 
emissions in relative terms.
Why is this important? Why is this important? Why is this important?
Aligns with our consumer insights which 
highlight consumer focus on ‘better-for-
you’ options.
Our focus on all lost time accidents 
signals our determination to understand 
and mitigate accident risk, irrespective of 
its potential severity.
Reducing carbon emissions is a measure 
of our overall commitment to responsible 
manufacturing and reducing our impact 
on the environment.
Progress we’ve made Progress we’ve made Progress we’ve made
Over the course of the period 52% of 
new products delivered a claimable 
nutritional benefit. Health remains a major 
area of interest for consumers and we 
will continue to identify opportunities 
to introduce NPD with ‘better-for-you’ 
choices.
In the period, our employee numbers 
reduced by more than half and 
comparison with prior years on a 
frequency basis is therefore less 
meaningful. However, on an absolute 
basis the YoY actual number of accidents 
which resulted in time off work reduced 
by 35% in 2014/15. Our focus for the 
coming year is to continue to improve our 
safety performance.
In 2014/15 we continued to improve 
our environmental footprint across our 
manufacturing and distribution sites. 
We reduced our CO
2
 emissions by 
5.2% in absolute terms in 2014/15 on a 
like-for-like basis. Our Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions were also lower in 2014.  
See page 19 for more information. 22 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Managing our risks
Board accountability
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective risk 
management of the Company’s strategic objectives. The 
Company has a well-established process which has operated 
throughout the financial period that identifies and monitors 
the key strategic and operational risks, ensures appropriate 
mitigating activities and reports on their effectiveness.
The Board has considered and approved the risk 
management policy, the risk appetite of the Company 
(discussed on the opposite page) and has delegated 
the review of the risk management process to the Audit 
Committee. The Audit Committee receives regular reports 
from management, internal and external auditors, detailing 
the risks that are relevant to our business activity, the 
effectiveness of our internal controls in dealing with these risks 
and any required remedial actions along with an update on 
their implementation.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the 
effectiveness of the risk management process. Day-to-day risk 
management is the responsibility of senior management as 
part of their everyday business processes and is underpinned 
by the Company’s policies and procedures to ensure this is 
fully embedded.
There is a structured business review process that operates 
across all business areas which management report to 
the Board and this, along with the corporate governance 
framework, further underpins the ongoing management of 
risk.
Regulatory Authorities
Company Governance Framework
Board/Audit Committee
External Audit
Executive Leadership Team 
Operational Reviews
Internal control self 
assessments
Documented policies
and procedures
Risk Registers
Internal Audit Reports
Quarterly reporting to 
Audit Committee
Management Controls Risk Management
Financial Control
Treasury Committee
Health & Safety/ 
Security
Food Safety
Internal Audit
1st Line of defence 2nd Line of defence 3rd Line of defence
1st line of defence — management controls
The internal control system provides senior management with 
an ongoing process for the management of the risks that 
could impact on the fulfilment of the Company’s business 
objectives. The system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve our business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement. Our internal controls cover 
all areas of operations. The system also supports senior 
management’s decision making processes improving the 
reliability of business performance.
2nd line of defence — corporate oversight
Risk Management — The Company operates a formal risk 
management process designed to provide information to the 
Board, drive internal audit activities and support the executive 
and senior management in identifying and mitigating the key 
risks facing the business on an ongoing basis. Collective 
top down executive reviews are conducted, as a minimum 
twice per annum, and detailed functional risk registers are 
maintained for each business area.
Financial Control — The Company maintains a strong 
system of accounting and financial management controls. 
Our accounting controls ensure data in the Company’s 
financial statements on pages 75 to 133 are reconciled to 
the underlying financial systems. A review of the data is 
undertaken to provide assurance that the true position of the 
Company is reflected, through compliance with approved 
accounting practices. The Company has a dedicated team 
of finance managers aligned to business areas, supported 
by systems to provide the best available decision making 
information to management on an ongoing basis. This 
is reflected in an annual budgeting process, monthly 
management reporting and ongoing investment appraisal.
Treasury and Risk Committee — This committee focuses 
on the commodities purchased by the Company, reviewing 
our policies and operational delivery with respect to forward 
trading and foreign exchange exposures.
Health & Safety — The Company maintains an ongoing 
programme of Health & Safety audits and has established 
internal Health & Safety compliance tours at all factory sites.
Food Safety – The Company has developed and 
implemented Corporate technical standards and established 
an ongoing food quality and safety compliance programme 
which audits all factory sites and major suppliers. This 
supplements internal testing facilities established as part of 
our internal control system which confirm food quality, safety 
and authenticity.
3rd line of defence — internal audit
The Audit Committee annually reviews and approves the 
internal audit programme for the year. The Committee reviews 
progress against the plan on a quarterly basis considering the 
adequacy of audit resource, the results of audit findings and 
any changes in business circumstances which may require 
additional audits.
The results of internal audits are reported to the Executive 
Leadership Team and senior management and where required 
corrective actions are agreed. The results of all audits are 
summarised for the Audit Committee along with progress 
against agreed actions. Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 23
Financial 
Statements
Risk appetite
The organisation’s approach is to minimise exposure to 
reputational, financial and operational risk, whilst accepting 
and recognising a risk/reward trade-off in the pursuit of its 
strategic and commercial objectives. 
As a food manufacturing company with many well known 
brands the integrity of the business is crucial and cannot be put 
at risk. Consequently it has a zero tolerance for risks relating 
to health and safety and food safety. The business, however, 
operates in a challenging and highly competitive market place 
and is in a turnaround phase. As a result it recognises that 
strategic, commercial and investment risks will be required to 
seize opportunities and deliver results at pace. 
It is therefore prepared to make certain financial and 
operational investments in pursuit of growth objectives, 
accepting the risk that the anticipated benefits from these 
investments may not always be fully realised. Its acceptance 
of risk is subject to ensuring that potential benefits and risks 
are fully understood and sensible measures to mitigate risk are 
established. 
Changes since last year
There have been significant changes in the organisation since 
last year which address a number of strategic risks highlighted 
in the last annual report. We have successfully completed 
our Capital Refinancing Plan (as described on page 02), 
although the pension fund deficit remains a major liability and 
is still identified as a principal risk. We have also completed 
the Hovis Joint Venture and handed over the majority of 
transitional service arrangements to the new entity. This has 
allowed us to focus on our core Grocery and Sweet Treats 
businesses and restructure the organisation into Strategic 
Business Units (SBUs) including an Internaional SBU focussed 
on opportunites outside the UK. The new structure will enable 
us to align ourselves more closely with growth opportunities 
and provide stronger profit and loss accountability. 
Notwithstanding these achievements, the Company remains 
more leveraged than the industry norm and the success of 
its commercial strategy, against a challenging market, will be 
required to complete the business recovery plan and deliver a 
platform for sustainable category growth. The success of the 
organisation’s product strategies, including effective execution 
of marketing and innovation plans, as well as our relationships 
with key customers, are critical to achieving this turnaround 
during the coming financial year. 
Last year’s report highlighted delivery of commercial strategy 
as a principal risk. This remains the case but is now broken 
down into a number of components including challenging 
market conditions, dependence on key customers and 
licensing agreements and the organisation’s internal capability 
and structure. There have been extensive activities to 
improve our talent management and staff retention capability 
in the financial period at both Executive Leadership Team 
and operational level. This focus will continue over the next 
financial year and address the risks highlighted in the last 
annual report around employee engagement and retention of 
key management. Last year’s report also highlighted external 
communication as a strategic risk. This is now considered as 
part of a broader risk around responsibility and stakeholder 
perception, which the Company is addressing following a 
negative media focus on our supplier relationships in late 2014 
as discussed on page 07.  
For this year’s report we have focused on five key strategic 
risks which pose the greatest threat to the delivery of our 
strategy. We have summarised a number of operational risks 
which we believe are common to all food manufacturers 
under the headings; Operational continuity and Legal and 
regulatory compliance. These risks are identified on the heat 
map below and are described in more detail on pages 24 and 
25, together with a discussion of the mitigating activities we 
are taking to reduce the likelihood or potential impact of these 
risks. Our website also contains a more detailed discussion of 
operational risks six and seven below.
Summary of major strategic & operational risks
Financial impact
Likelihood
Low
<£2m
Financial impact
Medium
£2m – £7.5m
Financial impact
>£7.5m
Financial impact
High
Low
<20%
Medium
20 – 80%
High
>80%
1 3
4 2
6
5
7
 
1  Market conditions
2  Organisational structure and capability
3  Responsibility and stakeholder perception
4  Commercial arrangements
5  Pension fund deficit
6  Operational continuity
7  Legal and regulatory compliance 24 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Managing our risks
Risk dimension Mitigating activities
1 Market conditions
There have been fundamental 
changes in the UK retail 
environment, including rapid 
growth of discounters, online and 
convenience shopping, and shifts 
in consumer shopping and eating 
patterns. These factors, together 
with an economic environment 
of price deflation, may impact 
revenue, volumes and/or margins.
We have restructured the organisation and established Strategic Business Units, 
each with full profit and loss accountability, to align the business with future 
growth opportunities. We are investing in our brands to drive consumer demand 
and cement relationships with key customers. This will also align us with growth 
opportunities in online and convenience markets. We have a pipeline of product 
innovation initiatives under way to align our products with consumer trends, 
including convenient meal making, healthy eating and indulgence occasions, as 
well as dedicated teams to review and understand these trends. Margin impacts 
are mitigated by a strong focus on hedging activity and supplier risk management 
processes.
2  Organisational structur e  
and capability
The business has undergone a 
major restructure in 2014 with 
the creation of SBUs for Grocery, 
Sweet Treats and International. This 
has also resulted in an extensive 
people investment programme, 
particularly for commercial areas of 
the business. Attracting, retaining 
and developing high calibre staff is 
crucial for the successful delivery 
of our strategy, with marketing 
and innovation being a particular 
focus for the business. Decision 
making agility and the ability to 
respond quickly and decisively to 
changing market conditions are 
also critical for being able to deliver 
our objectives.
The restructure was successfully completed with minimal operational or 
customer impacts. We have high calibre individuals in place to manage the 
SBUs and are making good progress in building additional commercial capability 
in the business. People management has been a key strategic priority in the 
financial period with the appointment of a new HR Director and creation of 
new roles in the HR team. Initiatives are under way to improve our employer 
brand proposition, employee engagement, talent management processes and 
to develop future leaders in the business. A number of key operational and 
technological initiatives are also under way to improve our communication and 
decision making capabilities.
3  Responsibility and stakeholder 
perception
The business is committed to 
sustainability and endeavours to 
act ethically and responsibly in 
dealings with all parties. Effective 
management of our external 
communication is also important to 
maintain our corporate reputation, 
stakeholder relationships and brand 
equity.
We have clear corporate policies to ensure that we act responsibly in our 
dealings with all parties, including a Code of Conduct and supporting policy 
framework. There are also processes in place to ensure adherence to these 
policies. This is supported with corporate brand initiatives around charity 
and community related partnerships. We have dedicated Communications 
and Investor Relations teams to manage external communications and 
media responses and well co-ordinated plans for dealing with price sensitive 
information. The in-house team is supported by external agencies to maintain 
high quality and effective communications. Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 25
Financial 
Statements
Risk dimension Mitigating activities
4 Commercial arrangements
Delivery of the Company’s 
commercial objectives is 
dependent on a number of key 
arrangements with customers and 
suppliers. The business relies on 
the major UK retailers for a large 
proportion of sales.  We have key 
licensing agreements for use of 
the Cadbury brand (which runs at 
least until 30 June 2017), and Loyd 
Grossman (continues until 2026 
but is dependent on achieving 
performance targets).
We have worked closely with the major multiples to agree Joint Business Plans 
that are strategically aligned and reflect mutual growth opportunities. Strategic 
activity is also under way to grow our business with discounters, convenience 
and online markets, as well as in international markets. We enjoy good 
relationships with our licensed brand owners and are engaged in appropriate 
commercial discussions with them. Following the successful consolidation of 
our supplier base we work closely with all our suppliers and communicate our 
plans for mutual growth. We conduct independent benchmarking of our supplier 
relationships as described on page 17. 
5 Pension fund deficit
The Company supports a number 
of significant pension schemes 
which are in deficit on an aggregate 
level. The resulting balance sheet 
liability may fluctuate due to factors 
outside the Company’s control. 
The Company has agreed deficit funding payments which (unless the Company 
resumes payment of dividends) are fixed until the end of 2019. The RHM Pension 
Scheme, which is the largest scheme, has a sophisticated investment strategy 
which is designed to minimise risk while earning long-term returns in line with the 
scheme’s funding requirements.  The scheme makes use of swaps and other 
financial derivatives in order to hedge interest rate and inflation exposures.  The 
smaller Premier Foods schemes have a much lower funding position and 
therefore less ability to hedge.  These schemes are more reliant on cash 
contributions from the Company as well positive investment returns to reach a 
satisfactory long-term funding position. The Company enjoys close relationships 
with the various Trustees, through regular meetings with the Trustee Chairs 
through the Pension Liaison Forum and attendance by invitation of the CFO and 
members of his team at investment committee meetings. 
6 Operational continuity
Delivery of the strategy is 
dependent on the organisation’s 
ability to minimise operational 
disruption from issues with facilities, 
IT and factory infrastructure, as 
well as procurement and logistics 
functions.
We have crisis management processes in place and business continuity plans 
are being refreshed on a site by site basis. The financial impact of material site 
issues is mitigated by insurance cover. Systems resilience is built in through the 
deployment of three data centres and a re-hosting project is planned for 2015 
which will further improve resilience. Procurement category strategy plans are in 
place to monitor and mitigate risk around key suppliers.
7 Legal and regulatory compliance
The business is subject to a 
number of Legal and regulatory 
compliance requirements and 
must continually monitor new and 
emerging legislation, in areas such 
as Health & Safety, competion law, 
food safety, labelling regulations 
and environmental standards. 
Leading food industry processes are in place to manage Health & Safety and 
food safety issues, including an ongoing programme of internal and external 
audits. There are dedicated Legal and regulatory teams in place to monitor 
changes in legislation, ensure compliance across the organisation and defend 
against litigation where necessary.
Find out more about our 
operational risks  six and six 
on our website:
www.premierfoods.co.uk
Read more on our website
6 7 26 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Operating and financial review
Operating review
Pro forma results
Within this operating review, commentary unless otherwise 
stated is on a ‘Pro forma’ basis, which excludes all disposals 
and joint ventures transactions previously completed and is 
prepared for the 52 weeks ending 4 April 2015. All references 
to the ‘year’ in this section, unless otherwise stated, are for 
the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2015 and the comparative period, 
52 weeks ended 5 April 2014. All references to the ‘quarter’, 
unless otherwise stated, are for the 94 days ended 4 April 2015 
and the comparative period, 94 days ended 5 April 2014.
52 week results
£m
4 April 2015 
(52 weeks)
5 April 2014 
(52 weeks)
Change
(%)
Sales
Power Brands 504.5 528.9 (4.6)
Support brands 179.2 183.9 (2.5)
Total branded 683.7 712.8 (4.1)
Non-branded sales 83.7 90.5 (7.5)
Total 767.4 803.3 (4.5)
Trading profit 131.0 139.9 (6.4)
EBITDA 144.9 156.2 (7.2)
Quarterly sales results
£m
94 days to
4 April 2015 
94 days to 
5 April 2014
Change 
(%)
Sales
Power Brands 124.9 126.9 (1.6)
Support brands 45.2 43.3 4.5
Total branded 170.1 170.2 (0.0)
Non-branded sales 15.9 16.9 (6.0)
Total 186.0 187.1 (0.6)
Note: 
For the 52 week financial year ending 2 April 2016 (2015/16), the relevant 13 
week 2014/15 comparatives which will be used for 2015/16 reporting can be 
found on page 33. 
Introduction
Pro forma total sales for the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2015 
were £767.4m compared to £803.3m for the prior year. In the 
quarter, total sales were (0.6)% lower than the comparative 
period at £186.0m, while branded sales were broadly flat and 
Power Brands sales were (1.6)% lower. Both the total branded 
and Power Brands performances reflect demonstrably 
improving trends and shows that the Company’s strategy 
is starting to deliver in what has been a challenging trading 
environment.
Trading profit (as defined in the footnote on page 30) for the 
52 weeks ended 4 April 2015 was £131.0m, in line with the 
Company’s expectations and included approximately £8m 
higher consumer marketing expenditure than the prior year. 
In the six months to 4 April 2015, its key trading period, 
the Company invested 82% more in consumer marketing 
compared to the equivalent prior year period. Gross margins 
throughout the year remained solid, supported by improving 
branded mix benefits and a benign input cost environment.
Market trends
The UK grocery market remains highly competitive. Previous 
quarters have been characterised by the well documented 
growth of the discounter, convenience and online channels, 
and while there was a broad continuation of these growth 
trends in the quarter, there is increasing evidence that the 
growth in the discounter channel in particular is slowing. With 
a degree of momentum building in the traditional supermarket 
channel, the growth profile of the different sub-channels is 
displaying signs of converging.
Measures of consumer confidence have demonstrated 
increased levels of disposable income for consumers and in 
the case of the Asda/Centre for Economics and Business 
Research income tracker, are at the highest level since records 
began in 2009. Food price deflation, reflecting a combination 
of benign input costs and price competition across the wider 
grocery market, has become progressively deeper over the 
last six months and reached (2.0)% in March. Concurrently, 
there are also signs of a return to volume growth across the 
grocery market.
Over recent months, the trend of volume growth in the UK 
grocery market, as measured by Kantar Worldpanel, has 
been steadily increasing, peaking at 2.8% at the end of March 
2015.
Against the backdrop of these market conditions and trends, 
the Company has been successful in gaining significant 
volume and value share growth in its categories in the 
quarter. During this period, volume sales as measured by IRI 
increased by 9.0% and delivered 2.0 percentage points of 
share, while value sales grew 3.3% taking 0.9 share points. 
This performance reflects the results from the Company’s 
strategy of investing behind its brands, bringing new products 
to market, working in close partnership with its customers and 
increasing the returns on its promotional activities. 
  Over the last 12 months, six of our 
major brands have benefited from TV 
advertising and we have launched a 
number of new products to market, 
with more to come this year.”
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 27
Financial 
Statements
Customer relationships
The Company has applied a great deal of focus in improving 
its customer relationships over the past three years. 
These closer partnerships include the early agreement of 
constructive joint business plans, with the overall objective of 
delivering category growth for mutual benefit. An illustration 
of the strong progress in this area can be seen by reference 
to the number of ‘category captaincy’ roles (or equivalent) 
held by the Company with its top six customers. In 2012, the 
Company held one category captaincy role from a maximum 
of thirty category/top six customer relationships; in 2015 this 
has now increased to 22. Additionally, it holds seven ‘category 
advisor’ roles.
Grocery
Over the last six months, the Company has increased its 
focus on bringing new and relevant products to market, based 
on sound consumer insights and working in close partnership 
with its customers.
Bisto recorded a strong quarter, growing volumes, sales, 
market share and household penetration, benefiting from the 
‘Bisto Together Project’ television advertising and two new 
product ranges. Bisto Simply Casserole and Bisto Gravy 
Pastes have been well received and reflect consumer trends 
and insights around convenience and ‘foodieness’. The 
introduction of the OXO Herbs & More range aligns very well 
to these consumer trends and assisted OXO’s volume growth 
in the quarter. The earlier timing of Easter also benefited Bisto 
and to a lesser extent, Ambrosia, with the latter growing 
volumes, sales and market share in the quarter reflecting 
a good performance from the mini pots range, its loyal 
consumer following and strong category position.
Sharwood’s reversed its recent quarterly performances, 
delivering increased sales in the quarter following stronger 
in-store execution of Chinese New Year and supported by TV 
advertising. Sales of Homepride increased over the 52 week 
period as a result of the more contemporary range introduced 
in the middle of 2014, in addition to its first TV advertising for 
ten years.
Loyd Grossman sauces saw the launch of new premium 
‘Gastro’ and ‘Classics’ ranges in one major customer, while 
sales of Batchelors were lower than the same period last year.
Innovation in the first half of 2015/16 will see the launch of 
Sharwood’s Stir Fry Melts and Loyd Grossman Pan Melts. 
These products build on the gel pot technology used by other 
products in the portfolio and are based on consumer insights 
and trends which reveal that hob cooking is the most popular 
and fastest growing main meal cooking method. During the 
last year, the Company delivered 11.3% of its sales from new 
products launched over the previous 24 months, compared to 
6.9% in the previous year. The Company’s target is to increase 
this to 20% of sales over time.
Sweet Treats
The performance of the Company’s major cake brands, Mr. 
Kipling and Cadbury cake, have been instrumental in driving 
category growth of +3.8% during the quarter. A combination 
of the major branded relaunch in 2014, TV advertising and 
strong execution of a promotional campaign in an expandable 
category have enabled Mr. Kipling to deliver increased 
volumes, sales and share in the quarter. Building on this 
excellent momentum, new Mr. Kipling milkshake flavour snack 
pack slice products have just been launched with all variants 
available in all major customers.
In Cadbury cake, all the key metrics of volumes, sales and 
share increased in the quarter due to strong in-store execution 
and the earlier timing of Easter in 2015. During the first half of 
2015/16, Cadbury cake will benefit from its first TV advertising 
campaign for eight years and will see new limited edition 
products launched in time for Halloween. Due to the earlier 
timing of Easter this year, the Company expects a slower first 
quarter in its Sweet Treats business.
The implementation of the new snack pack line at the 
Company’s factory in Barnsley, South Yorkshire has entered 
commissioning stages with products now being distributed to 
customers. This new line will increase the Company’s snack 
pack slices capacity by over 130%, significantly increases 
its level of automation and provides additional flexibility on 
pack format sizes. The pack size flexibility presents the Sweet 
Treats business unit with valuable additional options for its 
promotional strategy and also provides opportunities to enter 
the convenience channel through twin-pack format sizes.
The business unit has recently been successful in winning 
certain non-branded cake contracts. The Company will review 
non-branded contracts applying judicious economic rationale, 
while recognising the benefits that can be drawn from 
enhanced customer relationships and optimal utilisation of its 
manufacturing facilities.
Goodwill which arose on past acquisitions has previously 
been allocated to the combined Grocery and Sweet Treats 
business units. As a result of the Company’s decision to 
move to a Strategic Business Unit structure, the Company 
has for the first time been required to assess the carrying 
value of the Sweet Treats business as a stand alone entity. 
The goodwill allocated to the Sweet Treats business has been 
assessed and consequently, the Company has recognised 
an impairment of goodwill of £67.9m in respect of its Sweet 
Treats business for the financial period ended 4 April 2015. 
Despite this non-cash charge, the Company considers the 
Sweet Treats business presents many further opportunities for 
future growth. 28 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Operating and financial review
International
Over the last two quarters, the International business unit 
has been upweighting its resources to enable it to realise the 
available opportunities in its selected strategic geographies: 
USA, Australasia and China. In the quarter, additional focus in 
Ireland has delivered increased sales growth compared to the 
prior year, although this was partly offset by adverse foreign 
exchange movements.
Consumer marketing
During the year, the Company’s consumer marketing spend 
as a percentage of branded sales was 4.8% and in the last 
six months of the year, total spend was 82% higher than 
the equivalent prior period. The Company has committed to 
delivering a double-digit % increase in its consumer marketing 
spend over the medium-term. 
The Company expects to meet this medium-term target in 
2015/16, with eight of its brands planned to benefit from 
television advertising and further new products due to be 
launched.
Group & corporate costs, efficiency and  
organisation structure
In recent years, the Company has been successful in keeping 
a tight focus on its overhead cost base. Since the completion 
of the Capital Refinancing Plan in April 2014, the Company 
has chosen to increase its proportion of revenue generating 
overheads such as international, marketing, innovation and 
sales while at the same time driving efficiencies in support 
functions such as shared services and IT. During this time, the 
headcount of revenue generating colleagues has increased by 
22.5% while support functions have reduced by 17.6%. This 
switch in the overhead cost base supports the Company’s 
strategy of driving category growth while maintaining a strong 
focus on efficiency and cost control.
As previously announced, the Company has a healthy pipeline 
of capital projects with attractive financial paybacks. During 
2015/16, it will be investing in a number of capital projects 
which expect to deliver payback returns on cost release 
initiatives of less than three years. The Company expects to 
spend approximately £25m on capital expenditure in 2015/16 
of which about a third will be assigned to cost release 
projects. In particular, a number of projects are underway at 
our Stoke cake bakery to increase automation on packing 
lines, reducing a number of manual tasks and so delivering 
efficiency benefits.
The Company continues to focus on improving the returns on 
investment from promotional activity in which it participates 
with major customers. As a result of a more sophisticated 
approach in this area, the proportion of promotions which 
exceeded the Company’s sales and returns targets increased 
to over 40% in the quarter.
Over the last two years, we have reduced the number 
of SKUs (product codes) by 43% and more than halved 
the number of suppliers. Our supplier programme has, in 
particular, enabled us to develop more strategic, and mutually 
beneficial, partnerships focused on growth, including with 
many small and medium sized businesses. We plan to 
continue strengthening our supplier relationships based on 
mutual respect.
The Company’s new Strategic Business Unit structure, 
announced in September 2014, is starting to deliver clear 
and tangible benefits, facilitating more agile ways of working 
and allowing greater focus on delivering category growth. 
Each Strategic Business Unit has fully embraced the ethos 
of the new structure; ensuring the right teams are in place, 
accelerating product innovation, furthering cost reduction 
initiatives and delivering joint business plans with customers.
Net regular interest
Net regular interest was £47.8m in the year, £17.2m lower 
than the prior period. Following the completion of the 
Company’s Capital Refinancing Plan, and as expected, the 
constituent elements of the Company’s financing charges 
have changed. The largest component is the interest payable 
on the senior secured notes, which amounted to £30.9m 
in the year. Bank debt interest, which includes interest on 
the Company’s £272m revolving credit facility and also non 
utilisation fees, was £23.6m lower at £10.2m. Amortisation 
and deferred fees, which comprised a significant element 
of the Company’s previous financing arrangements, were 
significantly lower in the year at £4.2m (prior year: £26.6m).
£m
4 April 
2015
(52 weeks)
5 April 
2014
(52 weeks)
Change
(%)
Senior secured notes 
interest 30.9 1.2 –
Bank debt interest 10.2 33.8 69.8
Securitisation interest 2.5 3.4 26.4
43.6 38.4 (13.5)
Amortisation and deferred 
fees 4.2 26.6 84.2
Net regular interest 47.8 65.0 26.5
The Company expects net regular interest for the 2015/16 
financial year to be approximately £45m.
Associate investments
The Company holds a 49% interest in both Hovis Limited 
and Knighton Foods Limited. For the financial period ended 
4 April 2015, the Company recognised a share of loss from 
associates of £(9.6)m of which £(8.9)m is due to the share 
of loss from the Hovis Limited investment. This loss primarily 
reflects one-off costs associated with the closure of the 
Hovis Limited Leicester bakery. The share of loss from the 
Company’s investment in Knighton Foods Limited was £(0.7)m  Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 29
Financial 
Statements
during the period. The Company’s investments in associates 
as at 4 April 2015 were £14.4m, of which Hovis Limited 
accounted for £5.5m and Knighton Foods Limited £8.9m. 
As at 4 April 2015, the Company held loans to associates of 
£20.8m. This included £17.1m related to the investment in 
Hovis Limited and £3.7m which related to Knighton Foods 
Limited. 
Cash flow
The following commentary refers to the cash flow movements 
in the quarter. The financial review includes commentary on 
the Company’s cash flows and movement in borrowings for 
the financial period ended 4 April 2015 and the comparative 
period; the year ended 31 December 2013.
£m
1 January 
2015 – 4 April 
2015 
(94 days)
Pro forma Trading profit 23.7
Depreciation 3.9
Interest (16.3)
Pension contributions (6.6)
Capital expenditure (10.6)
Working capital & other (10.7)
Cash outflow (16.6)
Net debt at 31 December 2014 (Unaudited) 567.6
Cash outflows 1 January 2015 – 4 April 2015 16.6
Debt issuance cost amortisation 0.7
Reported Net debt at 4 April 2015 584.9
Total cash outflows in the quarter were £(16.6)m. Trading  
profit was £23.7m, while depreciation in the quarter was 
£3.9m which is in line with the Company’s expectations for  
its ongoing rate of depreciation. Interest paid was £(16.3)m  
and reflects a bi-annual payment of interest relating to the 
senior secured notes in the quarter. Capital expenditure of 
£10.6m is slightly higher than the run rate for 2015/16 but  
is due to rollover effects from the prior year notably from the 
new Mr. Kipling snack pack line at our Barnsley cake bakery  
in South Yorkshire. The working capital outflow of £(10.7)m  
reflects the normal working capital cycle of the Company 
between December and early April, owing to the seasonal 
nature of the business. Pension contributions of £(6.6)m were 
in line with the previously agreed schedule of pension deficit 
contributions and costs associated with administering the 
pension schemes.
Net debt
£m
Reported Net debt at 31 December 2013 830.8
Movement in cash in period (236.0)
Movement in debt issuance costs (9.9)
Reported Net debt at 4 April 2015 584.9
Net debt at 4 April 2015 was £584.9m, which reduced from 
£830.8m as at 31 December 2013. This major reduction 
reflects the equity issue net proceeds of £340.1m following 
the completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan in April 2014. 
It should be noted that due to the seasonal nature of the 
Company’s business, the natural low point in the working 
capital cycle is at the end of December. With the change in the 
financial reporting year end to the beginning of April, reported 
Net debt is expected to be on average, approximately 
£20m–£30m higher than the previous December.
Pensions
Pensions (£m) 4 April 2015 31 Dec 2013
Assets
 Equities 348.5 299.7
 Government bonds 547.5 515.7
 Corporate bonds 329.8 384.1
 Property 260.0 181.7
 Absolute return products 1,332.9 1,268.2
 Cash 294.4 192.3
 Infrastructure funds 196.6 193.5
 Swaps 430.0 (116.6)
 Private equity 250.9 190.2
 Other 257.9 109.6
Total Assets 4,248.5 3,218.4
Liabilities
 Discount rate 3.30% 4.40%
 Inflation rate (RPI/CPI) 3.0%/1.9% 3.35%/
2.35%
Total Liabilities (4,460.3) (3,821.7)
Deficit (IAS 19) (211.8) (603.3)
Deferred tax (21.4%/23.25%) 45.3 140.3
Deficit net of deferred tax 
(IAS 19) (166.5) (463.0)
The IAS 19 pension deficit at 4 April 2015 was £(211.8)m, 
equivalent to £(166.5)m net of deferred tax. This is £391.5m 
lower than the valuation as at 31 December 2013. The 
valuation at 4 April 2015 comprised a £241.6m surplus in 
respect of the RHM scheme and a deficit of £(453.4)m in 
relation to the Premier Foods schemes. This substantial 
reduction in the combined schemes deficit is due to the 
following factors: a widening of credit spreads between 
government gilts and corporate bonds; the impact on assets 
of the schemes’ hedging strategy, a reduction in inflation rate 
assumptions and improved investment performance. The 
impact on the assets of the schemes’ hedging strategy can 
be referenced by the increase in the Swaps asset class in the 
table above, and accounts for over half of the total increase in 
the schemes’ assets. 30 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Operating and financial review
The reduction in the pension valuation between these dates 
has no impact on the previously agreed pension deficit cash 
contributions which are fixed until 2019. One approach in 
valuing the pension liabilities as part of the Enterprise value 
of the Company is to discount the post tax future cash flows 
of the agreed deficit contribution payment schedule. On this 
basis, the pension schemes deficit is valued at approximately 
£390m.
Pension sensitivities 
(IAS 19 basis, £m)
Increase/
(Reduction)
in assets
Increase/
(Reduction)
in liabilities
Increase/
(Reduction)
in deficit
25 basis point decrease 
in government gilts 175 205 30
25 basis point increase 
in credit spreads – (190) (190)
25 basis point increase 
in RPI 70 85 15
Life expectancy increase 
by 1 year – 140 140
The above table intends to provide assistance in understanding 
the sensitivity of the valuation of pension assets and liabilities 
to market movements of government gilts, credit spreads and 
the retail price index (RPI). It is stressed that these sensitivities 
are indicative only and may change over time as the schemes’ 
execution of its investment strategy may evolve to maximise 
asset performance.
Outlook
We are encouraged by the return of volume growth to both 
our categories and the wider grocery market. While we 
expect the trading environment in the coming quarters to be 
challenging, our expectations for the year are unchanged. 
The Company’s commitment to brand investment continues, 
with consumer marketing expenditure expected to increase 
materially in 2015/16.
Over the next year, the Company expects to benefit from 
lower pension contributions and capital expenditure which 
will enable it to significantly reduce Net debt. The Board is 
firmly focussed on the creation of future value, and with its 
investment and growth strategies, combined with a focus  
on cost efficiency, Trading profit delivery and organic  
de-leveraging, believes it is well positioned to deliver success.
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
18 May 2015
Reconciliation of statutory numbers (continuing operations) to Pro forma
‘Pro forma results’ the Company’s results for the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2015 are presented on a ‘Pro forma’ basis, unless 
otherwise stated. The ‘Pro forma’ results are unaudited, exclude the results of previously completed business disposals, joint 
ventures and are presented to illustrate the performance of the Company on the new reporting calendar methodology.
‘Continuing operations’ includes the respective periods that the Company maintained ownership of completed disposals in 
2013 and joint ventures entered into. The results of the financial period to 4 April 2015 and its comparative period, the year to  
31 December 2013, are commented on in the financial review on the next page. 
£m
Continuing 
operations
Less: 
Disposals
Less: 
Knighton JV
Less: 
1 Jan – 6 Apr 
2013
Add/(Less): 
1 Jan – 5 Apr 
2014
‘Pro forma’ 
business
2014/15
Sales 964.3 (0.2) (8.1) N/A (188.6) 767.4
Trading profit 150.2 3.8 0.7 N/A (23.7) 131.0
EBITDA 168.7 3.6 0.7 N/A (28.1) 144.9
2013
Sales 843.0 (6.4) (17.4) (204.5) 188.6 803.3
Trading profit 139.5 (0.6) 0.7 (23.3) 23.7 139.9
EBITDA 156.8 (0.6) (0.3) (27.8) 28.1 156.2
Notes:
1. The statutory accounting period is from 1 January 2014 to 4 April 2015.
2. Pro forma results are prepared for the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2015 with comparative period of the 52 weeks ended 5 April 2014 and are unaudited.
3. Trading profit is defined as operating profit before re-financing costs, restructuring costs, profits and losses associated with divestment activity, amortisation 
and impairment of intangible assets, the revaluation of foreign exchange and other derivative contracts under IAS 39, profits and losses from associate 
companies and pension administration costs and net interest on the net defined benefit liability.
4. EBITDA is Trading profit excluding depreciation.
5. Adjusted profit before tax is defined as Trading profit less net regular interest. Adjusted earnings per share is defined as Adjusted profit before tax less a 
notional tax charge of 21.4% (2013: 23.25%) divided by the weighted average of the number of shares of 731.4/366.1 million. Weighted average number of 
shares on a 52 week ended 4 April 2015 is 824.4 million (52 weeks ended 5 April 2014: 370.0m). Net regular interest is defined as net finance cost excluding 
write-off of financing costs, fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments and other interest. Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 31
Financial 
Statements
Financial review
Introduction
Within this financial review, the Company presents its results 
for the financial period from 1 January 2014 to 4 April 2015 
with comparative information for the year ended 31 December 
2013. The Bread business is treated as a discontinued 
operation in the financial statements and is excluded from 
commentary on the Company’s continuing operations. All 
commentary on the performance of the Company included 
below refers to continuing operations unless otherwise stated 
and therefore reflects the respective periods that the Company 
maintained ownership of completed disposals in 2013 and 
joint ventures entered into.
Company structure
During the period, the Company completed a capital 
restructuring including an equity issue of £340m (net of 
underwriting and advisory fees), a senior secured notes 
issuance of £500m, a new revolving credit facility of £272m 
and a new pensions framework agreement. This capital re-
financing agreement completed on 14 April 2014.
The Company completed two joint venture transactions in the 
period; the bread business on 26 April 2014 (“Hovis Limited”) 
and the powdered beverages and desserts business (“Knighton 
Foods Limited”) on 28 June 2014. Both Hovis Limited and 
Knighton Foods Limited are reported as associates in the 
financial statements for financial period ended 4 April 2015. On 
2 February 2013, the Company completed the disposal of the 
Sweet Pickles and Table Sauces business.
Financial policy change
The Company has conducted a review of its commercial costs 
and consequently decided to re-classify certain commercial 
costs from its selling, marketing and distribution costs 
classification to revenue, in order to better reflect the cost 
directly associated with revenue generation. Accordingly the 
comparative periods’ financial statements have been restated 
to reflect this re-classification. While this has nil impact on 
Operating profit or Trading profit, it has the effect of reducing 
turnover for both the reported and comparative financial 
periods. Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of 
goods net of sales rebates, discounts, and taxes attributable 
to revenue and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Income statement
Revenue from continuing operations in the period was £964.3m 
compared to £843.0m in the prior year. Revenue in the period 
benefited from an additional 94 days while the Company 
experienced some challenging trading conditions, particularly 
in the first six months of the period. The prior year’s revenue 
includes one month of trading for the disposed Sweet pickles 
& table sauces business and a full year of the Knighton Foods 
Limited business. While revenues remained lower for much of 
the remaining months of the period, the branded sales trend 
displayed a relative improvement, as a result of the Company’s 
increased levels of investment in consumer marketing and 
launch of new products to market. Grocery revenues for the 
period ended 4 April 2015 were £699.6m compared to the prior 
year of £615.4m, while Sweet Treats revenues were £264.7m 
compared to the prior year of £227.6m.
Gross profit was £333.5m in the period, an increase of 
£46.6m compared to the prior year and included benefits from 
an increase in sales of higher margin branded products, the 
benefits to manufacturing overheads following the completion 
of the Knighton Foods joint venture and relatively benign input 
costs. Gross margin increased by 0.6 percentage points to 
34.6% for the period ended 4 April 2015, reflecting the points 
identified above.
Divisional contribution for the Group was £196.4m in the 
period compared to £178.2m for the year ended  
31 December 2013. Grocery Divisional contribution was 
£179.6m, an increase of £21.1m on the prior year, while 
Sweet Treats Divisional contribution was £16.8m, compared 
to £19.7m in the year to 31 December 2013. The reduction in 
Sweet Treats Divisional contribution reflects increased levels of 
consumer marketing investment in the period.
Operating profit
For the period ended 4 April 2015, the Group reported an 
Operating loss for continuing operations of £(44.1)m, set 
against an Operating profit of £52.6m for the comparative 
period. Before impairment and profit on disposal of 
operations, the Group delivered an Operating profit of £45.8m 
in the period, compared to £55.0m for the year ended  
31 December 2013.
The main driver of the Operating loss in the period is a result 
of an impairment charge relating to the Sweet Treats business 
unit. As a result of the Company’s decision to move to a 
Strategic Business Unit structure, the Company has for the first 
time been required to assess the carrying value of the Sweet 
Treats business as a stand alone entity. The goodwill allocated 
to the Sweet Treats business unit has been assessed and 
consequently, the Company has recognised an impairment 
of goodwill of £67.9m in respect of its Sweet Treats business 
for the financial period ended 4 April 2015. Despite this, the 
Company considers the Sweet Treats business presents 
many further opportunities for future growth. Additionally, the 
Company recognised impairment in the period of £16.0m 
relating to the write off of certain fixed assets at its Lifton site.
Trading profit in the period was £10.7m higher at £150.2m, due 
to the additional 94 trading days, partly offset by an increase in 
consumer marketing expenditure during the period.
Restructuring costs of £8.2m in the period were in line with the 
Group’s expectations and relate to restructurings associated 
   During the period, the Company 
completed a capital restructuring 
including an equity issue of £353m, 
a senior secured notes issuace of 
£500m, a new revolving credit facility 
of £272m and a new pensions 
framework agreement.”
Alastair Murray 
Chief Financial Officer 32 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Operating and financial review
with the Knighton Foods Limited and Hovis Limited joint 
ventures. Amortisation of intangible assets was £47.6m for the 
financial period ended 4 April 2015 (year ended 31 December 
2013: £43.8m). The Group expects the annual run rate for 
intangible asset amortisation to be approximately £38–40m.
A loss on disposal of operations of £6.0m was recognised 
on completion of the Knighton Foods Limited joint venture 
transaction.
Net interest on pensions and administrative expenses was 
£48.0m in the period (31 December 2013: £31.3m). This 
increase reflects the additional days in the period and a 
higher opening pension deficit valuation for the current period 
£(603.3)m compared to the prior year £(466.8)m.
Finance costs
Net finance cost for the period ended 4 April 2015 was 
£(81.9)m (year ended 31 December 2013: £(48.2)m). 
During the period, the Group entered into a new set of 
financing arrangements following the completion of its Capital 
Refinancing Plan. Amortisation of debt issuance costs was 
lower in the period £(4.3)m compared to the prior year £(6.4)m,  
and is expected to be £4–5m per annum under the new 
financing arrangements. Interest payable on the senior secured 
notes was £32.3m in the period (31 December 2013: £nil), 
while interest on the term facilities reduced from £17.4m to 
£7.2m reflecting the repayment of the term facility as part of the 
Capital Refinancing which completed in April 2014. Additionally, 
the prior year benefited from a positive movement in the fair 
valuation of interest rate derivatives of £11.6m.
Profit before taxation
The Group made a loss before tax of £(135.6)m for the period 
ended 4 April 2015 compared to a prior year profit of £4.4m. 
An Operating loss of £(44.1)m and net finance costs of 
£(81.9)m as outlined above are the principal reasons for this 
performance. Share of loss from associates was £(9.6)m,  
of which £(8.9)m is due to the share of loss from the Hovis 
Limited investment.
Taxation
A taxation credit of £42.9m is reported for the period (year 
ended 31 December 2013: £51.1m charge), which largely 
reflects the loss incurred in the period. The applicable rate of 
corporation tax for the year was 21.4% (31 December 2013: 
23.25%). 
The Group’s net deferred tax asset as at 4 April 2015 was 
£41.9m which includes tax benefits from future pension 
deficit contributions and benefits from prior year losses. 
Additionally, the Group has approximately £215m of brought 
forward corporation tax losses which equates to £43.0m 
of unrecognised deferred tax assets. In total, therefore, the 
Group has £84.9m of recognised deferred tax assets and 
unrecognised deferred tax assets which are available to offset 
over £400m of taxable profits in future periods. These losses 
can generally be carried forward indefinitely.
The corporation tax rate for 2015/16 is expected to be 20.0%. 
Earnings per share
The Group reports a basic loss per share on continuing 
operations for the period ended 4 April 2015 of (12.7 pence), 
compared to a basic loss per share on continuing operations 
of (12.8 pence). Earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by 
dividing the earnings/(loss) attributed to ordinary shareholders 
of £(92.7)m (31 December 2013: £(46.7)m) by the weighted 
number of shares in issue during the period. The weighted 
number of shares in the period reflects the issue of new 
shares on 24 March 2014 and is adjusted for the relevant 
bonus factor.
Adjusted earnings per share for continuing operations were 
9.0 pence (31 December 2013: 17.0 pence). Adjusted 
earnings per share on continuing operations has been 
calculated by dividing the adjusted earnings (defined as 
Trading profit less net regular interest and notional taxation) 
attributed to ordinary shareholders of £65.9m  
(31 December 2013: £62.2m) by the weighted number of 
ordinary shares in issue during each period. These earnings 
have been calculated by reflecting tax at a notional rate of 
21.4% (31 December 2013: 23.25%). The weighted average 
number of shares in issue for the period ended 4 April 2015 
was 731.4m and for the year ended 31 December 2013  
was 366.1m.
Cash flow and borrowings
Company net borrowings as at 4 April 2015 were £584.9m, 
a decrease of £245.9m since 31 December 2013. The 
cash inflow from operations to 4 April 2015 was £62.5m 
(31 December 2013: £123.4m). This included a cash 
inflow from continuing operations of £70.3m (31 December 
2013: £108.7m inflow) and cash outflow from discontinued 
operations of £(7.8)m (31 December 2013: £14.7m inflow).
Net cash interest paid was £59.1m in the period  
(31 December 2013: £35.9m) which reflects the timing of 
the bi-annual payments of the senior secured notes. The 
purchase of property, plant and equipment was £34.1m in 
the period; a significant proportion of which was due to the 
addition of a new cake snack pack slices line at the Group’s 
cake bakery in Barnsley, South Yorkshire.
The Group received £500.0m proceeds from the issue of 
its senior secured fixed and floating notes and £353.4m 
gross proceeds from the issue of new equity following the 
completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan in 2014. These 
proceeds were used to repay term facilities under the previous 
financing arrangements of £679.5m. Financing fees and other 
costs of finance amounted to £58.3m (31 December 2013: 
£27.5m) which included fees associated with the raising of 
new equity, issuing senior secured notes, new revolving credit 
facilities, advisory fees and other fees arising from previous 
re-financing arrangements.
Retirement benefit schemes
At 4 April 2015, the Company’s pension schemes under 
the IAS 19 accounting valuation showed a gross deficit of 
£(211.8)m, compared to £(603.3)m at 31 December 2013. 
The valuation at 4 April 2015 comprised a £241.6m surplus 
in respect of the RHM scheme and a deficit of £(453.4)m in 
relation to the Premier Foods schemes.  Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 33
Financial 
Statements
Further detail on the pension schemes is provided in the 
Operating review on page 29 and in the notes to the financial 
statements on pages 115 to 120. 
Financial year end date
The Group has changed its financial year end from  
31 December to early April. The next Full Year financial 
statements will be prepared for the 52 weeks ending 2 April 
2016. Future financial years will be prepared on a 52 week 
ending basis and therefore the financial year end date will 
move by one day every year, or two in the case of a leap year.
Alastair Murray 
Chief Financial Officer
18 May 2015
Quarterly Pro forma results for 52 weeks to 4 April 2015
To provide a basis for assessing the Company’s results in 2015/16 we have included a full breakdown of our results for the 52 
weeks to 4 April 2015 below, on the same basis we will report going forward, namely, 13 week trading updates, a 26 week Half 
Year and a 52 week Full Year.
52 weeks to 4 April 2015
£m
Q1 
(13 weeks)
Q2 
(13 weeks)
H1 
(26 weeks)
Q3 
(13 weeks)
Q4 
(13 weeks)
FY 
(52 weeks)
Grocery
Branded sales 112.4 112.6 225.0 160.1 123.4 508.5
Non-branded sales 11.3 10.3 21.6 11.3 10.3 43.2
Total sales 123.7 122.9 246.6 171.4 133.7 551.7
Divisional contribution – – 60.1 – – 145.2
Sweet Treats
Branded sales 39.9 41.5 81.4 50.0 43.8 175.2
Non-branded sales 5.4 6.3 11.7 23.4 5.4 40.5
Total sales 45.3 47.8 93.1 73.4 49.2 215.7
Divisional contribution – – 4.8 – – 18.0
Group
Branded sales 152.3 154.1 306.4 210.1 167.2 683.7
Non-branded sales 16.7 16.6 33.3 34.7 15.7 83.7
Total sales 169.0 170.7 339.7 244.8 182.9 767.4
Divisional contribution – – 64.9 – – 163.2
Group & corporate – – (18.2) – – (32.2)
Trading profit – – 46.7 – – 131.0
EBITDA – – 53.4 – – 144.9
Notes:
1. Divisional contribution, Trading profit and EBITDA will be reported at Half year and Preliminary results only.
2. The term divisional contribution refers to Gross Profit less selling, distribution and marketing expenses directly attributable to the relevant business unit.
3. Group & corporate costs refer to group and corporate expenses which are not directly attributable to a business unit and will be reported at total Group level.
4. Power Brands and support brands definitions to be removed.
5. New reported segments to be Grocery and Sweet Treats with branded sales, non-branded sales and divisional contribution disclosure.
6. International currently too small for separate disclosure and in line with accounting standards will be aggregated within Grocery.
Pension deficit contribution schedule
The table below (subject to final formal pension trustee approval) shows the phasing of previously agreed deficit contributions in 
the context of the Company’s new financial calendar.
£m 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
Deficit contributions 6 48 49 44 44
Administration costs + PPF levy 8–10 8–10 8–10 8–10 8–10
Total cash outflow 14–16 56–58 57–59 52–54 52–54 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 34
Governance
This section sets out our governance 
framework and the work of the Board and its 
Committees. 
Leadership
We have further strengthened the 
Board and senior management with 
a number of key appointments during 
the financial period and have an 
excellent team in place with significant 
experience in the food and retail 
industry. 
Read more on pages 36 and 37
Audit and Risk
Ian Krieger, Audit Committee 
Chairman, reports on the Committee’s 
activities in the financial period 
including the significant issues 
discussed in relation to the financial 
statements, auditor independence 
and effectiveness and our risk 
management process.
Read more on pages 49 to 61
Remuneration
Jennifer Laing, Remuneration 
Committee Chairman, sets out the 
key Remuneration decisions made 
during the financial period and 
arrangements for the coming year. 
This section also includes a summary 
of our Remuneration Policy which was 
approved by shareholders in 2014.
Read more on page 45 to 47
We are committed to transparency in 
governance and in maintaining the highest 
ethical standards in all our business 
dealings, recognising our position as a 
leading UK food manufacturer.”
David Beever 
Chairman
34 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 35
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder,
This section sets out our governance framework and the 
work of the Board and its committees. As a Board we are 
responsible for ensuring there is an effective governance 
framework in place. This includes setting the Company’s 
strategic objectives, ensuring the right leadership and 
resources are in place to achieve these objectives, monitoring 
performance and finally reporting on it to shareholders. An 
effective governance framework is also designed to ensure 
accountability, fairness and transparency in the Company’s 
relationships with all of its stakeholders whether customers, 
suppliers, employees, government or the wider community. 
We believe that good corporate governance is essential for 
building a successful and sustainable business.
Key areas of focus during the financial period
2014 was an extremely busy time for the Company and 
the Board was heavily involved in the review, approval and 
oversight of the Capital Refinancing Plan and the creation 
of the Hovis Joint Venture (Hovis JV). The Board spent a 
considerable amount of time reviewing the strategy for the 
remaining focused grocery business and approved a new 
three year business plan. This was the first three year plan 
during my tenure on the Board and is another indicator of the 
progress we are making now that the Company’s balance 
sheet issues have been stabilised. Finally, as a consequence 
of this strategy review a new organisational structure 
was introduced resulting in a significant change in senior 
management at below Board level.
Board changes
David Wild retired from the Board in May 2014 and I would like 
to thank him for his significant contribution to the Board over 
the last few years, latterly as Senior Independent Director and 
Remuneration Committee Chairman. In January 2015, I was 
delighted to announce the appointment of Richard Hodgson 
as a new non-executive director. Richard is CEO of Pizza 
Express and has extensive experience in food retailing, gained 
through senior roles with Asda, Waitrose and Morrisons 
spanning 16 years. 
Charles Miller Smith, who has served on the Board since  
June 2009, has advised the Board that he will step down  
as a director on 1 June 2015. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank him for his enormously constructive 
contribution to the Company as both a representative of our 
largest shareholder, Warburg Pincus, and more recently as 
an independent non-executive director. His vast experience 
and excellent judgement was critically helpful in creating the 
right capital structure, strategy and leadership to support the 
Company’s current recovery.
Following these changes there is an appropriate combination 
of executive and non-executive directors on the Board with at 
least half the Board (excluding myself) comprising independent 
non-executive directors. The current non-executive directors 
bring an extensive and broad ranging mix of experience which 
is highlighted in their biographies on page 36. The Board 
considers that all the non-executive directors are independent 
in character and judgement. 
Auditors
As I highlighted last year, as a result of assurance and advisory 
work undertaken as part of the Capital Refinancing Plan, the 
level of non-audit fees was higher than the audit fee during 
the financial period. However, with the completion of the 
refinancing, no further significant non-audit work is envisaged 
and we are confident that the fees will reduce significantly 
going forward. 
The Code recommendation that the Audit Committee put 
the audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years came 
into force for the financial period ended 4 April 2015. The 
Audit Committee considered an audit tender in 2013 and it 
was agreed a formal tender exercise would be deferred until 
2015, which represents the 11
th
 year of the current auditor’s 
appointment. The audit tender is now underway and the 
outcome will be announced later in the year. Further details are 
set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 45 to 47. 
Compliance with the UK Governance Code 2012  
(the “Code”)
I am pleased to confirm that, with the exception of auditor 
rotation outlined above, over the course of the financial 
period we complied with all the provisions of the Code.
AGM
Our AGM this year will be held at the offices of Wragge 
Lawrence Graham & Co LLP , 4 More London Riverside, 
London, SE1 2AU on 23 July 2015 at 11.00 am and I look 
forward to seeing you then.
David Beever 
Chairman
18 May 2015 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 36
Board of directors
Gavin Darby
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Board: February 2013
Skills and experience: Gavin has a strong consumer goods 
pedigree and extensive senior leadership experience. He 
spent 15 years at the Coca-Cola Company in various senior 
positions, including Division President roles for North West 
Europe and Central Europe. Prior to joining Premier Foods, 
Gavin served as CEO of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, 
leading a successful turnaround of the business before 
negotiating its eventual sale to Vodafone plc. Previously he 
worked at Vodafone plc for nine years, during which time he 
served as UK CEO and CEO of Americas, Africa, India and 
China.
Alastair Murray
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board: September 2013 
Skills and experience: Prior to joining Premier Foods, Alastair 
spent 10 years at Dairy Crest Group plc as Group Finance 
Director, where he helped lead a significant restructuring to 
simplify the business, creatively addressing its pension deficit 
and reinforcing its position as an industry leader. Previously 
he was the Group Finance Director at The Body Shop 
International plc. Earlier in his career Alastair was a Divisional 
Finance Director at Dalgety plc and spent 13 years in various 
finance and operations roles at Unilever plc. He is a Fellow of 
the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
David Beever N R
Chairman
Appointed to the Board: January 2008 and appointed 
Chairman in June 2012. 
Skills and experience: After qualifying as a Chartered 
Engineer, David has spent most of his career in the financial 
sector. He was a Vice-Chairman of S. G. Warburg where he 
handled many corporate finance transactions for major UK 
and international companies. He was later a board member 
of KPMG and Chairman of Corporate Finance and has been 
Chairman of several major companies.
Richard Hodgson A N 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: January 2015
Skills and experience: Richard has been Chief Executive 
Officer of Pizza Express since 2013 and has over 20 years 
of experience in the food industry. In 2010 he was appointed 
Commercial Director at Morrisons, a newly created role, 
combining Trading and Marketing. Richard joined Waitrose in 
2006 as Commercial Director and prior to that spent 10 years 
at Asda holding a number of senior roles culminating in his 
appointment as Marketing & Own Brand Director. 
Ian Krieger A R N 
Senior Independent director
Appointed to the Board: November 2012. 
Skills and experience: Ian was a senior partner and Vice 
Chairman of Deloitte until his retirement in 2012. Ian is the Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at 
Safestore Holdings plc and a non-executive director at Capital 
& Regional plc. He is also Vice Chairman of Anthony Nolan 
and a trustee and Chair of Finance at the Nuffield Trust. He is a 
Chartered Accountant. 
Charles Miller Smith N 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: June 2009. 
Skills and experience: Charles was an International Adviser 
at Goldman Sachs International from 2001 until 2005. Charles 
worked with Unilever plc for over 30 years, the last five years 
of which he served as a Director of Finance and then Foods. 
Charles was Chief Executive Officer and then Chairman at ICI 
plc from 1994 to 2001. He has served as non-executive director 
of Midland Bank and HSBC Holdings PLC and served as 
Chairman of Scottish Power plc between 2000 and 2007. Charles 
is also Chairman of Firstsource UK Ltd and Edge Investment 
Management Limited and is a director of Firstsource Solutions Ltd.
Jennifer Laing R N A  
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: October 2012. 
Skills and experience: Jennifer has over 30 years’ 
experience in brand building and communications including 
16 years with Saatchi & Saatchi, twice as Chairman of the 
London office, and culminating in her role as Chairman and 
CEO of Saatchi & Saatchi North America. In the early 1990s 
she led her own advertising agency, Laing Henry, which was 
subsequently sold to Saatchi & Saatchi. Jennifer is currently 
a non-executive director of InterContinental Hotels Group plc 
where she chairs the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Pam Powell A R N 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: May 2013. 
Skills and experience: Pam has more than 20 years’ 
marketing experience developing some of the world’s leading 
consumer brands. Most recently, she was the Group Strategy 
and Innovation Director for SAB Miller, one of the world’s 
leading brewers. Pam spent nine years at SAB Miller in senior 
management roles and prior to that held numerous marketing 
roles in the home and personal care sector during a 13 
year career at Unilever plc, culminating in her role as global 
Vice-President of the Skin Care category. Pam is also a non-
executive director at A.G. BARR p.l.c.
Committee Membership
A – Audit Committee 
R – Remuneration Committee
N – Nomination Committee 
A R N denotes Committee Chair Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 37
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Senior management
Peter Ellis
General Manager, International
Skills and experience: Peter joined the Company in 2012 
and was appointed General Manager, International in 
September 2014. Prior to joining the Company Peter spent 16 
years at Campbell Soup Company where he held a number of 
senior international roles including Managing Director, Central, 
Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa and General Manager, 
Russia & Eastern Europe. 
Key responsibilities: Peter is responsible for building the 
Company’s International business around the globe.
Mark Hughes
Procurement & Central Operations Director
Skills and experience: Mark joined the Company in 2007 as 
Group Procurement Director following the acquisition of RHM. 
Mark joined RHM in 2003 as Divisional Services Director (Bread 
Bakeries) and became Group Procurement and Logistics 
Director and a member of the Group Executive of RHM in 2006. 
Key responsibilities: Mark’s key responsibilities are the 
control and risk management of around £550m of spend 
on ingredients, packaging, energy, machinery, facilities, 
engineering, marketing and all corporate spend. Mark’s 
operational responsibilities also include Food Quality, Health & 
Safety and Environment.
Graham Hunter
Managing Director, Sweet Treats
Skills and experience: Graham joined the Company in 
September 2014 as Managing Director of the Sweet Treats 
Strategic Business Unit. Graham has extensive experience 
of the sweet treats market spanning more than 20 years. 
Most recently he was CEO of Tangerine Confectionery. He 
also spent a number of years as Managing Director of Fox’s 
Biscuits and Divisional Managing Director of Northern Foods. 
Earlier in his career Graham was Marketing Director for 
Jacobs Bakery and he additionally spent 10 years at Mars 
Confectionery. 
Key responsibilities: Graham’s role is to lead the 
development of our cake portfolio with responsibility for 
directing innovation, marketing, sales, manufacturing and 
logistics resources.
Richard Johnson
Corporate Affairs Director
Skills and experience: Richard joined the Company in October 
2011 as Corporate Affairs Director. Previously, Richard spent a 
total of 18 years with Kraft Foods (now Mondelez International) 
during which time he held senior corporate affairs roles across 
a number of businesses and geographies, including the UK, 
Belgium and the US. Most recently he was Corporate Affairs 
Director for Kraft Foods’ European business based at the 
company’s headquarters in Switzerland. 
Key responsibilities: Richard’s key responsibilities are leading 
the Company’s internal and external communications, media 
relations, public affairs, responsibility and community relations 
activities.
Andrew McDonald
Corporate Development & Legal Director
Skills and experience: Andrew joined the Company in 
November 2011 as General Counsel & Company Secretary. 
Prior to this he held the same position at Uniq plc, before its 
acquisition by the Greencore Group. Andrew is a qualified 
solicitor and worked as a corporate lawyer at Freshfields 
Bruckhaus Deringer before moving into industry. 
Key responsibilities: Andrew has responsibility for the legal 
and risk compliance functions and for corporate development 
and strategic projects. He also sits on the plc Board as 
Company Secretary.
Mark Vickery
Information Systems & Change Director
Skills and experience: Mark joined the Company in 
early 2005 as Director of Information Systems & Change 
Management (ISC). Mark started his career at Unilever plc 
where he spent 17 years working in a number of businesses 
and geographies. He then moved to United Biscuits as IS 
Director prior to joining Premier Foods. 
Key responsibilities: Mark’s key responsibilities include 
managing the Information Services function and delivering 
major system and change programmes into the business.
Alex Whitehouse
Managing Director, Grocery
Skills and experience: Alex joined the Company in July 
2014 and was appointed Managing Director of the Grocery 
Strategic Business Unit in September 2014. Alex has more 
than 20 years senior international, marketing, sales, strategy, 
innovation and general management experience gained across 
multiple geographies. He spent the last 18 years with Reckitt 
Benckiser plc where he held senior marketing and general 
management roles including Managing Director, New Zealand 
and most recently Worldwide Head of Shopper & Customer 
Marketing. 
Key responsibilities: Alex is responsible for leading the 
Grocery business which encompasses our Flavourings & 
seasonings, Cooking sauces & accompaniments, Light meals 
& soups, Ambient desserts and Homebaking categories.
David Wilkinson
Human Resources Director
Skills and experience: David was appointed Human 
Resources Director in July 2014. He joined Premier Foods 
in 2007 as Head of Group HR, with responsibility for the 
corporate and group functions, as well as Resourcing and 
HR Administration. In December 2011 David was appointed 
Director of HR Support, and in January 2013 he became 
HR Director of the Hovis Bread and Milling division, with 
responsibility for 5,000 employees across 22 sites. 
Key responsibilities: David’s responsibilities cover all aspects 
of HR, with specific emphasis on developing talent and 
capability, resourcing and reward, as well as overall leadership 
of the Human Resources function. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 38
Corporate governance
Board structure
PLC BOARD
EXECUTIVE
LEADERSHIP
TEAM
Remuneration
Committee
Audit
Committee
Responsibility Steering  
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Strategic Business Unit
Leadership Teams
Treasury Risk
Management Committee 
Division of governance responsibilities:
The Board
The Board’s role is to provide leadership of the Company and 
is accountable to shareholders for the long-term success of 
the business. There is a schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board which includes:
•	Setting long-term strategic objectives;
•	Approving annual operating and capital budgets;
•	Reviewing business performance;
•	Overseeing the Company’s internal control systems; and
•	Ensuring appropriate resources are in place to enable the 
Company to meet its objectives.
The Chairman
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board 
and ensuring its effectiveness:
•	Chairing Board meetings; setting the agendas in 
consultation with the CEO and Company Secretary; 
and encouraging directors’ active participation in Board 
discussions;
•	Leading the performance evaluation of the Board, its 
committees and individual directors;
•	Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance 
including compliance with the Code provisions wherever 
possible;
•	Ensuring timely and accurate distribution of information to 
the directors and effective communication with shareholders; 
and 
•	Establishing an effective working relationship with the CEO 
by providing support and advice whilst respecting executive 
responsibility.
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
The CEO is responsible for the executive management of the 
Company and ensuring the implementation of Board strategy 
and policy within the approved budgets and timescales. The 
CEO is assisted in meeting his responsibilities by the CFO and 
the Executive Leadership Team (who head up the Company’s 
principal operations and functions).
The Senior Independent Director (SID)
The SID is responsible for supporting the Chairman and 
leading the non-executive directors in the oversight of the 
Chairman and CEO. The SID is available to shareholders if 
they have concerns which the normal channels have failed to 
resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
Committees
The Board has three committees which assist in the discharge 
of its responsibilities. 
 Their terms of reference are available on the  
Company’s website.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees are set out on pages 45 to 61. 
The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing 
the business to the Executive Leadership Team and its 
sub-committees. Together these form part of the Company’s 
corporate governance framework, but are not formally 
appointed committees of the Board.
Executive Leadership Team (ELT) — Responsible, under the 
leadership of the CEO, for the day-to-day management of the 
business, setting performance targets and implementing the 
Company’s strategy and direction. The ELT is also responsible 
for the effective implementation of policies taking into account 
changes in regulations and other business risks. The ELT 
drives effective risk management throughout the business 
and makes recommendations to the Audit Committee as 
appropriate; monitoring and reporting on all material business 
risks which might impact the delivery of the Company’s 
strategic goals and objectives and agreeing with management 
appropriate mitigating actions. 
Read more on managing our risks on pages 22 to 25. 
Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Leadership Teams — In 
September 2014 a new SBU organisational structure was 
established. Our organisation is now arranged into three 
SBUs: Grocery, Sweet Treats and International. Each SBU 
has its own leadership team with full accountability for 
directing innovation, marketing, sales and logistics. In addition, 
Grocery and Sweet Treats have additional responsibility for 
manufacturing. The new structure encourages more agile 
ways of working and is closely aligned to how our retail 
customers do business.  Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 39
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Responsibility Steering Committee — Responsible for 
providing direction to, and oversight of, the implementation of 
the Company’s sustainability programme which is built around 
three core themes, these being: sustainable supply chain, 
health & nutrition and skills for young people. The Committee’s 
objective is to identify and mitigate both environmental and 
social risks in order to protect and enhance the Company’s 
reputation and build trust amongst its many stakeholders. 
The Responsibility Steering Committee is chaired by our 
CEO and is made up of members from the ELT and senior 
management. 
Treasury Risk Management Committee — Responsible 
for the oversight of designated material foreign currency and 
commodity exposures and agreeing with senior management 
appropriate mitigating actions. Members of the Committee 
include members of the ELT and senior management.
Diversity
In 2011 the Board adopted a policy to have at least 
two female Board directors by 2015 and this target was 
successfully achieved in May 2013. Diversity will continue to 
be an important consideration whenever a new appointment 
is undertaken to ensure that the Board comprises individuals 
with a broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience 
reflecting both the type of industry and the geographical 
location in which we operate.
The Board believes in the importance of diversity and the 
benefits that it can bring to the operation of an effective 
business and is committed to increasing the participation of 
women across all levels of the organisation and particularly 
within senior management. We are committed to equal 
opportunities in all areas of our business, with people gaining 
promotion on merit. We recruit, train, promote and retain 
skilled and motivated people irrespective of gender, age, 
marital status, disability, sexual orientation, race, religion, 
ethnic or national origin. In line with this commitment we also 
promote a culture of openness and responsibility within our 
business. Details of our gender diversity across the Board 
of directors, senior management, central functions and the 
Company as a whole as at 4 April 2015 are set out in the 
adjacent table. The percentage of women employed across 
the whole Company increased from 23% to 37% reflecting the  
impact of the Hovis JV.
2013 25%
2012 11%
2013 19%
2015
25%
2012 24%
2013 45%
2012 45%
2013 23%
2012 23%
2015 37%
2015
25%
2015 46%
  PLC Board
Senior management
Central functions
All employees Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 40
Corporate governance
Board and committee meetings
The Board held fifteen scheduled Board meetings during 
the financial period and a number of other meetings and 
conference calls were convened for specific business. 
In addition there were four Audit, ten Remuneration and 
two Nominate committee meetings in the financial period. 
All directors are expected to attend the AGM, scheduled 
Board meetings and relevant committee meetings, unless 
they are prevented from doing so by prior work or personal 
commitments. Where a director is unable to attend a meeting 
they have the opportunity to review relevant papers and 
discuss any issues with the Chairman in advance of the 
meeting. Following the meeting the Chairman, or committee 
Chairman as appropriate, also briefs any director not present 
to update them on the key discussions and decisions taken.
Details of Board and committee membership and attendance 
at scheduled Board and committee meetings are set out in the 
table below. This indicates the number of meetings attended 
versus the number of meetings held during the period they 
were members of the Board or committee. Ian Krieger and 
Pam Powell both missed one Board meeting during the 
financial period due to other business commitments. Richard 
Hodgson was appointed as a non-executive director on  
6 January 2015; no Nomination Committee meetings were 
held during the period from his appointment to the end of the 
financial period. All directors attended the 2014 AGM. Non-
executive directors are regularly invited to attend meetings of 
committees that they are not a formal member of. 
Board
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Executive Directors
Gavin Darby 15/15 – – –
Alastair Murray 15/15 – – –
Non-executive 
Directors
David Beever
1
15/15 – 10/10 2/2
Richard Hodgson 3/3 1/1 – n/a
Ian Krieger
1
14/15 4/4 10/10 2/2
Jennifer Laing
1
15/15 4/4 10/10 2/2
Charles Miller Smith 15/15 – – 2/2
Pam Powell 14/15 4/4 10/10 2/2
Former Directors
David Wild 6/6 1/1 3/3 1/1
1. 
 
David Beever is Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Ian Krieger is 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Jennifer Laing  is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive director meetings
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that non-executive 
directors have opportunities to meet without the presence 
of management. Over the course of the financial period the 
non-executive directors met independently on a number 
of occasions after Board meetings and also over Board 
dinners. Topics discussed included key strategic issues and 
succession planning.
Appointment of additional directors
The Board has the power to appoint one or more additional 
directors. Under the Articles any such director shall hold office 
until the next AGM when they shall be eligible for election. 
A director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of 
shareholders and removed by an ordinary resolution with 
special notice.
Conflicts of interest
The Company has procedures in place for managing conflicts 
of interest and directors have continuing obligations to update 
the Board on any changes to these conflicts. This process 
includes relevant disclosure at the beginning of each Board 
meeting and also the Company’s annual formal review of 
potential conflict situations which includes the use of a 
questionnaire.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the 
Company and Warburg Pincus (the Relationship Agreement), 
Charles Miller Smith, then a senior adviser to Warburg Pincus, 
was appointed to the Board. Under the agreement, Warburg 
Pincus was able to nominate an individual for appointment to 
the Board. The Relationship Agreement terminated following 
completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan in April 2014 and 
Charles Miller Smith ceased to be a nominee of Warburg 
Pincus. The Board asked him to remain as a non-executive 
director, independent of Warburg Pincus, on account of his 
beneficial knowledge and experience. Charles Miller Smith has 
advised the Board that he will step down as a director on 1 
June 2015.
During the year no other director had a material interest at any 
time in any contract of significance with the Company or group 
other than their service contract. Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 41
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Director induction programme
All directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board 
covering their duties and responsibilities as directors. Non-
executive directors also receive a full briefing document on all 
key areas of the Company’s business and they may request 
further information as they consider necessary. A typical non-
executive director induction would include:
Provision of documents: duties of a director, Board 
procedures and provision of an ICSA compliant governance 
manual.
Meetings with the CEO & CFO and non-executive directors: 
business overview, current trading, key commercial issues. 
Meeting with the Corporate Development & Legal Director: 
Board process and governance issues/updates, key legal, risk 
and internal audit matters.
Meetings with the Executive and SBU Leadership Teams: 
commercial issues and projects as applicable for innovation,  
marketing, sales, supply chain, corporate affairs, investor 
relations, HR, technology and ISC.
Site visits: Understanding of the business and its operations.
Board support and information
Directors are allowed to take independent professional advice in 
the course of their duties. In addition, all directors have access 
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. If any 
director were to have a concern over any unresolved business 
issue following professional advice, they are entitled to require 
the Company Secretary to minute that concern. Should they 
later resign over a concern, non-executive directors are asked 
to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to 
the Board.
The main source of information is via the Board pack provided 
to directors in advance of Board meetings. These cover the 
following standing items which are designed to keep directors 
up-to-date with all material business developments:
•	CEO introduction;
•	H&S and employee issues;
•	SBU Commercial updates;
•	Customer service levels;
•	Restructuring projects;
•	Capital expenditure;
•	CFO report; and
•	Investor Relations.
The Board receives a detailed investor relations update at 
each Board meeting which covers (amongst other things) 
share price movements, shareholder register movements, 
analyst reports, a summary of investor meetings and other 
recent activity. The Board also receives comprehensive 
feedback from the Company’s brokers, following investor 
roadshows after the half year and year-end results.
A detailed strategy review took place during June and July 2014 as 
part of the introduction of a new three year plan. In addition, there 
was a comprehensive review of brand, commercial and supply 
chain plans as part of the approval of the 2015/16 business plan in 
February and March 2015. Non-executive directors also received 
tailored training sessions on key pension and remuneration related 
matters and attended the management conference in September 
2014 where the Company’ s new purpose and values was 
launched.
Boardroom tenure
The Board believes it is important to maintain an appropriate 
balance between length of service, independent judgement 
and an appropriate level of experience and skill. The Board, 
via the Nomination Committee, regularly undertakes a review 
of succession plans for both executive and non-executive 
directors with consideration of the need to refresh Board and 
committee membership with diversity in mind. The length of 
service of the current non-executive directors is shown in the 
graph below against the average length of service (blue line), 
which currently stands at 3.3 years. 
Number of years’ service as at 4 April 2015
David Beever
Ian Krieger
Richard Hodgson
Jennifer Laing
Charles Miller Smith
Pam Powell
 YEARS’ SERVICE
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Details of the annual review of non-executive directors’ 
effectiveness are set out in the Nomination Committee report 
on page 48.   Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 42
Corporate governance
Board and committee evaluation
In 2013 Springboard Associates Limited were appointed to conduct an external Board and committee evaluation and the 
process, findings and resulting action plan were reported in the 2013 Annual Report. For the financial period the evaluation for 
the Board and its committees was conducted by way of an internal questionnaire. 
Details of progress against the 2013 action plan and recommendations from the current year’s review and actions for the next  
12 months are set out in the following tables:
2013 Board evaluation action plan update
Development area Work completed over the financial period
Strategy, purpose and values
It was noted that with the completion of the 
Capital Refinancing Plan and creation of the 
Hovis Joint Venture it was appropriate to 
review the strategy, purpose and values for 
the business.
Detailed work on the medium-term strategy for the business was 
developed by management, working with a firm of external consultants, 
and this was reviewed with the Board in June and July 2014 as part of 
the approval of a three year plan for the Company. This resulted in the 
introduction of a new SBU structure and the launch of the new purpose 
and values for the Company in September 2014.
Succession
The Board noted the importance for 
continued focus on succession plans for 
CEO, CFO and senior management.
Management succession and organisational capabilities have been 
reviewed in detail by the Board during the financial period and three new 
ELT members were appointed. The reorganisation of the business into three 
SBUs with enhanced capability and resource (including the appointment 
of two high calibre Managing Directors) has also helped to facilitate 
contingency/succession planning.
Remuneration, retention and development
It was recommended that the Board review 
the process for identifying high performers 
and managing their careers.
A new Human Resources Director was appointed in 2014. There has been 
a significant investment in the development of an effective People strategy 
with increased focus on Talent & Succession and Learning & Development. 
A comprehensive review of remuneration arrangements was undertaken in 
2014 which resulted in the launch of a new annual bonus scheme in April 
2015 for management below Board level designed to drive performance 
and shareholder return.
Training and development
Review training and development needs 
for non-executive directors and arrange for 
appropriate training to be provided.
Training sessions have been held during the financial period with non-
executive directors to review remuneration and pension arrangements. 
Individual training and development needs have also been reviewed with 
each non-executive as part of the Chairman’s review of Board effectiveness.
Director appraisals
Following the recent changes in Board 
composition the annual appraisal process for 
directors required review and formalisation. 
A revised process for annual Board effectiveness reviews has been 
developed and formalised for the financial period. This includes a one-to-
one review of each non-executive’s performance by the Chairman and a 
separate review of the Chairman led by the Senior Independent Director.
Commercial
More emphasis to be given to external 
environment and competitors.
Competitor and market updates were enhanced as part of commercial 
update papers. In addition, a comprehensive programme of product tasting 
and NPD review has been introduced at Board meetings over the course of 
the financial period. Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 43
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
2014/15  Board evaluation action plan
Development area Planned activity for 2015/16
Strategy
Review of financial/corporate strategy. 
An update on strategy will take place as part of the review of the three year 
plan in 2015. 
Performance
Post investment reviews. 
Management will continue to provide post investment reviews for major 
capital projects. An interim update for the major investment in the new 
snack pack line at Carlton will be presented to the Board in September 
2015. 
Risk Management
Need for better understanding of the risk 
appetite of the business and also for regular 
updates on significant risks. 
A formal review of the risk appetite of the business was undertaken by the 
Audit Committee in May 2015. Risk identification and mitigation continues 
to be an area of management focus and will be reviewed on a biannual 
basis with the Board.
For more information on the Company’s risk appetite go to page 23. 
Board process
Review frequency of meetings.
The number of meetings and meeting format will be reviewed and 
presented to the Board.
Succession
Review plans to ensure orderly succession of 
both executive and non-executive directors.
The succession process is to be reviewed as part of annual talent and 
succession review in 2015.
Assessment of Chairman’s performance
Recognising the importance of the role of the Chairman in 
the overall governance of the Company, as part of our annual 
Board evaluation process, Ian Krieger, the Senior Independent 
Director, led a review of the Chairman’s performance over 
2014. A meeting was held in January 2015 with the other 
non-executive directors, without the Chairman being present. 
The review focused on the relationship between the Chairman 
and the CEO, the overall leadership of the Board, the conduct 
of Board meetings and the quality of debate. In addition, 
the Chairman’s relationship with major shareholders and his 
understanding of their priorities was discussed. 
A summary of the key findings was discussed at a subsequent 
meeting between the Senior Independent Director and the 
Chairman. The review concluded that David Beever continued to 
perform an effective role as Chairman and it was also confirmed 
that the Chairman had no other significant external commitments 
and was able to dedicate sufficient time to the role. As a 
consequence the Nomination Committee has proposed his re-
election at the 2015 AGM.
Stakeholder relations
Shareholders
An important role of the Board is to represent and promote the 
interests of its shareholders as well as being accountable to 
them for the performance and activities of the Company.
The Board believes it is very important to engage with 
its shareholders. The main channel of communication to 
institutional investors is through the CEO, CFO and Head of 
Investor Relations via presentations, conference calls, investor 
roadshows, broker organised conferences, face-to-face 
meetings and the AGM. 
Following the announcement of the Company’s half year and 
preliminary results, presentations are made to analysts, major 
shareholders, bond holders and banks to update them on 
the progress the Company has made towards its goals and 
invite them to ask questions. Conference calls are also held 
following quarterly trading updates.
Currently around six sell-side research analysts publish 
research on the Company. 
Full details on results presentations, RIS releases,  
interim management statements and conference  
calls are available on the Company’s website.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also 
available to speak with major shareholders and brief the Board 
to ensure that they are aware of the views of shareholders.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 44
Bond holders
Bond holders are invited to meet with management following 
the release of results announcements and management 
attend bond conferences twice a year. 
Pensions
The Company has established a Pensions Liaison Forum 
which meets regularly throughout the year. This is attended 
by the CFO, Pension Manager and the Chairmen of the 
Company’s pension schemes. The CEO attends alternate 
Forum meetings. The Forum discusses and develops funding 
and investment strategies for the Company’s pension 
schemes and considers any other pension issues that might 
impact the schemes and/or the Company.
Banks
Regular updates are provided to the Company’s current 
banking syndicate on the Company’s financial performance.
Suppliers
The Company holds a supplier conference on an annual 
basis which is attended by executive directors and members 
of the ELT. This is an opportunity to update suppliers on the 
Company’s strategy and growth plans. 
For more information on supplier partnerships see page 17.  
Responsibility
We work with a number of government departments, 
non-ministerial government departments (such as the Food 
Standards Agency) and other regulatory agencies as well 
as trade associations and other organisations (such as the 
Food and Drink Federation and the Institute for Grocery 
Distribution). We engage with these bodies in order to identify 
and understand key issues facing the food industry and listen 
to their opinions and guidance — all of which helps to inform 
our internal policy making.
For more information on responsibility and sustainability see 
pages 18 and 19.  
Employees and our approach to business ethics
We are committed to ensuring that the people who work 
within our business are treated with respect, and their health, 
safety and basic human rights are protected and promoted.
We have a code of conduct which sets out the standards of 
behaviour all employees are expected to follow and provides 
useful guidance to help employees when it comes to making 
the right decision. This code is made up of 10 key elements 
including: acting honestly and complying with the law; 
competing fairly; food safety; and treating people fairly. We 
also have a confidential whistleblowing call line to enable all 
employees to raise any concerns they have that cannot be 
dealt with through the normal channels.
For more information on our code of conduct visit 
www.premierfoods.co.uk
We believe that we have a responsibility to act and trade 
ethically in our dealings throughout the supply chain. In order 
to identify and focus on the ethical issues that are material to 
our business we have established an Ethical Supply Chain 
Working Group. This group develops, and implements, a risk 
based ethical supply chain strategy which meets the needs of 
our business whilst ensuring that bought goods are produced 
under generally accepted, and internationally recognised, 
human rights law including the conventions of the International 
Labour Organisation.
We have set a target that all our direct suppliers must be 
registered with the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) 
and at the end of 2014 nearly 80% of our suppliers were 
SEDEX registered. SEDEX is a not-for-profit organisation 
dedicated to driving improvements in ethical and responsible 
business practice in global supply chains through the sharing 
of ethical supply chain data. In addition, we have put in place 
an Ethical Trading Policy and each supplier we work with 
must strive to comply with this and with all relevant local and 
national laws and regulations, particularly with regard to: 
minimum age of employment; health & safety; freedom of 
association; discrimination; working hours; and rates of pay.
Employment of disabled persons
It is our policy to give full and fair consideration to applications 
for employment received from disabled persons, having 
regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and wherever 
possible to continue the employment of, and to arrange 
appropriate training for, employees who have become 
disabled persons during the period of their employment. The 
Company provides the same opportunities for training, career 
development and promotion for disabled people as for other 
employees.
Employee communication
We recognise the value of good communication in engaging 
our colleagues in order to achieve common goals and we 
have a number of established communication mechanisms 
in place to achieve this objective. During the financial period 
we’ve increasingly focused on leveraging our systems and 
technology to deliver digital communications with colleagues, 
under Project Best Connected. This has so far resulted in 
a new intranet site, weekly news email and monthly online 
newsletter, all issued under ‘What’s Cooking?’ branding to 
emphasise our passion for food when we communicate. In 
addition, we have enabled our operating sites for Google 
video conferencing and all now join in with a monthly team 
briefing presented by the CEO and other ELT members. The 
next stage in this process is bringing Google accounts to all 
colleagues, no matter what their job role, throughout 2015. 
Where appropriate, specific consultation and involvement 
regarding major changes to the business is undertaken, 
examples during the period being the creation of our new 
purpose and values and the choice of our corporate charity 
partner. In 2013 we conducted our first all-colleague survey 
receiving a 78% response rate and we’ll repeat the survey to 
judge progress in May 2015.
Corporate governance Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 45
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Audit Committee report
   In line with good governance we are 
undertaking a formal tender exercise 
for the external auditors which will be 
concluded later this year.”
Ian Krieger 
Audit Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present the Audit 
Committee Report for the financial period ended 4 April 2015. 
The Committee has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, 
for reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s financial 
reporting systems and the internal control policies and 
procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting 
of risk.
The Committee also keeps under review the relationship with 
the external auditors, including the terms of their engagement 
and fees, their independence and expertise, resources and 
qualification, and the effectiveness of the audit process. The 
Committee met with the internal and external auditors on one 
occasion in the year without the presence of management. 
The table on page 40 sets out Committee membership and 
meeting attendance.  
I was appointed as Audit Committee Chairman in April 2013 
following my retirement as a senior partner of Deloitte in 
2012. In addition to the Committee members, the following 
individuals are regularly invited to the Committee’s meetings: 
the CEO, CFO, Director of Internal Audit and Risk and external 
audit lead partner. The Company Secretary also attends in his 
capacity as secretary of the Committee.
The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to:
•	Monitor financial reporting including the annual and interim 
reports, preliminary results announcements and formal 
announcements relating to financial performance and 
reporting;
•	Ensure the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls 
and risk management systems;
•	Review and monitor the whistleblowing, bribery and fraud 
arrangements;
•	Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function;
•	Consider and make recommendations to the Board on 
the appointment, reappointment and removal of external 
auditors;
•	Review the external auditors’ independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the external audit processes; and
•	Prepare this report to shareholders to include any significant 
issues in relation to the financial statements and how these 
were addressed.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available  
on the Company’s website.
Audit tender
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) have been the 
Company’s auditors since flotation in 2004 and this annual 
report is the 11
th
 set of financial statements they have signed. 
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Company and subsidiary audits every five 
years and a new lead audit partner was appointed in 2012. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 recommends 
that FTSE 350 companies should tender their external audit 
contract at least every 10 years.
The Audit Committee reviewed auditor rotation following the 
approval of the 2013 year end results and concluded that 
given the significant level of change taking place in respect of 
business disposals, the refinancing of the Company, changes 
in key management personnel and the change in year end 
it was not appropriate to undertake a tender during 2014. 
In December 2014 we reviewed the issue again and it was 
agreed that a formal tender exercise be undertaken following 
the completion of the audit for the financial period ended 
4 April 2015. Following a review of potential candidates, 
shortlisted firms will be invited to participate in the tender later 
in the year. There are no contractual obligations restricting 
the Committee’s choice of auditor. In the mean time, PwC will 
be recommended for reappointment as auditors at the AGM 
on 23 July 2015. The outcome of the tender exercise will be 
announced later in the year.
External audit effectiveness
Annually the Committee reviews the relationship the Company 
has with the external auditors. The review in the financial 
period was conducted by a questionnaire completed by the 
Committee and key management following the 2013 year 
end audit. This covered the scope of the audit work, the audit 
process, fees and auditor independence. The review concluded 
that the Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the 
external auditors. A number of areas for review were identified 
including the timing of certain aspects of audit work and 
improving communication flow between management, internal 
audit and the audit teams to improve efficiency. An action plan 
was prepared and reviewed with PwC and incorporated into 
their 2014/15 year end audit plan.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 46
Auditor independence and non-audit services 
There is an established policy governing auditor independence 
and the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit 
services designed to maintain the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors. 
The policy was reviewed and updated in 2013 and  
the key terms of the policy are available on the  
Company’s website. 
Over the last few years the Company has undergone a very 
significant transformation as management have implemented 
the turnaround of the business. As a result PwC have been 
engaged to perform a number of non-audit services which 
included due diligence work in respect of the Hovis Joint 
Venture and the working capital report in respect of the 
Capital Refinancing Plan in Q1 2014. Non-audit fees for the 
financial period were £567,500 (2013: £411,000) representing 
approximately 133% (2013: 71%) of the annual audit fee. Of 
this, £505,000 related to the Capital Refinancing Plan.
The Committee regularly reviewed the level of non-audit fees 
with management throughout the year. The Committee also 
received an update from the external auditors’ lead partner 
on the internal controls to safeguard their independence. 
Additional safeguards to the independence of the auditors 
are given by the fact that the additional work included teams 
unconnected with the audit that were headed by different 
partners and the work did not involve any management 
judgements. In addition, both the Audit Committee Chairman 
and the CFO were appointed to their roles in 2013.
The Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body 
guidelines on non-audit fees. However, given the nature of 
work required in connection with the business turnaround it 
was assessed that PwC were best placed to perform these 
additional services in view of their knowledge of the business, 
the time constraints in completing the work and the likely 
cost. Following the completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan 
in April 2014 no significant further non-audit work has been 
undertaken or is currently planned. As noted above, a formal 
Audit tender exercise will be undertaken in 2015.
What we did during the financial period
During the financial period the Committee discussed the 
following:
•	Considered a number of key accounting matters as 
discussed further below;
•	Received regular reports from the internal audit function, 
ensured it was adequately resourced, monitored its activities 
and effectiveness, and agreed the annual internal audit plan;
•	Conducted a review of the effectiveness of the internal 
control system;
•	Reviewed the non-audit services spend and approved the 
engagement of PwC as an adviser in relation to the Capital 
Refinancing Plan and the Hovis Joint Venture;
•	Received a review from the Company’s external auditors 
which included a review of their objectivity and the 
effectiveness of the audit process; and
•	Considered the external auditors’ report for the financial 
period and recommended the reappointment of the external 
auditors.
Risk management
Details of our risk management process are set out in the risk 
management section on pages 22 to 25. Details of financial 
risks: market risk; credit risk and liquidity risk are set out in 
note 22 on pages 106 to 114.  
Internal controls
In accordance with the FRC guidance on audit committees 
an annual review of internal controls is conducted. The 
Board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to 
regularly monitor internal controls and conduct the full annual 
review. This review covers all material controls such as 
financial, operational and compliance, and also the overall 
risk management system in place throughout the year under 
review up to the date of this annual report. The Committee 
reports the results of this review to the Board for discussion 
and agreement on the actions required to address any 
material control weaknesses. The Committee confirms that 
it has not been advised of any failings or breaches which it 
considers to be significant during the financial period.
Internal Audit effectiveness
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit function 
is reviewed on an annual basis. The review was conducted 
with the Committee and the Executive Leadership Team and 
covered the function’s independence, resource, the scope of 
the annual audit plan, the reports issued and the identification 
of issues. In addition, feedback from post completion 
questionnaires for internal audits undertaken during the period 
were also reviewed. The Committee concluded that the 
internal audit function remained effective.
Fair, balanced and understandable
As part of an update to the Audit Committee’s terms of 
reference, the Board requested that the Audit Committee 
confirm whether the annual report and accounts taken as a 
whole was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it 
provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
The Audit Committee recommended that the Board make this 
statement which is set out on page 63.  
In making this recommendation the Committee considered 
the process for preparing the annual report which included 
regular cross functional reviews from the teams responsible 
for preparing the different sections of the report, senior 
management review, verification of the factual contents, a 
review of the balance and consistency of information, the 
disclosure of risk and the key messages presented in the 
report. 
Audit Committee report Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 47
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Significant issues in relation to the financial 
statements
In addition to the items outlined above, the Committee has 
also considered the following significant issues in relation to 
the financial statements with management and the internal 
and external auditors during the financial period:
Defined benefit pension plans
The Company operates a number of defined benefit schemes. 
The schemes are closed to future accrual but hold substantial 
assets and liabilities. Valuation of the scheme is based on a 
number of assumptions such as inflation, discount rates and 
mortality, each of which could have a material impact of the  
calculation under IAS19 included in the balance sheet. The 
Committee reviewed the basis for management’s assumptions 
and the movements in the IAS19 valuation in detail over the 
financial period. Further information is set out in note 24 on 
pages 115 to 120.  
Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill represents a significant item in the balance sheet and 
the value of goodwill is reviewed annually by management and 
the Committee. The impairment testing for goodwill is based 
on a number of key assumptions which relies on management 
judgement.
Following the introduction of the new organisation structure 
in the period the Company is now organised into two cash 
generating units (CGUs) - Grocery and Sweet Treats. The 
Committee reviewed the allocation of goodwill between the 
Grocery and Sweet Treats CGUs, the results of the impairment 
testing for the two CGUs and managements assumptions in 
respect of cash flows, long term growth rates and discount 
rates. The Committee also considered sensitivities to changes 
in assumptions and related disclosure as required by IAS36. 
The review concluded that there was sufficient headroom in 
the Grocery CGU and that each key assumption would need 
to move by a significant degree before an impairment would 
be required. The review also concluded that an impairment 
of £67.9m was required for the Sweet Treats CGU. Further 
information is set out in note 13 on pages 100 and 101.  
Revenue and income recognition 
Commercial payments to customers in the form of rebates 
and discounts represent significant balances in the income 
statement and balance sheet. Calculations of these balances 
are complex and require management assumptions and 
estimates. Over the financial year the Committee reviewed 
the assumptions and estimates and the level of accruals 
and provisions in detail. The Committee also reviewed 
management’s internal processes and controls, internal audit 
findings and, where appropriate, any management actions. 
Further information is set out in note 2.3 on page 82.  
Deferred tax asset
Deferred tax represents a significant item in the balance sheet 
and involves a high degree of management judgement. The 
Committee reviewed the overall quantum of the deferred 
tax asset and the management assumptions in respect of 
forecast future taxable profits that support the recognition of 
the asset. Further information is set out in note 8 on pages  
92 to 94. 
Going concern
The Committee reviewed the ability of the Company to 
continue as a going concern following the completion of 
the Capital Refinancing Plan in April 2014. This focused on 
covenant headroom and liquidity based on the actual results 
for the financial period and the budget for 2015/16, together 
with appropriate sensitivity analysis. Following the review the 
Committee was able to recommend that the Board continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. Further information is set out in note 2.1 on  
page 81.  
Disposals
During the financial period the Company disposed of the 
majority share in its Hovis Bread business and Powdered 
beverages and desserts business. The Committee reviewed 
the carrying value on the balance sheet, share of profit in the 
period and disposal accounting. Further information is set out 
in note 11 on page 98.  
The report of those matters that the external auditors 
considered to be areas of focus in relation to the financial 
statements is set out on pages 67 to 72.  
Ian Krieger 
Audit Committee Chairman
18 May 2015 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 48
Nomination Committee report
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present the 
Nomination Committee Report for the financial period ended 
4 April 2015. The Committee is responsible for considering 
the size, structure and composition of the Board, the 
retirement and appointment of additional directors, and 
making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an 
appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board. 
The Committee reviews the succession requirements of 
the Board and senior management (including the need for 
diversity) on an annual basis and makes recommendations 
to the Board as appropriate. The table on page 40 sets out 
Committee membership and meeting attendance.  
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to:
•	Lead the formal, rigorous and transparent process for Board 
appointments including a review of the skills, experience and 
knowledge of the existing directors to ensure any potential 
shortlisted candidates will benefit the balance of the Board;
•	Give full consideration to succession planning taking 
into account the challenges and opportunities facing the 
Company and what skills and expertise would benefit the 
Board in the future;
•	Regularly review the structure, size and composition (including 
independence, experience and diversity) of the Board and 
make recommendations to the Board regarding changes; and
•	Agree the job specification for the Chairman, including an 
assessment of the time commitment expected, recognising 
the need for availability in the event of a crisis.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on  
the Company’s website.
Key Nomination Committee discussions
Following the completion of the Company’s refinancing and 
the creation of the Hovis Joint Venture there was a major 
review of strategy and a three year plan for the business was 
approved by the Board in July 2014. As part of this review 
a new organisational structure was agreed based on three 
Strategic Business Units and as a consequence there were 
a number of changes in senior management to support and 
lead this new structure. Alex Whitehouse was appointed 
as Managing Director, Grocery and Graham Hunter as 
Managing Director, Sweet Treats. We were delighted to be 
able to appoint two new senior leaders with such significant 
food retailing experience and believe they will be pivotal in 
delivering our strategy over the medium term. In addition, 
David Wilkinson was appointed as HR Director and has 
begun a significant investment in our people with a particular 
focus on Learning & Development and in developing a more 
entrepreneurial performance culture within the business. 
During the year the Committee also reviewed the balance 
of skills and experience on the Board and it was agreed 
that there was a need to strengthen our customer retail 
experience. Saxonbury Limited (who have no other connection 
with the Company) were engaged as an external search 
agent and the Committee prepared a job description for the 
appointment of a new non-executive director. Members of the 
Committee interviewed a shortlist of candidates produced by 
Saxonbury Limited and in January 2015 Richard Hodgson 
was appointed to the Board. Richard brings with him a wealth 
of experience from a number of our major customers and 
has had an immediate and effective impact at our Board 
discussions. 
Review of non-executive director performance
Over the course of March and April 2015 I held one-to-one 
meetings with each of the non-executive directors to review 
their performance and contribution to the Board. This covered 
attendance, preparation for and contribution at meetings, 
their knowledge and understanding of the business and 
any training and development requirements. Following this 
review it was concluded that each non-executive director 
continued to make an effective contribution to the Board and 
consequently the Committee has proposed their re-election at 
the 2015 AGM. As referred to earlier Charles Miller Smith, who 
has served on the Board since June 2009, will not be standing 
for re-election at the AGM.
David Beever 
Nomination Committee Chairman
18 May 2015
   In 2015 we strengthened the Board 
with the appointment of Richard 
Hodgson as a non-executive director. 
Richard’s extensive food retail 
experience will be invaluable in helping 
the Company to navigate today’s 
rapidly changing marketplace.”
David Beever 
Nomination Committee Chairman Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 49
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Directors’ Remuneration report
   The Committee’s overall remuneration 
strategy remains broadly unchanged 
and is focused on supporting the 
Company’s business turnaround and 
delivering shareholder value.”
Jennifer Laing 
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Committee Chairman’s Letter 
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present the 
Directors’ Remuneration report for the financial period ended 
4 April 2015, my first since being appointed Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee in May 2014. Our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM held on  
29 April 2014 and took effect from that date. The policy 
received approval from 99.05% of votes cast at the meeting 
and I would like to thank shareholders for their support for  
the Company. 
The Committee’s overall remuneration strategy remains 
broadly unchanged and recognises the complexity of the 
business, the challenges it faces and the need for executive 
directors with significant experience to deliver the business 
turnaround. Our focus is on rewarding performance — the 
majority of executive remuneration (approximately 70% 
at maximum) is variable and only payable if demanding 
performance targets are met. These performance targets 
are firmly linked to our strategy and ultimately aligned with 
shareholders’ interests in delivering earnings growth and 
improved shareholder value in the medium term.
Overview of the financial period 
In 2014 the Company changed its year end from the calendar 
year to 31 December to the Saturday closest to 31 March. 
As a result the period under review was extended from 31 
December 2014 to 4 April 2015. The figures in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration cover the 15 month period to 4 April 
2015 versus a 12 month comparative for the year ended  
31 December 2013. The Committee carefully considered the 
impact of the change in year end on executive remuneration 
and appropriate arrangements were put in place to deal with 
the additional quarter.
Over the course of the financial period we have introduced 
new arrangements for employees and management at below 
Board level, recognising the importance all employees play 
in the delivery of our turnaround strategy. This included the 
launch of a new all employee Share Incentive Plan awarding 
500 shares to each employee and a new Sharing Success 
Performance Plan for the graded management population. 
Both plans have a significant share-based element designed 
to focus on the delivery of share price growth which we 
believe is fully aligned with shareholders’ interests.
Both executive directors made significant investments under 
the placing and rights issue that took place in April 2014 and 
details of their shareholdings are set out on page 60.  
Executive arrangements
The Committee reviewed the CEO’s and CFO’s performance 
over the financial period and assessed the extent to which 
their annual bonus targets had been achieved. This included 
performance over the 12 months ended 31 December 
2014 and also the additional quarter to 4 April 2015. The 
Committee concluded that both Gavin Darby and Alastair 
Murray had made a significant contribution to the Company 
— most notably with the completion of the successful Capital 
Refinancing Plan, the new agreement with the Company’s 
Pension Trustees, the creation of the Hovis Joint Venture, 
the introduction of a three year business plan and the 
implementation of the new Strategic Business Unit structure. 
However, during the period our major retail customers were 
impacted by significant structural changes in the market and 
this affected both our overall sales and profitability.
Gavin Darby was awarded a bonus of £306,250 representing 
35% of his salary and this will be delivered entirely in the form 
of shares (net of income tax and national insurance). Alastair 
Murray was awarded a bonus of £125,000 representing 
25% of his salary. The awards recognise the successful 
achievement of certain financial targets as well as the 
completion of strategic objectives and personal performance 
measures. In addition, the second tranche of Gavin Darby’s 
Co-Investment Award vested on 1 May 2015. No long-term 
incentive awards vested. Full details are set out on pages  
57 to 59.  
What we’ve planned for the 52 week period  
ending 2 April 2016 (2015/16)
Remuneration arrangements for 2015/16 are in 
accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
A salary increase of 1%, in line with all employees not 
involved in collective bargaining, was approved for 
executive directors with effect from 1 April 2015. Gavin 
Darby advised the Committee that he would not take the 
salary rise and consequently his salary for 2015/16 will 
remain unchanged.
Under the Remuneration Policy 25% of any annual bonus 
awarded to Gavin Darby is made in the form of shares. 
Going forward the first 25% of his total bonus will be 
awarded in shares using the price fixed at the start of 
the financial year. This aims to further align the CEO with 
the interests of shareholders. Performance conditions 
remain linked to delivering our strategy and the targets are 
considered stretching. 
I look forward to your continuing support.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 50
Directors’ Remuneration report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Set out below is a summary of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 29 
April 2014 (99.05% of votes cast being in favour) and became effective from that date. There are no proposals to amend the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGM, the text is included for information to assist with the understanding of the 
Annual Report on Remuneration for the period ended 4 April 2015. Details of the policy for loss of office and recruitment have 
been omitted as there have been no changes in the period. 
The full policy is available to view on the Company’s website. 
Base Salary
Link to Strategy Provides an appropriate level of fixed income. Set at levels to attract and retain talented individuals with 
reference to the Committee’s assessment of:
1. The specific needs of the Company by reference to the size and complexity of the business, 
acknowledging the Company is currently in a turnaround situation; and
2. The specific experience, skills and responsibilities of the individual. 
Operation: Normally reviewed annually, effective 1 April in conjunction with those of the wider 
workforce.
Maximum 
Opportunity 
Salaries for the relevant year are detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Increases are normally expected to be in line with increases across the management grades, subject 
to particular circumstances such as a significant change in role, responsibilities or organisation. 
An explanation of differences in remuneration policy for executive directors compared with other 
employees is set out later in this Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
Performance 
Conditions
None, although Company performance is taken into consideration when determining an appropriate 
level of base salary increase for management grades as a whole.
Performance 
Period
None
Annual Bonus
Link to Strategy Designed to incentivise delivery of annual financial and operational goals and directly linked to delivery 
of the Company strategy.
Operation: An annual bonus is earned based on performance against a number of performance 
measures which are linked to the Company’s strategy. Bonuses are paid entirely in cash with the 
exception of the CEO where 25% is paid in shares.
Maximum 
Opportunity 
Maximum (as a percentage of salary):
•	CEO – 150%
•	CFO – 75%
Performance 
Conditions
Performance conditions are designed to promote the delivery of the Company’s strategy and can be 
made up of a range of:
•	Financial targets (e.g. turnover, trading profit and cash flow) representing not less than 50% of the 
total bonus opportunity, subject to the delivery of a threshold level of trading profit;
•	Short to medium-term strategic targets including financial and non-financial Key Performance 
Indicators, subject to the delivery of a threshold level of trading profit; and
•	Personal performance representing not more than 20% of the total bonus opportunity.
There is no preset minimum bonus that can be paid out at threshold. However, no more than 20% of 
the bonus will vest for threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling or exceeding the 
maximum target. Specific details of the performance measures for the relevant year can be found in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive.
Performance 
Period
One year Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 51
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP)
Link to Strategy Operates alongside the annual bonus but with a longer-term focus. Awards are satisfied in the form of 
shares deferred for a period of up to two years to focus on medium-term share price performance.
Operation: Based on in-year Company wide strategic performance targets with any award being 
made following the end of the financial year in the form of shares that are deferred for up to two years. 
The rules contain a dividend equivalent provision enabling dividends to be paid (in cash or shares) on 
shares at the time of vesting. Clawback provisions apply.
Maximum 
Opportunity 
•	CFO – 30% of the salary.
•	CEO – The current CEO does not participate in the DSBP .
Performance 
Conditions
Performance conditions are designed to promote the delivery of the annual business plan and can be 
made up of a range of:
•	Financial targets (e.g. turnover, trading profit and cash flow) representing not less than 50% of the 
total bonus opportunity, subject to delivery of a threshold level of trading profit; and
•	Short to medium-term strategic targets including financial and non-financial Key Performance 
Indicators, subject to the delivery of a threshold level of trading profit.
There is no preset minimum bonus that can be paid out at threshold. However, no more than 20% of 
the bonus will vest for threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling or exceeding the 
maximum target.
Performance 
Period
One year, with a retention period of up to two years
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Link to Strategy The LTIP provides a clear link to our strategic goal of returning to profitable growth with sustainable 
share price growth over the long term.
Operation: Annual grant of awards. The LTIP comprises two elements — performance shares and 
matching shares — and the aggregate maximum under both elements is 200% of base salary.
Performance shares are the conditional award of shares or nil cost options which normally vest after 
three years subject to performance conditions. Matching shares are similar to performance shares but 
require participants to invest in Company shares. Any investment will receive a maximum match of up 
to 2:1 from the Company subject to performance. 
Currently it is the Remuneration Committee’s policy for awards under the LTIP to be made only in the 
form of performance shares. Whilst the Remuneration Committee does not expect to change this policy it 
wishes to retain the flexibility to do so.
Awards under the LTIP , including the determination of any relevant performance conditions, will be 
considered and determined on an annual basis at the discretion of the Committee. The rules contain a 
dividend equivalent provision enabling dividends to be paid (in cash or shares) on shares at the time of 
vesting. Clawback provisions apply.
Maximum 
Opportunity 
Maximum individual limit of 200% of salary. Where matching shares are used, no more than half of the 
award can be comprised of matching shares.
Normal award levels are (as a percentage of salary):
•	CEO – 200%
•	CFO – 150%
Performance 
Conditions
Performance conditions are based on a range of targets focused on the delivery of increased 
shareholder value over the medium to long term. These include a combination of total shareholder 
return and earnings per share. 20% of the bonus will vest for threshold performance with full vesting 
taking place for equalling or exceeding the maximum target.
Performance 
Period
Three years Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 52
Pension
Link to Strategy To offer market competitive levels of benefit and help to recruit and retain and to recognise long-term 
commitment to the Company.
Operation: Executive directors receive an allowance in lieu of pension provision which is subject to 
periodic review or may participate in the Company’s defined contribution scheme on the same basis 
as all other new employees. Executive directors may also salary sacrifice additional amounts into this 
scheme but will not receive any additional contribution from the Group. Only basic pay is pensionable.
Maximum 
Opportunity 
Annual allowances of:
•	CEO – 20% of salary.
•	The CFO participates in the Company’ s pension scheme and receives a contribution of 7.5% of the 
Earnings Cap set annually by the Company on the basis of the calculation previously used by HMRC. 
Should the CFO decide not to participate in the Company’ s pension scheme he would receive a cash 
allowance of this amount. Additionally, the CFO receives a cash supplement (currently £21,610) which is 
reviewed annually by the Company in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI). 
Performance 
Conditions
N/A
Performance 
Period
N/A
Sharesave Plans
Link to Strategy To offer all employees the opportunity to build a shareholding in a simple and tax-efficient manner.
Operation: The Company’s Sharesave Plan is an HMRC compliant scheme which is usually offered 
annually in September to all employees. The key terms of the plan will only be changed to reflect 
HMRC changes. At the 2014 AGM shareholders approved a new plan which will run until 2024.
Maximum 
Opportunity 
Participants may save up to the statutory limit over a three year period, following which they have the 
opportunity to buy Company shares at a price set at the beginning of the savings period.
Performance 
Conditions
None, other than continued employment.
Performance 
Period
Three years
Co-Investment Award (one-off award in 2013)
Link to Strategy To facilitate the recruitment of Gavin Darby as CEO in 2013 and immediately align the CEO with 
shareholders and the delivery of share price growth.
Operation: Award specific to Gavin Darby. On appointment Gavin Darby acquired shares worth 100% 
of annual base salary in the Company. The Company made a matching award of shares worth 200% 
of salary which vest in three equal tranches on 1 May 2014, 2015 and 2016 subject to satisfaction of a 
performance condition requiring payment of a bonus. 
Maximum 
Opportunity 
200% of salary (one-off award specific to Gavin Darby).
Performance 
Conditions
Subject to a bonus having been paid for the relevant financial year and continued employment. The 
Co-Investment Award vests in specified circumstances including a change of control.
Performance 
Period
One, two and three years
Directors’ Remuneration report Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 53
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Other Benefits
Link to Strategy
Help recruit and retain and to promote the efficient use of management time.
Operation: The Company typically provides the following benefits: Company car or cash allowance. 
The CEO has use of the Company’s chauffeur driven car for Company business which allows the CEO 
to work while commuting to appointments; Private health insurance; Life insurance; Telecommunication 
services; Professional memberships; Allowance for personal tax and financial planning; and
Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses (as required).
Maximum 
Opportunity 
The provision and level of allowances and benefits are considered appropriate and in line with market 
practice.
Performance 
Conditions
N/A
Performance 
Period
N/A
Non-executive director fees
Link to Strategy 
Provides an appropriate level of fixed fee to recruit and retain individuals with a broad range of 
experience and skill to support the Board in the delivery of its duties. Fees are reviewed annually.
Operation: The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and executive 
directors. The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee. Includes 
a Chairman’s fee and standard non-executive fee. Additional fees are payable to Committee Chairs and 
the Senior Independent Director.
Maximum 
Opportunity 
Increases are normally expected to be in line with the market, taking into account increases across 
the Company as a whole, subject to particular circumstances such as a significant change in role, 
responsibilities or organisation. 
Performance 
Conditions
None
Performance 
Period
None
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ Remuneration policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with 
current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former directors will be set out 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise as required under the Remuneration Regulations. 
The Committee operates the Annual Bonus plan, DSBP , Co-Investment Award and LTIP according to their respective rules which includes flexibility in a number 
of areas. These include:
•	The timing of awards and payments;
•	The size of an award, within the maximum limits;
•	The participants of the plan;
•	The performance measures, targets and weightings to be used for the annual bonus plan, DSBP and long-term incentive plans from year to year;
•	The assessment of whether performance conditions have been met;
•	The treatment to be applied for a change of control or significant restructuring of the Company;
•	The determination of a good/bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and the treatment of awards thereof; and
•	The adjustments, if any, required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, corporate events and special dividends)
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting
The Committee reviews the performance measures used in the incentive arrangements on an annual basis to ensure that they remain appropriate and aligned 
to the delivery of the annual business plan and Company strategy. The majority of annual bonus and DSBP measures will be focused on financial performance 
with the remainder linked to individual performance and/or strategic objectives. This approach is adopted in order to link pay to the delivery of overall Company 
performance measured across a balance of key strategic aims. The targets will be set by reference to internal budgeting and strategic plans for the financial and 
strategic measures and key objectives identified by the Committee for the personal performance measures.
Currently the LTIP uses a combination of Earnings per Share and total shareholder return based measures to reflect both an internal measure of Company 
performance as well as the delivery of shareholder value. Targets are set taking into account both internal and external assessments of future performance and 
what constitutes good and superior returns for shareholders.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust the targets and/or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan 
and DSBP and to adjust targets for the long-term incentive plans if events happen that cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to fulfil their original 
intended purpose.
The Committee will consider the bonus outcomes against all of the pre-set targets following their calculation and in exceptional circumstances may moderate 
(up and down) these outcomes to take account of a range of factors including the Committee’s view of overall Company performance for the year. No upward 
moderation would be undertaken without first consulting with major shareholders. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 54
Service Contracts
Executive directors have rolling service contracts. The current executive directors’ service contracts contain the key terms shown 
in the below table. In the event that any additional executive directors are appointed it is likely that their service contracts will 
contain broadly similar terms.
Provision Detailed terms
Remuneration Salary, bonus, share incentives, expenses and pension entitlements in line with the above Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy Table. 
Change of Control The service agreements do not provide for any enhanced payments in the event of a change of 
control of the Company.
Notice Period Standard notice periods are set at 12 months.
Payment in lieu of 
notice
The Company may, at its discretion, pay a sum equal to base salary, benefits, and pension 
contributions which would have been earned during the Notice Period as payment in lieu of 
notice. This payment is payable in two six monthly instalments or until such earlier date alternative 
employment is secured, subject to mitigation.
In the event of the Company serving notice within 12 months following a change of control then 
employment will terminate immediately and the Company will make a payment in lieu of notice.
There is no entitlement to a pro rata bonus payment in lieu of notice.
The terms and conditions for non-executive directors are set out in their letters of appointment, which are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office and will be available at the AGM, as are executive service contracts. The appointment of 
non-executive directors is for a fixed term of three years which may be terminated by three months notice from either party. 
The letters of appointment entitle the non-executive directors to receive fees but do not have provisions on payment for early 
termination.
Directors’ Remuneration report
Remuneration scenarios & weighting 
The chart below shows executive director remuneration at 
three different levels of performance (minimum, mid-point and 
maximum) as at 1 January 2014:
Minimum Total
Mid-point Mid-point
Total
Maximum
Minimum Total Total
Maximum
CEO CFO
£3,000
£2,500
£2,000
£1,500
£1,000
£500
£0
£3,315
£2,090
£865
£455
£965
£1,475
  LTIP
  Annual Bonus
Fixed Pay
£3,500
£’000 
100% 42% 26% 100% 47% 31%
22%
31%
28%
41%
25%
33%
32%
42%
Assumptions when compiling the charts are: 
Minimum = fixed pay only (base salary, benefits and pension). 
Mid-point = fixed pay plus 50% of Annual Bonus and DSBP payable and 50% 
of LTIP vesting. 
Maximum = fixed pay plus 100% of Annual Bonus and DSBP payable and 
100% of LTIP vesting.
Excludes Gavin Darby’s Co-investment Award as this does not form part of 
his ongoing remuneration. As the DSBP is based on annual performance it is 
included within Annual Bonus. The value of share awards does not include any 
assumptions on share price movements.
Consideration of all employees within the Company
In line with current market practice, the Company does not 
actively consult with employees on executive remuneration. 
However, the Committee is kept updated during the year on 
salary increases within the Company, and the level of annual 
bonus awards, as well as overseeing participation in long-term 
incentives for below Board level senior management. As a 
result, the Committee is aware of how typical employee total 
remuneration compares to the potential total remuneration 
packages of executive directors. 
Differences in Remuneration Policy for executive 
directors compared to other employees 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy is set within the wider 
context of the remuneration policy for the entire workforce. The 
key differences of quantum and structure in pay arrangements 
reflect the different levels of responsibilities, skill and experience 
required for the role. Executive directors have a much greater 
emphasis on performance based pay. Salaries for management 
grades are reviewed annually in April each year and take 
account of both business and personal performance. Specific 
arrangements are in place at each site and these may be 
annual arrangements or form part of a longer term arrangement 
linked to the delivery of efficiency targets. 
All management grades participate in the annual bonus plan 
to ensure alignment with the Company’s strategic priorities. 
Senior management participate in long term incentive 
arrangements reflecting their contribution to Company 
performance and enhancing shareholder value. All employees 
are encouraged to own shares in the Company via the Share 
Incentive and Sharesave Plans. Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 55
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Annual Report on Remuneration
An advisory vote on this Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 23 July 2015.
Single figure table for Total Remuneration (audited)
The table below sets out the single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive director for the financial period 
ended 4 April 2015 (15 months) and the year ended 31 December 2013 (12 months). 
Directors
Salary
£’000
Taxable Benefits
1
£’000
Pension
£’000
Annual bonus
£’000
Share based awards
£’000
Total
£’000
2015
(15 months)
2013
(12 months)
2015
(15 months)
2013
(12 months)
2015
(15 months)
2013
(12 months)
2015
(15 months)
2013
(12 months)
2015
(15 months)
2013
(12 months)
2015
(15 months)
2013
(12 months)
Gavin Darby
2
 881 638 31 17 176 128 307 175 342 447 1,737 1,405
Alastair Murray
3
503 101 26 5 41 8 125 — — — 695 114
Non-executive 
directors’ emoluments
2015
Fee 
(15 months)
(£)
2013
Fee
 (12 months)
(£)
David Beever 333,458 265,000
Richard Hodgson
4
14,077 —
Ian Krieger
5
92,708 65,864
Jennifer Laing
6
81,437 57,000
Charles Miller Smith 71,725 57,000
Pam Powell 71,725 37,380
Former non-executive directors
David Wild
7
24,166 70,909
1. Benefits include those mentioned in the summary table in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy report on pages 53. 
2. Gavin Darby received a basic salary for the period of £700,000 per 
annum and a salary supplement in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary. 
Gavin Darby was awarded a bonus of £306,250 representing 35% of his 
salary in respect of the financial period. In addition, the second tranche 
of his Co-Investment Award, which comprised 751,814 shares (adjusted 
for the 8 for 5 Rights Issue), vested on 1 May 2015. For the purposes of 
this table the award has been valued at £342,075, based on the share 
price on 1 May 2015. The first tranche of his Co-Investment Award was 
included in the 2013 annual report with an estimated value of £688,492. 
The share price on the date of vesting (1 May 2014) was 59.5p per share, 
valuing the award at £447,329, and this value has been included in the 
table above.
3. Alastair Murray received a basic salary for the period of £400,000  
per annum (with a 1% increase in salary taking effect from 1 April 2015) 
and an annualised salary supplement in lieu of pension of 7.5% of the 
Earnings Cap (£141,000 for the 2013/14 tax year, £145,800 for the 
2014/15 tax year and £149,400 for the 2015/16 tax year) which equates 
to £13,700 for the period together with an additional RPI adjusted 
pensions supplement of £27,781 in respect of the financial period. 
Alastair Murray was awarded a bonus of £125,000 representing 25% of 
his salary in respect of the financial period.
4. Richard Hodgson was appointed as a non-executive director on  
6 January 2015.
5. Ian Krieger received an additional annual prorated fee of £5,000 following 
his appointment as Senior Independent Director in May 2014.
6. Jennifer Laing received an additional annual prorated fee of £10,500 
following her appointment as Remuneration Committee Chairman in  
May 2014.
7. David Wild retired as a non-executive director on 1 May 2014.
The Committee 
The table on page 40 identifies the Committee members and 
meeting attendance. In accordance with the Committee’s 
terms of reference, no one attending a Committee meeting may 
participate in discussions relating to his/her own terms and 
conditions of service or remuneration. Only independent non-
executive directors may become members of the Committee. 
In addition, the CEO, HR Director and New Bridge Street 
(remuneration advisers to the Committee) regularly attend by 
invitation. The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary 
to the Committee. Over the course of the year the Committee 
held 10 scheduled meetings together with a number of ad hoc 
meetings for specific business.
Advisers
New Bridge Street (NBS) (a trading name of Aon Hewitt 
Limited) have been appointed as advisers to the Committee. 
During the year NBS provided advice in connection with 
executive remuneration arrangements and the introduction 
of a new annual bonus plan for management operating 
below Board level. NBS are signatories of the Remuneration 
Consultants Company Code of Conduct. The trustees of the 
Company’s pension schemes have appointed Aon Hewitt 
Limited to act as Administrators and Actuary to the schemes 
and, in the case of the RHM pension scheme, to act as 
Investment Advisers. NBS operates independently of the 
pension teams and the Committee is satisfied there is no 
conflict of interest. NBS received fees of £97,416 in respect of 
their advice to the Committee during the financial period.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee has been delegated authority by the 
Board to approve the overall design of the Remuneration 
Policy for executive directors and senior management, to 
agree the terms of employment including recruitment and 
termination terms of executive directors, approve the design 
of all share incentive plans and recommend appropriate 
performance conditions and targets for the variable element 
of remuneration packages and determine the extent to which 
performance targets have been achieved.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on  
the Company’s website.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 56
Directors’ Remuneration report
What we did during the financial period
•	In line with good practice, a review of the Committee’s 
remuneration adviser was undertaken and this took the 
form of a formal tender exercise with a range of leading 
providers. Following this review it was concluded that 
New Bridge Street continued to provide an effective 
service to the Committee and consequently they were 
retained;
•	Undertook a review of variable reward for management 
below Board level and approved a new two year plan 
linked to completing the turnaround of the business; 
•	Approved an award of 500 free shares to all employees 
to align them with shareholders and support the launch 
of the new purpose and values of the Company;
•	Following the completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan 
on 14 April 2014 the Committee approved adjustments 
to outstanding share awards under the Company’s share 
plans. Adjustments to the number of shares under award 
and where relevant, to option prices, were made to take 
into account the impact of the 8 for 5 Rights Issue using 
the standard theoretical ex rights method;
•	Reviewed and recommended executive directors’ and 
senior managers’ annual bonuses in respect of the 
financial period and set the targets for the 2015/16 
annual bonus in accordance with the strategic objectives 
of the Company;
•	Granted 2014 awards under the equity schemes 
operated by the Company and agreed the targets for 
awards due to be made in 2015; and
•	Reviewed the voting results for the 2014 Remuneration 
Report at the AGM and discussed best practice in 
remuneration policy and disclosure.
External Appointments
The Company is supportive of executive directors who wish 
to take on a non-executive directorship with a publicly quoted 
company in order to broaden their experience and they are 
entitled to retain any fees they may receive. The current 
executive directors do not have any external appointments 
with publicly quoted companies.
Salary and fees
Financial period ended 4 April 2015
Executive directors
There were no changes to the salary for the CEO and CFO 
during 2014. In line with the salary increase to all employees 
not involved in collective bargaining the Committee 
approved a 1% salary increase for the CEO and CFO 
with effect from 1 April 2015. Gavin Darby advised the 
Committee that he would not take the salary increase and 
therefore his salary for 2015/16 remains unchanged.
Executive director
4 April
2015
31 December
 2013 Increase
Gavin Darby £700,000 £700,000 —
Alastair Murray £404,000 £400,000 1%
Non-executive directors
The fees of our non-executive directors (NEDs) are laid 
out in the table below, and remained unchanged during 
the financial period. A review of non-executive fees was 
undertaken in May 2015 and this concluded that the 
Senior Independent Director’s fee should be increased to 
£10,000 per anum recognising the increased level of work 
required by the role. No changes to the Chairman’s fee or 
basic NED fee were proposed.
NED fees     4 April 2015
Chairman fee £265,000
Basic NED fee £57,000
Additional remuneration:
Audit Committee Chairman £13,000
Remuneration Committee Chairman £10,500
Senior Independent Director £5,000
All non-executive directors have entered into letters of 
appointment/amendment as detailed in the table below. The 
appointments are subject to the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles. Terms of appointment 
are normally for three years or the date of the AGM immediately 
preceding the third anniversary of appointment. Non-executive 
directors’ continued appointments are evaluated annually, 
based on their contributions and satisfactory performance. 
Following the expiry of a term of appointment, non-executives 
may be re-appointed for a further three year period.
Non-executive 
director
Date of 
original 
appointment
Expiry of 
current
appointment/
amendment 
letter 
Notice 
period
David Beever 22 January 2008 AGM 2017 3 months
Richard 
Hodgson 6 January 2015 AGM 2017 3 months
Ian Krieger 1 November 2012 AGM 2015 3 months
Jennifer Laing 1 October 2012 AGM 2015 3 months
Charles Miller 
Smith 16 June 2009 N/A 1 month
Pam Powell 7 May 2013 AGM 2016 3 months Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 57
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Annual Bonus (executive directors)
Each year the Committee sets individual performance 
targets and bonus potentials for each of the executive 
directors. Annually the Committee reviews the level of 
achievement against the performance targets set and 
based on the Committee’s judgement approves the bonus 
of each executive director. Annual bonus payments are not 
pensionable.
Financial period ended 4 April 2015
The bonus opportunity for the period has been prorated to 
reflect the extended 15 month financial year. Gavin Darby’ s 
bonus opportunity was therefore increased from £1,050,000 
to £1,312,500 and Alastair Murray’ s bonus opportunity was 
increased from £300,000 to £375,000.
The Committee undertook a full and detailed review of 
the performance of each executive director. This took into 
account both the financial performance of the business as 
a whole and an assessment of the extent to which strategic 
and personal targets had been achieved for the financial 
period. Gavin Darby was awarded a bonus of £306,250 for 
the financial period representing 35% of his salary and 23.4% 
of the maximum opportunity for the financial period. Gavin 
Darby requested, and the Committee agreed, that any bonus 
awarded for the financial period would be delivered in the 
form of shares (net of income tax and national insurance). 
Alastair Murray was awarded a bonus of £125,000 for the 
financial period representing 25% of his salary and 33.4% of 
the maximum opportunity for the financial period.
Annual Bonus plan outcome for the period ended  
4 April 2015 (15 month period)
Gavin Darby
Performance Measure
Maximum
(% of opp)
Outcome
(% of opp) £
Financial target 50.0% 10.0% £131,250
Strategic targets 33.3% – –
Personal targets 16.7% 13.4% £175,000
Total 100% 23.4% £306,250
Maximum opportunity 100% 23.4% £1,312,500
Comparative salary for 
the financial period 35.0% £875,000
Alastair Murray
Performance Measure
Maximum
(% of opp)
Outcome
(% of opp) £
Financial target 50.0% 10.0% £37,500
Strategic targets 33.3% 6.7% £24,975
Personal targets 16.7% 16.7% £62,525
Total 100% 33.4% £125,000
Maximum opportunity 100% 33.4% £375,000
Comparative salary for 
the financial period 25.0% £500,000
Performance targets
For the 2014 calendar year the Committee agreed a stretching 
trading profit target based on the 2014 budget which was set 
above analyst consensus at the start of the year. Following 
the change in year end it was agreed that additional targets 
be set for the extended period from 1 January to 4 April 
2015 (the “Q1 2015” period). The targets followed the normal 
structure for the annual bonus i.e. financial targets; short to 
medium strategic targets; and personal objectives. A separate 
trading profit target was identified based on the budget for Q1 
2015 with the appropriate underpin. Additional strategic and 
personal objectives were identified for Alastair Murray which 
focused on the delivery of short term strategic objectives 
critical to the Q1 2015 period. However, it was agreed that 
due to the short period under review it was not appropriate to 
set targets for the short term strategic or personal objective 
elements for Gavin Darby and so, rather than re-weight the 
bonus to financial targets alone, his actual bonus opportunity 
for this three month period was reduced by half. 
Performance assessment
During 2014 the market in which we operate experienced a 
period of significant change which impacted our major retail 
customers and as a result the Company has re-set its growth 
and profit expectations. Consequently, the trading profit 
performance for the year to 31 December 2014 was £131m 
which was below the trading profit underpin of £144.5m. An 
additional trading profit target was agreed for the Q1 2015 
period based on the budget for Q1 2015 with an appropriate 
underpin. Performance for the Q1 2015 period was £23.7m 
which was above the trading profit target of £23.2m. 
Strategic and personal performance assessment 
During the financial period Gavin Darby successfully 
completed a number of significant strategic and personal 
objectives including the implementation of certain financial 
initiatives to strengthen the balance sheet, the completion 
of a new agreement with the Company’s pension trustees, 
the creation of the Hovis JV, the development and launch of 
a strategic three year business plan, the completion of the 
Company’s de-complexity programme and the launch of a 
new purpose and values for the business. 
During the financial period Alastair Murray successfully 
completed a number of significant strategic and personal 
objectives including the implementation of certain financial 
initiatives to strengthen the balance sheet, supporting the 
development and launch of a strategic three year business 
plan, delivery of new forecasting and decision making 
systems and managing the transitional arrangements for the 
finance and ISC functions following the creation of the Hovis 
JV. Strategic and personal objectives completed during the 
Q1 2015 period included completion and delivery of the 
new forecasting and decision making system, transition of 
reporting for the new financial year and management of cost 
control for the new SBU structure.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 58
Annual bonus targets for 2015/16
The Committee has determined that the structure for the 
annual bonus scheme will remain unchanged i.e. half the 
award will be dependent on financial targets and half will be 
dependent on short to medium-term strategic targets and 
personal objectives. The financial performance target for the 
52 weeks ending 2 April 2016 will continue to be based on 
trading profit as this is aligned to the Company’s strategy of 
category growth. In addition, for the CFO, they also include 
net debt and cash management targets. The actual financial 
performance target are commercially sensitive but will be 
disclosed as part of the performance assessment in next 
year’s annual report and accounts. The short to medium-
term strategic targets and personal performance targets for 
Gavin Darby include a review and update of the Company’s 
three year business plan, developing strategic partnerships 
for the International business, customer relationships and 
implementation of the action plan from the 2015 all-
employee survey. For Alastair Murray these include corporate 
development, net debt management, investor relations and 
cash forecasting.
Under the Remuneration Policy 25% of any annual bonus 
payment to Gavin Darby is awarded in the form of shares. 
Going forward the first 25% of his total bonus will be awarded 
in shares with the price fixed at the start of the financial 
period. The Committee considers this to be an effective way 
of increasing alignment of the CEO’s interests with those of 
shareholders and incentivising value growth.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP)
Alastair Murray participates in the DSBP which operates 
alongside the annual cash bonus. The CEO does not 
participate in the DSBP . Awards can be based on the 
achievement of a range of Company-wide financial and 
strategic targets which are set at the start of each financial 
year. If the objective is met, the bonus earned will be 
converted into shares following the announcement of the 
results for the financial year and deferred for a period of up to 
two years. These shares will be subject to forfeiture over the 
period of deferral. All shares for these awards will be sourced 
in the market.
DSBP award for the financial period ended 
4 April 2015
Alastair Murray participated in the DSBP during the 
financial year. The targets agreed for 2014 were based 
50% on average net debt and 50% on Power Brand 
turnover subject to a trading profit underpin of £144.5m 
for the 12 months to 31 December 2014. Following the 
change in year end the Committee determined that no 
adjustment be made to the original targets and that any 
achievement against target would be prorated for the 
additional Q1 2015 period.
Target 
range
Performance 
(as at 
31 December 
2014) Outcome
Average net debt* £716.2m 
– £701.2m £711.7m
Part 
achieved
Power Brand turnover 0 – 3.0%
(3.5)%
Not 
achieved
*  Average net debt target reflects the completion of the Capital 
Refinancing Plan part way through the financial year.
The trading profit underpin was not achieved and as 
a result no award was made under the DSBP for the 
financial period ended 4 April 2015.
DSBP award for 2015/16
Following review the Committee has determined that the 
performance targets for the DSBP will be aligned with those 
of the Annual Bonus plan as set out above. This simplifies 
arrangements whilst retaining the delivery of a significant 
proportion of any variable reward earned by Alastair Murray in 
the form of shares deferred for two years.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The current LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2011; 
awards have two elements, performance shares and matching 
shares. The Committee determined in 2012 that whilst the 
business is in turnaround and the share price continues 
to be volatile, awards under the LTIP will take the form of 
performance shares only. 
Directors’ Remuneration report Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 59
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
The table below details share interests which were awarded 
during the year and the total interests as at the year end. All 
awards are in the form of performance shares:
Gavin Darby 22 Feb 2013 25 Jun 2014
As at 1 Jan 2014 2,255,442 –
Granted in period – 2,629,107
Lapsed in period – –
As at 4 Apr 2015 2,255,442 2,629,107
Price on award date 62.07p 53.25p
Basis of award 200% of salary 200% of salary
Value on award date £1.4m £1.4m
% award at threshold 20% 20%
Performance period June 2016 June 2017
Alastair Murray 25 Jun 2014
As at 1 Jan 2014 -
Granted in period 1,126,760
Lapsed in period -
As at 4 Apr 2015 1,126,760
Price on award date 53.25p
Basis of award 150% of salary
Value on award date £0.6m
% award at threshold 20%
Performance period June 2017
Share awards adjusted to reflect the impact of the rights issue on 14 April 2014.
LTIP award in the financial period ended 4 April 2015
The 2014 LTIP award was subject to a relative TSR 
condition (comprising 2/3
rds
 of the award) and an adjusted 
EPS condition (comprising 1/3
rd
 of the award). The 
Committee believes that these targets are fully aligned 
with the interests of shareholders at this stage in the 
Company’s turnaround and that awards will only vest 
following the achievement of stretching performance 
targets. The Committee determined that, following the 
completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan the Company’s 
balance sheet has been significantly strengthened and 
therefore it would be appropriate to move from an absolute 
to a relative TSR condition. The condition requires at least 
a median ranking to be achieved for 20% of this part of the 
award to vest, with full vesting taking place for an upper 
quartile ranking against the constituents of the FTSE250 
Index (excluding investment trusts).  
2014 LTIP Award
% of relevant portion 
of award vesting
1
Relative TSR Adjusted EPS 
0% Below median Below 11.65p
20% At median At 11.65p
20% – 100% Between median 
and upper quartile
Between 11.65p 
and 13.45p
1. Straight line vesting between these points.
LTIP award in 2015/16
The Committee reviewed the performance criteria for the 
2015/16 award and proposes to use the same measures 
as the 2014 LTIP award as they remain fully aligned with 
the interests of shareholders and will only vest following 
the achievement of stretching performance targets (set out 
below). The 2015/16 LTIP award will therefore be subject to 
a relative TSR condition (comprising 2/3
rds
 of the award) and 
an adjusted EPS condition (comprising 1/3
rd
 of the award). 
Following the change in year end it was agreed that the award 
to Alastair Murray in 2015 would be increased pro rata on 
a one-off basis to reflect the longer 15 month period. As a 
result his award in 2015 will represent 187.5% of annual salary 
rather than the normal 150% of annual salary. No adjustment 
will be made to the size of the award to Gavin Darby in 2015. 
2015 LTIP award
% of relevant portion 
of award vesting
1
Relative TSR
2
Adjusted EPS
3
 
0% Below median Below 8.97p
20% At median At 8.97p
20% – 100% Between median and 
upper quartile
Between 8.97p 
and 10.00p
1. Straight line vesting between these points.
2.  Measured against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
investment trusts) around the start of the period. 
3. 2014/15 base year EPS was 8.0p. 
Co-Investment Award
The Co-Investment Award is specific to Gavin Darby following 
his appointment as CEO in 2013 and is designed to align the 
CEO with shareholders and the delivery of share price growth. 
On appointment Gavin Darby purchased shares worth 100% 
of annual base salary in the Company. In return the Company 
made a matching award of shares worth 200% of salary 
which vests in thirds on 1 May 2014, 2015 and 2016. The 
award is subject to a bonus having been paid for the relevant 
financial year and continued employment. The first tranche of 
the Co-Investment Award vested on 1 May 2014 and Gavin 
Darby exercised the award and elected to retain the 751,814 
shares in full. Following the payment of an annual bonus to 
Gavin Darby in respect of the financial period ended 4 April 
2015 the performance condition for the second tranche of his 
Co-Investment Award has now been satisfied and accordingly 
has been reflected in the single figure table on page 55.  
Gavin Darby Date of grant: 22 Feb 2013
As at 1 Jan 2014 2,255,442
Granted in period -
Vested in period 751,814
As at 4 Apr 2015 1,503,628
Price on award date 62.07p
Basis of award 200% of salary
Value on Award date £1.4m
% award at threshold N/A
Performance period Vests in three equal tranches 
on 1 May 2014, 2015 and 2016
 Share awards adjusted to reflect the impact of the rights issue on  
14 April 2014. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 60
Directors’ Remuneration report
Share Interest Table
To align executive directors’ interests with those of shareholders they are expected to build a holding of shares within three years 
of appointment at least equal to their annual salary (valued at the time of purchase). All employees are encouraged to develop 
a shareholding in the Company via the Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Plan. Awards under all-employee share plans may 
be satisfied using either newly issued shares or shares purchased in the market and held in the Company’s Employment Benefit 
Trust (which held 12,286 shares as at 4 April 2015). The Company complies with the Investment Association guidelines in 
respect of the dilutive effect of newly issued shares. 
The following table shows directors’ interests in Company shares. Awards under the LTIP are subject to a three year vesting 
period and are subject to stretching performance conditions. The figures shown represent the maximum number of shares a 
director could receive following the end of the vesting period if all performance targets were achieved in full.
Director
Ordinary 
Shares owned 
as at
4 Apr 2015
Ordinary 
shares 
owned as at
31 Dec
2013
Extent to 
which share 
ownership 
guideline has
been met
Unvested 
share interests 
under
the LTIP
1
Unvested 
share interests 
under the
Co-Investment
Award
1
Sharesave
Plan Total
Gavin Darby 3,366,523 750,268 300% 4,884,549 1,503,628 13,618 9,768,318
Alastair Murray 309,522 — 62% 1,126,760 — — 1,436,282
David Beever 304,881 31,900 304,881
Richard Hodgson
2
— — —
Ian Krieger 304,000 20,000 304,000
Jennifer Laing 54,802 16,078 54,802
Pam Powell 160,366 — 160,366
Charles Miller Smith
3
1,095,069 325,027 1,095,069
Former directors
4
David Wild 78,000 5,000 78,000
Share awards adjusted to reflect the impact of the rights issue on 14 April 2014.
1.  The LTIP and Co-Investment Award have performance conditions, for further details please see page 59 above. The first tranche of the Co-Investment 
Award vested on 1 May 2014 and Gavin Darby exercised the award and elected to retain the 751,814 shares in full. 
2. Richard Hodgson was appointed on 6 January 2015.
3. Charles Miller Smith holds his shares in the form of contracts for difference.
4. For former directors the figures represent the number of shares held at the date immediately before they ceased to be a director.
Total shareholder return
The market price of a share in the Company on 2 April 2015 (the last trading day before the period end) was 41.75 pence; the 
range during the financial period was 26.75 pence to 105.31 pence (adjusted to take into account the rights issue completed on 
14 April 2014).
350.0
300.0
250.0
200.0
150.0
100.0
50.0
0.0
Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Apr 15
  Premier Foods  FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)  FTSE Food Producers Index
Value (£)
 Source: Thomson Reuters (Datastream) 
This graph shows the value, by 4 April 2015, of £100 invested in Premier Foods plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE Food Producers Index as the Committee considers these to be the most appropriate comparator 
indices. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.  Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 61
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Chief Executive’s single figure for total remuneration
The table below shows the single figure for total remuneration 
and the annual bonus and LTIP vesting as a percentage of 
maximum opportunity for the current financial period and the 
previous five years. The figures for 2014/15 represent a 15 
month period versus a 12 month period in prior years. 
Year CEO
Single Figure 
for total
remuneration
1
Annual 
bonus as 
a % of 
maximum
LTIP 
vesting 
as 
a % of 
maximum
2014/15
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
Gavin Darby
Gavin Darby
Michael Clarke
2
Michael Clarke 
Michael Clarke
Robert Schofield
Robert Schofield
Robert Schofield
£1,736,749
£1,405,753
£1,122,795
£1,699,575
£2,277,070
£895,485
£715,052
£929,967
23.4%
16%
–
66%
–
–
10%
29%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
1.  Details of single figure of total remuneration are set out on page 55. The 
figure for 2015 represents total remuneration received during the financial 
period from 1 January 2014 to 4 April 2015.
2. Michael Clarke acted as CEO from 16 August 2011 until 28 January 
2013.
Percentage change in CEO pay
For the purpose of this table pay is defined as salary, benefits 
and annual bonus. There has been no increase to the 
CEO’s salary during the financial period. Benefits and annual 
bonus for the financial period have been prorated to a 12 
month period for comparison with 2013. The average pay of 
management grades (approximately 450 employees) is used 
for the purposes of comparison as they are members of the 
Company’s annual bonus plan. Small discretionary awards 
were made to management in 2014/15 and 2013 under the 
annual bonus plan.
CEO
Percentage 
Change
4 Apr 2015
Percentage 
Change
2013
Base salary 0% -7%
Benefits 46% -68%
Annual bonus 40% -77%
Management grades
Base salary 1% 2%
Benefits – –
Annual bonus 48% –
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out the amounts and percentage 
change in total employee costs and dividends for the financial 
period and the year ended 31 December 2013. The terms of 
our current bank facility agreement contain restrictions on the 
payment of dividends. Recurring cash flow and net debt have 
therefore been included as additional indicators. Cash flow 
demonstrates the cash available to reinvest in the business 
and service debt payments and net debt highlights the overall 
reduction in debt over the course of the year.
The figures for 2014/15 represent a 15 months period versus 
a 12 month period for the prior year. During the financial 
period the number of employees reduced significantly 
following the completion of the Hovis Joint Venture.
2014/15
£m
2013
£m
Change
%
Total employee costs £213.9m £293.1m -27.0%
Recurring cash flow £(24.4)m £86.8m n/a
Net debt £584.9m £830.8m -29.6%
Dividends paid – – –
2014 AGM voting
Approval of the Annual 
Report on Remuneration
Approval of the 
Remuneration Policy 
contained in the annual 
report 2013
For  592,432,265 (99.93%) 593,707,405 (99.05%)
Against 410,277 (0.07%) 5,714,208 (0.95%)
Abstain 9,747,515 3,168,444
Consideration of shareholders’ views
The Remuneration Committee and the Board considers 
shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each 
year at a meeting immediately following the AGM and 
any action required is incorporated into the Remuneration 
Committee’s action plan for the ensuing period. This, and 
any additional feedback received from shareholders from 
time to time, is then considered by the Committee and 
as part of the Company’s annual review of remuneration 
arrangements.
Specific engagement with major shareholders may be 
undertaken when a significant change in remuneration 
policy is proposed or if a specific item of remuneration is 
considered to be potentially contentious. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy received strong support at the 
2014 AGM. Payments to directors in the financial period 
and arrangement for the coming year are in accordance 
with this policy and therefore no formal consultation with 
shareholders took place during the period.
The Directors’ Remuneration report was approved by the 
Board on 18 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Jennifer Laing 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 62
Directors’ report
Directors’ report
The Directors’ report consists of pages 1 to 63 and has been 
drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance 
upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of 
directors in connection with that report shall be subject to 
the limitations and restrictions provided by such law. In the 
Directors’ report references to the Company are references to 
Premier Foods plc and its subsidiaries.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting. 
The Articles are available on our corporate website. 
Profit and dividends
The loss before tax on continuing operations for the financial 
year was £(135.6)m (2013 profit (restated): £4.4m). The 
directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the 
financial period ended 4 April 2015 (2013: £nil).
Research and development
Applied research and development work continues to be 
directed towards the introduction of new and improved 
products; the application of new technology to reduce unit 
and operating costs; and to improve service to customers. 
Total research and development spend (including capitalised 
development costs) was £16.6m (2013: £10.0m).
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
This insurance covers the directors and officers against the 
costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken 
against them in their capacity as a director or officer of the 
Company and in respect of damages resulting from the 
unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Share capital information
The Company’s issued share capital as at 4 April 2015 
comprised 825,741,256 ordinary 10p shares. During the 
financial period 585,913,090 ordinary shares were issued, 
largely as a result of the Placing and Rights Issue in April 
2014; details of the movements can be found in note 26 
on page 121. All of the ordinary shares rank equally with 
respect to voting rights, the rights to receive dividends and 
distributions on a winding up. In accordance with the Articles 
there are no restrictions on share transfers, limitations on the 
holding of any class of shares or any requirement for prior 
approval of any transfer.
Substantial shareholdings
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s (FCA) disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(“DTRs”) is published on a Regulatory information Service and 
on the Company’s website. As at 18 May 2015, the Company 
has been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in 
the Company:
Shareholder
Ordinary 
shares
% of 
capital
Nature of 
holding
Warburg Pincus LLC 142,760,090 17.29 Direct
Standard Life 
Investments Ltd 83,468,338 10.11
Direct and 
indirect
Paulson & Co. Inc. 82,358,800 9.99 Direct
Going concern
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements. Further information on the 
basis of preparation is set out in note 2.1 on page 81.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for the  
Annual Report
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report, the Directors’ Remuneration report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors 
have prepared the group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union, and the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). In preparing the 
group financial statements, the directors have also elected 
to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). Under company law the directors 
must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss 
of the company and group for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
•	select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•	make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and
•	state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the group and parent 
company financial statements respectively. Financial 
Statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 63
Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the company 
and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company 
and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed 
on page 36 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	the group financial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
loss of the group; and
•	the Directors’ report contained on pages 1 to 63 includes 
a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the group, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it 
faces.
Independent auditors
As set out on page 45 an audit tender exercise is currently 
underway. In the mean time, the Audit Committee has 
recommended PwC’s reappointment and PwC has indicated 
its willingness to continue as auditors. The reappointment of 
PwC and the setting of their remuneration will be proposed at 
the 2015 AGM. 
Auditors and the disclosure of information to auditors
The Companies Act requires directors to provide the 
Company’s auditors with every opportunity to take whatever 
steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider 
to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give 
their audit report. The directors, having made appropriate 
enquiries, confirm that:
•	so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
•	he/she has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a director in order to make himself/herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM usually takes place in London and is an opportunity 
for all shareholders to ask questions and vote on the 
resolutions put forward by the Board. At least 20 working 
days before the AGM the notice of AGM, a copy of this annual 
report (if they request a copy in writing) and a Form of Proxy 
are issued to shareholders.
All documents relating to the AGM are available on 
the Company’s website.
The notice of AGM sets out the proposed resolutions and a 
brief synopsis of each of them. Shareholders are invited to 
either attend the AGM in person or appoint a proxy to vote on 
their behalf. Voting at the AGM is by poll as this gives a more 
democratic outcome given that the proxy votes are added to 
the votes cast in person. Details of the proxy votes for, against 
and withheld are made available on the Company’s website 
after the AGM.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
committees are normally available at the AGM to take any 
relevant questions and all other directors are expected to 
attend. All directors attended the 2014 AGM.
2015 AGM — Thursday 23 July 2015 at 11.00 am
The 2015 AGM will be held at the offices of Wragge Lawrence 
Graham & Co LLP , 4 More London Riverside, London,  
SE1 2AU.
The Directors’ report was approved by the Board on 18 May 
2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew McDonald 
Company Secretary
  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Financial statements
This section contains the independent auditors’ 
report to shareholders, the consolidated and 
Company financial statements and related 
notes.
Independent auditors’ 
report 
This is the report from the 
Company’s independent auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , on the 
areas which have been audited, the 
scope and methodology of the audit 
and their audit opinion in respect of the 
consolidated financial statements.
Read more on pages 65 to 74 Read more on pages 75 to 79 Read more on pages 130 to 133 
Consolidated financial  
statements 
The financial statements include the 
consolidated statement of profit or 
loss, statement of comprehensive 
income, balance sheet, statement 
of cash flows and the statement 
of changes in equity. These are 
supported by detailed notes.
Company financial 
statements
This section contains the Company   
balance sheet, notes to the Company 
financial statements and the report 
from the independent auditors.
64
Alastair Murray 
Chief Financial Officer
The Company has changed its financial 
year to reflect the seasonal nature of 
the business and the current financial 
period is for the 15 months ended  
4 April 2015.”
Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 65
Financial 
Statements
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Premier Foods plc
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Premier Foods plc’s Group financial statements (‘the financial statements’):
•	 Give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 4 April 2015 and of its loss and cash flows for the period 1 
January 2014 to 4 April 2015 (the “period”) then ended;
•	 Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the 
European Union;
•	 Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Premier Foods plc’s financial statements comprise:
•	 The Consolidated balance sheet as at 4 April 2015;
•	 The Consolidated statement of profit and loss and the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then 
ended;
•	 The Consolidated statement of cash flows for the period then ended;
•	 The Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period then ended; and
•	 The Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather than 
in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
  
  
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas
of focus
•	 Overall group materiality for the period ended 4 April 2015 was £4.15 million, which was 
determined by applying professional judgement, taking into consideration the adjusted trading 
profit, as defined on page 88, and the overall scale of the business. Overall group materiality for the 
year ended 31 December 2013 was £4.45 million. 
•	 The scope of our audit included all active trading companies located in the UK, whose results taken 
together account for all material balances and line items within the financial statements. All entities 
are managed from one central location in the UK and all audit work was undertaken by the UK 
engagement team.
•	 The components that were part of our audit scope as set out above accounted for 97% (2013: 
98%) of Group adjusted trading profit.
The following were areas of focus for the audit:
•	 Recognition of commercial payments to customers’.
•	 Recognition of commercial income. 
•	 Goodwill impairment assessment.
•	 Going concern.
•	 Inventory valuation.
•	 Accounting for disposals.
•	 Recognition and recoverability of deferred tax asset.
•	 Accounting for defined benefit pension plans.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 66
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. Many judgemental 
accounting areas, on which we focused our work, were based on a number of common assumptions. As part of our audit work, 
we checked that the assumptions that underpinned each accounting judgement were consistent with one another. As in all 
of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was 
evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, 
are identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific 
areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our 
procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Premier Foods plc Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 67
Financial 
Statements
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Recognition of commercial 
payments to customers  
As described in the Audit Committee 
report on page 47 and in the accounting 
policies sections in the notes to the 
accounts on page 82, Premier has two 
main streams of commercial payments 
to customers; volume rebates and 
promotional support, whereby discounts 
and rebates are given retrospectively 
according to the quantity of goods sold 
and promotional and marketing activity 
performed in customers’ stores and 
online respectively. 
The amounts recognised in the period 
and affecting the income statement are 
material and offset against revenue in 
the income statement and the amounts 
accrued in the balance sheet at the 
period end amounted to £44.2m and 
are included in note 20 to the accounts. 
We focused on this area as Commercial 
Payments have a material impact on 
the Group’s results and also due to 
the fact that these agreements can 
include a number of characteristics 
and complex terms that require 
judgement to be applied in determining 
the appropriate accounting. It is also 
an area of heightened focus in light of 
recent market announcements and 
the Financial Reporting Council’s press 
release on 19 January 2015.  
Our audit procedures focused, in 
particular, on the following judgements: 
•	 the period that the agreements 
cover and, hence, the correct 
period over which the commercial 
payment should be recognised; 
•	 where the contract spans the 
period end, the determination of 
sales volume that will be achieved 
or the applicable promotional 
expense that will be incurred; and
•	 the appropriate recognition 
related to one-off agreements and 
marketing and promotional activity. 
Our approach was underpinned by testing key controls including those used 
to determine the amount of items sold by the customer under the terms of 
a Premier funded promotion arrangement. We understood, evaluated and 
tested the controls that the Group has in place around Commercial Payments 
accruals. We determined that the testing of those controls provided us 
with audit evidence that promotional support expenses had been recorded 
appropriately and in the correct period. Our testing of promotions also included 
checking the computation of the amounts billed to Premier. We supplemented 
this testing with substantive procedures as detailed below. 
We reconciled the total value of promotion expense recorded in Premier’s 
promotion system for the period to the total value recognised in the general 
ledger and found no material reconciling items. 
We requested independent confirmations of the relevant terms of a sample of 
individual promotion agreements directly from a range of customers. For this 
purpose, the relevant terms were:
•	 the duration of the promotion/campaign; and
•	 the quantum of promotional support per unit sold or the price charged for 
the campaign.
We also requested confirmation from them of amounts invoiced to Premier 
during the period and amounts accrued in their accounting records at the 
period end. We received responses from 52% of customers within the sample 
and all responses agreed to the information provided to us by management. 
Where confirmations were not received from customers we examined alternative 
supporting documentation.
We tested the recognition and valuation of the sales rebates and promotional 
accruals by challenging management’s judgements. We tested the historical 
accuracy in estimating the accrual by comparing the value of the prior year 
accrual with actual invoices received post period end.
We tested the sufficiency of the accrual by, again, comparing the amount 
against historical recovery rates from the Group’s customers. 
We tested credit notes issued during the period and post period end to 
determine whether the income to which they related has been appropriately 
reversed. 
We held a number of discussions with the account managers of the major 
customers to understand the nature of individual agreements. 
In addition, we independently tested promotions in customers’ stores through 
site visits and agreed these to the relevant entry in the promotion system. 
The above audit procedures did not identify any matters that resulted in a 
material audit adjustment.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 68
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Recognition of commercial income 
As described in the accounting policies 
sections in the notes to the accounts 
on page 82, Premier has two main 
streams of commercial income; one-off 
payments from suppliers and volume 
rebates whereby discounts and rebates 
are given retrospectively according to 
the quantity of goods sold.
The amount of commercial income 
recognised in the period is material and 
is offset against cost of sales, sales and 
marketing, distribution or administrative 
expenses, depending on the nature of 
the goods or services supplied.
We focused on this area because, 
similar to the commercial rebates 
payable to customers, this income 
contributes a significant amount to the 
Group results and these agreements 
can include a number of characteristics 
and complex terms that require 
judgement to be applied in determining 
the appropriate accounting and this is 
an area of heightened focus in light of 
recent market announcements. 
Our audit procedures focused, in 
particular, on the following judgements: 
•	 The period which the agreements 
cover and hence the correct period 
for recognition; 
•	 The determination of volume 
achieved and the applicable income 
recognised; and
•	 The appropriate recognition 
of income related to one-off 
agreements. 
We understood and tested the controls that the Group has in place around 
the recognition of commercial income from suppliers. This indicated that we 
could place some reliance on these controls but, given the number of separate 
agreements in place with suppliers, we determined that testing of a substantive 
nature would be more efficient. 
We reconciled the total value of supplier income recorded during the period 
to the total value recognised in the general ledger and found no material 
reconciling items. 
We agreed commercial income recognised to contractual evidence with 
suppliers, with particular attention paid to the period in which the income was 
recognised and the appropriateness of the accrued income at the period end.
We independently tested a sample of individual supplier agreements by 
requesting confirmations, directly from a range of suppliers of certain terms of 
the agreements, including the total paid by them to Premier during the period 
and the period to which it relates. We used this information to check that the 
amount recognised was recorded in the correct period. Where confirmations 
were not received from suppliers we examined alternative supporting 
documentation.
 The above audit procedures did not identify any matters that resulted in a 
material audit adjustment.
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Premier Foods plc Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 69
Financial 
Statements
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill impairment assessment 
As described in the Audit Committee 
report on page 47 and in the critical 
accounting estimates and judgements 
and accounting policies sections in 
the notes to the accounts on page 87, 
Premier had goodwill of £621.1 million 
at 4 April 2015 and has also recorded 
an impairment charge of £67.9 million 
against the carrying value of goodwill for 
the Sweet Treats segment. 
We focused on this area because the 
determination of whether or not an 
impairment charge for goodwill both 
for Sweet Treats and for other CGUs 
was necessary involved significant 
judgements by the Directors about 
the future results of the business and 
assessment of future plans for the 
Group’s segments. 
In particular we focused on the key 
assumptions, which were: 
•	 the allocation of goodwill between 
the Grocery and Sweet Treats 
CGUs following the internal group 
re-organisation and, specifically, the 
£67.9million of goodwill allocated 
to the Sweet Treats CGU using 
a relative value approach. This 
goodwill has been fully impaired 
by the Directors based on the 
Directors’ assessment of the value 
in use of this CGU;
•	 the cash flow forecasts derived 
from internal forecasts and the 
assumptions around the future 
performance; 
•	 the discount rate and the long 
term growth rate including the 
assessment of risk factors and 
growth expectations of the relevant 
CGU; and
•	 the adequacy of disclosure of 
the assumptions used in the 
impairment assessment.
We evaluated the Directors’ impairment calculations by assessing the future 
cash flow forecasts used in the models and the process by which they were 
drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets, and 
testing the mechanics of the underlying calculations. 
We understood and challenged:
•	 The key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts by 
comparing them to economic and industry forecasts; 
•	 The discount rate by assessing the cost of capital against external 
benchmarks and comparable organisations;
•	 The allocation of goodwill between the Grocery and Sweet Treats CGUs 
based on relative fair value;
•	 The short-term growth rates by comparing them to the actual and historical 
performance; and
•	 The adequacy of the Directors’ sensitivity calculations based on historical 
accuracy and determined that the calculations were most sensitive to 
changes in trading profit, revenue growth rates and discount rates.
We compared the current period’s actual results at a segmental level with 
previous forecasts to assess historical accuracy of the forecasts and used the 
identified differences to sensitise the projected budgets. 
In performing the above work we utilised our valuations expertise to identify 
external market data points to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions 
used by management. 
In addition to the Directors’ sensitivity analysis, we performed sensitivity 
analysis around the key drivers of growth rates within the cash flow forecasts 
to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually 
or collectively would be required for the assets to be further impaired and also 
considered the likelihood of such movement in those key assumptions arising. 
In respect of Sweet Treats, we found that any adverse movement in 
assumptions would result in a further impairment which has been disclosed in 
note 13. 
We read the disclosures in the financial statements in relation to the impairment 
assessment and found them to be compliant with the requirements of IFRSs. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 70
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Going Concern
As described in the Audit Committee 
report on page 47 and in the accounting 
policies sections in the notes to the 
accounts on page 81, Premier has 
undergone a significant refinancing 
during the year and has registered a 
loss for the period ending 4 April 2015. 
We focused on this area because, 
although the refinancing and the 
capital restructuring was successfully 
completed in April 2014 and the 
Directors believe the group now has 
sufficient funding in place to continue 
to be able to meet its liabilities as they 
fall due, the Group has reported a loss 
for the period and the going concern 
assessment involves judgement about 
the future performance of the business 
and the availability of cash as and when 
required. 
We evaluated the Directors’ assessment of future cash flow forecasts and the 
process by which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest 
Board approved budgets, and we tested the mechanics of the underlying 
calculations. 
We understood and challenged:
•	 The discount rate by assessing the cost of capital by reference to external 
benchmarks and  comparable organisations;
•	 The short-term growth rates by comparing them to the actual and historic 
performance; 
•	 The transformation activities assumptions used in the model; and
•	 The Directors’ sensitivity calculations and determined that the calculations 
were most sensitive to changes in trading profit and revenue growth rates. 
We compared the current period’s actual results with previous forecasts to 
assess historical accuracy of the forecasts and used the identified differences to 
sensitise the projected budgets. 
We performed additional sensitivity analysis around the growth rates within the 
cash flow forecasts to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions 
that either individually or collectively would be required for Premier to either 
breach covenant obligations in the current funding or to require further funding 
in order to meet its liabilities as they fall due. We considered it unlikely that 
such movement in those key assumptions will arise based on historical trading 
performance and management plans. 
Our conclusion on the application of the Going Concern basis of accounting is 
set out below. 
Inventory valuation
As described in the accounting policies 
sections in the notes to the accounts 
on page 84, Premier held inventory of 
£68.8 million at the period end. 
We focused on this area as the valuation 
of inventory is judgemental as it is 
dependent on the assumptions drawn 
from the manufacturing process.  
We understood the controls that the Group had in place around the valuation 
of inventory and tested the operating effectiveness of controls relating to the 
costing of inventory. This testing indicated that we could place some reliance 
on these controls but, given the material and subjective nature of the inventory 
valuation, we determined that further testing of a substantive nature was also 
required. 
We examined the Group’s assessment of costs directly related to bringing 
inventory to its final destination (and, hence, included in the cost of inventory). 
To do this, we obtained the detailed calculation of these costs and assessed 
each of them separately by considering their nature and whether it was 
appropriate for them to be absorbed. Based on our testing, we determined 
that the types of costs capitalised in inventory were directly related to bringing 
inventory to its final destination. 
We reperformed the reconciliation of the total value of inventory recorded within 
the inventory system at the period end to the total value recognised in the 
general ledger and found no material reconciling items. 
We tested the inventory provisions by examining post year end invoice prices 
and inventory aging and determined that the provisioning applicable to individual 
categories of inventory was appropriate.
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Premier Foods plc Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 71
Financial 
Statements
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for disposals 
As described in the Audit Committee 
report on page 47 and in the notes 
to the accounts on page 98, Premier 
has disposed of its majority share in its 
Bread business and also its majority 
share in the Powdered beverages and 
desserts business resulting in losses 
on disposal before tax of £8.6 million 
and £6.0 million respectively. Premier 
has retained an interest in the share 
capital of these businesses which have 
been recognised as associates. There is 
also an element of deferred contingent 
consideration to which no value has 
been assigned.
We focused on this area due to the 
magnitude of the disposals and also to 
evaluate whether the accounting as an 
associate is appropriate, complete and 
adequately disclosed. 
We examined the underlying disposal documentation. We recalculated the loss 
arising on disposal of the businesses. 
We challenged the assumptions underpinning management’s evaluation of the 
deferred contingent consideration based on the historic performance of the 
business. 
We agreed costs recognised as part of the loss on disposal (and, hence, 
excluded from the Group’s underlying performance) to supporting 
documentation such as invoices or timesheet data to check that there were 
associated with the disposal.   
We assessed the judgements made concerning whether Premier retained 
control of the disposed businesses by reading, understanding and considering 
the implications of the relevant terms within the sale contracts and also 
understanding the governance and management structure of the disposed 
businesses. Based on this work, we determined that Premier did not have 
control of the businesses following the disposal and that they were appropriately 
accounted for as associates. 
We also evaluated the investment in associates and assessed their 
recoverability. 
Given the complexity of the disclosure requirements within IFRSs and the 
complexity of this transaction, we checked and determined that the disclosures 
within the Group financial statements were both compliant with IFRSs and 
properly reflected both the substance and the form of the transaction.
Recognition and recoverability of 
deferred tax asset 
As described in the Audit Committee 
report on page 47 and in the critical 
accounting estimates and judgements 
and accounting policies sections in 
the notes to the accounts on page 88, 
Premier has a deferred tax asset of 
£41.9 million. 
We focused on this area as it involves 
complex and subjective judgements 
about the future results of the business 
and its ability to utilise future tax losses.  
 
We tested the Group’s assessment of the recoverability of both recognised 
and unrecognised deferred tax assets by evaluating the likelihood of achieving 
expected taxable profits against which such assets are to be utilised.
We compared the expected taxable profits to board approved budgets and 
forecasts and evaluated whether the assets would be recoverable.  
The above audit procedures did not identify any matters that resulted in a 
material audit adjustment. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 72
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for defined benefit 
pension plans 
As described in the Audit Committee 
report on page 47 and in the critical 
accounting estimates and judgements 
and accounting policies sections in 
the notes to the accounts on page 87, 
Premier has recognised £211.8 million 
of net retirement benefit obligations 
which represents the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation at the 
balance sheet date of £4,460.3 million 
less the fair value of the plan assets of 
£4,248.5 million.  
We focused on this area as the 
valuation of the pension liabilities 
requires judgement and technical 
expertise in choosing appropriate 
assumptions. Changes in a number of 
key assumptions (including inflation, 
discount rates and mortality) can have 
a material impact on the calculation of 
the liability. The Group uses external 
actuaries to assist in determining these 
assumptions. 
We used our actuarial expertise to challenge whether the assumptions used 
in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including mortality assumptions, were 
consistent with relevant national and industry data and our own internally 
generated expectations and found that they were. We also verified that the 
discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension liabilities were 
consistent with our internally developed benchmarks.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the group operates. As described in the Strategic report, specifically on pages 6 to 33, the Group 
comprises two divisions, being Grocery and Sweet Treats following a reorganisation during the period. The scope of our audit 
included all active trading companies located in the UK, whose results taken together account for all material balances and line 
items within the consolidated financial statements. All entities are managed from one central location in the UK and all audit work 
was undertaken by the UK engagement team. 
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent 
of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £4.15m (2013: £4.45m).
How we determined it 2.5% of adjusted trading profit
Rationale for benchmark 
applied
We have applied this benchmark as we believe it to be the most commonly used by the 
shareholders as a body in assessing the group’s performance. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £200,000 
(2013: £220,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Premier Foods plc Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 73
Financial 
Statements
Going Concern
Under the listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 62, in relation to going concern. We 
have nothing to report having performed our review. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using 
the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in 
operations, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As 
part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. 
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
•	 the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 38 to 44 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 information in the Annual Report is:
 — materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 — apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 — otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions to report 
arising from this 
responsibility.
•	 the statement given by the directors on page 46, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole 
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to 
assess the group’s performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to report 
arising from this 
responsibility.
•	 the section of the Annual Report on page 45, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions to report 
arising from this 
responsibility.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not 
been prepared by the parent company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.   Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 74
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK 
& Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
•	 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
•	 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and
•	 the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Premier Foods plc for the financial period 1 January 2014 
through to 4 April 2015 and on the information in the Director’s Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Pauline Campbell (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
19 May 2015
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by 
the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any 
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Premier Foods plc Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 75
Financial 
Statements
Note
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
(Restated)
1
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 964.3  843.0 
Cost of sales (630.8)  (556.1)
Gross profit 333.5 286.9
Selling, marketing and distribution costs (135.2) (98.7)
Administrative costs (242.4) (135.6)
Operating (loss)/profit 5 (44.1) 52.6 
Operating profit before impairment and loss on disposal of operations 45.8 55.0
Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment 13 (83.9) –
Loss on disposal of operations 11 (6.0) (2.4)
Finance cost 7 (82.5) (62.2)
Finance income 7 1.8 2.4
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 7 (1.2) 11.6
Share of loss from associates 15 (9.6) – 
(Loss)/profit before taxation from continuing operations (135.6) 4.4 
Taxation credit/(charge) 8 42.9  (51.1)
Loss after taxation from continuing operations (92.7) (46.7)
Loss from discontinued operations 10 (30.9) (199.2)
Loss for the period/year attributable to owners of the parent (123.6) (245.9)
Basic and diluted loss per share
From continuing operations (pence) 9 (12.7) (12.8)
From discontinued operations (pence) 9 (4.2) (54.4)
From loss for the period/year (16.9) (67.2)
Adjusted earnings per share
2
From continuing operations (pence) 9 9.0 17.0
1. 
Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of certain commercial costs from selling, marketing and distribution costs into revenue, as 
disclosed in note 2.1.
2. 
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as trading profit less net regular interest, less a notional tax charge at 21.4% (2013: 23.25%) divided by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares of the Company.
The notes on pages 80 to 127 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of profit or loss Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 76
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Note
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Loss for the period/year (123.6) (245.9)
Other comprehensive income/(losses)
Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit liability 24 379.3 (152.7)
Deferred tax (charge)/credit 8 (75.8) 8.4
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss
Exchange differences on translation (0.6) (0.3)
Other comprehensive income/(losses), net of tax 302.9 (144.6)
Total comprehensive income/(losses) attributable to owners of the parent 179.3 (390.5)
The notes on pages 80 to 127 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 77
Financial 
Statements
Consolidated balance sheet
Note
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
ASSETS:
 Non-current assets
 Property, plant and equipment 12 183.3  196.3 
 Goodwill 13 646.0  713.9 
 Other intangible assets 14 528.4  575.5 
 Retirement benefit assets 24 241.6  –
 Investments in associates 15 14.4  – 
 Loans to associates 16 20.8  – 
 Deferred tax assets 8 41.9  72.7 
 1,676.4  1,558.4 
 Current assets
 Assets held for sale 17 –  26.8 
 Inventories 18 68.8  68.9 
 Trade and other receivables 19 123.5  248.3 
 Financial assets — derivative financial instruments 22 –  0.5 
 Cash and cash equivalents 27 44.7  157.0 
 237.0  501.5 
Total assets 1,913.4  2,059.9 
LIABILITIES:
 Current liabilities 
 Liabilities held for sale 17 –  (1.4)
 Trade and other payables 20 (212.6) (336.7)
 Financial liabilities 
 — short term borrowings 21 (42.0) (169.1)
 — derivative financial instruments 22 (3.7) (9.5)
 Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (8.6) (15.0)
 Current income tax liabilities (0.7) (0.7)
(267.6) (532.4)
 Non-current liabilities
 Financial liabilities — long term borrowings 21 (587.6) (818.7)
 Retirement benefit obligations 24 (453.4) (603.3)
 Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (51.6) (57.2)
 Other liabilities 25 (13.0) (30.4)
 (1,105.6) (1,509.6)
Total liabilities (1,373.2) (2,042.0)
Net assets 540.2  17.9 
EQUITY:
 Capital and reserves
 Share capital 26 82.6  24.0 
 Share premium 26 1,406.4  1,124.7 
 Merger reserve 26 351.7  404.7 
 Other reserves 26 (9.3) (9.3)
 Profit and loss reserve 26 (1,291.2) (1,526.3)
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the parent 540.2  17.8 
 Non-controlling interest -  0.1 
Total equity 540.2  17.9
The notes on pages 80 to 127 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 75 to 127 were approved by the Board of directors on 18 May 2015 and signed on its behalf 
by:
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
Alastair Murray 
Chief Financial Officer Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 78
Consolidated statement of cash flows
Note
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Cash generated from operations 27 62.5 123.4
Interest paid (60.9) (38.5)
Interest received 1.8 2.6
Cash generated from operating activities 3.4 87.5
Sale of businesses 8.3 90.8
Loan notes issued (15.7) –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (34.1) (32.6)
Purchases of intangible assets (7.9) (7.8)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 1.7 14.8
Cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (47.7) 65.2
Repayment of borrowings (771.0) (93.3)
Proceeds from borrowings 500.0 91.0
Movement in securitisation funding programme (100.3) 24.3
Financing fees and other costs of finance (58.3) (27.5)
Proceeds from share issue 353.4 –
Share issue costs (13.3) –
Purchase of own shares (1.5) –
Cash used in financing activities (91.0) (5.5)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (135.3) 147.2
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of period/year 157.0 9.7
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents – 0.1
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of period/year 27 21.7 157.0
The notes on pages 80 to 127 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 79
Financial 
Statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
 Note
Share
 capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Profit 
and loss 
reserve 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 24.0 1,124.7 404.7 (9.3) (1,526.3) 0.1 17.9
Loss for the period –  –  –  –  (123.6) –  (123.6)
Remeasurements of defined 
benefit liability 24 –  – – –  379.3 – 379.3
Deferred tax credit 8 –  – – –  (75.8) – (75.8)
Exchange differences on 
translation – – – –  (0.6) – (0.6)
Other comprehensive income –  –  –  –  302.9 –  302.9
Total comprehensive income –  –  –  –  179.3 –  179.3
Shares issued 58.6 295.0 –  –  –  –  353.6
Cost of shares issued –  (13.3) –  –  –  –  (13.3)
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  2.8 –  2.8
Disposal of non-controlling interest –  –  –  –  –  (0.1) (0.1)
Realisation of merger reserve –  –  (53.0) –  53.0 –   – 
At 4 April 2015 82.6 1,406.4 351.7 (9.3) (1,291.2) –  540.2
At 1 January 2013 24.0 1,124.7 587.5 (9.3) (1,322.1) 0.1 404.9
Loss for the year – – – – (245.9) – (245.9)
Remeasurements of defined 
benefit liability 24 – – – – (152.7) – (152.7)
Deferred tax credit 8 – – – – 8.4 – 8.4
Exchange differences on 
translation – – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Other comprehensive losses – – – – (144.6) – (144.6)
Total comprehensive losses – – – – (390.5) – (390.5)
Share-based payments – – – – 3.5 – 3.5
Realisation of merger reserve – – (182.8) – 182.8 – –
At 31 December 2013 24.0 1,124.7 404.7 (9.3) (1,526.3) 0.1 17.9
The notes on pages 80 to 127 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 80
Notes to the financial statements
1. General information
Premier Foods plc (the “Company”) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales, 
registered number 5160050, with its registered office at Premier House, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, 
Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE. The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) is the manufacture and 
distribution of branded and own label food and beverage products as described in note 15. Further information about the 
Group’s activities can be found in the At a Glance section of this annual report on page 1. Copies of the annual report and 
accounts are available from this address.
These Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 18 May 2015.
2. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (EU) (“adopted IFRS”) in response to IAS regulation 
(EC1606/2002), related interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and 
on the historical cost basis, with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are incorporated using fair value. 
Amounts are presented to the nearest £0.1m.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. 
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant 
to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
The Group changed its financial year end from the 12 months ended 31 December to the 52 weeks ended on the Saturday 
closest to 31 March, with effect from the current reporting period ended 4 April 2015. The financial statements for the 
current reporting period are made up from 1 January 2014 to 4 April 2015 in order to align with the new year end. Therefore, 
the amounts presented in the current reporting period for the 15 months ended 4 April 2015 are not directly comparable 
with the amounts presented for the 12 months ended 31 December 2013.
The Group has reclassified certain commercial costs from selling, marketing and distribution costs into revenue during the 
period, in order to better reflect the costs directly associated with revenue generation. This resulted in a restatement of 
£13.2m in the prior year comparatives.
The following accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) or 
IFRIC (as endorsed by the EU), are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by  
the Group:
International Financial Reporting Standards 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation — Offsetting Financial Assets and 
Financial Liabilities
There has been no significant impact on the Group’s results, net assets, cash flows and disclosures on adoption of new or 
revised standards in the period.
The following amendments to published standards, effective for periods on or after 1 January 2015, have been endorsed by 
the EU:
International Financial Reporting Standards 
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities 
Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets 
Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
IFRIC 21 Levies 
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions  Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 81
Financial 
Statements
2. Accounting policies continued
The following standards and amendments to published standards, effective for periods on or after 1 January 2015, have not 
been endorsed by the EU:
International Financial Reporting Standards 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or 
Joint Venture
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative
Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Bearer Plants
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations
It is not expected that any of the new standards and interpretations that have not been applied will have a material impact 
on the results, net assets or cash flows of the Group. 
Basis for preparation of financial statements on a going concern basis
The Group completed a capital restructure during the period, which included a fully underwritten equity offering of £353m 
(gross of fees) through a placing and rights issue, the issue of £500m senior secured loan notes and a new £272m revolving 
credit facility. This facility includes net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/interest covenants. In the event these covenants are not 
met then the Group would be in breach of its financing agreement and, as would be the case in any covenant breach, 
the banking syndicate could withdraw funding to the Group. The Group was in compliance with its covenant tests as at 
30 June 2014, 31 December 2014 and 4 April 2015. The Group’s forecasts, taking into account of reasonably possible 
changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities 
including covenant tests. The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing its consolidated financial statements.
2.2 Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Premier Foods plc and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from 
involvement with an investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated statement of profit or 
loss from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. In addition, comparatives 
are also restated to reclassify material disposed businesses into discontinued operations where appropriate.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired. Goodwill arises when the fair value of the consideration for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets 
acquired. Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are 
indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by 
the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
(ii) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a 
shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity 
method of accounting, under which the investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying amount is increased or 
decreased to recognise the Group’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The Group’s share 
of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the statement of profit or loss. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 82
2. Accounting policies continued
2.3 Revenue
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods net of sales rebates, discounts, value added tax and other 
taxes directly attributable to revenue and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is recognised when the outcome 
of a transaction can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction 
will flow to the Group. Revenue is recognised on the following basis:
(i) Sale of goods
Sales of goods are recognised as revenue on transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership, which typically coincides with 
the time when the merchandise is delivered to customers and title passes.
(ii) Sales rebates and discounts
Sales related discounts comprise:
•	 Long-term discounts and rebates, which are sales incentives to customers to encourage them to purchase increased 
volumes and are related to total volumes purchased and sales growth.
•	 Short-term promotional discounts, which are directly related to promotions run by customers.
Sales rebates and discount accruals are established at the time of sale based on management’s best estimate of the 
amounts necessary to meet claims by the Group’s customers in respect of these rebates and discounts. Accruals are made 
for each individual promotion or rebate arrangement and are based on the type and length of promotion and nature of 
customer agreement. At the time an accrual is made the nature and timing of the promotion is typically known. Estimation is 
required for sales volumes/activity and the amount of product sold on promotion.
(iii) Commercial income
Commercial income received from suppliers through rebates and discounts are recognised within cost of sales over the 
period(s) to which the underlying contract or agreement relates. Accrued income is recognised for rebates on contracts 
covering the current period, for which no cash was received at the balance sheet date. Deferred income is recognised for 
rebates that were received from suppliers at the balance sheet date but relate to contracts covering future periods.
2.4 Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (“CODM”). The CODM is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments. 
See note 4 for further details. 
2.5 Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value 
of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of shares or options is recognised as an expense over the 
vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of 
shares or options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales 
growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of shares or options that are 
expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares or options that are 
expected to vest and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the statement of profit or loss, with 
a corresponding adjustment to equity.
2.6 Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling, the Group’s presentation currency, at rates of 
exchange ruling at the end of the financial year. 
The results of overseas subsidiaries with functional currencies other than in sterling are translated into sterling at the 
average rate of exchange ruling in the period. The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the 
closing rate. Exchange differences arising from re-translation at period end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign 
subsidiaries are recorded as a separate component of equity in other reserves. When a foreign operation is sold exchange 
differences previously taken to equity are recognised in the statement of profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on sale. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
All other exchange gains or losses are recorded in the statement of profit or loss.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 83
Financial 
Statements
2. Accounting policies continued
2.7 Property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
PPE is initially recorded at cost. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Subsequent expenditure is added to the carrying value of the asset 
when it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will transfer to the Group. All other subsequent expenditure is 
expensed in the period it is incurred.
Differences between the cost of each item of PPE and its estimated residual value are written off over the estimated useful 
life of the asset using the straight-line method. Reviews of the estimated remaining useful lives and residual values of 
individual productive assets are performed annually, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well 
as normal wear and tear. Freehold land is not depreciated. The useful economic lives of owned assets range from 20 to 50 
years for buildings, 5 to 25 years for plant and equipment and 10 year for vehicles.
All items of PPE are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable. 
Assets under construction represent the amount of expenditure recognised in the carrying amount of an item of PPE in the 
course of its construction. Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the PPE include the employee costs and 
an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. When the item of PPE is brought into use, it is depreciated. 
The cost and depreciation relating to disposed assets is written off to profit or loss on disposal of PPE.
2.8 Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured 
at the aggregate of the acquisition date fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments 
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the 
extent of any non-controlling interest. Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash-
generating units (“CGUs”), or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each 
unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment level.
The Group has applied IFRS 3 (Revised) “Business Combinations” to business combinations after 1 July 2009. The 
accounting for business combinations transacted prior to this date have not been restated. 
2.9 Intangible assets
In addition to goodwill, the Group recognises the following intangible assets: 
Acquired intangible assets
Acquired brands, trademarks and licences that are controlled through custody or legal rights and that could be sold 
separately from the rest of the business are capitalised, where fair value can be reliably measured. All of these assets are 
considered to have finite lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives that 
range from 20 to 40 years for brands and trademarks, and 10 years for licences.
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the statement of profit or loss in the year in which it is incurred.
Software
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the project or process is technically and commercially 
feasible. Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software product include the software development 
employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Software development costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over a range of 5 to  
10 years. 
The useful economic lives of intangible assets are determined based on a review of a combination of factors including the 
asset ownership rights acquired and the nature of the overall product life cycle. Reviews of the estimated remaining useful 
lives and residual values of individual intangible assets are performed annually. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 84
2. Accounting policies continued
2.10 Impairment 
The carrying value of non-financial assets, other than goodwill and inventories, are reviewed at least annually to determine 
whether there is an indication of impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Non-financial assets, other 
than goodwill, that have suffered an impairment loss are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting 
date.
Where an indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount is estimated based on the greater of its value in use and 
its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, adjusted for the risks specific to 
each asset, are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time 
value of money and the general risks affecting the food manufacturing industry.
Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of profit or loss in the year in which they occur.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash 
inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets. 
2.11 Financing cost and income
Finance cost
Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the statement of profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Finance income
Finance income is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into account the principal amounts outstanding and the 
interest rates applicable, taking into consideration the interest element of derivatives.
2.12 Leases
Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group, 
are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of future minimum lease 
payments or fair value. Each asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its estimated useful life on a straight-
line basis. Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included under 
borrowings. The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a 
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period. 
Leases in which a significant portion of risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Rental costs under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the statement of 
profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
2.13 Inventories
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Where appropriate, cost includes production and other 
attributable overhead expenses as described in IAS 2 “Inventories”. Cost is calculated on a first-in, first-out basis by 
reference to the invoiced value of supplies and attributable costs of bringing the inventory to its present location and 
condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
All inventories are reduced to net realisable value where the estimated selling price is lower than cost.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective inventory where appropriate.
2.14 Taxation
Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax
Income tax is recognised in the statement of profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in 
other comprehensive income (“OCI”) in which case it is recognised in equity. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the 
taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to 
tax payable in respect of previous years.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 85
Financial 
Statements
2. Accounting policies continued
Deferred tax
Deferred taxation is accounted for in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in computation of taxable profit. Deferred taxation is not 
provided on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than in a business combination, if at the time 
of the transaction there is no effect on either accounting or taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is 
settled based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
It is recognised in the statement of profit or loss except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other 
comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary difference can be utilised. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when 
the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.15 Employee benefits
Group companies provide a number of long-term employee benefit arrangements, primarily through pension schemes. The 
schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds determined by 
periodic independent actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on 
retirement, usually dependent on factors such as age, years of service and compensation. 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for remeasurement 
and past service costs. Defined benefit obligations are calculated using assumptions determined by the Group with the 
assistance of independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using yields of high-quality corporate bonds that 
are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the 
terms of the related pension liability.
Remeasurement arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the 
statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Current service costs, past service costs, administration costs, and the net interest on the net defined benefit liability are 
recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss.
Curtailments are recognised as a past service cost when the Group is demonstrably committed to make a significant 
reduction in the number of employees covered by a plan or amends the terms of a defined benefit plan so that a significant 
element of future service by current employees no longer qualifies or qualify for amended benefits.
Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity, which 
then invests the contributions to buy annuities for the pension liabilities as they become due based on the value of the fund. 
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit or 
loss as they fall due. Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are recognised 
as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
2.16 Provisions
Provisions (for example restructuring or property exit costs) are recognised when the Group has present legal or constructive 
obligations as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations 
and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. In the case of where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, 
for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement 
is virtually certain. Where material, the Group discounts its provisions using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance expense. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 86
2. Accounting policies continued
2.17 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and the existence of which will only be confirmed by 
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group or the 
amount of obligation cannot be measured reliably. A contingent liability is not recognised but is disclosed in the notes to the 
financial statements. When an outflow becomes probable, it is recognised as a provision. 
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and the existence of which will be confirmed only by 
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain events not wholly within the control of the Group. Contingent 
assets are not recognised but are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements when an inflow of economic benefits is 
probable. When inflow is virtually certain an asset is recognised.
2.18 Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any 
provision for impairment. A provision is made for impairment when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able 
to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the receivables. Trade and other receivables are discounted when the 
time value of money is considered material.  
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents, with original maturities at inception of less than 90 days, comprise cash in hand and demand 
deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand, short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments and 
bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual 
arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. An equity instrument is any 
contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. The accounting 
policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are measured initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the 
effective interest rate method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs and inclusive of debt issuance 
costs) and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings in accordance with the 
Group’s accounting policy for borrowing costs.
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Trade payables 
and other liabilities are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the amount of the proceeds received, net of directly attributable 
issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their 
risk and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair 
value, with unrealised gains or losses reported in the statement of profit or loss. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Movements in 
fair value of foreign exchange derivatives are recognised within other operating income and expense and those relating to 
interest rate swaps are recorded within the net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 87
Financial 
Statements
2. Accounting policies continued
2.19 Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets and associated liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than continuing 
use are classified as held for sale. Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets and associated liabilities are 
remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter the assets are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent 
gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss. Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative 
impairment loss.
2.20 Deferred income
Deferred income is recognised and released over the period to which the relevant agreement relates.
3. Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements
The following are areas of particular significance to the Group’s financial statements and include the use of estimates and 
the application of judgement, which is fundamental to the compilation of a set of financial statements.
3.1 Employee benefits
The present value of the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations depends on a number of actuarial assumptions. The 
primary assumptions used include the discount rate applicable to scheme liabilities, the long-term rate of inflation and 
estimates of the mortality applicable to scheme members.
At each reporting date, and on a continuous basis, the Group reviews the macro-economic, Company and scheme 
specific factors influencing each of these assumptions, using professional advice, in order to record the Group’s ongoing 
commitment and obligation to defined benefit schemes in accordance with IAS 19 (Revised). Key assumptions used are 
mortality rates, discount rates and inflation set with reference to bond yields. Each of the underlying assumptions is set out 
in more detail in note 24. 
3.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill are performed annually unless an event indicates that an impairment review is 
necessary. Impairment reviews in respect of intangible assets are performed when an event indicates that an impairment 
review is necessary. Examples of such triggering events include a significant planned restructuring, a major change in 
market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating losses, or a significant reduction in cash flows. The 
recoverable amounts of CGUs are determined based on the higher of net realisable value and value in use calculations. 
These calculations require the use of estimates.
The Group has considered the impact of the assumptions used on the calculations and has conducted sensitivity analysis 
on the impairment tests of the CGUs carrying values. See note 13 for further details.
Acquired brands, trademarks and licences are considered to have finite lives that range from 20 to 40 years for brands and 
trademarks, and 10 years for licences. The determination of the useful lives takes into account certain quantitative factors 
such as sales expectations and growth prospects, and also many qualitative factors such as history and heritage, and 
market positioning, hence the determination of useful lives are subject to estimates and judgement. For further details see 
note 14.
3.3 Advertising and promotion costs
Sales rebates and discounts are accrued on each relevant promotion or customer agreement and are charged to the 
statement of profit or loss at the time of the relevant promotion as a deduction from revenue. Accruals for each individual 
promotion or rebate arrangement are based on the type and length of promotion and nature of customer agreement. At the 
time an accrual is made the nature and timing of the promotion is typically known. Areas of estimation are sales volume/
activity and the amount of product sold on promotion.
For short-term promotions, the Group performs a true up of estimates where necessary on a monthly basis, using real time 
sales information where possible and finally on receipt of a customer claim which typically follows 1–2 months after the end 
of a promotion. For longer-term discounts and rebates the Group uses actual and forecast sales to estimate the level of 
rebate. These accruals are updated monthly based on latest actual and forecast sales.
Expenditure on advertising is charged to the statement of profit or loss when incurred, except in the case of airtime costs 
when a particular campaign is used more than once. In this case they are charged in line with the airtime profile. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 88
3. Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued
3.4 Deferred tax
When assessing whether the recognition of a deferred tax asset can be justified, and if so at what level, the directors take 
into account the following:
•	 Projected profits or losses included in the latest management approved forecast and other relevant information that 
allow profits chargeable to corporation tax to be derived.
•	 The total level of recognised and unrecognised losses that can be used to reduce future forecast taxable profits.
•	 The period over which there is sufficient certainty that profits can be made that would support the recognition of an asset.
Further disclosures of the amounts recognised (and unrecognised) are contained within note 8.
4. Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the CODM. The CODM 
has been determined to be the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as they are primarily responsible for the 
allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments. 
The Group’s operating segments have changed during the period as a result of an internal reorganisation and are now 
defined as ‘Grocery’ and ‘Sweet Treats’. The Grocery segment, which has been redefined in the period, primarily sells 
savoury ambient food products and the Sweet Treats segment sells sweet ambient food products.
The CODM uses divisional contribution as the key measure of the segments’ results. The definition of divisional contribution has 
changed in the period to include selling costs and is now defined as gross profit after selling, marketing and distribution costs. 
Divisional contribution is a consistent measure within the Group and reflects the segments’ underlying trading performance 
for the period under evaluation. The prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this and the change of operating 
segments.
The Group uses trading profit to review overall group profitability. Trading profit is defined as operating profit before 
refinancing costs, restructuring costs, profits and losses associated with divestment activity, amortisation and impairment of 
intangible assets, the revaluation of foreign exchange and other derivative contracts under IAS 39, profits and losses from 
associates, pension administration costs and net interest on the net defined benefit liability.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 89
Financial 
Statements
4. Segmental analysis continued
The segment results for the period ended 4 April 2015 and for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the reconciliation of 
the segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
Period ended 4 Apr 2015
Grocery
£m
Sweet Treats
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Revenue 699.6  264.7  964.3 
Divisional contribution 179.6  16.8  196.4 
Group and corporate costs (46.2) 
Trading profit 150.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets (47.6)
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts (0.6)
Restructuring costs associated with divestment activity (8.2)
Net interest on pensions and administrative expenses (48.0)
Operating profit before impairment and loss on disposal of operations 45.8 
Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment (83.9)
Loss on disposal of operations (6.0)
Operating loss (44.1)
Finance cost (82.5)
Finance income 1.8 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments (1.2)
Share of loss from associates (9.6)
Loss before taxation from continuing operations (135.6)
Depreciation (10.1) (8.4) (18.5)
Year ended 31 Dec 2013 (Restated)
1
Grocery
£m
Sweet Treats
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Revenue 615.4  227.6  843.0 
Divisional contribution 158.5  19.7  178.2 
Group and corporate costs (38.7)
Trading profit 139.5 
Amortisation of intangible assets (43.8)
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts (1.9)
Restructuring costs associated with divestment activity (7.3)
Refinancing costs (0.2)
Net interest on pensions and administrative expenses (31.3)
Operating profit before loss on disposal of operations 55.0 
Loss on disposal of operations (2.4)
Operating profit 52.6 
Finance cost (62.2)
Finance income 2.4 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 11.6 
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 4.4 
Depreciation (10.9) (6.4) (17.3)
1. 
Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of certain commercial costs from selling, marketing and distribution costs into revenue, as 
disclosed in note 2.1. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 90
4. Segmental analysis continued
Revenues in the period ended 4 April 2015, on a continuing basis, from the Group’s four principal customers, which 
individually represent over 10% of total revenue, are £224.4m, £161.2m, £122.4m and £113.6m (Year ended 31 December 
2013: £173.4m, £140.0m, £114.1m and £87.3m). 
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the same terms and conditions that would be available to 
unrelated third parties. 
The Group primarily supplies the UK market, although it also supplies certain products to other European countries and a 
number of other countries. The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue, which is allocated on the basis 
of geographical market destination, and an analysis of the Group’s non-current assets by geographical location. 
Revenue — continuing operations
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
(Restated)
1
£m
United Kingdom 925.0 808.1
Other Europe 23.4 21.7
Rest of world 15.9 13.2
Total 964.3 843.0
1. 
Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of certain commercial costs from selling, marketing and distribution costs into revenue, as 
disclosed in note 2.1.
Non-current assets
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
United Kingdom 1,676.4 1,558.4
5. Operating profit for continuing operations
5.1 Analysis of costs by nature
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Employee benefits expense (note 6) 170.5 134.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18.5 17.3
Amortisation of intangible assets 47.6 43.8
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 13) 16.0 – 
Impairment of goodwill (note 13) 67.9 – 
Loss on disposal of non-current assets 2.5 7.8
Loss on disposal of operations (note 11) 6.0  – 
Operating lease rental payments 6.7  5.5 
Repairs and maintenance expenditure 27.4 23.4
Research and development costs 6.7 4.2
Net foreign exchange gain – (0.2)
Past service credit relating to defined benefit schemes – (22.3)
Charge relating to restructuring and onerous lease provisions 8.2 7.3
Refinancing costs – 0.2
Auditors’ remuneration 0.9 1.0
Operating lease commitments are further disclosed in note 28.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 91
Financial 
Statements
5. Operating profit for continuing operations continued
5.2 Auditors’ remuneration
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the parent Company and consolidated 
financial statements 0.3 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
— The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.2
— Other services relating to taxation – 0.1
— Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.5 0.3
Total auditors’ remuneration 0.9 1.0
The total operating profit charge for auditors’ remuneration was £0.7m (2013: £1.0m).
6. Employees 
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Employee benefits expense — continuing operations
Wages and salaries (141.1) (129.9)
Social security costs (15.1) (13.3)
Termination benefits (2.6) (1.1)
Share options granted to directors and employees (4.7) (4.1)
Contributions to defined contribution schemes (note 24) (7.0) (2.0)
Credit for defined benefit schemes (note 24) –  16.3 
Total – continuing operations (170.5) (134.1)
Employee benefits expense - discontinued operations
Wages and salaries (36.4) (142.6)
Social security costs (4.1) (13.2)
Termination benefits (0.5) (9.9)
Share options granted to directors and employees (0.9) (0.6)
Contributions to defined contribution schemes (note 24) (1.5) (1.4)
Credit for defined benefit schemes (note 24) –  8.7 
Total — discontinued operations (43.4) (159.0)
Total — continuing and discontinued operations (213.9) (293.1)
 Average monthly number of people employed (including executive and non executive directors):
2014/15 
Number
2013 
Number
Average monthly number of people employed — continuing operations
Management 600  720 
Administration 382  501 
Production, distribution and other 2,866  3,062 
Total – continuing operations 3,848  4,283 
Average monthly number of people employed — discontinued operations
1
Management 604  516 
Administration 234  211 
Production, distribution and other 3,065  3,369 
Total — discontinued operations 3,903  4,096 
Total — continuing and discontinued operations 7,751  8,379 
1. 
Discontinued operations employee numbers relate to the period prior to disposal of the Bread business on 26 April 2014. 
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the audited section of the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 55 to 61, which 
form part of these financial statements. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 92
7. Finance income and costs
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (7.8) (7.7)
Interest payable on term facility (7.2) (17.4)
Interest payable on senior secured notes (32.3) – 
Interest payable on revolving facility (7.0) (5.8)
Interest payable on interest rate derivatives (2.9) (7.2)
Other interest receivable/(payable) 0.3  (1.4)
Amortisation of debt issuance costs (4.3) (6.4)
Deferred fees
1
  (6.7) (16.3)
 (67.9) (62.2)
Write-off of financing costs
2
 (14.6) – 
Total finance cost (82.5) (62.2)
Interest receivable on bank deposits 1.8  2.4 
Total finance income 1.8  2.4 
Movement on fair valuation of interest rate derivatives (1.2) 11.6 
Net finance cost (81.9) (48.2)
1. 
Relates to accrual of deferred interest relating to the Group’s previous financing arrangements.
2. 
Relates to the write-off of debt issuance costs relating to the Group’s previous financing arrangements. 
The net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments relates to a £1.2m adverse movement on interest 
rate swaps held (2013: £11.6m favourable).
8. Taxation
Current tax
Continuing 
operations
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
2014/15
Deferred tax
– Current year 42.3  2.1  44.4 
– Prior years 0.6  –  0.6 
Income tax credit for the period 42.9  2.1  45.0 
2013
Deferred tax
– Current year (52.7) 37.9  (14.8)
– Prior years 3.2  –  3.2 
– Adjustment to restate opening deferred tax at 20.0% (1.6) 5.6  4.0 
Income tax (charge)/credit for the year (51.1) 43.5  (7.6)
As a result of the 2013 Finance Act provision to reduce the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 the 
applicable rate of corporation tax for the period is 21.4%. As a result of the 2013 Finance Act provision to reduce the UK 
corporation tax rate to 20% from 1 April 2015 deferred tax balances have been restated at 20%, the rate at which they are 
expected to reverse.
Tax relating to items recorded in other comprehensive income for continuing operations was:
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Deferred tax charge on reduction of corporate tax rate –  (13.3)
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on pension movements (75.8) 28.3 
Deferred tax charge on losses –  (6.6)
 (75.8) 8.4 
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 93
Financial 
Statements
8. Taxation continued
The tax charge for the period differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 21.4% (2013: 
23.25%). The reasons for this are explained below:
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
(Loss)/profit before taxation for continuing operations (135.6) 4.4 
Tax credit/(charge) at the domestic income tax rate of 21.4% (2013: 23.25%) 29.0 (1.0)
Tax effect of:
Non-deductible items (1.0) (0.3)
Other disallowable items (1.3) (0.5)
Impairment of goodwill (14.5) – 
Share of loss from associates (2.1) – 
Previously unrecognised advanced capital allowances (9.6) –
Adjustment for share-based payments (1.0) (1.0)
Previously unrecognised losses utilised 7.3  3.3 
Capital gain on disposal of business –  (3.3)
Adjustment due to current period/year deferred tax being provided at 20% (2013: 20%) (1.1) 0.4 
Movements in losses recognised 36.6  (52.2)
Adjustment to restate opening deferred tax at 20% (2013: 20%) –  (1.6)
Adjustments to prior years 0.6  3.2 
Deferred tax released on disposal of properties –  1.9 
Income tax credit/(charge) 42.9  (51.1)
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences using the tax rate appropriate to the jurisdiction in which the asset/
(liability) arises and the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled. In all cases 
this is 20% (2013: 20%) except for an asset of £2.0m (2013: £0.5m) relating to Irish retirement benefit obligations where the 
local rate of 12.5% has been used.
2014/15
£m
2013
£m
At 1 January  72.7  71.9 
Credited/(charged) to the statement of profit or loss 45.0  (7.6)
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income (75.8) 8.4 
At 4 April/31 December 41.9  72.7 
Due to the level of taxable profits anticipated the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £14.9m (2013: £14.9m) 
relating to capital losses, £43.0m (2013: £95.9m) relating to UK corporation tax losses and £24.9m (2013: £24.9m) relating 
to ACT. Under current legislation these losses can generally be carried forward indefinitely. 
Deferred tax liabilities
Intangibles
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 (100.0) (4.6) (104.6)
Prior year restatement of opening balances 11.4  0.6  12.0 
Current year credit 3.8  –  3.8 
Prior year charge (0.3) –  (0.3)
Deferred tax credit on discontinued activities 12.1  –  12.1 
At 31 December 2013 (73.0) (4.0) (77.0)
Current period credit 3.1  –  3.1 
Prior year charge 0.1  –  0.1 
At 4 April 2015 (69.8) (4.0) (73.8) Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 94
8. Taxation continued
Deferred tax assets 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligation
£m
Share based 
payments
£m
Financial
instruments
£m
Losses
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 (6.2) 106.0 0.3 47.9 28.5 –  176.5 
Prior year restatement of 
opening balances
— To statement of profit or loss (3.2) (1.2) (0.1) (6.3) (2.8) –  (13.6)
— To other comprehensive 
income – (12.3) –  – (1.0) – (13.3)
Current year credit/(charge) 3.5 (0.5) 0.7 (1.9) (58.3) – (56.5)
Prior year credit/(charge) –  0.4  0.1 (37.2) 40.2  –  3.5 
Credited/(charged) to other 
comprehensive income –  28.3  –  – (6.6) –  21.7 
Deferred tax credit on 
discontinued activities 31.4  –  –  –  –  –  31.4 
At 31 December 2013 25.5 120.7 1.0 2.5 – – 149.7
Current period (charge)/credit (5.0)  (2.0) (0.4) 0.4  41.9  4.3  39.2 
Prior year credit
— To statement of profit or loss 0.2  0.1  0.2  –  –  –  0.5 
— To other comprehensive 
income –  0.8  –  –  –  –  0.8 
Charged to other comprehensive 
income –  (76.6) – –  –  –  (76.6)
Deferred tax credit on 
discontinued activities 2.1  –  –  –  –  –  2.1 
At 4 April 2015 22.8  43.0  0.8  2.9  41.9  4.3  115.7 
Net deferred tax asset
At 4 April 2015 41.9
At 31 December 2013 72.7
Where there is a legal right of offset and an intention to settle as such, deferred tax assets and liabilities may be presented 
on a net basis. This is the case for most of the Group’s deferred tax balances and therefore they have been offset in the 
tables above. Substantial elements of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, primarily relating to the defined benefit 
pension obligation, are greater than one year in nature.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 95
Financial 
Statements
9. Earnings/(loss) per share
Basic loss per share has been calculated by dividing the loss attributable to owners of the parent of £123.6m (2013: 
£245.9m loss) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company.
Period ended 4 Apr 2015 Year ended 31 Dec 2013 (Restated)
1
Basic
Dilutive effect 
of share 
options Diluted Basic
Dilutive effect 
of share 
options Diluted
Continuing operations
 Loss after tax (£m)  (92.7) (92.7) (46.7) (46.7)
 Weighted average number of shares (m)   731.4  –  731.4  366.1  –  366.1 
 Loss per share (pence)  (12.7) –  (12.7) (12.8) –  (12.8)
Discontinued operations
 Loss after tax (£m)  (30.9) (30.9) (199.2) (199.2)
 Weighted average number of shares (m)   731.4  –  731.4  366.1  –  366.1 
 Loss per share (pence)  (4.2) –  (4.2) (54.4) –  (54.4)
Total 
 Loss after tax (£m)  (123.6) (123.6) (245.9) (245.9)
 Weighted average number of shares (m)  731.4  –  731.4  366.1  –  366.1 
 Loss per share (pence)  (16.9) –  (16.9) (67.2) –  (67.2)
1. 
Comparatives have been restated to reflect the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period.
Dilutive effect of share options
The dilutive effect of share options is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The only dilutive potential ordinary shares of the Company 
are share options. A calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair 
value (determined as the average annual market share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the 
subscription rights attached to the outstanding share options. 
No adjustment is made to the profit or loss in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share.
2014/15 
Number
2013 (Restated)
1
Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 731,390,308 366,149,872
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
— Share options 1,906,379 692,235
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 733,296,687 366,842,107
1. 
Comparatives have been restated to reflect the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period.
Given that the Group made a loss in the year there is no dilutive effect of share options Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 96
9. Earnings/(loss) per share continued
Adjusted earnings per share (“Adjusted EPS”)
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as trading profit less net regular interest, less a notional tax charge at 21.4% (2013: 
23.25%) divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company.
Net regular interest is defined as net finance cost after excluding write-off of financing costs, fair value adjustments on 
interest rate financial instruments and other interest.
Trading profit and Adjusted EPS have been reported as the directors believe these provide an alternative measure by which 
the shareholders can better assess the Group’s underlying trading performance.
Period ended 4 Apr 2015
Continuing 
operations
£m
Operating loss (44.1)
Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment 83.9
Loss on disposal of operations 6.0
Operating profit before impairment and loss on disposal of operations 45.8
Net interest on pension and administrative expenses 48.0
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 0.6
Amortisation of intangible assets 47.6
Restructuring costs associated with divestment activity 8.2
Trading profit 150.2
Less net regular interest (66.4)
Adjusted profit before tax 83.8
Notional tax at 21.4% (17.9)
Adjusted profit after tax 65.9
Average shares in issue (m) 731.4
Adjusted EPS (pence) 9.0
Net regular interest
Net finance cost (81.9)
Exclude fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments 1.2
Exclude write-off of financing costs 14.6
Exclude other interest (0.3)
Net regular interest (66.4)
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 97
Financial 
Statements
9. Earnings/(loss) per share continued
Year ended 31 Dec 2013 (Restated)
1
Continuing 
operations
£m
Operating profit 52.6
Loss on disposal of operations 2.4
Operating profit before loss on disposal of operations 55.0
Net interest on pension and administrative expenses 31.3
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 1.9
Amortisation of intangible assets 43.8
Restructuring costs associated with divestment activity 7.3
Refinancing costs 0.2
Trading profit 139.5
Less net regular interest (58.4)
Adjusted profit before tax 81.1
Notional tax at 23.25% (18.9)
Adjusted profit after tax 62.2
Average shares in issue (m) 366.1
Adjusted EPS (pence) 17.0
Net regular interest
Net finance cost (48.2)
Exclude fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments (11.6)
Exclude other interest 1.4
Net regular interest (58.4)
1. 
Comparatives have been restated to reflect the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period.
10. Discontinued operations
Income and expenditure incurred on discontinued operations during the period comprises the Bread business, in light of the 
completion of the sale of the Group’s majority share in this business on 26 April 2014.
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Revenue 177.5  654.6 
Operating expenses (188.6) (662.9)
Operating loss before impairment and loss on disposal of operations (11.1) (8.3)
Impairment (10.9) (234.4)
Loss on disposal of operations (8.6) – 
Operating loss (30.6) (242.7)
Finance cost (2.4) – 
Loss before taxation (33.0) (242.7)
Taxation credit 2.1  43.5 
Loss after taxation from discontinued operations (30.9) (199.2)
During the period, discontinued operations contributed to a net outflow of £7.8m (2013: £14.7m inflow) to the Group’s 
operating cash flows, a net inflow of £5.7m (2013: £3.8m inflow) to investing activities and £nil (2013: £nil) to financing 
activities. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 98
11. Disposal of businesses
On 26 April 2014 the Group completed the transaction with the Gores Group which led to the disposal of the Group’s 
majority share in the Bread business. The Bread business is classified as a discontinued operation for the period up to the 
date of sale and the loss on disposal is included in discontinued operations. The investment in associates of £14.4m has 
been recognised at the fair value of the 49% retained share in the Bread business, based on the initial cash consideration of 
£15.0m being received for 51% of the business.
On 28 June 2014 the Group completed the transaction with Specialty Powders Holdings Limited which led to the disposal 
of the Group’s majority share in the Powdered Beverages and Desserts business. This is not a discontinued operation as it 
was previously integrated and reported as part of the Grocery business. The loss on disposal is included within continuing 
operations. The investment in associates and loans to associates totalling £13.1m have been recognised at the fair value of 
the assets that transferred to the associate as part of the disposal transaction.
Bread
 £m
Powdered 
Beverages and 
Desserts 
£m
Net cash flow arising on disposal:
Initial consideration 15.0 – 
Working capital adjustments and transaction costs (12.7) (0.7)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) for the period 2.3 (0.7)
Property, plant and equipment 3.5 13.9
Inventories 22.5 4.5
Trade and other receivables 0.6 – 
Trade and other payables (1.3) – 
Net assets disposed 25.3 18.4 
Investments in associates 14.4 9.6
Loans to associates – 3.5
Loss on disposal before tax (8.6) (6.0)
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 99
Financial 
Statements
12. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Vehicles, plant 
and equipment 
£m
Assets under 
construction 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 194.3 411.5 26.8 632.6 
Additions  –  0.2  27.8  28.0 
Disposals (17.0) (19.5) –  (36.5)
Transferred to intangible assets and transferred into use 2.5  19.9  (27.9) (5.5)
At 31 December 2013 179.8 412.1 26.7 618.6
Additions  0.7  4.5  31.6  36.8 
Disposals (82.2) (201.3) (3.8) (287.3)
Transferred into use –  25.4  (25.4) – 
At 4 April 2015 98.3 240.7 29.1 368.1
Aggregate depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 (45.6) (210.0) (2.8) (258.4)
Depreciation charge (3.6) (29.2) –  (32.8)
Disposals 9.1  15.3  –  24.4 
Impairment charge (71.8) (83.7) –  (155.5)
At 31 December 2013 (111.9) (307.6) (2.8) (422.3)
Depreciation charge (2.7) (15.8) –  (18.5)
Disposals 79.4  192.6  –  272.0 
Impairment charge (0.4) (15.6) –  (16.0)
At 4 April 2015 (35.6) (146.4) (2.8) (184.8)
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 148.7 201.5 24.0 374.2
At 31 December 2013 67.9 104.5 23.9 196.3
At 4 April 2015 62.7 94.3 26.3 183.3
The Group’s borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group including property, plant and equipment.
Impairment charge
An impairment charge of £16.0m was recognised in the first half of 2014/15 against property, plant and equipment relating 
to a reduction in the recoverable value of certain assets in the Grocery business.
An impairment charge of £155.5m was recognised in 2013 against property, plant and equipment due to the write-down of 
the Bread business to fair value less costs to sell in light of the announcement of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority 
share in this business on 27 January 2014. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 100
13. Goodwill 
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Carrying value
Opening balance 713.9  713.9 
Impairment charge (67.9) – 
Closing balance 646.0  713.9 
Goodwill attached to each of the Group’s CGUs is as follows:
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
(Restated)
1
£m
Grocery 646.0 646.0
Sweet Treats –  67.9 
Net carrying value of goodwill 646.0  713.9 
1. 
Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Group’s operating segments, as disclosed in note 4.
Impairment tests for goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired. The 
recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations or fair value less costs to sell, depending on 
the way in which the value of the CGU is expected to be recovered.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions for calculating value in use are cash flows, long-term growth rate and discount rate.
Cash flow assumptions
The cash flows used in the value in use calculation are pre-tax cash flows based on the latest approved management 
forecasts in respect of the following four years, the first of which being the Board approved budget. An estimate of capital 
expenditure required to maintain these cash flows is also made.
The key assumptions when forecasting cash flows are revenue growth and gross profit percentage. 
Revenue growth is forecast based on known or forecast customer sales initiatives, including, to the extent agreed, customer 
joint business plans for the next twelve months, current and forecast new product development, promotional and marketing 
strategy, and specific category or geographical growth. External factors, including the consumer environment, are also taken 
into account in the more short term forecasts. The compound annual growth rate over the four year forecast period is 1.4%.
Gross profit percentage is forecast based on the projected mix of branded and non-branded sales, manufacturing costs, 
raw material input costs and purchasing initiatives.
Long-term growth rate assumptions
The four year management forecasts are extrapolated in perpetuity using growth assumptions relevant for the business 
sector. The growth rate applied of 2.2% (2013: 2.4%) is based on the long term growth in UK GDP as the directors believe 
that food consumption would be expected to follow GDP growth. This is not considered to be higher than the average long-
term industry growth rate. The long term growth rate is common to both CGUs.
Discount rate assumptions
The discount rate applied to the cash flows is calculated using a pre-tax rate based on the weighted average cost of capital 
(“WACC”) which would be anticipated for a market participant investing in the Group. Management believe it is appropriate 
to use a single common discount rate for all impairment testing as each CGU shares similar risk profiles.
The Group has considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining the appropriate discount rate to use in 
impairment testing. At 4 April 2015, the pre-tax rate used to discount the forecasted cash flows has been determined to be 
10.4% (2013: 11.3%). The discount rate is common to both CGUs.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 101
Financial 
Statements
13. Goodwill continued
Sensitivity analysis
Due to the fact that the Sweet Treats goodwill was fully written off in the period there is no headroom and the carrying value 
of the CGU is therefore sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used to calculate its value in use. An illustration of the 
sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions is as follows:
Reasonably possible change in assumption Impact on value in use
Revenue growth Increase/decrease by 2.0% Increase/decrease by £23.1m/£21.9m
Gross profit percentage Increase/decrease by 2.0% Increase/decrease by £20.0m/£20.0m
Long term growth rate Increase/decrease by 0.4% Increase/decrease by £7.4m/£6.7m
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by £10.0m/£11.3m
The sensitivities detailed above were also applied to the Grocery CGU as follows:
Reasonably possible change in assumption Impact on value in use
Revenue growth Increase/decrease by 2.0% Increase/decrease by £127.9m/£121.0m
Gross profit percentage Increase/decrease by 2.0% Increase/decrease by £84.2m/£76.3m
Long term growth rate Increase/decrease by 0.4% Increase/decrease by £58.0m/£52.7m
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by £79.5m/£89.6m
Impairment charge
A total impairment charge of £83.9m was recognised in continuing operations in 2014/15, comprising goodwill allocated to 
the Sweet Treats CGU (£67.9m) and property, plant and equipment relating to a reduction in the recoverable value of certain 
assets in the Grocery business (£16.0m). A total impairment charge of £10.9m was recognised in discontinued operations in 
2014/15 due to the write-down of software (£6.8m) and inventory (£4.1m) associated with the Bread business.
A total impairment charge of £234.4m was recognised in 2013 primarily against property, plant and equipment and other 
intangible assets allocated to the Bread CGU. This was due to the write down of the Bread business to fair value less costs 
to sell in light of the announcement of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority share in this business on 27 January 2014.
Goodwill
£m
Property, plant 
and equipment
£m
Other intangible 
assets
£m
Other assets
£m
Total
£m
2014/15
Continuing operations:
Grocery –  16.0  –  –  16.0 
Sweet Treats 67.9  –  –  –  67.9 
Total continuing operations 67.9 16.0 – – 83.9
Discontinued operations:
Bread –  –  6.8  4.1  10.9 
Total 67.9 16.0 6.8 4.1 94.8
2013
Discontinued operations:
Bread –  155.5  66.9  12.0  234.4 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 102
14. Other intangible assets
Software
£m
Brands/ 
trademarks/ 
licences
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Assets 
under 
construction
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 150.0  841.2  134.8  17.1  1,143.1 
Additions –  –  –  5.8  5.8 
Disposals (17.5) –  –  –  (17.5)
Transferred from PPE and transferred into use 7.3  12.0  –  (13.8) 5.5 
At 31 December 2013 139.8  853.2  134.8  9.1  1,136.9 
Additions 0.1  –  –  9.8  9.9 
Disposals (32.9) (160.0) –  –  (192.9)
Transferred into use 7.8 – – (7.8) – 
At 4 April 2015 114.8  693.2  134.8  11.1  953.9 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 (73.0) (266.4) (126.7) –  (466.1)
Disposals 17.5  –  –  –  17.5 
Amortisation charge (12.1) (27.6) (6.2) –  (45.9)
Impairment charge (14.3) (52.6) –  –  (66.9)
At 31 December 2013 (81.9) (346.6) (132.9) –  (561.4)
Disposals 30.3  160.0  –  –  190.3 
Amortisation charge (13.3) (32.4) (1.9) –  (47.6)
Impairment charge (6.8) –  –  –  (6.8)
At 4 April 2015 (71.7) (219.0) (134.8) –  (425.5)
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 77.0  574.8  8.1  17.1  677.0 
At 31 December 2013 57.9  506.6  1.9  9.1  575.5 
At 4 April 2015 43.1  474.2  –  11.1  528.4
Brands, trademarks and licences are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over 
their estimated useful lives of 20 to 40 years for brands and trademarks, and 10 years for licences. Software is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 5 to 10 years. All amortisation is recognised within administrative costs.
Included in the assets under construction additions for the period are £6.5m (2013: £1.7m) of internal costs.
The Group’s borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group including other intangible assets.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 103
Financial 
Statements
14. Other intangible assets continued
Impairment charge
An impairment charge of £6.8m was recognised in discontinued operations in 2014/15 due to the write-down of software 
associated with the Bread business.
An impairment charge of £66.9m was recognised in 2013 against other intangible assets due to the write-down of the 
Bread business to fair value less costs to sell in light of the announcement of the conditional disposal of the Group’s majority 
share in this business on 27 January 2014.
The material brands held on the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying value 
at 4 April 2015 
£m
Estimated useful
life remaining
Years
Bisto 131.8 22
OXO 86.2 32
Batchelors 69.0 22
Sharwoods 62.2 22
Mr. Kipling 51.1 22
15. Investments
The Group disposed of its majority interest in the Bread business and Powdered Beverages and Desserts business in 
the period, as disclosed in note 11. The Group’s 49% retained interest in the share capital of these businesses has been 
recognised as an investment in associates and the carrying value of these investments are given in the table below.
Hovis 
Limited
£m
Knighton 
Foods Limited
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 –  –  – 
Additions  14.4  9.6  24.0 
Share of loss from associates (8.9) (0.7) (9.6)
At 4 April 2015 5.5 8.9 14.4
Principal subsidiaries and associates
Country of incorporation 
or registration and 
principal operations Principal activity
Effective interest in 
ordinary share capital
At 5 Apr 2015 At 31 Dec 2013
Operating subsidiaries
Premier Foods Group Limited United Kingdom Manufacture and distribution 
of ambient food products
100% 100%
Premier Foods Group Services Limited United Kingdom Head office company 100% 100%
Other subsidiaries 
Premier Foods Investments Limited United Kingdom Financing company 100% 100%
Premier Foods Finance plc United Kingdom Financing company 100% –
Associates
Hovis Limited United Kingdom Manufacture and distribution 
of bread products
49% –
Knighton Foods Limited United Kingdom Manufacture and distribution 
of powdered beverages and 
desserts products
49% –
Each of the principal subsidiary undertakings has the same period end as Premier Foods plc. The companies listed above 
are those that materially affect the results and the assets of the Group. The Company has taken advantage of s.410 (2) of 
the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance a full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the Company’s next 
annual return. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 104
16. Loans to associates
The Group issued a loan note to Hovis Limited for £15.7m in the period. The value at 4 April 2015 of £17.1m includes 
interest accrued to date. As part of the Powdered Beverages and Desserts business disposal transaction, the Group holds 
a promissory note from Knighton Foods of £3.5m. The value at 4 April 2015 of £3.7m includes interest accrued to date.
Hovis 
Limited
£m
Knighton 
Foods Limited
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 –  –  – 
Additions  15.7  3.5  19.2 
Interest receivable 1.4  0.2  1.6 
At 4 April 2015 17.1 3.7 20.8
17. Assets and liabilities held for sale
As at 4 April 2015 no assets or liabilities were held for sale. 
As at 31 December 2013 the assets and associated liabilities relating to the Bread business were held for sale in light of 
the announcement of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority share in this business on 27 January 2014. The disposal 
completed on 26 April 2014. On recognition of the assets and liabilities as held for sale, an impairment loss of £234.4m was 
recognised in order to write down the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell. Management assessed fair value less 
costs to sell based on the initial cash consideration of £15.0m being received for 51% of the business, less estimated costs 
to sell.
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Current assets:
 Inventories – 25.0
 Trade and other receivables – 1.8
Total assets held for sale – 26.8
Current liabilities:
 Trade and other payables – (1.4)
Total liabilities held for sale – (1.4)
Net assets and liabilities held for sale – 25.4
18. Inventories
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Raw materials 11.0 18.2
Work in progress 1.8 2.7
Finished goods and goods for resale 56.0 48.0
Total inventories 68.8 68.9
Inventory write-offs in the period amounted to £7.9m (2013: £16.4m)
The borrowings of the Group are secured against all the assets of the Group including inventories.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 105
Financial 
Statements
19. Trade and other receivables
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Trade receivables 134.2 254.2
Trade receivables provided for (29.5) (29.4)
Net trade receivables 104.7 224.8
Prepayments 10.1 13.1
Other tax and social security receivable 7.7 0.2
Other receivables 1.0 10.2
Total trade and other receivables 123.5 248.3
The borrowings of the Group are secured against all the assets of the Group including trade and other receivables. The 
Group has benefited from a £120m securitisation programme to allow it to borrow against trade receivable balances. Further 
details of the securitisation programme are disclosed in note 21 to the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
20. Trade and other payables
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Trade payables (140.2) (192.6)
Commercial accruals (44.2) (76.2)
Tax and social security payables (5.1) (16.3)
Other payables and accruals (23.1) (51.6)
Total trade and other payables (212.6) (336.7)
21. Bank and other borrowings
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Current:
Secured senior credit facility — revolving –  (17.6)
Transaction costs –  0.3 
 –  (17.3)
Secured senior credit facility — term –  (32.4)
Transaction costs –  0.6 
 –  (31.8)
Bank overdrafts (23.0) – 
Total bank borrowings due within one year (23.0) (49.1)
Securitisation facility (19.7) (120.0)
Transaction costs 0.7  – 
 (19.0) (120.0)
Total borrowings due within one year (42.0) (169.1)
Non-current:
Secured senior credit facility — revolving (113.0) (186.9)
Transaction costs 8.3  3.4 
 (104.7) (183.5)
Secured senior credit facility — term –  (647.1)
Transaction costs –  11.9 
 –  (635.2)
Senior secured notes (500.0) – 
Transaction costs 17.1  – 
 (482.9) – 
Total borrowings due after more than one year (587.6) (818.7)
Total bank and other borrowings (629.6) (987.8) Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 106
21. Bank and other borrowings continued
Following completion of the capital restructuring in 2014, the Group’s previous term loan and revolving credit facilities were 
repaid to the respective lenders and replaced by a revolving credit facility and senior secured notes.
Revolving credit facility
The revolving credit facility of £272m is due to mature in March 2019 and attracts an initial bank margin of 3.50% above 
LIBOR. Banking covenants of net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/interest are in place and are tested biannually. 
The Group entered into a three year floating to fixed interest rate swap in June 2014, with a nominal value of £150m 
amortising to £50m, attracting a swap rate of 1.44%.
Securitisation facility 
The debtor’s securitisation facility is secured against the Group’s trade receivables. It is a three year programme maturing in 
December 2016, with a £120m facility priced at 2.75% above the cost of commercial paper.
Senior secured notes
The senior secured notes totalling £500m are split between fixed and floating tranches. The fixed note of £325m matures 
in March 2021 and attracts an interest rate of 6.50%. The floating note of £175m matures in March 2020 and attracts an 
interest rate of 5.00% above LIBOR.
22. Financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (arising from adverse movements in foreign 
currency, commodity prices and interest rates), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group uses a variety of derivative financial 
instruments to manage certain of these risks. The management of these risks, along with the day-to-day management of 
treasury activities is performed by the Group Treasury function. The policy framework governing the management of these 
risks is defined by the Board. The framework for management of these risks is incorporated into a policies and procedures 
manual.
The Group also enters into contracts with suppliers for its principal raw material requirements, some of which are considered 
commodities, diesel and energy. These commodity and energy contracts are part of the Group’s normal purchasing 
activities. Some of the risk relating to diesel is mitigated with the use of derivative financial instruments. The Treasury Risk 
Management Committee monitors and reviews the Group’s foreign currency exchange, commodity price and energy price 
exposures and recommends appropriate hedging strategies for each.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group’s main operating entities’ functional currency and the Group’s presentation currency is sterling although some 
transactions are executed in non-sterling currencies, including euros and US dollars. The transactional amounts realised 
or settled are therefore subject to the effect of movements in these currencies against sterling. Management of these 
exposures is centralised and managed by the Group’s Treasury Function. It is the Group’s policy to manage the exposures 
arising using forward foreign currency exchange contracts and currency options. Hedge accounting is not sought for these 
transactions. 
The Group generates some of its profits in non-sterling currencies and has assets in non-sterling jurisdictions, principally  
the euro. 
The principal foreign currency affecting the translation of subsidiary undertakings within the Group financial statements is the 
euro. The rates applicable are as follows:
Principal rate of exchange: euro/sterling
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
Year ended 
31 Dec 2013 
Year end 1.3678 1.2006
Average 1.2636 1.1796
The majority of the Group’s assets and liabilities are denominated in the functional currency of the relevant division or 
subsidiary.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 107
Financial 
Statements
22. Financial instruments continued
The table below shows the Group’s currency exposures as at 4 April 2015 and 31 December 2013 that gave rise to net 
currency gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss as a result of monetary assets and 
liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiaries involved.
Functional currency of subsidiaries
Sterling 
£m
At 4 April 2015
Net foreign currency monetary assets:
— Euro (7.5)
— US dollar 0.1 
Total (7.4)
At 31 December 2013
Net foreign currency monetary assets:
— Euro (1.6)
— US dollar 0.6
Total (1.0)
In addition the Group also has forward foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding at the period end in order to 
manage the exposures above but also to hedge future transactions in foreign currencies. The sterling nominal amounts 
outstanding are as follows:
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Euro (26.8) (38.0)
US dollar (3.6) (18.4)
Total (30.4) (56.4)
Sensitivities are disclosed below using the following reasonably possible scenarios.
If the US dollar were to weaken against sterling by 20 US dollar cents, with all other variables held constant, profit after tax 
would decrease by £0.4m (2013: £2.2m decrease).
If the US dollar were to strengthen against sterling by 20 US dollar cents, with all other variables held constant, profit after 
tax would increase by £0.5m (2013: £1.2m increase).
If the euro were to weaken against sterling by 10 euro cents, with all other variables held constant, profit after tax would 
decrease by £1.0m (2013: £2.7m decrease).
If the euro were to strengthen against sterling by 10 euro cents, with all other variables held constant, profit after tax would 
increase by £1.1m (2013: £1.9m increase).
This is primarily driven by the effect on the mark to market valuation of the foreign exchange derivatives of the Group where 
the hedged rates differ from the spot rate. 
(ii) Commodity price risk
The Group purchases a variety of commodities for use in production and distribution which can experience significant price 
volatility, which include, inter-alia, dairy, wheat, cocoa, edible oils, diesel and energy. The price risk on these commodities is 
managed by the Group through the Treasury Risk Management Committee. It is the Group’s policy to minimise its exposure 
to this volatility by adopting an appropriate forward purchase strategy or by the use of derivative instruments where they are 
available.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 108
22. Financial instruments continued
(iii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s borrowing facilities comprise senior secured notes and a revolving facility, principally in sterling. Interest is 
charged at floating rates plus a margin on the amounts drawn down, and at 40% for the non-utilised portion of the facility, 
hence the borrowings are sensitive to changes in interest rates.
The Group then seeks to mitigate the effect of adverse movements in interest rates by entering into derivative financial 
instruments that reduce the level of exposure to floating rates. The target of fixed/capped debt is defined in the Group 
Treasury policy and procedures, however, the amount hedged can be amended subject to agreement by the Board. Hedge 
accounting is not sought for these transactions.
The gross cash flows on the interest rate derivatives are sensitive to changes in interest rates as they are driven by three 
month LIBOR which is reset on a quarterly basis. As at 4 April 2015 the reset rate was 0.564% (2013: 0.526%).
The weighted average interest rate for these derivative financial instruments is as follows:
Weighted average interest rate 
%
At 4 April 2015 1.4
At 31 December 2013 1.6
Fixed rate derivative financial liabilities constitute two (2013: one) floating to fixed interest rate swaps with a notional value of 
£75m each and a total notional value of £150m (2013: £620m). These mature over a three year period.
Cash and deposits earn interest at floating rates based on banks’ short-term treasury deposit rates. Short-term trade and 
other receivables are interest-free. 
At 4 April 2015, for every 50 basis points reduction in rates below the last floating reset rate of 0.564% (2013: 0.526%) 
(based on three month LIBOR) with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would decrease by 
£0.6m (2013: £0.8m decrease). 
At 4 April 2015, if interest rates were 200 basis points higher than the last floating reset rate of 0.564% (2013: 0.526%) 
(based on three month LIBOR), with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would increase by 
£2.2m (2013: £3.2m increase). 
The Group’s other financial assets and liabilities are not exposed to material interest rate risk.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 109
Financial 
Statements
22. Financial instruments continued
(b) Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and cash deposits and trade and other receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents are deposited with high-credit quality financial institutions and although a significant amount 
of sales are to a relatively small number of customers, these are generally the major grocery retailers whose credit risk is 
considered low.
At 4 April 2015, trade and other receivables of £16.0m (2013: £57.2m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to 
customers with whom there is no history of default.
The ageing of trade and other receivables was as follows:
Past due
Fully 
performing
£m
1–30 
days
£m
31–60 
days
£m
61–90 
days
£m
91–120 
days
£m
120+ 
days
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other receivables
At 4 April 2015 89.7 1.6 7.2 – 3.0 4.2 105.7
At 31 December 2013 177.8 20.0 10.3 7.2 6.6 13.1 235.0
At 4 April 2015, trade and other receivables of £29.5m (2013: £29.4m) were determined to be specifically impaired and 
provided for. The total includes receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic 
situations.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security against its financial assets.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2014/15
£m
2013
£m
At 1 January 29.4 16.3
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (13.0) (0.6)
Provision for receivables impairment raised 13.1 13.7
At 4 April/31 December 29.5 29.4
The Group has benefited from a £120m securitisation programme to allow it to borrow against trade receivable balances. 
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk through both the treasury and finance functions. Cash flow forecasts are prepared and 
reviewed on a weekly basis, normally covering a period of three months.
In addition, cash flow forecasts are prepared as part of the Group’s overall budgeting and forecasting processes and 
performance is monitored against this each month. This is intended to give the Board sufficient forward visibility of debt 
levels.
The Group’s net debt level can vary from month to month and there is some volatility within months. This reflects seasonal 
trading patterns, timing of receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, patterns of inventory holdings and the timing 
of the spend on major capital and restructuring projects. For these reasons the debt levels at the period end date may not 
be indicative of debt levels at other points throughout the period. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 110
22. Financial instruments continued
The following table analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows.
Within
 1 year 
£m
1 and 2 
years
£m
2 and 3 
years
£m
3 and 4
years
£m
4 and 5 
years
£m
Over 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
At 4 April 2015
Trade and other payables (207.5) –  –  –  –  – (207.5)
Bank overdraft (23.0) –  –  –  –  – (23.0)
Senior secured notes — fixed –  –  –  –  –  (325.0) (325.0)
Senior secured notes — floating –  –  –  –  (175.0) – (175.0)
Secured senior credit facility 
— revolving –  –  – (113.0) –  – (113.0)
Securitisation facility –  (19.7) –  –  –  –  (19.7)
At 31 December 2013
Trade and other payables (320.4) –  –  –  –  – (320.4)
Bank term loan (50.0) (60.0) – (569.5) –  – (679.5)
Secured senior credit facility 
— revolving –  –  – (204.5) –  – (204.5)
Securitisation facility (120.0) –  –  –  –  – (120.0)
The senior secured notes — floating and secured senior credit facility — revolving are re-priced quarterly to LIBOR, and 
other liabilities are not re-priced before the maturity date.
At 4 April 2015 the Group had £120.8m (2013: £275.2m) of facilities not drawn expiring between three and four years 
(2013: two and three years).
The borrowings are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the Group.
The following table analyses the contractual undiscounted cash flows of interest on the floating rate debt to maturity (based 
on the last fixed rate reset of 0.564% (2013: 0.526%) plus applicable margin).
Within
 1 year 
£m
1 and 2 
years
£m
2 and 3 
years
£m
3 and 4
years
£m
4 and 5 
years
£m
Over 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
At 4 April 2015 14.1 12.0 10.0 9.7 9.7 –  55.5 
At 31 December 2013 32.7 31.0 14.8 –  –  – 78.5
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 111
Financial 
Statements
22. Financial instruments continued
The following table analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the 
remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed are the undiscounted 
cash flows. 
Within
 1 year 
£m
1 and 2 
years
£m
2 and 3 
years
£m
3 and 4
years
£m
4 and 5 
years
£m
Over 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
At 4 April 2015
Forward foreign exchange 
contracts:
— Outflow (30.4) –  –  –  –  –  (30.4)
— Inflow 29.3 –  –  –  –  –  29.3 
Commodities:
— Outflow (7.5) –  –  –  –  –  (7.5)
Interest rate swaps:
— Outflow (2.0) (1.3) (0.7) –  –  –  (4.0)
— Inflow 0.8 0.5  0.3  –  –  –  1.6 
 (9.8) (0.8) (0.4) – – – (11.0)
At 31 December 2013
Forward foreign exchange 
contracts:
— Outflow (56.4) –  –  –  –  – (56.4)
— Inflow 54.7 –  –  –  –  – 54.7
Commodities:
— Outflow (7.0) –  –  –  –  – (7.0)
Interest rate swaps:
— Outflow (10.0) (8.8) (3.9) –  –  – (22.7)
— Inflow 3.3 2.9 1.3 –  –  – 7.5
 (15.4) (5.9) (2.6) – – – (23.9)
The above table incorporates the contractual cash flows of the interest rate derivatives with floating rates of interest 
calculated based on LIBOR of 0.564% (2013: 0.526%) at the balance sheet date. 
(d) Fair value
The following table shows the carrying amounts of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities. Fair value is the 
amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between informed and willing 
parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest. Carrying amount approximates to fair value for 
all assets and liabilities held at amortised cost, with the exception of the senior secured notes, which are listed debt. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 112
22. Financial instruments continued
As at 
4 Apr 2015
Carrying amount
£m
As at 
4 Apr 2015
Fair value
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
Carrying amount
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
Fair value
£m
Loans and receivables: 
Cash and cash equivalents 44.7 44.7 157.0 157.0
Trade and other receivables 105.7 105.7 235.0 235.0
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts – –  0.2 0.2
— Commodity and energy derivatives – –  0.3 0.3
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts (0.9) (0.9) (1.9) (1.9)
— Commodity and energy derivatives (1.1) (1.1) – –
— Interest rate swaps (1.7) (1.7) (7.6) (7.6)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables (207.5) (207.5) (320.4) (320.4)
Bank term loan – –  (679.5) (679.5)
Senior secured notes (500.0) (497.9) –  –
Senior secured credit facility — revolving (113.0) (113.0) (204.5) (204.5)
Bank overdraft (23.0) (23.0) –  –
Securitisation facility (19.7) (19.7) (120.0) (120.0)
The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value using the 
following fair value measurement hierarchy:
•	 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
•	 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, 
as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
•	 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
As at 
4 Apr 2015
Level 1
£m
As at 
4 Apr 2015
Level 2
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
Level 1
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
Level 2
£m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts – – – 0.2
— Commodity and energy derivatives – – – 0.3
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts – (0.9) – (1.9)
— Commodity derivatives – (1.1) –  –
— Interest rate swaps – (1.7) – (7.6)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Senior secured notes (497.9) – – –
Fair value estimation
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are marked to market using prevailing market prices. Hedge accounting has not been applied 
to forward contracts and as a result the movement in the fair value of £0.8m has been credited to the statement of profit or 
loss in the period (2013: £2.0m charge). 
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 113
Financial 
Statements
22. Financial instruments continued
Commodity derivatives are marked to market using prevailing prices and are also not designated for hedge accounting. As a 
result the fair value movement of £1.4m has been charged to the statement of profit or loss (2013: £0.1m credit). 
Interest rate swaps are marked to market using prevailing market prices. Interest rate swaps are also not designated for 
hedge accounting. As a result the movement in the fair value of £1.2m has been charged to the statement of profit or loss in 
the year (2013: £11.6m credit). 
Short and long-term borrowings, loan notes and interest payable
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest rate cash flows. The fair value of the 
floating rate debt approximates the carrying value above. 
Trade and other receivables/payables
The carrying value of receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year is deemed to reflect the fair value given 
their short maturity. The fair values of non-current receivables/payables are also considered to be the same as the carrying 
value due to the size and nature of the balances involved.
(e) Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce 
the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, or sell 
assets to reduce debt. 
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the period ended 4 April 2015 (2013: £nil).
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as 
net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is 
calculated as equity plus net debt.
The gearing ratios at the balance sheet date were as follows:
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Total borrowings (629.6) (987.8)
Less cash and cash equivalents 44.7 157.0
Net debt (584.9) (830.8)
Total equity (540.2) (17.9)
Total capital (1,125.1) (848.7)
Gearing ratio 52% 98%
The decrease in gearing in 2014/15 was primarily due to the capital restructuring, which included a fully underwritten equity 
offering of £353m through a placing and rights issue, and a reduction in the pension scheme deficit.
The increase in gearing in 2013 was primarily due to large non-cash charges in relation to impairment of the Bread business 
and an increase in the retirement benefit obligation.
Under the Group’s financing arrangement, the Group is required to meet two covenant tests which are calculated and tested 
on a 12 month rolling basis at the half year and full year, each year. The Group has complied with these tests at 30 June 
2014, 31 December 2014 and 4 April 2015. 
(f) Financial compliance risk
Risk
The Group continues to operate with a high level of net debt of £584.9m (2013: £830.8m) and is subject to operating within 
banking covenants set out in its refinancing agreement agreed with its bank syndicate, which include net debt/EBITDA and 
EBITDA/interest covenant tests. In the event these covenants are not met then the Group would be in breach of its financing 
agreement and, as would be the case in any covenant breach, the banking syndicate could withdraw their funding to the 
Group.
In addition to covenant compliance, the Group must ensure that it manages its liquidity such that it has sufficient funds to 
meet its obligations as they fall due. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 114
22. Financial instruments continued
It also supports three defined benefit pension schemes in the UK; all three schemes have significant technical funding 
deficits which could have an adverse impact on the financial condition of the Group. 
Mitigation
The Group has financing arrangements which provide funding until 2021 and has in place a debtor securitisation 
programme to provide additional funding and liquidity. 
The Group reviews its performance on an ongoing basis and formally tests and reports on covenant compliance to the 
Group’s banking syndicate at each reporting date. In the event of a forecast covenant breach the Group would seek a 
covenant waiver or amendment from its banking syndicate.
The Group manages liquidity risk through both the treasury and finance functions. Cash flow forecasts are prepared and 
reviewed on a weekly basis, normally covering a period of three months. In addition, cash flow forecasts are prepared as 
part of the Group’s overall budgeting and forecasting processes and performance is monitored against this each month.
Funding agreements have been reached with the trustees of the pension schemes which fixes deficit contributions until 
2019, subject to amendment in the event that the Company recommences payment of dividends. The Group continues to 
monitor the pension risks closely, working with the trustees to ensure a collaborative approach.
23. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Restructuring 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 (44.1) (29.8) (73.9)
Utilised during the year 26.2  4.2 30.4
Additional charge in the year (14.8) (17.7) (32.5)
Unwind of provision (0.3) (0.2) (0.5)
Released during the year 1.5  2.8 4.3
Reclassifications 0.8  (0.8) – 
At 31 December 2013 (30.7) (41.5) (72.2)
Utilised during the period 8.2  5.8 14.0
Additional charge in the period (1.6) (3.6) (5.2)
Unwind of provision (2.1) (0.5) (2.6)
Released during the period 2.5  3.3 5.8
Reclassifications (2.2) 2.2  – 
At 4 April 2015 (25.9) (34.3) (60.2)
Analysis of total provisions:
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Non-current (51.6) (57.2)
Current (8.6) (15.0)
Total provisions (60.2) (72.2)
Restructuring provisions at 4 April 2015 and 31 December 2013 primarily relate to provisions for non-operational leasehold 
properties. Other provisions at 4 April 2015 and 31 December 2013 primarily relate to insurance claims, dilapidations 
against leasehold properties and environmental liabilities. The costs relating to certain non-operational leasehold properties 
and dilapidation provisions will be incurred over a number of years in accordance with the length of the leases. These 
provisions have been discounted at rates between 0.47% and 2.55%. The unwinding of the discount is charged to the 
statement of profit or loss under interest payable.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 115
Financial 
Statements
24. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes under which current and former employees have built up an 
entitlement to pension benefits on their retirement. These are as follows:
(a) The Premier schemes, which comprise:
Premier Foods Pension Scheme (“PFPS”)  
Premier Grocery Products Pension Scheme (“PGPPS”)  
Premier Grocery Products Ireland Pension Scheme (“PGPIPS”)  
Chivers 1987 Pension Scheme  
Chivers 1987 Supplementary Pension Scheme. 
(b) The RHM schemes, which comprise:
RHM Pension Scheme 
Premier Foods Ireland Pension Scheme
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the PFPS, the PGPPS and RHM pension schemes was carried out on 31 March 
2013 / 5 April 2013 to establish ongoing funding arrangements. Deficit recovery plans have been agreed with the Trustees 
of each of the schemes. Actuarial valuations for the schemes based in Ireland took place during the course of 2014.
The exchange rates used to translate the overseas euro based schemes are £1.00 = €1.2636 for the average rate during 
the period, and £1.00 = €1.3678 for the closing position at 4 April 2015.
On 30 September 2013 the Group’s UK defined benefit pension schemes closed to future accrual. The future pension 
provision for these members is now made through the Group’s defined contribution pension scheme. In accordance with 
IAS 19 (Revised), the scheme obligations were re-valued by the scheme actuaries immediately prior to the change and 
assumptions reviewed at that date. The resulting change of £18.2m was credited to the income statement within past 
service costs.
All defined benefit plans are held separately from the Company under Trusts. Trustees are appointed to operate the 
schemes in accordance with their respective governing documents and pensions law. The schemes meet the legal 
requirement for member nominated trustees representation on the trustee boards and the UK schemes have appointed 
a professional independent Trustee as Chair of the boards. The members of the trustee boards undertake regular training 
and development to ensure that they are equipped appropriately to fulfil their function as trustees. In addition, each trustee 
board has appointed professional advisers to give them the specialist expertise they need to support them in the areas of 
investment, funding, legal, covenant and administration.
The trustee boards of the UK schemes generally meet at least four times a year to conduct their business. To support these 
meetings the Trustees have delegated certain aspects of the schemes’ operation to give specialist focus (e.g. investment, 
administration and compliance) to committees for which further meetings are held as appropriate throughout the year. These 
committees regularly report to the full trustee boards.
The schemes invest through investment managers appointed by the trustees in a broad range of assets including UK and 
Global equities and Corporate and Government bonds. The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial 
instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group. The pension schemes hold a security over 
the assets of the Group which rank pari passu with the banks in the event of insolvency, up to a cap.
The main risks to which the Group is exposed in relation to the funded pension schemes are as follows:
•	 Liquidity risk — all schemes have significant technical funding deficits which could have an adverse impact on the 
financial condition of the Group. The current Schedule of Contributions in place following the 2013 actuarial valuations 
fixes the deficit contributions from 1 January 2014 until 31 December 2019. The Group continues to monitor the 
pension risks closely working with the trustees to ensure a collaborative approach. 
•	 Mortality risk — the assumptions adopted make allowance for future improvements in life expectancy. However, if 
life expectancy improves at a faster rate than assumed, this would result in greater payments from the schemes and 
consequently increases in the schemes liabilities. The trustees review the mortality assumption on a regular basis to 
minimise the risk of using an inappropriate assumption.
•	 Yield risk — a fall in government bond yields will increase both the scheme’s assets and liabilities. However, the liabilities 
may grow by more in monetary terms, thus increasing the deficit in the scheme. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 116
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
•	 Inflation risk — the majority of the scheme’s liabilities increase in line with inflation and so if inflation is greater than 
expected, the liabilities will increase.
The schemes can limit or hedge their exposure to the yield and inflation risks described above by investing in assets that 
move in the same direction as the liabilities in the event of a fall in yields, or a rise in inflation. The RHM pension scheme 
has fully hedged inflation exposure and largely hedged interest rate exposure to the extent of its funding level. The PFPS 
has implemented a 30% hedging of its liabilities and has put in place a plan to increase the hedging level when market 
conditions are considered to be attractive.
The liabilities of the schemes are approximately 48% in respect of former active members who have yet to retire and 
approximately 52% in respect of pensioner members already in receipt of benefits. The mean duration of the liabilities is 
approximately 18 years.
At the balance sheet date, the combined principal actuarial assumptions used for all the schemes were as follows:
Premier 
schemes
RHM 
schemes
At 4 April 2015
Discount rate 3.30% 3.30%
Inflation — RPI 3.00% 3.00%
Inflation — CPI 1.90% 1.90%
Expected salary increases n/a n/a
Future pension increases 2.00% 2.00%
At 31 December 2013 
Discount rate 4.40% 4.40%
Inflation — RPI 3.35% 3.35%
Inflation — CPI 2.35% 2.35%
Expected salary increases n/a  n/a
Future pension increases 2.15% 2.15%
For the smaller overseas schemes the discount rate used was 1.40% (2013: 3.50%) and future pension increases were 
1.50% (2013: 1.75%). 
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The 
assumptions are as follows:
Premier 
schemes
RHM 
schemes
Life expectancy at 4 April 2015
Male pensioner, currently aged 65 87.8 86.4
Female pensioner, currently aged 65 90.1 88.6
Male non-pensioner, currently aged 45 89.2 87.7
Female non-pensioner, currently aged 45 91.6 90.1
Life expectancy at 31 December 2013
Male pensioner, currently aged 65 87.8 86.3
Female pensioner, currently aged 65 90.0 88.5
Male non-pensioner, currently aged 45 89.2 87.6
Female non-pensioner, currently aged 45 91.5 90.0
A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities at the period end is as follows:
Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by £78m/£81m
Inflation Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by £34m/£33m
Assumed life expectancy at age 60 (rate of mortality) Increase by 1 year Increase by £140m
The sensitivity information has been derived using projected cash flows for the Schemes valued using the relevant 
assumptions and membership profile as at 4 April 2015. Extrapolation of these results beyond the sensitivity figures shown 
may not be appropriate.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 117
Financial 
Statements
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
The fair values of plan assets split by type of asset are as follows:
Premier 
schemes 
£m
% of total 
%
RHM 
schemes
£m
% of total 
%
Total 
£m
% of total
%
Assets with a quoted price in an 
active market at 4 April 2015:  
UK equities 0.9 0.1 51.7 1.4 52.6 1.2
Global equities 21.4 3.5 274.5 7.5 295.9 7.0
Government bonds 21.4 3.5 526.1 14.5 547.5 12.9
Corporate bonds 4.4 0.7 325.4 8.9 329.8 7.8
Property 7.5 1.3 252.5 7.0 260.0 6.1
Absolute return products 391.0 63.8 941.9 25.9 1,332.9 31.4
Cash 13.8 2.3 280.6 7.7 294.4 6.9
Other 152.1 24.8 – – 152.1 3.6
Assets without a quoted price in an 
active market at 4 April 2015:  
Infrastructure funds – – 196.6 5.4 196.6 4.6
Swaps – – 430.0 11.9 430.0 10.1
Private equity – – 250.9 6.9 250.9 5.9
Other – – 105.8 2.9 105.8 2.5
Fair value of scheme assets  
at 4 April 2015 612.5 100 3,636.0 100 4,248.5 100
Assets with a quoted price in an 
active market at 31 December 2013: 
UK equities 0.9 0.2 46.6 1.7 47.5 1.5
Global equities 19.3 3.6 232.9 8.8 252.2 7.8
Government bonds 12.1 2.3 503.6 18.7 515.7 16.0
Corporate bonds 60.3 11.3 323.8 12.1 384.1 11.9
Property 0.9 0.2 180.8 6.7 181.7 5.6
Absolute return products 370.2 69.7 898.0 33.4 1,268.2 39.4
Cash 9.1 1.7 183.2 6.8 192.3 6.0
Other 58.6 11.0 0.1 – 58.7 1.8
Assets without a quoted price in an 
active market at 31 December 2013: 
Infrastructure funds – – 193.5 7.2 193.5 6.0
Swaps – – (116.6) (4.3) (116.6) (3.6)
Private equity – – 190.2 7.1 190.2 5.9
Other – – 50.9 1.8 50.9 1.7
Fair value of scheme assets 
at 31 December 2013 531.4 100 2,687.0 100 3,218.4 100
The RHM scheme invests directly in interest rate and inflation swaps to protect from fluctuations in interest and inflation. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 118
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes 
are as follows:
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
At 4 April 2015
Present value of funded obligations (1,065.9) (3,394.4) (4,460.3)
Fair value of plan assets 612.5 3,636.0 4,248.5
(Deficit)/surplus in schemes (453.4) 241.6 (211.8)
At 31 December 2013
Present value of funded obligations (916.9) (2,904.8) (3,821.7)
Fair value of plan assets 531.4 2,687.0 3,218.4
Deficit in schemes (385.5) (217.8) (603.3)
The aggregate deficit has decreased by £391.5m during the period (2013: £136.5m increase) primarily due to asset 
performance in the RHM schemes offset by the impact of a decrease in the discount rate on the defined benefit obligations. 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows:
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2013 (871.1) (2,805.0) (3,676.1)
Current service cost (3.4) (7.6) (11.0)
Past service credit 17.7 18.3 36.0
Interest cost (37.3) (121.3) (158.6)
Remeasurement losses (56.6) (118.4) (175.0)
Exchange differences (1.3) (0.4) (1.7)
Contributions by plan participants (2.2) (4.0) (6.2)
Benefits paid 37.3 133.6 170.9
Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2013 (916.9) (2,904.8) (3,821.7)
Current service cost (0.1) – (0.1)
Interest cost (49.4) (156.5) (205.9)
Remeasurement losses (149.4) (521.5) (670.9)
Exchange differences 6.6 3.5 10.1
Benefits paid 43.3 184.9 228.2
Defined benefit obligation at 4 April 2015 (1,065.9) (3,394.4) (4,460.3)
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 119
Financial 
Statements
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Changes in the fair value of plan assets were as follows:
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 2013 535.9 2,673.4 3,209.3
Interest income on plan assets 22.9 116.1 139.0
Remeasurement gains 2.1 20.2 22.3
Administrative costs (5.9) (5.7) (11.6)
Contributions by employer 10.8 12.1 22.9
Contributions by plan participants 2.2 4.0 6.2
Exchange differences 0.7 0.5 1.2
Benefits paid (37.3) (133.6) (170.9)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 2013 531.4 2,687.0 3,218.4
Interest income on plan assets 28.5 145.4 173.9
Remeasurement gains 81.7 968.5 1,050.2
Administrative costs (7.8) (8.1) (15.9)
Contributions by employer 28.2 31.1 59.3
Exchange differences (6.2) (3.0) (9.2)
Benefits paid (43.3) (184.9) (228.2)
Fair value of plan assets at 4 April 2015 612.5 3,636.0 4,248.5
The reconciliation of the net defined benefit (deficit)/surplus over the period is as follows:
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Deficit in schemes at 1 January 2013 (335.2) (131.6) (466.8)
Amount recognised in profit or loss (6.0) (0.2) (6.2)
Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income (54.5) (98.2) (152.7)
Contributions by employer 10.8 12.1 22.9
Exchange rate (losses)/gains (0.6) 0.1 (0.5)
Deficit in schemes at 31 December 2013 (385.5) (217.8) (603.3)
Amount recognised in profit or loss (28.8) (19.2) (48.0)
Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income (67.7) 447.0 379.3
Contributions by employer 28.2 31.1 59.3
Exchange rate gains 0.4 0.5 0.9
(Deficit)/surplus in schemes at 4 April 2015 (453.4) 241.6 (211.8)
 
  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 120
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Remeasurements recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2014/15
Remeasurement loss on plan liabilities (149.4) (521.5) (670.9)
Remeasurement gain on plan assets 81.7 968.5 1,050.2
Net remeasurement (loss)/gain for the period (67.7) 447.0 379.3
2013
Remeasurement loss on plan liabilities (56.6) (118.4) (175.0)
Remeasurement gain on plan assets 2.1 20.2 22.3
Net remeasurement loss for the year (54.5) (98.2) (152.7)
The actual return on plan assets was a £1,224.1m gain (2013: £161.3m gain), which is £1,050.2m more (2013: £22.3m 
more) than the interest income on plan assets of £173.9m (2013: £139.0m) at the start of the relevant periods. 
The remeasurement loss on liabilities of £670.9m (2013: £175.0m loss) comprises a gain due to member experience of 
£1.8m (2013: £45.0m loss), a gain due to demographic assumptions of £5.3m (2013: £15.6m loss) and a loss due to 
changes in financial assumptions of £678.0m (2013: £114.4m loss).
The net remeasurement gain taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income was £379.3m (2013: £152.7m 
loss). This gain was £303.4m (2013: £124.4m loss) net of taxation (with tax at 20% for UK schemes, and 12.5% for Irish 
schemes).
With the change in financial year end the Group expects to contribute approximately £8m to its defined benefit plans in 
2015/16 in relation to expenses and government levies and £6m of additional contributions to fund the scheme deficits. This 
is subject to final formal approval by the scheme trustees.
The total amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss are as follows:
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2014/15
Operating profit
Current service cost (0.1) – (0.1)
Administrative costs (7.8) (8.1) (15.9)
Net interest cost (20.9) (11.1) (32.0)
Total (28.8) (19.2) (48.0)
2013
Operating profit
Current service cost (3.4) (7.6) (11.0)
Past service credit 17.7 18.3 36.0
Administrative costs (5.9) (5.7) (11.6)
Net interest cost (14.4) (5.2) (19.6)
Total (6.0) (0.2) (6.2)
Defined contribution schemes
A number of companies in the Group operate defined contribution schemes, predominantly stakeholder arrangements. 
In addition a number of schemes providing life assurance benefits only are operated. The total expense recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss of £8.5m (2013: £3.4m) represents contributions payable to the plans by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the plans. 
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 121
Financial 
Statements
25.  Other liabilities
As at
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Deferred financing fees – (15.8)
Deferred income (12.8) (14.0)
Other accruals (0.2) (0.6)
Total other liabilities (13.0) (30.4)
26.  Reserves and Share capital
Share premium
The share premium reserve comprises the premium paid over the nominal value of shares for shares issued.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve comprises the non-statutory premium arising on shares issued as consideration for acquisition of 
subsidiaries where merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, less subsequent realised losses 
relating to those acquisitions. During the period the Group transferred £53.0m to the P&L reserve that became realised on 
the write-down of the goodwill of the Sweet Treats business (2013: £182.8m on impairment of assets related to the Bread 
business).
Other reserves
Other reserves comprise the hedging reserve, which represents the effective portion of the gains or losses on derivative 
financial instruments that have historically been designated as hedges, and the translation reserve, which represents 
exchange differences arising from retranslation at period end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Profit and loss reserve
The profit and loss reserve represents the cumulative surplus or deficit and the own shares reserve which represents the 
cost of shares in Premier Foods plc, purchased in the market and held by the Employee Benefit Trust on behalf of the 
Company in order to satisfy options and awards under the Company’s incentive schemes. 12,286 shares in Premier Foods 
plc were held by the Employee Benefit Trust at 4 April 2015, with a market value of £5,129 (2013: 97,122 shares with a 
market value of £124,802).
Share capital
Number of 
shares
Ordinary 
shares
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 239,806,206 24.0 1,124.7 1,148.7
Shares issued under share schemes 21,960 –  –  – 
At 31 December 2013 239,828,166 24.0 1,124.7 1,148.7
Shares issued under share schemes 2,154,468 0.2 – 0.2
Share placement 76,923,077 7.7 92.3 100.0
Rights issue 506,835,545 50.7 202.7 253.4
Cost of shares issued –  – (13.3) (13.3)
At 4 April 2015 825,741,256  82.6  1,406.4  1,489.0
Share award schemes
The Company’s share award schemes are summarised as follows:
•	 A CEO Co-Investment Award (“CEO Co-Investment Award”). The scheme is structured as a share matching plan and 
was specifically created to facilitate the recruitment of Gavin Darby as CEO in 2013. Gavin Darby is required to commit 
and retain a significant amount of capital in the form of Premier Foods shares. The number of shares subject to awards, 
the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be awarded are given below. These awards 
are equity-settled and outstanding awards will vest on 1 May 2015 and 1 May 2016. No further awards will be made 
under this plan.
•	 A Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for executive directors and senior managers, approved by shareholders in 2011. 
The LTIP comprises two elements: performance shares and matching shares. For Performance Shares, participants 
have the right to subscribe for ordinary shares at nil cost. The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which 
they were granted and the periods in which they may be awarded are given below. These awards are equity-settled and 
have a maximum term of three years.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 122
26.  Reserves and Share capital continued
The vesting of the 2012, 2013 and 2014 Performance Share awards are conditional on achievement of a combination of 
absolute adjusted earnings per share targets and average share price targets.
•	 A Restricted Stock Plan (“RSP”) which provides specific ad hoc share awards to managers. Awards are normally 
subject only to continued employment. These awards may be equity-settled or cash-settled and normally have a 
retention term of two to three years for senior management.
•	 A Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”) for all employees. Employees can be granted free shares and matching shares by 
the Company under this HMRC tax-advantaged plan. An employee must enter into a savings and share purchase 
agreement for partnership shares before the Company can grant matching shares, up to a ratio of 2:1. Free or Matching 
shares are held by a trustee for a minimum of three years. Subject to continuing employment, participants may elect 
to remove shares from the trust after this three year holding period, however, there are tax and National Insurance 
advantages for the employee should the shares be left in the trust for over five years. To date the Company has only 
made Free Shares available to employees.
Share option schemes
The Company’s share option schemes are summarised as follows:
•	 A Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“Sharesave Plan”) for all employees. The employees involved in this HMRC 
tax advantaged save as you earn scheme have the right to subscribe for up to 10.1 million ordinary shares. The 
number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be 
exercised are given below. These options are equity-settled, have a maximum term of 3.5 years and generally vest only 
if employees remain in employment to the vesting date.
•	 The Company adopted an Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) at the time of flotation for executive directors and 
senior managers. The last award was made in 2004 and lapsed in 2014; no further awards will be made under this 
scheme.
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc CEO Co-Investment Award are as follows:
Premier Foods plc CEO Co-Investment Award
2014/15 2013
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period
1
 2,255,442  10  –  – 
Granted during the period –  – 1,477,572 10
Exercised during the period (751,814) 10  –  – 
Outstanding at the end of the period 1,503,628 10 1,477,572 10
Exercisable at the end of the period –  –  –  – 
1. Opening balances have been adjusted for the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period. 
The awards outstanding at 4 April 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.9 years (2013: 1.1 years). 
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award.
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc 2011 LTIP (Performance share award) are as follows:
Premier Foods plc LTIP (Performance share award) 
2014/15 2013
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period
1
 4,650,875  10  3,883,365  10 
Granted during the period 6,709,446 10 2,150,395 10
Forfeited during the period (387,827) 10 (2,986,906) 10
Outstanding at the end of the period 10,972,494 10 3,046,854 10
Exercisable at the end of the period –  –  – 
1
 Opening balances have been adjusted for the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period. 
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 123
Financial 
Statements
26.  Reserves and Share capital continued
The awards outstanding at 4 April 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.6 years (2013: 1.6 years). 
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award.
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc 2011 LTIP (Matching share award) are as follows:
Premier Foods plc LTIP (Matching share award) 
2014/15 2013
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period
1
 193,289  10  267,376  10 
Forfeited during the period (193,289) 10 (140,749) 10 
Outstanding at the end of the period –  – 126,627 10
Exercisable at the end of the period –  –  –  – 
1. Opening balances have been adjusted for the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period. 
There were no awards outstanding at 4 April 2015. 
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc Restricted Stock Plan are as follows: 
Premier Foods plc Restricted Stock Plan 
2014/15 2013
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period
1
 6,160,248  10  104,347  – 
Granted during the period 8,576,879 10 3,931,327 10
Exercised during the period (3,328,588) 10 –  – 
Forfeited during the period (543,089) 10 –  – 
Outstanding at the end of the period 10,865,450 10 4,035,674 10
Exercisable at the end of the period 2,461,339 10 –  – 
1. Opening balances have been adjusted for the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period. 
The awards outstanding at 4 April 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.2 years (2013: 1.2 years). 
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award.
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods plc Share Incentive Plan are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Share Incentive Plan 
2014/15
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period – –
Granted during the period 1,952,000 10
Exercised during the period (11,000) 10
Forfeited during the period (34,000) 10
Outstanding at the end of the period 1,907,000 10
Exercisable at the end of the period – –
The awards outstanding at 4 April 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.0 years. The weighted 
average fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 124
26.  Reserves and Share capital continued
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods plc Sharesave Plan are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Sharesave Plan 
2014/15 2013
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period
1
9,670,278 64 5,959,333 114
Exercised during the period (198,468) 35 (21,960) 70
Granted during the period 6,484,716 35 2,391,628 111
Forfeited during the period (5,810,453) 69 (1,850,155) 166
Outstanding at the end of the period 10,146,073 43 6,478,846 98
Exercisable at the end of the period 832,403 62 1,044,438 152
1. Opening balances have been adjusted for the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period. 
During the year 6.5 million (2013: 2.4 million) options were granted under the Sharesave Plan, with a weighted average 
exercise price at the date of exercise of 35 pence per ordinary share (2013: 111 pence). 
The options outstanding at 4 April 2015 had a weighted average exercise price of 43 pence (2013: 98 pence), and a 
weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.2 years (2013: 1.9 years).
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods plc ESOS are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Executive Share Option Scheme 
2014/15 2013
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period
1
201,316 1,620 131,885 1,620
Forfeited during the period (201,316) 1,620 –  – 
Outstanding at the end of the period –  – 131,885 1,620
Exercisable at the end of the period –  – 131,885 1,620
1. Opening balances have been adjusted for the dilutive effect of the rights issue in the period. 
There were no awards outstanding at 4 April 2015.
In 2014/15, the Group’s continuing operations recognised an expense of £3.4m (2013: £3.8m), related to all equity-settled 
share-based payment transactions. 
A summary of the range of exercise price and weighted average remaining contractual life is shown below:
Weighted average remaining life and exercise prices 
4 Apr 2015 31 Dec 2013
Number 
outstanding at 
end of the year
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(years)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Number 
outstanding at 
end of the year
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(years)
Weighted 
average
 exercise price 
(p)
At 10 pence 25,248,572 1.5 10 8,686,727 1.3 10
£0.10 to £9.90 10,146,073 2.2 43 6,478,846 1.9 98
£10.00 to £20.00 –  –  – 131,885 0.6 1,620
Total 35,394,645 1.7 19 15,297,458 1.5 61
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 125
Financial 
Statements
27.  Notes to the cash flow statement
Reconciliation of (loss)/profit before tax to cash flows from operating activities
 
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Continuing operations
(Loss)/profit before taxation (135.6) 4.4
Net finance cost 81.9 48.2
Share of loss from associates 9.6 – 
Operating (loss)/profit (44.1) 52.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18.5 17.3
Amortisation of intangible assets 47.6 43.8
Loss on disposal of businesses 6.0 2.4
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.5 7.8
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 16.0 – 
Impairment of goodwill 67.9  – 
Revaluation losses on financial instruments 0.6 1.9
Equity-settled employee incentive schemes 3.4 4.1
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (11.2) 5.0
Decrease in trade and other receivables 23.6 35.7
Decrease in trade and other payables and provisions (53.4) (45.6)
Movement in retirement benefit obligations (7.1) (16.3)
Cash generated from continuing operations 70.3 108.7
Discontinued operations (7.8) 14.7
Cash generated from operating activities 62.5 123.4
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Net (outflow)/inflow of cash and cash equivalents (135.3) 147.2
Decrease in finance leases – 0.4
Decrease/(increase) in borrowings 401.7 (21.4)
Other non-cash movements (20.5) (6.3)
Decrease in borrowings net of cash 245.9 119.9
Total net borrowings at beginning of period (830.8) (950.7)
Total net borrowings at end of period (584.9) (830.8)
Analysis of movement in borrowings 
As at 
1 Jan 2014
£m
Cash flows
£m
Other non-cash 
movements
£m
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Bank overdrafts –  (23.0) –  (23.0)
Cash and bank deposits 157.0  (112.3) –  44.7 
Net cash and cash equivalents 157.0  (135.3) –  21.7 
Borrowings — term facilities (679.5) 679.5  –  – 
Borrowings — revolving credit facilities (204.5) 91.5  –  (113.0)
Borrowings — senior secured notes –  (500.0) –  (500.0)
Securitisation facility (120.0) 100.3  –  (19.7)
Gross borrowings net of cash
1
 (847.0) 236.0  –  (611.0)
Debt issuance costs 16.2  30.4  (20.5) 26.1 
Total net borrowings
1
 (830.8) 266.4  (20.5) (584.9)
1
  Borrowings excludes derivative financial instruments. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 126
27.  Notes to the cash flow statement continued
The Group has the following cash pooling arrangements in sterling, euros and US dollars, where both the Group and the 
bank have a legal right of offset. 
As at 4 Apr 2015 As at 31 Dec 2013
Offset 
asset
Offset 
liability
Net offset 
asset
Offset 
asset
Offset 
liability
Net offset 
asset
Cash, cash equivalents 
and bank overdrafts 149.6 (127.9) 21.7 322.8 (165.8) 157.0
28.  Operating lease commitments
The Group has lease agreements in respect of property, plant and equipment, for which future minimum payments extend 
over a number of years.
Leases primarily relate to the Group’s properties, which principally comprise offices and factories. Lease payments are 
typically subject to market review every five years to reflect market rentals, but because of the uncertainty over the amount 
of any future changes, such changes have not been reflected in the table above. Within our leasing arrangements there are 
no significant contingent rentals, renewal, purchase or escalation clauses.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for continuing operations are as 
follows:
As at 4 Apr 2015 As at 31 Dec 2013
Property
£m
Plant and 
Equipment
£m
Property
£m
Plant and 
Equipment
£m
Within one year 4.9 1.7 3.8 0.5
Between 2 and 5 years 10.2 4.0 13.2 1.3
After 5 years 4.5 – 15.6 – 
Total 19.6 5.7 32.6 1.8
The Group sub-lets various properties under non-cancellable lease arrangements. Sub-lease receipts of £1.7m (2013: 
£1.5m) were recognised in the statement of profit or loss during the period. The total future minimum sub-lease payments at 
the period end is £0.7m (2013: £3.1m).
29.  Capital commitments
Capital expenditure for continuing operations contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred is as 
follows:
As at  
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Intangible assets 0.1  – 
Property, plant and equipment 8.6 3.1
Total capital commitments 8.7 3.1
30.  Contingencies
There were no material contingent liabilities at 4 April 2015 (2013: none). Other contingencies and guarantees in respect of 
the Parent Company are described in note 9 of the Parent Company financial statements.
Notes to the financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 127
Financial 
Statements
31.  Related party transactions
The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
(a) Key management compensation
Key management personnel of the Group are considered to be the executive and non-executive directors and the Group 
Executive. Details of their remuneration are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 
“Related Party Disclosures”. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited 
section of the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 55 to 61.
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Short term employee benefits 6.3  5.8 
Post employment benefits 0.1  0.3 
Share-based payments 3.2  3.6 
Total key management compensation 9.6  9.7 
(b) Transactions with associates
The Group’s associates are considered to be related parties. Transactions with associates are set out below:
Period ended 
4 Apr 2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Sale of goods:
— Hovis Limited 0.3  – 
Sale of services:
— Hovis Limited 4.9  – 
— Knighton Foods Limited 0.8  – 
Total sales 6.0  – 
Purchase of goods:
— Hovis Limited 11.2  – 
— Knighton Foods Limited 20.6  – 
Total purchases 31.8  – 
(c) Loans to associates
Details of loans to associates are set out in note 16.
(d) Other related parties
As at 4 April 2015 the following are considered to be related parties under the Listing Rules due to their shareholdings 
exceeding 10% of the Group’s total issued share capital:
•	 Warburg Pincus LLC
•	 Standard Life Investments Limited
32.  Subsequent events
There were no subsequent events. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 128
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Premier Foods plc
Report on the parent company financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Premier Foods plc’s Parent Company financial statements (the “financial statements”):
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 4 April 2015;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
Premier Foods plc’s financial statements comprise:
•	 the balance sheet as at 4 April 2015; and
•	 the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
•	 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
•	 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
•	 otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report — Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 129
Financial 
Statements
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK 
& Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
•	 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
•	 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
•	 the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Premier Foods plc for the period 1January 2014 to 4 April 
2015.
Pauline Campbell (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
19 May 2015
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by 
the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any 
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 130
Company financial statements
The following statements reflect the financial position of the Company, Premier Foods plc as at 4 April 2015 and 31 December 
2013. These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in the United 
Kingdom (“UK GAAP”). The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 
2006 and not presented a Company profit and loss account or cash flow statement.
Balance Sheet
Note
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Fixed assets 
Investments in Group undertakings 3 3.1  – 
 
Current assets 
 Debtors 4 1,016.7  895.6 
 Deferred tax assets 6 1.8  1.1 
 Cash at bank and in hand  0.5  0.3 
Total assets  1,022.1  897.0 
 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (85.2) (314.1)
Net current assets 933.8  582.9 
Total assets less current liabilities  936.9  582.9 
 
Capital and reserves 
 Called up share capital 7 82.6  24.0 
 Share premium account 7 1,406.4  1,124.7 
 Profit and loss account 7 (552.1) (565.8)
Total shareholders’ funds  936.9  582.9 
The notes on pages 131 to 133 form an integral part of the financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages 130 to 133 were approved by the Board of directors on 18 May 2015 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
Alastair Murray 
Chief Financial Officer Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 131
Financial 
Statements
1.  Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom (“UK GAAP”), under the historical cost convention. The profit 
for the period of £9.4m (2013: £501.6m loss) is recorded in the accounts of Premier Foods plc. The directors have taken 
advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit and loss 
account cash flow statement for the Company.
The directors consider that the accounting policies set out below are the most appropriate and have been consistently 
applied.
The Company is exempt under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard 8 “Related Party Disclosures” (“FRS 8”) from 
disclosing related party transactions with entities that are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Premier Foods plc Group or 
investees of the Premier Foods plc Group.
Fixed asset investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in their value.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period and takes into account deferred taxation. 
The Company provides in full for deferred tax arising from timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses 
in the financial statements and their inclusion in tax computations to the extent that a liability or an asset is expected to be 
payable or recoverable in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to 
apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The Company discounts its deferred tax liability as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable benefits will be available to utilise 
against the temporary difference. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Cash and liquid resources
Short-term cash deposits, which can be called on demand without any material penalty, are included within cash balances 
in the balance sheet.
Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of 
employee share option plans is calculated using an option-pricing model. In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 
20, “Share-Based Payment” (“FRS 20”), the resulting cost is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period 
of the options for employees employed by the Parent Company, or treated as an investment in subsidiaries in respect 
of employees employed by the subsidiaries where the cost is recharged. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect 
expected and actual levels of options vesting. 
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the share awards/
options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth 
targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of share awards/options that are 
expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share awards/options 
that are expected to vest and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit and loss, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity.
Dividends
Dividend distribution to the Company shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders, and for interim dividends in the period in which 
they are paid.
Operating lease agreements
Leases in which a significant portion of risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Rental costs under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the profit and loss 
account on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
Notes to the Company financial statements Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 132
2. Operating profit
Audit fees in respect of the Company are £nil (2013: £nil). Note 5.2 of the Group consolidated financial statements provides 
details of the remuneration of the Company’s auditors on a Group basis.
At 4 April 2015, the Company had two employees (2013: three), and their remuneration totalled £2.4m (2013: £1.6m). 
This excludes the Company’s six (2013: six) non executive directors whose remuneration totalled £0.7m (2013: £0.6m). 
Directors’ emolument disclosures are provided in the Single Figure Table on page 55 of this annual report.
3. Investments in Group undertakings
2014/15
£m
2013
£m
Cost
At 1 January 1,759.3 1,757.3
Additions 3.1  2.0 
At 4 April/31 December 1,762.4  1,759.3 
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January (1,759.3) (1,278.2)
Impairment charge for the period/year –  (481.1)
At 4 April/31 December (1,759.3) (1,759.3)
NBV at 4 April/31 December 3.1  – 
Impairment charge
An impairment charge of £481.1m was recognised in 2013 against the value of the Company’s investment in subsidiaries, 
principally as a result of the announcement of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority share in the Bread business on 27 
January 2014.
In 2014/15 a capital contribution of £3.1m (2013: £2.0m) was given in the form of share incentive awards to employees of 
subsidiary companies which were reflected as an increase in investments. Refer to note 15 in the Group financial statements 
for a list of the principal subsidiary undertakings. The companies listed are those that principally affect the results and assets 
of the Company. The directors consider that to give full particulars of subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement 
of excessive length. A full list of subsidiary undertakings is attached to the Company’s annual return which is filed at 
Companies House.
4. Debtors
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,016.7 895.6
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment, are repayable on demand and are 
not subject to interest rate risk as they are interest free, with the exception of £344.7m (2013: £330.2m) which attracted 
interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 3.75% (2013: LIBOR plus 2.25%). Carrying value approximates fair value.
5. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 65.2  297.5 
Group relief payable 20.0  16.6 
Total creditors falling due within one year 85.2 314.1
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment, are repayable on demand and are 
not subject to interest rate risk as they are interest free, with the exception of an amount in 2013 of £39.4m which attracted 
interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 3.0%. Carrying value approximates fair value.
Notes to the Company financial statements Financial 
Statements Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 133
Financial 
Statements
6.   Deferred Tax
2014/15
£m
2013
£m
At 1 January  1.1  0.9 
Credited to the profit and loss account 0.7  0.2 
At 4 April/31 December 1.8  1.1 
The deferred tax asset relates to share-based payments.
7. Called up share capital and other reserves
Called up 
share capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Profit and 
loss account
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 24.0  1,124.7  29.7  (97.4) 1,081.0 
Loss for the year –  –  –  (501.6) (501.6)
Realisation of merger reserve (b) –  –  (29.7) 29.7  – 
Share-based payments (a) –  –  –  3.5  3.5 
At 31 December 2013 24.0  1,124.7  –  (565.8) 582.9 
Profit for the period –  –  –  9.4  9.4 
Share-based payments (a) –  –  –  4.3  4.3 
Shares issued 58.6  295.0  –  –  353.6 
Cost of shares issued –  (13.3) –  –  (13.3)
At 4 April 2015 82.6  1,406.4  –  (552.1) 936.9 
Called up share capital
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Issued and fully paid
825,741,256 (2013: 239,806,206) ordinary shares of 10 pence each 82.6 24.0
(a) Share-based payments
The costs reflect the Company’s share option schemes in operation. Further details are available in note 26 of the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements.
The charge relating to employees of the Company amounted to £1.5m (2013: £1.7m). Further details of these schemes can 
be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 55 to 61.
(b) Realisation of merger reserve
In 2013 the Company transferred to the profit and loss account an amount that became realised on the write-down of the 
related investment.
8. Operating lease commitments
The Company has annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of land and buildings as follows:
As at 
4 Apr 2015
£m
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
Between 2 and 5 years 0.3 0.3 
The lease expense has been borne by a subsidiary company.
9. Contingencies and guarantees
Premier Foods plc has provided guarantees to third parties in respect of borrowings of certain subsidiary undertakings. The 
maximum amount guaranteed at 4 April 2015 is £0.9bn (2013: £1.2bn).
10. Subsequent events
There were no subsequent events. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015 134
Shareholder Information
Cautionary Statement
The purpose of this annual report is to provide information to shareholders of Premier Foods plc (“the Company”). The Company, its directors, 
employees and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may 
come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. It contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and businesses of the Company. These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts. Nothing in this annual report should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
Manage Your Shares
The Company’s Register of Members is maintained by our registrar, Equiniti. Shareholders with queries relating to their 
shareholding should contact Equiniti directly using the details given below:
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA. 
Telephone - 0871 384 2030 
(Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras). Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday  
(or +44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK).
Or visit Equiniti’s Shareview website: 
www.shareview.co.uk Our new corporate website is full of all the latest information 
about our brands, our people and our financial results.
This annual report is printed by an FSC
®
 (Forest Stewardship 
Council) certified printer using vegetable based inks.
This report has been printed on Claro Silk, a white coated paper 
and board using 100% EFC pulp.
www.premierfoods.co.uk
Trademarks
The Company’s trademarks are shown in italics throughout this annual report. The Company has an exclusive worldwide licence to use the 
Loyd Grossman name on certain products. The Company has an exclusive licence to use the Cadbury trademark in the UK (and other specified 
territories) on a variety of ambient cake products. Cadbury is a trademark of Mondelez International, Inc. Stock code: PFD
Premier Foods plc
Premier House 
Centrium Business Park 
Griffiths Way 
St Albans 
Hertfordshire
T: 01727 815850
Registered in England and Wales No. 5160050
www.premierfoods.co.uk
