 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 iv
Our strategy – The way forward
Contents
Strategic report
Highlights 01
Chairman’s statement  02
Chief Executive Officer’s review 04
Award winning pubs 12
Corporate social responsibility 14
Our approach to managing risks and uncertainties 17
Governance
Board of Directors  21
Directors’ report  22
Corporate governance statement 25
Audit and risk committee report 30
Directors’ remuneration report 32
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
in respect of the Annual Report and 
the Financial Statements  43
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 44
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 45
Balance sheet  46
Statement of changes in equity  47
Cash flow statement   48
Notes to the financial statements 49
Independent auditor’s report  93
Financial glossary  95
Company information 97
Punch is a leading pub company with 
over 3,000 pubs in the UK.
Our aim is to be respected for 
providing the best consumer 
hospitality experiences through  
the very best publicans and 
their teams.
Punch is a leading pub company with a portfolio of 
2,872 core pubs across the UK as well as a non-core 
estate of 716 pubs which we expect to dispose of 
over time. 
Our business model makes a pub business accessible 
to many more publicans than the purchase of 
a freehold, while also providing an extensive 
package of support to our publicans to help them 
build successful pub businesses. We offer agreements 
to our publicans with a flexible split between the  
pub rental and the beer they purchase from us. 
We work in partnership with our publicans to deliver 
the best pub hospitality and to drive pub sales 
so that we both benefit from increases in profit.
Deliver a clear bespoke offer, relevant to each pub Consistent consumer offer
Broad range of operating models in line with evolving market Broad range of operating models
Underpinned by a refocussing of management resources to 
drive improved support, innovation and operational delivery
Refocus resources to drive delivery
Building and upgrading an already attractive offer, delivering real 
value to our publicans through an enhanced Punch Buying Club
Delivering value through the Punch 
Buying Club
Supported by releasing significant additional value from our 
under-utilised property portfolio and land bank
Realising value from our 
property portfolio Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 01
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Highlights
Underlying financial performance
1
 – 
reflects reduced non-core estate and 
is in line with expectations:
•	 Underlying
1
 EBITDA of £196m (2014: £205m); and
•	 Statutory loss before tax of £105m includes £166m of 
non-underlying charges, principally due to the capital 
restructuring and transition to accounting for properties  
at market value.
Stronger balance sheet:
•	 Property estate externally valued at £2,097m; £692m  
in excess of nominal net debt
3
;
•	 Nominal net debt
3
 down £513m in the year to £1,406m;
•	 Consolidated nominal net debt : LTM EBITDA at 7.2 times 
(2014: 9.5 times); and
•	 Post year end disposal of non-core assets (including the 
disposal of our 50% investment in Matthew Clark for  
gross proceeds of £100.7m; and pub disposals of £53.5m) 
further enhance our ability to pursue our strategic objectives.
Higher quality pub estate:
•	 Core estate now expected to deliver c.95% of pub profits  
in the 2016 financial year (up from 88% in 2014);
•	 Positive like-for-like trends in net income
2
; core estate  
net income up 0.3%; and
•	 Average profit per pub up 4%, benefiting from the  
disposal of non-core pubs.
Review of Strategic Priorities –  
The Way Forward:
•	 Delivering a clear, consistent consumer offer, adapting  
to changing consumer behaviour;
•	 Comprising a broad range of flexible operating models  
that are in line with today’s evolving pub market;
•	 Underpinned by a reorganisation of management to drive 
operational excellence; 
•	 Built on an attractive offer, delivering real value  
to our publicans through the Punch Buying Club; and
•	 Supported by releasing additional value from our 
under-utilised property portfolio and land bank.
1 Before non-underlying items.
2 Net income represents revenue less cost of drink sales (gross profit).
3 Nominal net debt represents the par value of loans less cash balances (note 29).
1  Before non-underlying items.
2  Includes £30m of profits attributable to bond purchases in 2014 (2013: £nil; 2015: £0.3m).
3  Nominal value of net debt, excluding swap mark-to-market value.
4  Nominal value of net debt, excluding swap mark-to-market value, to LTM EBITDA.
KPIs
1
2013 2014 2015
216
205
196
EBITDA
1
£m
Profit before tax
2
£m
2013 2014 2015
49
69
61
Net debt
3
£m
2013 2014 2015
2,004
1,918
1,406
Net leverage
4
£m
2013 2014 2015
9.3
9.5
7.2 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 02
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased with the progress we have made in the year  
in delivering on our key initiatives. Continued like-for-like growth 
in the core estate and the completion of the capital restructuring 
in October 2014 provides a better platform to undertake a 
thorough review of the future direction of the business. 
We secured the appointment of new Chief Executive, 
Duncan Garrood, who joined the business in June 2015. 
Duncan, together with the Board, has been undertaking a 
review of our operations and strategic direction bringing to bear 
his external perspectives from other businesses. From this 
review, we have developed a clear direction to move forward in 
order to maximise long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Through our ongoing selective disposal programme, we benefit 
from having a higher quality pub estate in which approximately 
95% of pub profits are expected to come from the core estate 
in the 2016 financial year (up from 88% in 2014). Following the 
year end, we completed the sale of a package of 158 non-core 
pubs for gross proceeds of £53.5m and the disposal of our 50% 
joint venture investment in Matthew Clark for gross proceeds 
of £100.7m. 
The capital restructuring placed the Group in a stronger financial 
position with nominal net debt down by £513m in the year. All 
of the Group’s debt is in the form of long-term securitised debt, 
secured against a property portfolio which was independently 
revalued at £2,097m; £692m in excess of nominal net debt. 
Following the restructuring, the securitisation structures contain 
a number of restrictive covenants in relation to the use of 
disposal proceeds, consequently, the Board is giving appropriate 
consideration to how best to improve flexibility and support  
the strategic development of the business going forward.  
The Matthew Clark proceeds provide the Group with financial 
flexibility, with this cash being held outside of the securitisation 
structures. We have not committed to any particular use of the 
sale proceeds at this stage, but the Board is mindful of the need 
to maintain sufficient flexibility in our finances, in light of the 
uncertainty created by the Market Rent Only (‘MRO’) which 
could include retention of cash on the balance sheet or the 
purchase of or refinancing of bonds.
Legislative changes
The tied long-lease pub model, which today represents 56%  
of Punch’s core estate, but fewer than 20% of the wider UK 
pub market, has successfully provided entrepreneurs with  
a low cost, lower risk entry into running pubs with the ability  
to build successful businesses and sell-on through the 
assignment market.
The Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015  
(the ‘Act’) which includes the provision of a Statutory Code, 
independent adjudicator and an MRO option for all companies 
with over 500 pubs operating under tied leased and tenancy 
agreements in England and Wales, received Royal Assent  
on 26 March 2015. 
Stephen Billingham
Non-Executive Chairman
“ We are confident in our plans  
and in our ability to implement 
our strategy, which is aimed at 
maximising the long-term value  
of our business. ” Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 03
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
There is currently a period of consultation in order for the 
Government to prepare Secondary Legislation setting out  
the detail of how the Act will be implemented, and it is 
anticipated that it will come in to operation from June 2016.
We urge the Government to ensure that the Secondary 
Legislation for the MRO, when drafted, allows an appropriate 
period of time for implementation and protects the ongoing 
investment that pubs need to compete. We believe that 
appropriately drafted legislation can avoid the adverse 
unintended consequences of the Act and allow the tied model 
to continue to thrive into the future, allowing future publicans 
the same low cost, lower risk access into a thriving pub market.
Board of Directors
As referred to above, we announced in March 2015 the 
appointment of Duncan Garrood as Chief Executive Officer  
with effect from June 2015. Duncan has extensive experience  
in the retail and franchise sectors which is of particular relevance 
to Punch, given the dynamic and evolving pubs market.
Following Duncan’s appointment, I have reverted to my 
original role of Non-Executive Chairman having held the 
position of Executive Chairman since February 2013, following 
the resignation of the previous Chief Executive.
Employees and publicans
We have an extremely committed and engaged workforce  
and the Board was pleased to see the results of our recent 
employee engagement survey in which 92% of our employees 
took part. It is a testament to the commitment and calibre  
of our employees that we were recognised as the ‘Operations 
Team of the Year’ and ‘Responsible Retailer of the Year’  
at the 2015 Publican Awards.
Our publicans include a number of award winners with a record 
eleven regional finalists and three overall category winners in 
this years ‘Great British Pub Awards’. Over 250 of our publicans 
(and their pubs) were represented in the ‘2016 Good Beer 
Guide’ and over 1,000 pubs are ‘Cask Marque’ accredited.
Outlook
While our actions to date have put us in a much stronger 
position to address the structural changes impacting our  
market, we do not underestimate the challenges the industry 
faces in light of impending legislative changes. 
While the year ahead represents another period of transition  
for the business, we are confident in our plans and in our ability 
to implement our strategy, which is aimed at maximising the 
long-term value of our business. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 04
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Introduction
Having joined Punch in June 2015, my first priority was to get 
around the business and spend time listening to our publicans, 
employees and other key stakeholders. My arrival as CEO has 
provided the Board and me with an opportunity to review and 
stress test our strategic priorities. Given the changing market 
dynamics, this is of particular importance and I set out below 
the key elements of how the strategy will be deployed to move 
the business forward.
What I have set out today is very much aligned with the strategy 
the business is already pursuing, but with some refinements  
and developments to unlock opportunities within the business 
and manage an evolving operational and changing regulatory 
market.
Strategic review
A summary of the review findings are below:
•	 Pubs remain an attractive market with great potential. 
Going to pubs continues to be one of the most popular  
leisure activities in the UK. In 2014, the UK pub industry  
had estimated annual sales of approximately £22bn and 
directly employed an estimated 750,000 staff. Despite the 
challenges faced by the industry, there are some clear growth 
opportunities and I have seen many examples where we  
have been able to materially grow a pub’s sales when we 
implement the right consumer offer that meets today’s 
consumer trends.
•	 Punch needs to modify its proposition in light of 
legislative changes and to maximise the opportunity 
from changing consumer trends. While Punch has in recent 
years been at the forefront of change within the leased and 
tenanted pub sector, the market is changing rapidly and 
Punch will need to adapt further to meet the needs of this 
evolving marketplace. 
•	 We can achieve significant benefits in this new 
environment by deploying more than one operating 
model. Running a pub continues to be seen as an attractive 
proposition for many entrepreneurs and we typically receive 
25 enquiries to every one publican being placed in a pub.  
A broader range of operating models is required to 
appropriately meet the level of skills, support and financial 
position of the wide range of prospective publicans applying 
to run one of our pubs. Providing a broader range of 
operating models will allow us to maximise the value in  
each and every one of our pubs.
•	 A significant proportion of the estate could deliver 
higher returns through investment. Alongside setting  
the right consumer offer, providing an appropriate level  
of investment is key to maximising the returns in our pubs.  
A significant proportion of our estate could benefit from 
investment, with investment being prioritised to those pubs 
where we have control over the consumer offer, and to new 
investments with a payback of less than five years in England 
and Wales.
Duncan Garrood
Chief Executive Officer
“ Our strategy enables us to 
maximise the value in our 
properties through a phased, 
lower risk approach to addressing 
an evolving pub market, taking 
greater control of the property 
and retail offer, but without the 
added overhead that comes with 
directly employing pub staff. ” Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 05
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
•	 There is still significant unrecognised value in Punch’s 
freehold property estate. The Group has a sizeable 
property portfolio comprising in excess of 9m sq. ft.  
of ground floor area, significant additional upper floor  
area and encompassing c.1,400 acres of total site area.  
There is a significant portfolio of under-utilised upper  
floor areas and under-utilised land bank.
•	 Punch has the right foundations in its business  
to deliver value for the longer term, but it will  
take time. We have already taken significant steps towards 
evolving our operating model. While we have a lot to do,  
and the year ahead represents the start of a period of 
transition for the business, we are confident in our plans 
going forward, and in our ability to implement our strategy, 
which will maximise the long-term value of our business.
From our review we have a clear set of plans to move  
the business forward:
1. Deliver a clear, consistent consumer offer, adapting  
to changing consumer behaviour;
2. Comprising a broad range of operating models that  
are in line with today’s evolving pub market;
3. Underpinned by a refocussing of management resources  
to drive operational excellence; 
4. Building on an attractive offer, delivering real value to our 
publicans through the Punch Buying Club; and
5. Releasing additional value from our under-utilised property 
portfolio and land bank.
We believe that delivering these levers will help drive sales and 
profit by realising previously untapped growth opportunities in 
an evolving pub market and unlock significant additional value 
from our under-utilised property portfolio.
Development of the Punch model
1.   Consistent consumer offer: 
Over the last few years, Punch’s business has been evolving 
towards a model in which we have greater insight into the 
consumer offer and are best placed to implement a clear  
and consistent strategy going forward. In 2013 we launched 
a dedicated New Business Development team working  
with our publicans from before the launch of their pub  
and throughout the first six months of trading, supporting 
them in executing the consumer offer in the pub. In 2014  
we introduced Retail Operating Plans, setting out the agreed 
consumer offer, operating plan and rhythm of the week  
in our pubs. 
   In recent years, we have also developed and trialled a small 
number of retail concepts, ‘Champs’ sports bar, ‘Mighty 
Local’ community drinks led pub concept, and most recently 
‘Brewed & Baked’, our new high street coffee shop and 
chameleon bar concept. While the first Brewed & Baked 
outlet will open later this month, we have seen excellent 
results from our Champs and Mighty Local concepts which 
now number 6 and 13 outlets respectively with further 
rollouts planned for 2016. 
   The majority of Punch’s core estate (c.84%; c.2,400 pubs)  
is in the drinks led, mainstream and value pub segments. 
Having seen positive results from the early concepts where 
Punch has developed a clear and consistent consumer offer, 
we are now in a position to accelerate our programme of 
developing and rolling-out new concepts. 
   We have a high level of confidence in the upside opportunity 
in rolling-out retail concepts across a meaningful proportion 
of the estate, but have purposely not put a target on how 
many pubs will operate under a defined concept as the  
scale of any roll-out will be determined by their financial 
performance, which is still in the trial phase. There is also the 
potential to franchise these retail concepts at a future date.
   While we are taking a much more active role in defining and 
overseeing the consumer offer in our drinks led mainstream 
and value pub segments, we will take a different approach  
in the premium and destination food led segments which 
accounts for c.16% of the core estate (c.450 pubs). These 
sectors require specialist skills to maximise the opportunity  
in these sites and we will continue to work with specialist 
operators, such as Harry Ramsden’s, the iconic British brand, 
world famous for its fish and chips, and have formed a 
trading partnership within which we will jointly invest in 
selected sites across the Punch estate.
   We have seen significant uplifts in pub sales and profit where 
we have invested, alongside setting the right consumer offer. 
It will take time to implement our strategy however which 
will be phased over a five year period. Investment will be 
directed to those pubs where we have input into the retail 
offer and have control over the terms of the agreement. 
Subject to the above, we plan to invest in up to 500 pubs  
per year, investing between £250m and £300m over the  
next five years.
2.   Broad range of operating models: 
The Group already offers a wide variety of flexible 
commercial agreements to our publicans, with over 
60 different lease and tenancy agreements currently in place.  
In recent years we have seen a significant market shift away 
from long-term fully repairing leases towards shorter-term 
tenancy agreements, where the external building repair 
obligations remain the responsibility of the pub company. 
There has also been a marked shift away from fixed rent 
agreements towards variable turnover linked agreements. 
   We have been quick to address these changing market 
dynamics and have already introduced three new operating 
formats, including the Retail contract, our first managed  
pub, and commercial free-of-tie arrangements (covering  
both fixed-rent and variable turnover-linked agreements).
   Under the Retail contract, Punch retains 100% of the sales 
and cost of sales (akin to a traditional managed house 
operation) and pub costs (excluding staff costs), and pays  
the retailer (the publican) a percentage of the retail sales,  
out of which the retailer pays their staff costs. The retailer is 
free to focus on delivering an excellent consumer experience 
while Punch supports the back-of-house processes.
   As at October 2015, we had 31 pubs operating under  
the Retail contract and have seen significant (15% to 20%) 
volume growth in these pubs compared to historic 
performance under a traditional leased and tenanted model. 
We are pleased with the results from these initial trials and 
already have in place the infrastructure and a separate Retail 
operations team capable of rolling out the model nationally 
across the UK. We anticipate having approximately 100 pubs 
operating under the Retail contract by August 2016.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 06
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
   Our first fully managed pub opened in October 2015,  
and while we do not currently anticipate building a significant 
managed pub presence, we will take learnings from a small 
managed pub trial to support the development of new 
consumer offers. 
   We already have a small but growing commercial free-of-tie 
operation with a number of fixed rent commercial free-of-tie 
leases and variable turnover-linked agreements in operation.  
We expect this division to grow over time as we introduce 
new innovative agreements, particularly in the premium  
and destination food led segments of our estate.
3.   Refocussing management resources to drive 
operational delivery:
  To ensure effective delivery of these changes and of the 
separate operating models, we have recently made a number 
of changes to the operating structure of the business with 
distinct divisions:
•	  Tied tenanted & leased division;
•	  Retail pub division (including the managed pub trial); and
•	  Commercial leases (free-of-tie); which will move into 
a separate division managed under the property team.
   Three new roles have also been created to ensure that we 
drive our future success, develop our employer brand and 
really maximise the opportunity from existing and new retail 
formats. These roles are Chief Strategy Officer, Marketing 
Director and Development Director.
4.   Delivering value to our publicans through the 
Punch Buying Club: 
Launched in 2009, the Punch Buying Club has been a great 
success with the vast majority of publicans using the club  
to purchase their drinks products. Punch is one of the largest 
buyers of drinks in the UK on-trade market, delivering 
significant economies of scale not available to individual 
publicans buying drinks on their own. We offer a wide 
range of drinks products through the Punch Buying Club 
to our publicans and during the last year have supplied over 
3,000 drinks brands from 660 drinks suppliers, including 
in the region of 2,500 cask ale brands. 
   Through the Punch Buying Club we leverage our group 
buying power to provide services such as free WiFi and 
provide access to cheaper electricity and gas supply through 
our brokerage service providers. The Punch Buying Club  
is also full of useful information to help our publicans to 
professionally operate their pubs giving access to free 
training, legislative information, marketing materials  
and a legal helpline. In addition, our innovative machines 
performance data, an industry leading service introduced 
earlier this year, is made available for publicans to monitor 
and maximise their machine income performance.
   We have continued to build on the success of the Buying 
Club over the last five years and have plans to further  
develop it over the coming years.
5.   Releasing additional value from our property 
portfolio:
   The Group has a sizeable property portfolio with over 
3,500 properties comprising in excess of 9m sq. ft. of ground 
floor gross area, significant additional upper floor area and 
encompassing c.1,400 acres of total site area.
   Historically the Group has looked to operate its properties 
purely as tenanted and leased pubs. While the principal use 
of our properties moving forward will continue to be that of 
public houses, there is a significant portfolio of under-utilised 
upper floor areas and excess under-utilised land bank.
   Through more active property management we expect  
to be able to release additional value, which is not currently 
recognised in the external property valuation, in our freehold 
property and land estate over the next five years.
In summary, our strategic plan enables us to maximise the 
value in our properties through a phased, lower risk approach 
to addressing an evolving pub market, taking greater control  
of the property and retail offer, without the risk of added 
overhead that comes with directly employing pub staff.
Business review
Punch is a leading operator of leased and tenanted pubs in  
the UK, with the second largest pub estate by number of pubs. 
As at 22 August 2015, the Punch estate comprised 3,588 pubs 
located across the UK, 96% of which were held on a freehold 
or long leasehold basis. 
Our market
The Group operates in the UK pub industry, which itself  
is part of the wider drinking-out and eating-out market.  
The UK pub market, which consists of some 47,000 licenced 
public houses, has had to manage the impact of significant 
changes over the last decade including the smoking ban, 
changing consumer preferences and an increasingly competitive 
landscape. Recent changes in legislation, including the lowering 
of the drink-driving limit in Scotland in December 2014 and  
the implementation of the Market Rent Only option (‘MRO’)  
in England and Wales, which is expected to come into force 
progressively from June 2016, will result in further structural 
changes to the pub market. 
Success for the UK pub sector is being determined by the ability 
to respond, with pace, to the changing market conditions and 
provide offers which deliver great customer experiences and 
value. Aware of the challenges, we have refocused our plans 
and strategy to ensure that we are in the strongest position  
to address the changing needs of the marketplace.
Our business model
We operate a predominantly tenanted and leased pub model 
where our pubs are let to independent publicans. Our model 
makes a pub business accessible to many more publicans than 
the purchase of a freehold, while also providing an extensive 
package of support to our publicans to help them build a 
successful pub business. The business model is simple and 
adaptable with no single pub or any single publican accounting 
for more than 1% of the Group’s operating profit.
Publicans lease their pub(s) from the Group on the basis of 
agreements which provide a flexible split between rent and  
tied drink margin. There is a higher risk for the publican if they 
opt for an agreement with a higher rent and lower drinks price, 
as opposed to an agreement with a lower rent and higher drinks 
price which provides the publican with protection in periods  
of lower trading. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 07
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Both we and our publicans have a mutual interest in making 
each pub successful as our profits are ultimately linked. When 
we work in partnership with our publicans to drive sales in the 
pub, both Punch and the publican benefit from increased sales 
and potential profit.
Regulatory environment
The Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015  
(the ‘Act’) which is expected to come into force from June 2016 
includes a lessee’s right, under certain circumstances, to change 
the freely-negotiated commercial terms of their agreement.  
This MRO option enables some occupational lessees to elect to 
opt-out of the drinks supply tie at certain points during the term 
of their lease agreement and therefore occupy the premises  
on a standard commercial property lease, paying rent only. 
We remain concerned about the unintended consequences of 
the Act, which will only become clear over time. Punch’s initial 
view (which remains subject to seeing the finalised terms of the 
Secondary Legislation) is that the proposed legislation is contrary 
to existing legal contracts and property rights and runs contrary 
to the Office of Fair Trading’s findings when it considered  
a super-complaint from the Campaign for Real Ale in 2010.  
We are in dialogue with Government as to how the Act will 
work in practice. Within phase one of Secondary Consultation 
there remain a number of areas in which we are seeking clarity 
from Government. We await the publication of phase two  
of the consultation with interest and will continue to engage 
constructively with the process.
We are also fully engaged in the forthcoming pub sector review 
being undertaken by the Scottish Government and look forward 
to constructive dialogue with them to help develop plans for  
a healthy Scottish pub sector.
Tied pub leases provide access to financial, business and training 
support and a wider range of products and services that  
cannot normally be accessed in a free-trade pub. We urge the 
Government to recognise the benefits that this model provides 
and continue to work with the industry to allow this model to 
continue to thrive into the future, allowing future business men 
and women the same low cost, lower risk access into a thriving 
pub market.
With limited impact in our current financial year, in our 2017 
financial year we expect up to 400 potential MRO event triggers 
in the core estate and up to 300 event triggers per year in the 
following four years. In the event that a lessee elected to invoke 
the MRO option, whilst our income derived from the supply of 
tied drinks products would be partially offset by increases in 
rent, we are aware of the potential for our total income to be 
adversely affected.
For the 2015 financial year Punch generated £248m of net 
income of which £134m was from the sale of drinks, £102m 
from rental income and £12m of machine and other income.  
Of the £134m of drinks income, approximately £72m was from 
core pubs with a potential at some time in the future for an 
MRO event trigger to occur.
While the take-up of the MRO option will only become clear 
over time through the cycle of five yearly rent reviews and 
renewals, our current expectations are that the majority  
of the estate will continue to operate under, and enjoy the 
benefits of the tied-drinks model. 
Trading review
Given changing market dynamics, Punch’s strategy is to focus on 
its core estate, which represents a higher quality, geographically 
well-located portfolio of pubs, suitably positioned to adapt to 
changing market conditions and support sustainable long-term 
profits for Punch and our publicans.
The aim for the core estate which comprised 2,872 pubs at  
22 August 2015, is to make each pub the best of its type in  
its marketplace. The focus is on attracting the right publicans 
through flexible agreements, to attractive well-located pubs  
that have had the appropriate level of investment. We then 
support those publicans with extensive training and dedicated 
field support, backed up by further specialist support teams  
and access to the Punch Buying Club.
The strategy for the non-core estate, which comprised 716 pubs 
at 22 August 2015, focuses on maximising short-term returns 
prior to disposal. These pubs are predominantly small, wet led 
and have a much lower average net income per pub. Given the 
limited scope for investment, these pubs are expected in time  
to generate more value through disposal than retention.
Overall profit performance for the year was in line with 
management expectations and previous guidance. In the  
52 weeks ended 22 August 2015, Punch generated EBITDA  
of £196m (excluding non-underlying items):
Core Non-core Central Punch
Period end pub 
numbers 2,872 716 – 3,588
Revenue £371m £50m – £421m
Net income £219m £28m – £248m
Costs £(19)m £(6)m £(34)m £(59)m
Matthew Clark 
joint venture – – £8m £8m
EBITDA £201m £22m £(26)m £196m
Core estate:
The core estate accounted for 90% of outlet EBITDA in the year 
with an average net income per pub of approximately £76,000 
p.a. Trading has been in line with our expectations with 
like-for-like net income growth of 0.3% for the year. Like-for-like 
growth has now been delivered for nine consecutive quarters. 
The core estate is expected to generate c.95% of outlet EBITDA 
in the 2016 financial year.
We continue to offer high levels of support in developing our 
publicans’ businesses, having invested heavily in this area in 
recent years. The New Business Development team, which 
supports all new publicans with their initial investment, pub 
launch and throughout their first six months, has made further 
improvements against volume uplift expectations.
We ensure that new publicans are set up for success with our 
Foundation Week, a comprehensive training programme which 
provides all the skills needed to run a successful pub business. 
Thereafter publicans have access to a variety of workshops  
and e-learning materials covering areas such as marketing  
and merchandising, finance and social media. Overall, during  
the year we trained over 500 of our publicans. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 08
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Non-core estate:
The non-core estate accounted for 10% of outlet EBITDA in  
the year and represented 21% of the estate by number of pubs. 
We are committed to driving operating performance of  
the non-core estate and maximising the profits from these 
outlets. For some of our estate, changing market dynamics  
and operational performance will lead to some reclassifications 
of sites between core and non-core. Consequently, during the 
first half of the year, 71 pubs transferred to the core estate 
following improved performance and outlook and 65 pubs 
transferred from the core to non-core estate to focus on 
maximising short-term returns. Immediately following the year 
end, a further 39 pubs transferred to the core estate and 
another 39 pubs transferred from the core to non-core estate.
Pubs remaining in the non-core estate are managed under 
separate categories; protect and sell. We have reviewed the 
remaining estate to ensure that our focus is directed towards  
the opportunities we have to drive performance.
Property review
Following a review of our property portfolio, the Board 
considers that the most appropriate accounting policy to carry 
our pub estate, going forward, is at open market valuation, 
which gives greater transparency on the underlying value of our 
property assets than historic cost. We commissioned external 
valuers to assist with this valuation during the second half of the 
year, having undertaken a full impairment review of the estate 
at the interim accounting date.
No. of pubs Av. value Valuation
August 2014 valuation 3,809 £568k £2,165m
–  Core disposals and
unlicensed (59) £658k £(39)m
– Non core disposals and 
unlicensed / ULP disposals (162) £244k £(39)m
– Valuation uplift £9m
August 2015 valuation 3,588 £584k £2,097m
Our property estate has been externally valued at £2,097m 
which represents a net uplift in the valuation (after accounting 
for pub disposals) of £9m. It should be noted that whilst the 
valuation represents an-uplift on the prior year valuation, the 
change in accounting policy does necessitate a significant 
accounting charge against historic book value which is further 
explained in the Financial Review.
Consistent with our strategy to focus on the core estate,  
we disposed of 162 non-core pubs (including unlicensed)  
in the year, together with other assets for proceeds of £39m. 
Following the year end (on 11 September 2015), we completed 
on the sale of a package of 158 non-core pubs for gross 
proceeds of £53.5m. This disposal at an average of c.£340,000 
per pub, was above book value and significantly ahead of the 
average proceeds achieved for previous non-core disposals.
We also disposed of a small number of core pubs in the year, 
realising £51m in proceeds, £18m above book value and at  
a multiple of 23 times LTM EBITDA. 
We have continued to invest in our properties with a £46m 
spend across the Group. This was 11% below last year’s level 
reflecting the uncertainty created by the MRO provisions of the 
Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act. While we have 
a strong pipeline of potential investments, new investments  
with a payback in excess of five years remain on hold pending 
finalisation of the Secondary Legislation expected in 2016.
Punch has a rigorous approach to capital allocation and 
authorisation, including an annual plan, a project by project 
capital approval process and regular post-investment reviews.
Disposal of our investment in Matthew Clark:
On 7 October 2015 we announced the completion of the 
disposal of our 50% shareholding in Matthew Clark (our 50% 
joint venture investment with Accolade Wines) for £99m in cash 
(after £2m of transaction costs) and at a £46m premium to 
book value. The sale of our investment in Matthew Clark, a 
non-core asset, enhances the Group’s financial flexibility to 
pursue its strategic objectives.
On completion, the Group entered into a 10 year non-exclusive 
drinks supply contract with Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited. 
Under this supply agreement, Matthew Clark will supply 
selected wines and spirits drinks products to the Group at 
agreed pricing levels. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 09
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Income statement:
Results for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015:
Underlying results
2015
£m
2014
£m Movement
Core estate 200.6 206.2 (5.6)
Non-core estate 22.2 29.4 (7.2)
Matthew Clark joint 
venture 7.8 6.2 1.6
Central costs (34.2) (37.0) 2.8
EBITDA 196.4 204.8 (8.4)
Depreciation and 
amortisation (12.5) (11.0) (1.5)
Net finance costs (123.3) (155.1) 31.8
Bond buyback profits 0.3 29.9 (29.6)
Profit before taxation 60.9 68.6 (7.7)
Tax (11.4) (8.2) (3.2)
Net earnings 49.5 60.4 (10.9)
As previously presented, underlying results were in line with 
expectations, having delivered underlying EBITDA of £196.4m. 
Comparative results for the 2014 year were positively impacted 
by an extra week’s trading (53rd week).
Like-for-like net income (which reflects rental income and  
net income from the sale of drinks and other products to our 
publicans) in the core estate, after adjusting for the impact of 
disposals, has been relatively stable, with a growth of 0.3% for 
the full year. The decline in core estate profit is predominantly 
due to the additional week of trading in the previous year  
(£3.9m) and the impact of pub disposals (£3.3m).
The decline in profit from the non-core estate was principally 
due to the impact of the ongoing disposal programme (£3.1m), 
lower like-for-like profits as these smaller uninvested pubs  
were impacted by market conditions, together with the impact  
of the additional week of trading in the previous year (£0.6m).
The non-core disposal programme has had the benefit of 
improving the average quality of the Group’s pub estate, with 
average profits per pub across the wider estate up 4% on the 
previous year. The core estate now makes up 90% of the 
Group’s pub profits, up from 88% in the previous year, with 
this proportion expected to increase to c.95% in 2016.
Matthew Clark provided a post-tax contribution to Punch  
of £7.8m (2014: £6.2m) and we received £6.0m in dividends  
in the year.
We continued to maintain a tight control on costs, with central 
costs down by 6% in the year to £34.2m, after adjusting for the 
additional week in 2014, which was in line with the reduction  
in the estate size, being down 6% on the previous year end.
Underlying net finance costs (before the impact of bond 
buyback profits in 2014) reduced by £31.8m to £123.3m, 
reflecting the benefit of the capital restructuring that completed 
on 8 October 2014. Following the capital restructuring, the 
weighted average interest rate for the Group’s gross borrowings, 
including the impact of interest rate swaps and PIK interest,  
at the balance sheet date was 7.8% (2014: 7.2%). Underlying 
finance costs in the previous year included a net credit of 
£29.9m in relation to loan note redemption profits, with a  
credit of only £0.3m in the current year. The one-off charges 
and credits relating to the capital restructuring in the year are 
shown within non-underlying items, referred to below.
Financial review
Steve Dando
Chief Financial Officer
“ The non-core disposal programme 
has had the benefit of improving 
the average quality of the Group’s 
pub estate, with average profits 
per pub across the wider estate 
up 4% on the previous year.” Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 10
Financial review continued
Taxation:
The underlying taxation charge equates to an effective tax rate 
of 21.5% before post-tax earnings from joint ventures. This 
compares with the UK corporation taxation rate of 20.6%  
for the year.
The availability of sizeable capital allowance pools amounting  
to £210m (generated from our investment programme in 
community pubs) at August 2015, together with other tax assets 
is expected to result in no corporation tax payments being due 
in the 2016 financial year.
Non-underlying items:
A number of non-underlying items were recognised during the 
period amounting to a net charge of £132.1m, resulting in a net 
non-underlying loss after tax of £82.6m. The principal items are 
set out below:
•	 £(483.8)m charge on transition to accounting for properties 
at market valuation (note 6);
•	 £(16.4)m impairment losses;
•	 £374.6m profit on capital restructuring;
•	 £(35.0)m charge for the mark-to-market movement  
in value of interest rate swaps;
•	 £21.9m profit on disposal of properties; 
•	 £(18.3)m charge for capital restructuring costs; and
•	 £(9.1)m goodwill disposed on the transfer and disposal  
of core pubs.
The tax effect of all of these items, together with the  
resolution of prior year tax matters, gave rise to a tax credit  
of £34.0m.
Completion of the capital restructuring  
(October 2014):
On 8 October 2014 the Group announced the successful 
completion of restructuring proposals for the Punch A and 
Punch B securitisations. The impact of the restructuring reduced 
total net debt (including mark-to-market on interest rate swaps) 
by £0.6bn. The Group also issued a total of 3,771m new 
ordinary shares in connection with the restructuring proposals, 
of which 1,273m was a firm placing at 3.93 pence per share. 
A non-underlying profit of £374.6m was recorded on 
completion of the capital restructuring, reflecting:
•	 £794.0m reduction in gross nominal debt and  
swap mark-to-market on exchanged notes;
•	 £7.0m on issue of class B3 notes;
•	 £(271.1)m cash payments on debt settlement;
•	 £(196.5)m equity issued;
•	 £22.6m on write off of deferred issue costs; and
•	 £18.6m other capital restructuring items.
Share capital and earnings per share:
Punch’s issued share capital at the start of the year, 24 August 
2014, amounted to 665.8m shares. Punch issued 3,771.2m  
new ordinary shares on 8 October 2014 under the terms of  
the capital restructuring. On 13 October 2014 Punch effected  
a share consolidation on the basis of 1 consolidated ordinary 
share for every 20 existing ordinary shares. Following the share 
consolidation and as at the balance sheet date, the issued share 
capital amounted to 221.9m ordinary shares.
For the purpose of calculating the earnings per share measure, 
the ordinary shares outstanding during the year (and the 
previous year) have been adjusted for the share consolidation. 
The basic weighted average number of shares applied to the 
earnings per share calculation is 198.0m for the current year 
(previous year: 33.3m).
Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS), which excludes the 
effect of non-underlying items was 25.0 pence. Basic EPS was  
a loss of 41.7 pence, primarily due to the capital restructuring 
and impact on the transition to accounting for properties at 
market value.
Property valuation:
The result of the change in accounting policy for our properties 
to open market valuation has resulted in a net reduction in  
our property, plant and equipment values of £190.6m. The net 
impact has been recognised as a £483.8m charge to the income 
statement for pubs for which book values were higher than 
market value, offset by a £293.2m credit to equity reflecting  
the reversal of previous impairment charges for a number  
of properties on which book values were below current  
market value. 
The net downward valuation reflects the fact that the current 
open market valuations are lower than the valuation at 
acquisition (or the August 2004 valuation, being the date of 
transition to IFRS) plus capital investment and less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment charges, largely reflecting the 
decline in like-for-like profits experienced from 2008 to 2013. 
Under historic cost accounting a property’s book value could be 
greater than the open market value of the property, providing 
that the value-in-use of the property (calculated by reference  
to the discounted future expected cash flows generated by  
the property) was no less than the book value of the property. 
Pensions:
Punch maintains a defined contribution scheme which is open 
to all employees. The Group has one defined benefit scheme 
(the Pubmaster pension scheme) which is closed to new 
entrants. Under IAS 19 the net pension liability was £6.1m  
at August 2015 (2014: £4.3m).
Cash flow:
Cash flow from operating activities at £181.8m compared to  
an EBITDA of £178.1m (net of £18.3m of non-underlying costs). 
Cash flow
2015
£m
2014
£m
Underlying EBITDA 196.4 204.8
Exceptional restructuring costs (18.3) (27.3)
Working capital and other cash 
movements 3.7 (19.8)
Net cash from operating activities 181.8 157.7
Capital expenditure (46.4) (52.4)
Disposal proceeds 89.4 110.6
Interest received 2.4 7.6
Net cash from investing activities 45.4 65.8
Net cash flow before financing activities 227.2 223.5
Interest paid (120.6) (165.7)
Proceeds from ordinary share capital 50.0 –
Net repayment in borrowings (339.8) (69.3)
Other financing cash flows 7.7 (1.5)
Net decrease in cash (175.5) (13.0) Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Net cash flows from investing activities generated £45.4m  
in the year (2014: £65.8m), as the level of disposal proceeds  
at £89.4m exceeded the level of capital reinvestment in the 
estate of £46.4m. Interest received at £2.4m (2014: £7.6m) was 
significantly lower than the previous year as the high levels of 
cash balances in 2014 were used in the capital restructuring.
Financing cash flows primarily reflect interest paid of £120.6m 
(2014: £165.7m), net repayment in borrowings of £339.8m 
(2014: £69.3m), which in 2015 were largely as part of the 
capital restructuring, and £50.0m of proceeds on the issue  
of shares in connection with the restructuring.
Cash flows have benefited in both the current and previous year 
from the ongoing pub disposal programme, proceeds from 
which have been used towards repayment of debt. The 
non-core pub estate was valued at £179m at the balance  
sheet date and we expect to continue to dispose out of this 
estate over time, with in the region of £60m of disposal 
proceeds from individual pub sales (including a small number  
of core pubs) expected in the next financial year. Proceeds from 
the disposal of non-core pubs are available to be used towards 
scheduled debt repayment, with excess proceeds used to prepay 
senior debt.
Capital structure:
The nominal value of net debt (excluding the mark-to-market  
of interest rate swaps) was down by £513m in the year and 
down by £102m since the October 2014 refinancing to 
£1,406m.
Punch A
£m
Punch B
£m
External
£m
Group
£m
Securitisation 
cash (66.0) (34.8) – (100.8)
Senior hedge 
notes 97.4 37.2 – 134.6
Class A notes 441.3 498.0 – 939.3
Class M notes 300.0 – – 300.0
Class B notes 99.1 72.9 – 172.0
Net 
securitisation 
debt 871.8 573.3 – 1,445.1
External cash – – (17.3) (17.3)
Supply company 
& EBT cash – – (22.0) (22.0)
Nominal net 
debt 871.8 573.3 (39.3) 1,405.8
Property 
valuation 1,300.1 791.2 6.2 2,097.5
Matthew Clark 
net disposal 
value – – 98.7 98.7
Property and 
investments 1,300.1 791.2 104.9 2,196.2
Net asset value 428.3 217.9 144.2 790.4
LTM EBITDA 117.8 71.0 7.6 196.4
Nominal net 
debt leverage 7.4 times 8.1 times – 7.2 times
The Group is financed solely by two long-term securitised  
debt structures (Punch A and Punch B securitisations) and  
has no bank borrowings. The restructured debt has a lower 
contractual amortisation requirement with scheduled 
contractual amortisation of £200.8m over the next five years, 
with no term repayments until 2021.
The capital restructuring has positively impacted the 
consolidated net debt to LTM EBITDA leverage ratio of  
the Punch Group, with leverage having reduced to 7.2 times  
(2014: 9.5 times).
Outside of the securitisations (‘External’), the Group holds a 
number of loss making short leasehold pubs. External EBITDA  
of £7.6m represents Punch’s share of the post-tax earnings from 
Matthew Clark (£7.8m) together with the operating loss from 
the short leasehold pubs (£1.3m) and the release of certain 
central accruals (£1.1m).
Net debt at August 2015 of £1,405.8m is secured against  
a largely freehold pub estate which was independently valued 
during August 2015 at £2,097m. Total Group Net Asset Value 
(defined as property valuation and investments less nominal  
net debt), including the value of Matthew Clark (shown at  
the net disposal value) amounted to £790m (£3.56 per share).
The Group benefits from having a long-term securitisation 
financing structure. While this provides certainty of financing 
with no term debt repayments until 2021, the covenant 
structure attached to the securitisations is restrictive,  
in particular in relation to the use of pub disposal proceeds,  
which are not permitted to be used to fund additional capital 
reinvestment into the estate, even where investment 
opportunities are at attractive levels of return. Consequently,  
the Board is giving appropriate consideration to how best  
to improve financial flexibility and support the strategic 
development of the business going forward. 
All of the Group’s securitised debt, with the exception of  
the senior hedge notes, is at fixed rates of interest, or fixed 
through the use of interest rate swaps. Consequently, the Group 
does not benefit from the current low UK interest rate. The 
mark-to-market value on the Group’s interest rate swap which 
matches the Class M notes amounted to £132.3m at the balance 
sheet date.
The junior classes of securitised notes (Class M and Class B 
notes) are callable (at the Group’s option) at par from October 
2016 onwards, following the end of their no-call period. The 
Class A notes carry make-whole provisions (modified Spens) 
whereby a predetermined price is set should the notes be 
redeemed early (at the Group’s option).
For further information on the capital restructuring, please  
refer to our website: www.punchtavernsplc.com Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 12
Best turnaround pub
The Study Room, Lancaster
We have worked closely with publicans 
Michael and Laura Horan to truly 
transform the reputation of The Study 
Room, which once prompted local Police 
to say that ‘it will never be a pub again’ 
due to its troubled past.
Following a £300,000 joint investment  
in April 2014, in which the bar was 
carefully restored with contemporary 
furnishings, feature bookcases, warm 
wooden flooring and new windows,  
The Study Room is now a socially  
focused contemporary bar.
The bar now opens all day and offers a 
tempting food menu, ranging from grilled 
skewers to ‘Secret Recipe Burgers’, all 
made from locally sourced ingredients. 
The offer is also kept fresh with a strong 
entertainment line-up showcasing local 
talent, including regular Sunday Northern 
Soul nights. 
Award winning pubs
THE GREAT BRITISH 
PUB AWARDS 2015
A record 11 of our pubs reached the final stages  
of the 2015 Publican’s Morning Advertiser’s Great 
British Pub Awards and three beat off immense 
competition to be crowned category winners. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 13
Best wine pub
Chequers, Bilton-in-Ainsty
Anthony and Kate Pratt have been our 
publicans since 2012 and the Chequers 
has always been their local. They have 
worked with us to create a popular 
country pub and restaurant with 
accommodation and built a reputation for 
their extensive and interesting wine offer.
The wine list, described by judges as 
‘thoughtful and considered’, has been 
carefully designed to be accessible and 
cater for all tastes. 
Anthony and Kate have also become  
well known for hosting ‘Wine Dinners’ 
involving a talk with a supplier or wine 
maker and a five course dinner, which is 
matched with wine. The dinners attract 
up to 30 diners and have seen a great 
sales uplift for the venue.
Best newcomer
The Old Volunteer, Nottingham
Publicans Andrew and Maggie Dunkin took 
on the Old Volunteer as their very first pub 
and have worked alongside us to complete 
a £155,000 joint investment, transforming 
the pub into a hugely successful venue. 
Former IT consultants, Andrew and Maggie 
have a love of real ale and set up their own 
brewery, Flipside Brewery, which offers 
nine cask ales and has won numerous 
awards including SIBA National Silver 
Award for their beer ‘Russian Rouble’.
With the success of the brewery, Andrew 
and Maggie wanted create a showcase  
for their beers and a positive platform  
to increase sales and awareness and so 
took on the Old Volunteer in May 2014.
 “We weren’t looking to create an  
‘off the shelf’ modern, soulless pub.  
We wanted to create something special;  
a pub that celebrated what real ale is all 
about; great quality and choice of locally 
produced beers served well in a warm, 
friendly environment complemented  
with traditional, locally sourced food,”  
explains Andrew. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 14
Corporate social responsibility
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  
is embedded across many elements  
of our business. Our CSR strategy  
seeks to involve our employees and 
publicans in making our business and, 
in turn, their businesses, more ethical 
and environmentally friendly. 
Social impact
Punch is committed to ensuring that the social impact of our 
business is a positive one. The key principles we adhere to are 
promoting responsible retailing of alcohol by our publicans, 
supporting good causes and supporting local communities. 
Responsible retailing
We were recognised as the ‘Responsible Retailer of the Year’  
at the 2015 Publican Awards. We are active supporters of 
Drinkaware and promote the messages of the Drinkaware 
campaign in a number of ways: 
•	 they had a presence at our roadshows;
•	 we support their local campaigns;
•	 we carry the logo on all materials produced by our creative 
team, such as menus;
•	 there is a link to their website from our Buying Club website; 
and
•	 we ran an alcohol awareness campaign internally for our 
employees. 
In addition to this, we are Portman Group Alcohol Sponsorship 
Code signatories. 
Punch has its own Code of Practice which sets out the promises 
we make to our publicans and how we will honour them. Our 
Code of Practice incorporates standards set out in the Industry 
Framework Code and is accredited by BII Benchmarking and 
Accreditation Service.
We have a dedicated Risk Management team in place to ensure 
that our pubs operate responsibly and to the highest standards. 
We strive to ensure our pubs are not operating irresponsible 
drinks promotions, or serving underage drinkers or those under 
the influence of alcohol. The Punch Buying Club has a section 
on Risk Management providing publicans with a wide range  
of downloadable educational tools, advice and pub friendly 
materials.
Responsible retailing forms a key part of our publican training. 
We provide our publicans with a clear guide on current 
legislation and best practice. We provide all new publicans  
with their first year membership to the Federation of Licenced 
Victuallers Association and the British Institute of Innkeeping 
(BII) so that they can keep abreast of any changes in the industry 
and up to date best practice advice.
Good causes
The Punch Community Promise is an initiative based on 
donating time and money to local causes. We have made 
donations to a wide range of causes from local scout and 
football clubs to funding towards a new minibus for PHAB  
(a charity working with physically handicapped and able-bodied 
youngsters) and the Hawthorns Resource Centre League of 
Friends, which provides short breaks for children with severe 
learning disabilities and their families. 
We also make an annual donation to Licensed Trade Support 
and Care, part of the Licensed Trade Charity, which provides 
support to people in crisis who are working in, or retired from, 
the licensed drinks trade. Our donation enables the charity to 
run a national Volunteer Visitor programme.
Local communities
As well as our commitment to local charities we also encourage 
all our publicans to consider the role their pub business can play 
in the local community. Many pubs, especially those in rural 
areas, have diversified to provide a wider community service 
through services such as hosting the post office or local shop, 
providing web access and meeting spaces to local clubs and 
societies. Local pubs are also perfectly positioned to coordinate 
fundraising events for local sports teams and community 
groups. 
We welcome ‘Pub is the Hub’, initiated by HRH the Prince of 
Wales, which encourages rural pub owners, licensees and local 
communities to work together to support, retain and locate 
services within the pub. We support ‘Pub is the Hub’ through 
annual donations of £25,000 and senior members of our team 
actively participate in its Regional Advisory Hubs. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 15
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Industry engagement
Punch continues to play a full role in the pub sector through 
membership of the British Beer Pub Association (BBPA)  
and support for the British Institute of Innkeeping (BII),  
the Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers (ALMR) and  
the Federation of Licensed Victuallers Associations (FLVA). 
Pubs play a vital role in the economy providing local 
employment particularly for young people. We have  
enabled our publicans and their staff to reap the rewards  
of Government-funded Apprenticeship schemes.
We also continue to engage with Government on the need  
for investment in the sector as a key part of the wider growth 
agenda for the UK economy. 
Work place
Punch is committed to being a great place to work. In order 
to attract and retain the highest calibre team, we offer 
competitive rewards and high quality training and development 
opportunities, as well as strong values and policies on inclusion, 
equality, health and safety. 
Values
Our values underpin our culture and approach:
BEST Business Success – commercially minded, we deliver 
outstanding results for Punch and our stakeholders.
BEST Energy and Enthusiasm – passionate about innovation 
and operational excellence; we all deliver our commitments.
BEST Service and Hospitality – publicans are our customers; 
together we deliver awesome consumer experiences in a new 
and digital world.
BEST Teamwork – people understand their role; working 
collaboratively to deliver outstanding support and customer 
service.
Communication
We are committed to regular, two way communications 
between the Board and employees, with strong structures and 
channels in place for consultation and feedback. Our leadership 
team deliver regular Business Briefs to employees on the Group’s 
performance. We also have a quarterly Information Consultation 
Group (ICG), made up of representatives from all our teams. 
The ICG is a two way feedback process for the Group and 
our employees. 
Anti-bribery and corruption
The risks of bribery, corruption, fraud or theft exist in every 
company. Punch is committed to conducting its business with 
the highest degree of integrity. This commitment includes a zero 
tolerance approach towards all forms of bribery, corruption, 
fraud and theft and procedures within the Group have been 
designed to minimise these risks. 
The Group has implemented business conduct guidelines 
describing the standards of behaviour expected from those 
working for the Group, via an Ethics and Code of Conduct 
Policy. Its aim is to promote honest and ethical conduct 
throughout our business, and it applies to all employees. 
The Ethics and Code of Conduct Policy requires:
•	 compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that apply 
to the Group and its officers including the Bribery Act 2010;
•	 the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest 
between internal and external, personal and professional 
relationships; and
•	 that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved,  
with a presumption against its acceptance.
The Group takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and  
has developed an extensive Anti-Bribery Policy. The Ethics and  
Code of Conduct Policy requires employees to comply with the 
Anti-Bribery Policy. Engaging in fraud, bribery or corruption is 
unlawful and any employee, director or officer found to have 
breached the code of ethics will be liable to disciplinary action 
which may result in dismissal or other serious sanctions. There 
have been no recorded instances of bribery or corruption during 
the period under review.
Publicans
While our publicans are not directly employed by Punch, we 
recognise that our expertise is invaluable in supporting their 
businesses. We therefore help them to set the highest standards 
within their pubs, through our partner training programmes and 
support services. This includes helping them and their staff to 
obtain qualifications in food safety and health and safety. Within 
the first few days of taking on their pubs, our publicans receive 
a comprehensive ‘Safe, Legal and Compliant’ pack which has 
been produced to ensure they are clear on the various legal 
requirements affecting their business, ranging from general 
advice and guidance to top tips and templates, such as fire 
assessments or health and safety policies that can be tailored  
for their businesses. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 16
Environmental impacts
With a portfolio of 3,588 pubs as well as our Burton head  
office we recognise that the carbon footprint of our business 
represents a major environmental impact. We are tackling our 
environmental impacts through carbon management, waste 
reduction and sustainable procurement.
Carbon management
We are absolutely committed to reducing our carbon footprint. 
At our Burton head office we recycle a wide range of items 
and carefully monitor our energy usage to minimise wastage. 
We provide priority parking spaces for members of our office 
car share scheme, incentivising those that can, to travel to 
work together. 
We also have a regular programme of internal communication 
designed to encourage team members to think about their 
energy usage and reminding them of our aim to reduce our 
carbon footprint.
Effective carbon management and the importance of CSR  
also form part of the professional training our Partnership 
Development Managers undertake. They in turn relay these 
messages to our network of publicans. We also provide 
downloadable materials for publicans on effective carbon 
management and waste reduction. 
Waste reduction
Ultimately, we are aiming to reach a position of virtually  
zero general waste at our Burton head office where everything 
is recycled and nothing goes to land fill. 
We are also committed to helping our publicans reduce  
their waste where possible. We work closely with SITA UK,  
a recycling and resource management company who in turn 
work with a number of our publicans. SITA deliver solutions  
to help their clients reduce the impact of their waste on the 
environment through a network of recycling, composting, 
energy-from-waste and landfill facilities.
Our Punch Buying Club, which has over 3,000 users, enables 
publicans to place their orders online which allows ordering  
‘just in time’ and ‘just enough’ thus avoiding unnecessary  
waste. Our Buying Club publicans also benefit from ‘green’ 
online accounting. 
Sustainable procurement
We have a nationwide team of Catering Development Managers 
who work closely with our publicans to help them introduce  
and enhance their food offers. We are passionate about local 
providence and, where appropriate, the team will encourage 
publicans to source their produce from local sources and reduce 
their food miles.
Greenhouse gas emissions statement
Assessment parameters
Consolidation approach Operational control boundary
Boundary summary All facilities under operational control  
were included
Consistency with the 
financial statements
The pubs included in Property, Plant and 
Equipment in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet are not under our operational 
control and are therefore not included in 
our emissions table. There are 195 leased 
vehicles which are under our operational 
control and have been included in the 
emissions table but do not appear in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Emission factor  
data source
DEFRA
Assessment 
methodology
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and 
ISO 14064-1
Intensity ratio Emissions per full time employee 
equivalent (FTE)
Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Source
22 August
 2015
 (tCO
2
e)
22 August
 2015
 (tCO
2
e/FTE)
23 August
 2014
 (tCO
2
e)
23 August
 2014
 (tCO
2
e/FTE)
Scope 1 – direct 
emissions
Fuel combustion 
(fleet vehicles) 1,293 3.35 1,077 2.75
Scope 2 –  
purchased 
electricity 308 0.80 330 0.84
Statutory total 1,601 4.15 1,407 3.59
Group metrics 2015 2014
FTE 386 392
Corporate social responsibility continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 17
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Our approach to managing  
risks and uncertainties
Punch has a formal risk management process in place which  
is designed to identify, evaluate and manage the risks and 
uncertainties to which it is exposed. 
Management teams from across the Group carry out regular  
risk workshops and update our risk register. Risks are highlighted 
and then assessed based on the probability of them occurring 
and the impact they may have on the business. A consistent 
approach for reporting risks on a risk matrix ensures that Punch 
is able to prioritise its risks. Mitigation plans are implemented 
where necessary to ensure that risks are managed appropriately. 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the risk management 
framework and formally reviews the material risks to the Group 
regularly as well as discussing changing or emerging risks on  
an ongoing basis. The Board is responsible for ensuring that 
business risks are appropriately managed by the management 
team and monitors key risk performance measures on  
a periodic basis. 
The Internal Audit function provides assurance to the Board  
on key controls and the management of risks within Punch.  
The Audit and Risk Committee annually reviews the overall 
effectiveness of the risk management framework. 
Punch is exposed to a variety of financial, operational, economic 
and regulatory risks and uncertainties. Our main risks and how 
we manage them are shown in the following pages; however, 
this is not an exhaustive list of all of the risks which Punch is 
exposed to. Some of the risks Punch faces are external and 
therefore beyond our control. Some risks may not be known  
at present or may be considered to be currently immaterial,  
but could develop into material risks in the future. The risk 
management processes are therefore designed to manage the 
risks which may have a material impact on our ability to meet 
our strategic objectives, rather than fully mitigate all risks. 
The Board is aware that these risks and uncertainties may either 
singularly or collectively affect Punch’s revenue, our costs, the 
value of our assets, our reputation or our ability to meet our 
strategic objectives and it is therefore committed to continually 
reviewing and improving the risk management framework. 
Monitor  
and track progress  
and key risk KPls
Plc Board 
Management
Departments 
Risk Owners
•  Risk workshops
•  Assess risk tolerance 
and risk appetite
•  Update to risk registers
Identify and  
evaluate risks
Implement 
mitigating  
action plans
Test  
controls
Identify controls  
or mitigation  
already in place
Risk 
management 
framework Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 18
Our key risks and uncertainties
Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls
Market and economic risks
Economic climate 
Punch’s business operations rely upon the spending capacity of consumers. 
The basic cost of living could rise at a faster rate than income and further 
challenges such as duty increases or the national living wage could affect 
our publican’s businesses and Punch’s revenue. 
•	 We carry out regular reviews of the impact of economic conditions  
on our budget and strategic plans.
•	 We continue to monitor the financial health of our publicans via a Support 
Tool, together with analysis to highlight potential failures, and our 
Partnership Development Managers continue to help grow and diversify 
our publicans’ businesses. 
Market risks
Consumer perception and public attitudes towards the consumption of 
alcohol may continue to change, and the Group may be unable to respond  
to changing consumer habits and tastes.
•	 We are committed to developing an estate of well invested, high quality 
pubs. We have an experienced food development team, supported by 
dedicated marketing and training teams, which alongside the targeted 
capital investment is expected to drive further food penetration in the  
core estate over the coming years.
General economic conditions
Changes in interest rates and other economic factors could lead to an 
increase in the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC), or could 
impact profitability either of which could lead to an impairment in the value 
of goodwill carried on the Balance Sheet. 
•	 The group regularly reviews its WACC in line with the capital structure,  
and compares to its competitors. It annually reviews the carrying value  
of goodwill and would write down the value if it deemed impairment  
was necessary. Any goodwill that is allocated to the pubs that are disposed 
is written off during the year.
Property valuations
Fluctuations in the UK property market as well as the current uncertain 
market conditions and planning restrictions which affect the ability to convert 
pubs for alternative use, could impact the value of Punch’s property portfolio 
and our ability to dispose of pubs at an appropriate value.
Property valuations also have an implication for the overall value of the 
Group and impact on financial covenants.
•	 The Group commissioned an open market valuation of our properties 
during the second half of the year by qualified external valuers in 
accordance with RICS Valuation Standards. These valuations comply  
with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards.
•	 We have conducted full estate reviews and regularly update these  
to allow us to assess the future strategy for pubs within the estate. 
•	 This has allowed us to invest where appropriate; consider possible 
alternative use; or dispose of those pubs which no longer fit our  
future strategy.
•	 We invested £46m on developing and improving the quality of our  
estate during the year. 
•	 We carry out an annual review for any indicators of impairment.
Increasing costs
Increases in any of our key supply costs due to availability of products  
or inflationary or above inflationary price increases are an ongoing risk  
to our business. 
•	 We continue to negotiate supplier contracts to protect us against 
significant increases in drink costs.
•	 Careful cost control processes ensure that costs are budgeted, closely 
monitored and subject to appropriate authorisation.
Financial
Liquidity and covenant risk
Punch’s capital structure is made up of debt, issued share capital  
and reserves. 
Punch is financed through two whole business securitisations, the Punch  
A Securitisation and the Punch B Securitisation, as well as cash resources 
held across the Group.
The key short-term liquidity risk is the requirement to meet scheduled debt 
service costs as they fall due. 
Both of Punch’s securitisation structures have financial covenants.
•	 Cash flow forecasts are regularly produced to assist management in 
identifying liquidity requirements and are stress-tested for possible 
scenarios. 
•	 Cash balances are invested in short-term deposits such that they are readily 
available to settle short-term liabilities or fund capital additions.
•	 Covenants are closely monitored and stress-tested to ensure we are able  
to generate sufficient returns to service our debt and meet our covenant 
requirements.
Interest rate risk
Punch is exposed to interest rate risk from loan notes and borrows at both 
fixed and floating rates of interest. 
The use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments 
exposes Punch to fair value interest rate risk such that Punch would not 
benefit from falls in interest rates and would be exposed to unplanned costs, 
such as breakage costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments 
be restructured or repaid early.
Further information on Punch’s financial instruments can be found in note  
23 to the financial statements.
•	 Punch employs derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps 
to generate the desired interest rate profile.
•	 Punch has taken out derivative financial instruments such that 91% of all 
external debt (August 2014: 100%) was either at fixed rates or was 
converted to fixed rates as a result of swap arrangements, reducing our 
exposure to changes in interest rates.
•	 Future debt requirements are closely monitored to assist management in 
identifying the appropriate strategy for interest rate hedge arrangements.
Pensions
Punch has a legacy defined benefit pension scheme which must be funded  
to meet required benefit payments. The value and funding of the scheme 
is subject to risk of changes in life expectancy, actual and expected price 
inflation, changes in bond yields, future salary increases and changes to 
the investment strategy. The difference in value between scheme assets and 
scheme liabilities may vary resulting in an increased deficit being recognised 
on our balance sheet. 
•	 The defined benefit pension scheme is closed to new members; instead 
we operate defined contribution schemes for our employees.
•	 We maintain a close relationship with the trustees of the pension scheme. 
Internal financial control 
Punch is committed to maintaining a robust internal control environment.  
A lack of control could result in financial fraud or material error in our  
financial statements. 
•	 Robust internal controls operate over all key processes including general 
controls such as segregation of duties and authorisation of contracts  
and expenditure. 
•	 The Internal Audit function reviews and reports on strengths and 
weaknesses in the internal control environment.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 19
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls
Operational and people
Change management
Punch is reliant on the successful implementation of business processes  
and change programmes to deliver both day-to-day operational 
improvements and our strategic plan. 
•	 Formal project management processes are used across the business  
to prepare project objectives and plans and to ensure progress is tracked  
and results measured.
•	 Major projects are well communicated across the business so that a joined 
up approach is maintained.
•	 The introduction of a workflow system (Appian) has allowed controls  
to be embedded within business processes. 
Information systems, technology and security
Punch is reliant upon information systems and technology for many aspects 
of its business, which could cause damage if they were to fail for any length 
of time. 
•	 An incident management and business continuity plan is in place for critical 
business processes to ensure the business is able to continue operating  
in the event of a major incident. 
•	 We have access to an off-site disaster recovery facility if access to our 
support centre, or its systems, is affected. 
Product quality
Punch is exposed to product quality risk in relation to drink which is supplied 
to us and sold on to our publicans. Food contamination, food scare, poor 
quality or wrongly prepared food in our pubs could result in a food safety 
issue for our guests and impact our guest satisfaction and reputation. 
•	 Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained 
and that drink products are fully traceable.
•	 Our incident management plan is designed so that products can be 
recalled quickly if required.
•	 Monthly food safety audits are carried out in every pub within the Retail 
pub division. 
•	 Upon entry to the pub all retailers (publicans) are provided with food 
safety training.
•	 A food safety helpline is available to all retailers for day to day advice  
on associated issues.
Supply chain management
Punch places reliance on our key suppliers and distributors to ensure 
continuous supply of drink and other products into our pubs. Punch is 
exposed to the risk of interruption or failure of suppliers or distributors, 
resulting in our products not being delivered on time or to our required 
standards. 
•	 Punch has reviewed the disaster recovery and business continuity plans  
of our key distributors.
•	 We monitor product quality closely and consider action which may  
be required to provide substitute products or suppliers if required.
People risks
Failure to recruit, train and retain successful publicans and high calibre 
employees for our support teams may impact the ability to deliver our 
strategic plan and operational objectives. 
•	 We provide industry leading induction training and coaching programmes 
for our new publicans.
•	 We undertake succession planning at all levels to ensure we attract  
and retain high calibre people.
•	 We carry out an annual Employee Engagement Survey and regular listening 
groups to obtain direct feedback from our employees. 
•	 We have a remuneration strategy to ensure our teams are paid fairly  
and competitively.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 20
Our key risks and uncertainties continued
Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls
Regulatory
Health and safety
A health and safety accident or incident could lead to serious illness, injury or 
even loss of life to one of our publicans, employees or visitors, or significantly 
impact Punch’s reputation. 
•	 Health and safety is discussed at each Executive Board meeting to consider  
all aspects of health and safety across Punch and to report to the Board  
of Directors on the status of health and safety.
•	 We have formally documented and briefed health and safety policies  
for our support centre and field-based teams and carry out annual risk 
assessments in key areas.
•	 Our ‘Knowingly Safe’ and planned maintenance programmes have 
significantly improved the approach to health and safety within our pubs. 
Changes in legislation
Following a consultation regarding the introduction of a Statutory Code,  
it is proposed by the Government that there will be a Statutory Code and  
an independent adjudicator appointed to oversee the Code. Although  
this removes some of the uncertainty in the sector, until the parliamentary 
process is complete and the final detail is known, the potential costs of 
implementation and the operation of the regime could have an impact  
upon our profitability, our operational strategy and our relationship with  
our publicans.
Punch is subject to many different areas of regulation, many due to the high 
level of control over the sale of alcohol. Increasing focus in areas such as  
the relationship between pub companies and their tenants, binge drinking, 
underage drinking, and health impacts over recent years also means that the 
Government may introduce further regulation which may significantly affect 
our business. 
The Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015 (the ‘Act’) which 
includes the provision of an independent adjudicator and Market Rent  
Only option (‘MRO’) for all companies with over 500 pubs operating under 
tied leased and tenancy agreements in the UK, received Royal Assent  
on 26 March 2015. The Act includes a lessee’s right, under certain 
circumstances, to change the freely-negotiated commercial terms of their 
agreement. This MRO option enables some occupational lessees to elect  
to opt-out of the drinks supply tie at certain points during the term of their 
lease agreement and therefore occupy the premises on a standard 
commercial property lease, paying rent only.
There is currently a period of consultation in order for the Government to 
prepare Secondary Legislation setting out the detail of how the Act will be 
implemented and it is anticipated that the Secondary Legislation will come 
into operation from the middle of 2016. In our 2017 financial year we expect 
up to 400 potential MRO event triggers and up to 300 event triggers per  
year in the following four years. In the event that a lessee elected to invoke 
the MRO option, whilst our income derived from the supply of tied drinks 
products would be partially offset by increases in rent, it is possible that  
our total income would be adversely affected by this amendment.
•	 We are actively participating in the ongoing consultation and undertaking  
a number of actions based on our understanding of what the Statutory 
Code will comprise, including the introduction of new systems for the 
recording of meetings, development of business plans and the information 
provided to new entrants to our business.
•	 Punch works closely with our publicans and the rest of the industry to 
address the key issues facing the pub sector.
•	 We ensure that our training covers all aspects of licensing requirements 
and have due diligence in place to confirm that our pubs meet relevant 
licensing legislation.
•	 Punch works closely with local Licensing Authorities, to ensure individual 
pub licensing requirements are met and any issues are highlighted as soon 
as possible.
•	 While the take-up of the MRO option will only become clear over time 
through the cycle of five yearly rent reviews and renewals, our current 
expectations are that the majority of the estate will continue to operate 
under, and enjoy the benefits of the tied-drinks model.
•	 The Group has already begun to take a number of operational actions  
to address the potential implications on the Group of the implementation 
of the legislation, including a review of new managed and franchised 
pub operating formats on a select number of sites, modernisation of pub 
tenancy agreements and development of new commercial free-of-tie lease 
agreements and operating models.
Strategic report approval
The Strategic report, outlined on pages 1 to 21, incorporates the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s review,  
the Financial review, the Corporate social responsibility report and Risks and uncertainties.
By order of the Board
E Bashforth
Company Secretary 
11 November 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 21
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Board of Directors
Stephen Billingham 
Non-Executive Chairman
Duncan Garrood
Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Billingham became Chairman in September 2011.  
He was Executive Chairman between February 2013 and 
June 2015, when Punch did not have a Chief Executive Officer. 
Stephen reverted to a Non-Executive role in June 2015. He was 
Finance Director of British Energy Group plc from 2004 to 2009, 
where he worked on delivering the turnaround and strong 
performance of the business, its relisting in 2005, its move up 
to the FTSE 100 and its sale to EDF in 2009 for £12.5bn. Prior 
to this, Stephen was Group Finance Director of WS Atkins plc 
during its financial recovery, as well as Group Treasurer of BICC 
plc (now Balfour Beatty plc) and Severn Trent plc. Stephen is also 
currently Chairman of Anglian Water Group, a Non-Executive 
Director of Balfour Beatty plc and a Government-appointed 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 
of Urenco Limited.
Duncan Garrood was appointed Chief Executive Officer 
of Punch in June 2015. He was President of the Food Division 
at MH Alshaya in Kuwait from 2009 to 2015 with broad 
responsibility across a retail division of 1,000 franchised outlets 
across the Middle East, Russia, North Africa and the UK. Prior to 
this, Duncan was Commercial Director of BAA plc, the airport 
operator, with responsibility for running the property, food, 
drink and retail businesses, including overseeing the opening of 
the commercial outlets at Heathrow’s Terminal 5. Duncan brings 
a wealth of experience in the retail and leisure sector including 
an excellent track record of driving operational performance in 
Unilever plc and SC Johnson.
Steve Dando
Chief Financial Officer
Angus Porter
Senior Independent Director
Steve Dando was appointed to the role of Chief Financial Officer 
in August 2015. He joined Punch in 2003 as Chief Accountant 
and was promoted to Group Financial Controller in 2009 and 
Finance Director in July 2011. During his time with Punch, Steve 
has played a major role in the development of the Group.  
He has a wealth of experience, previously holding a number  
of senior finance roles with Courtaulds plc. Steve is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales 
and started his career at Price Waterhouse Coopers. 
Angus Porter was appointed as Senior Independent Director  
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in April 2012.  
He is currently the Chief Executive Officer of the Professional 
Cricketers’ Association, Co-Chairman of Direct Wines Ltd, and 
a Non-Executive Director of TDC. In his career to date, Angus 
has been a Non-Executive Director of MyTravel Group, Alliance 
and Leicester, and Thomas Cook, and has held senior Executive 
positions at Mars, British Telecom, Abbey National and WPP.
John Allkins
Non-Executive Director
Ian Dyson
Non-Executive Director
John Allkins joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive 
Director in October 2012 and he is the Chairman of the Audit 
and Risk Committee. John is also a Non-Executive Director 
of Renold plc, Fairpoint Group plc and Nobina AB and he 
has been a Non-Executive Director of a number of public and  
private companies since 2007. John was previously Group 
Finance Director of MyTravel Group plc and Chief Financial 
Officer of Equant NV.
Ian Dyson joined Punch as Chief Executive Officer in September 
2010. Following the demerger of Spirit in August 2011, Ian 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Spirit Pub Company  
and became a Non-Executive Director of Punch. Ian was 
previously with Marks and Spencer plc where he was Group 
Finance and Operations Director, and prior to that Group 
Finance Director. He also held roles as Finance Director of 
The Rank Group plc and Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc.  
Ian is also a Non-Executive Director of SSP Group plc, ASOS plc, 
Intercontinental Hotels Group plc and Betfair plc. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 22
Directors’ report
The Directors present their Annual Report to shareholders  
on the affairs of the Group and the Company together with  
the audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended  
22 August 2015.
Certain information required for disclosure in this report  
is provided in other appropriate sections of the full Annual  
Report and Financial Statements 2015. These include the 
Business review, the Corporate governance statement, the 
Report on Directors’ remuneration and the Group financial 
statements and these are accordingly incorporated into this 
Directors’ report by reference.
Results 
The results of the Group for the period are set out in  
the Consolidated income statement on page 44. 
Principal activity and review of the business
The Group’s main trading activity is the operation of public 
houses under the leased model. This involves the granting of 
leases to tenants who operate the pub as their own business, 
paying rent to the Group, purchasing beer and other drinks  
from the Group and entering into profit-sharing arrangements 
for income from leisure machines. 
A review of the period’s activities and future developments,  
and information on the risks and uncertainties faced by the 
Group, are included in the Business review. The management  
of business risk is set out in the Corporate governance statement 
and Our risks and uncertainties on pages 18 and 25 of this 
report and key performance indicators (KPIs) are shown on  
page 1 of this report. The Group’s risk management policies  
in relation to the use of financial instruments are set out in  
note 23 to the Group financial statements.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the Company are listed on page 21. 
On 15 June 2015, Duncan Garrood was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer and Stephen Billingham reverted to the role 
of Non-Executive Chairman.
Details of Directors’ service contracts are contained within  
the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 32 to 42.
The procedure for the appointment, replacement and 
re-election of Directors and the role of the Nomination  
and Governance Committee is disclosed in the Corporate 
governance statement on pages 25 to 29.
At the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM), 
to be held on 18 January 2015, all Directors will stand for 
election. The biographical details of each Director can be  
found on page 21 of this report.
The beneficial interests of Directors and their connected 
persons, who held office at 22 August 2015, in the share capital 
of the Company are shown below (note that on 13 October 2014 
the Company undertook a consolidation of its share capital on  
a 1 for 20 basis).
At
9 November
2015
Consolidated
 Ordinary
shares
At
22 August
2015
Consolidated 
Ordinary
shares
At
23 August
2014
Ordinary
shares
Stephen Billingham 32,194 32,194 –
Steve Dando 41,835 41,835 836,724
Ian Dyson 15,208 15,208 304,168
Duncan Garrood – – –
Angus Porter – – –
John Allkins – – –
A statement of the Directors’ remuneration and their interests  
in the various share incentive schemes of the Company is set  
out in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 32 to 42.
No notification has been received of any change in the interests 
of the Directors and their connected persons during the period 
22 August 2015 to 9 November 2015.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the period.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 
and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, 
the business of the Company is managed by the Directors who 
may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors’ conflicts of interests
During the period, the Board has continued to review the 
interests of the Directors and their connected persons and  
has authorised any interests which conflicted or potentially 
conflicted with the interests of the Company. The Nomination 
and Governance Committee will continue to conduct periodic 
reviews of conflict authorisations to determine whether the 
authorisation given should continue, be added to or be revoked 
by the Board.
Directors’ indemnity
As governed by the Companies Act 2006, the Group maintains 
liability insurance for its Directors and officers. On 26 February 
2006 a subsidiary company within the Group, Punch Taverns 
(PGE) Limited, granted indemnity cover for the benefit of the 
Group’s Directors and officers. The indemnity is uncapped in 
amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they 
may incur to third parties in the course of acting as a Director  
or officer of the Group, and was in effect during the financial 
year and continues to date. Neither the indemnity nor insurance 
cover provides cover in the event that a Director or officer is 
proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 23
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Substantial shareholdings
As at 9 November 2015, being the last practicable day prior  
to the date of this report, the Company has been notified of  
the following substantial interests (representing 3% or more)  
in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Shareholder
Ordinary
 shares
Glenview Capital Management 22.16%
Avenue Capital Management 12.04%
Warwick Capital Partners 9.56%
Moore Capital Management 7.88%
Luxor Capital Group 7.85%
Alchemy Special Opportunities 3.66%
Oaktree Capital Management 3.65%
Serengeti Asset Management 3.55%
Carlson Capital UK 3.14%
Archview Investment Group 3.01%
Political and charitable contributions 
During the period the Group made charitable contributions  
of £20,155 (2014: £22,000) which included £2,000 of trade 
volunteer sponsorship. No political contributions were made 
during the period (2014: £nil).
The Company does not make political donations and has no 
intention of making donations nor incurring such expenditure. 
As the relevant legislation is very broadly drafted, the Company 
as a precautionary measure, includes a resolution at the AGM  
to permit the Company to make political donations and incur 
political expenditure.
Employees 
The total number of employees at the end of the period  
was 407. The Group recognises the value of its employees  
and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive 
environment in which to work. It places considerable importance 
on communications with employees which take place at many 
levels through the organisation on both a formal and informal 
level. We hold regular staff briefings and events, and evaluate 
staff motivation and morale through an annual engagement 
survey.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company  
and the Group currently operates an HMRC Approved Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) which is open to all employees of the Group 
including the Executive Directors. A resolution to approve  
an HMRC approved share save scheme open to all employees 
which helps to align employees with the performance of  
the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
The Group is committed to promoting diversity across the 
Group. To this end, the Group is committed to providing equal 
opportunities in recruitment, promotion, career development, 
training and reward to all employees without discrimination. 
The Group gives full consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons where the requirements  
of the job can be adequately fulfilled by such persons.  
The Group continues to be supportive of the employment  
of disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and 
aptitudes, provided that they can be employed in a safe  
working environment. Where existing employees become 
disabled, it is the Group’s policy wherever practicable to provide 
continuing employment under normal terms and conditions.
Corporate governance
The Board reviews its work on corporate governance in  
the Corporate governance review on pages 25 to 29.
The environment
The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental  
laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral  
to its business operation.
Creditor payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made  
in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between 
the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms 
and conditions have been complied with. At 22 August 2015  
the Company had nil (2014: nil) days’ purchases outstanding  
in trade creditors.
Significant agreements
The Company is party to certain non-material agreements 
(including trust deeds relating to the Company’s employee  
share incentive plans) that contain change of control provisions 
in the event of the takeover of the Company but these are not 
considered to be significant on an individual basis.
Additional information for shareholders
At 22 August 2015, the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of shares known as ordinary shares.  
On 13 October 2014, the Company undertook a consolidation 
of its share capital on a 1 for 20 basis. The Share capital note  
on page 83 of this report contains full details of shares allotted 
and provides an explanation of the movements in share capital, 
during the period. 63,302 partnership shares, in respect of the 
Company’s SIP, totalling £605.93 nominal value, were purchased 
by the Company during the period.
There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the Company 
other than: (i) those which may from time to time be applicable 
under existing laws and regulations (for example under the 
Market Abuse Directive); (ii) pursuant to the Company’s dealing 
code whereby persons discharging managerial responsibilities 
(and their connected persons) of the Company require approval 
from the Company to deal in the Company’s securities and are 
prohibited from dealing during a ‘close period’ and (iii) those 
contained in any restriction notice (as defined in the Articles  
of Association) issued by the Company. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 24
Directors’ report continued
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the shares  
in the Company other than those contained in any restriction 
notice issued by the Company of which none is currently  
in issue.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer  
of securities or on voting rights. In addition, there are no  
people holding securities that carry special rights with regard  
to control of the Company.
There are no provisions contained in any of the Directors’  
or employees’ service contracts which provide for compensation 
for loss of office or employment that occurs because of  
a takeover bid.
General meetings
At a general meeting of the Company’s shareholders,  
the Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by 
special resolution. Also at a general meeting of the Company’s 
shareholders on a show of hands every member who is present 
in person and by proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote.  
On a poll every member who is present in person and by proxy 
shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.  
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to 
their holdings provided that each proxy does not vote in relation 
to the same shares. The Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders 
gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights and 
appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions  
to be considered at the AGM.
Forward looking statements
The financial information in the business review should  
be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements. 
Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements  
are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks  
and uncertainties. The discussion of estimated amounts 
generated from the sensitivity analyses is forward looking  
and also involves risks and uncertainties. Caution should  
be exercised in relying on these analyses. Actual results may  
differ materially from those in forward looking statements.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information 
to auditors
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there  
is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are 
unaware and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information  
and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information. 
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the Company’s auditors 
will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board of Directors
Ed Bashforth
Company Secretary Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 25
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Corporate governance statement
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) sets out 
guidance in the form of main principles and specific provisions 
on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow 
good governance practice. The rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA) require listed companies incorporated  
in the UK to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have 
applied those principles and whether they have complied  
with the provisions throughout the financial year.
This report, together with the Audit and risk committee report, 
the Directors’ report and the Directors’ remuneration report 
provides an overview of how the Group has applied the 
principles of the Code throughout the period. It details the  
work and activities undertaken by the Company’s relevant 
Committees and sets out the key features of the Company’s 
governance structure. 
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate 
governance in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable 
business and details are set out in this statement of the 
Company’s corporate governance procedures and application  
of the principles of the Code. The Company is committed to 
high standards of corporate governance and demonstrates  
this by being compliant with all the main provisions of the Code, 
except where explained below.
Explanation for non-compliance with parts  
of the Code
B.2.1 Appointments to the Board
Throughout the year the Nomination and Governance 
Committee was not constituted in accordance with the Code  
as the majority of members on the committee were not 
independent. The Nomination and Governance Committee  
is made up of the Chairman of the Board and all three 
Non-Executive Directors which encourages a broader range  
of input and the Board does not consider this to be an 
impediment to good governance. The Company is currently 
seeking an additional Independent Non-Executive Director  
and the appointed Independent Non-Executive Director will  
be invited to join the Nomination and Governance Committee.
A. Leadership
The role of the Board
✓
 The Company is headed by an effective Board which 
is collectively responsible for the long-term success  
of the Company.
The work of the Board is structured around scheduled Board 
meetings which are linked to key events in the Company’s 
corporate calendar, with additional meetings and conference 
calls convened to consider matters which are time-critical or 
which require further discussion.
Together the Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s 
shareholders for the Group’s performance and sets the strategic 
aims and objectives of the Group to fulfil this responsibility.  
The Board determines the Company’s key policies, agrees on 
performance criteria and delegates to senior management their 
planning and implementation. Overall, the Board ensures that  
all necessary resources are in place in order for the Company  
to meet its objectives and that all decisions are taken objectively 
and in the interest of the Company and its shareholders.
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational 
management of the Company to the Executive Directors  
and other senior management, it retains a schedule of matters 
which are dealt with by the Board. These include matters 
pertaining to strategy and management, structure and capital, 
financial reporting and controls, significant contracts, material 
acquisitions and disposals, investments and capital projects.
During the period the Board held eight Board meetings,  
the attendance of which was as follows:
Director
Board
 meetings
Nomination
 and
 Governance
 Committee
 meetings
Audit and 
Risk
 Committee
 meetings
Remuneration
 Committee
meetings
Duncan 
Garrood
1
1/1 N/A N/A N/A
Steve Dando 8/8 N/A N/A N/A
Stephen 
Billingham
2
8/8 5/5 N/A 3/3
Angus Porter
3
8/8 5/5 6/6 3/3
Ian Dyson
4
8/8 4/5 6/6 3/3
John Allkins
5
8/8 5/5 6/6 3/3
1  Duncan Garrood was appointed to the Board on 15 June 2015.
2  Stephen Billingham is Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee 
and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
3  Angus Porter is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and a member  
of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination and Governance 
Committee.
4  Ian Dyson is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination  
and Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
5  John Allkins is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and is a member  
of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination and Governance 
Committee.
Division of responsibilities
✓
 There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head 
of the Company between the running of the Board 
and the executive responsibility for the running of 
the Company’s business. No one individual has 
unfettered powers of decision. 
As Chairman of the Board, Stephen Billingham is responsible for:
•	 the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness  
and setting its agenda; 
•	 facilitating and helping the Non-Executive Directors in their 
challenge and scrutiny roles;
•	 ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion  
of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues;
•	 arranging the regular evaluation of the performance of  
the Board, its Committees and individual Directors; 
•	 promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating 
the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and 
ensuring constructive relations between Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors; and
•	 ensuring that, through the Company Secretary, the members 
of the Board receive clear, accurate and timely information. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 26
Corporate governance statement continued
The Chief Executive Officer, Duncan Garrood (and prior to his 
appointment the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating 
Officer) is responsible for:
•	 developing strategic operating plans;
•	 preparing annual budgets and medium term projections for 
the Group and closely monitoring performance against plans 
and budgets;
•	 ensuring effective communication with shareholders; and
•	 overseeing the day-to-day management of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors
✓
 As part of their role as members of a unitary board, 
Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge  
and help develop proposals on strategy.
In addition to their attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors  
met without the Executive Directors to discuss the operational 
performance of the Group as a whole. During the period,  
the Non-Executive Directors have also taken the opportunity  
to meet without the Chairman to review his performance  
in line with the Company’s objectives.
The Company actively encourages its Non-Executive  
Directors to:
•	 challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the 
Executive Directors;
•	 scrutinise the performance of management in meeting  
agreed goals and objectives;
•	 monitor the reporting of performance;
•	 satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information  
and that financial controls and systems of risk management 
are robust and defensible; and
•	 ensure that appropriate remuneration and succession  
planning arrangements are in place in relation to the 
Executive Directors and other senior members of the 
management team.
If not satisfied with the outcome, the Non-Executive Directors 
can record their concerns in the Company’s Board Minutes 
until action is taken to remedy their concern.
As Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Angus Porter  
is responsible for:
•	 supporting the Chairman;
•	 leading the other Non-Executive Directors in the review  
of the Chairman;
•	 monitoring the division of responsibilities between the Board 
and the Executive Directors; and
•	 being available to shareholders to express any concerns which 
the Executive Directors have failed to resolve in a satisfactorily 
manner.
B. Effectiveness
The composition of the Board
✓
 The Board and its committees have the appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge of the Company to enable them to 
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities 
effectively.
The Board includes an appropriate combination of Executive  
and Non-Executive Directors so that no individual or small  
group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-making. 
At the year end, the Board had two Executive and four 
Non-Executive Directors.
It is considered that the Board is of sufficient size that the 
balance of skills and experience is appropriate to the size  
of the business; however the Board is currently seeking  
an additional Independent Non-Executive Director. 
When deciding chairmanship and membership of committees 
the Board takes into account that undue reliance is not placed 
on particular individuals.
No one other than the committee chairman and members  
is entitled to be present at a meeting of the Nomination and 
Governance, Audit and Risk or Remuneration Committees,  
but others may attend at the invitation of the committee.
The Board has assessed the independence of its Non-Executive 
Directors against the provisions of the Code and has concluded 
that, under the definitions used, Angus Porter and John Allkins 
are independent in character and judgement and have no 
relationships that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, 
their judgement as Directors of the Company. Ian Dyson, due  
to his previous appointment as Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company until his resignation from the role at demerger of the 
Spirit Business from the Punch Group (‘demerger’) on 1 August 
2011, is not considered to be independent. Stephen Billingham, 
due to his temporary appointment as Executive Chairman of  
the Company from 4 February 2013 until 15 June 2015, is not 
considered to be independent.
Appointments to the Board
Work of the Nomination and Governance 
Committee
✓
 There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure  
for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
During the period the Nomination and Governance Committee 
held 5 scheduled meetings, the attendance of which is shown  
in the table on page 25.
The Committee’s terms of reference can be found on  
the Company’s website www.punchtavernsplc.com. 
Senior management, including the Company Secretary,  
may be invited to attend for part or all of each meeting.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
The main purpose of the Nomination and Governance 
Committee is to review the structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge and experience) of the  
Board, lead the process for Board appointments and  
make recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
adjustments that are deemed necessary. Other areas  
of responsibilities include:
•	 consideration of the Company’s succession plans which are in 
place for Board members and the senior management team;
•	 the identification, evaluation and nomination of candidates  
to fill Board vacancies;
•	 reviewing Directors’ conflicts of interests and making 
recommendations to the Board to authorise such conflicts 
where applicable;
•	 regularly reviewing the membership of the Company’s 
committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed  
upon certain individuals; and
•	 making recommendations in respect of Board re-election  
by shareholders.
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, 
subject to re-election and to statutory provisions relating to  
the removal of a Director. Any term beyond six years for a 
Non-Executive Director is subject to particularly rigorous review 
and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing 
of the Board. 
When considering new appointments the Company has  
a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure which is based  
on merit and assessed objective criteria. The Nomination  
and Governance Committee evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience required for the position and 
prepares a description of the role and capabilities required. 
Before any appointment is made the Committee obtains details 
of any interests the candidate may have which conflict or may 
conflict with the interests of the Company and considers 
whether, despite any such conflict, there are nevertheless 
grounds for recommending the candidate for appointment. 
The Company has decided to voluntarily provide data on the 
proportion of women in the workforce, in senior management 
and on the Board. As at the date of this report the percentage 
of women employed in the whole organisation was 40%, 
11% of the Executive Committee members are female and  
30% of senior management positions are held by women. 
Whilst there are currently no women on the Board, the 
Nomination and Governance Committee ensures that there  
is an appropriate balance of men and women on any short list 
for Board positions.
We pursue diversity through our commitment to attract and 
retain talent within our business to enable us to effectively 
support out partners.
As an equal opportunities employer, we welcome individuals 
from all backgrounds. All employees and applicants will be 
treated equally, regardless of their age, disability, race, religion 
or belief, gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partnership 
status. All appointment decisions are made purely on job related 
criteria and the needs of the business.
We fully support the key principles of the Davies Review on 
Women on Boards and will continue to focus on recruiting 
talented individuals to support the high performing culture that 
we strive to achieve across our business.
Commitment
✓
 Directors allocate sufficient time to the Company  
to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours and from  
15 minutes prior to and during the Company’s Annual  
General Meeting (AGM). On appointment, the Company’s 
Non-Executive Directors are informed of the expected time 
commitment that will be required and is recommended  
that they set aside enough time to demonstrate satisfactory  
time commitment to their new role. Details of other 
commitments and potential conflicts of interest are disclosed  
to the Nomination and Governance Committee and approved 
before appointment, and any subsequent changes are notified 
to the Board. 
The Company would not agree to the Executive Directors  
taking more than one non-executive directorship in, or  
the chairmanship of, a FTSE 100 company.
Development
✓
 All Directors should receive induction on joining the 
Board and should regularly update and refresh their  
skills and knowledge.
On appointment, the Chairman together with the Company 
Secretary ensures that each Director receives a tailored induction 
programme that includes:
•	 individual time with the Chairman and other members  
of the Board;
•	 meetings with the Company’s external advisors, substantial 
shareholders, brokers and lawyers;
•	 an internal induction course which introduces the Group,  
its divisions and its employees;
•	 visits to the Group’s pubs and those of competitors; and
•	 external training courses, if required.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director 
their training and development needs.
Information and support
✓
 The Board is provided with timely information  
in a form and of quality appropriate to enable  
it to discharge its duties.
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures 
that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.  
In preparation for every Board meeting, each Director receives 
documentation including a detailed report on current trading 
and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to 
make a decision or give its approval. These matters are discussed 
during the Board meeting, with the Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer giving an overview of how the Group is 
performing against expectations. In addition, the Board receives 
presentations from other members of senior management and 
external advisors to aid their understanding when applicable. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 28
Corporate governance statement continued
All Directors, especially Non-Executive Directors, have access  
to independent professional advice at the Company’s expense 
where it is judged necessary to discharge their responsibilities  
as Directors.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is responsible for:
•	 ensuring that good information flows within the Board,  
its Committees and between the Non-Executive Directors  
and senior management;
•	 facilitating induction and assisting with professional 
development as required;
•	 advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance 
matters;
•	 providing assistance and information on corporate 
administration and legal matters; and
•	 ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that all 
applicable legislation and regulations are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary  
is a matter for the Board.
Evaluation
✓
 The Board undertakes formal and rigorous annual 
evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
Committees and individual Directors.
The Board agreed to undertake a formal evaluation of its  
own performance and that of its Committees and individual 
Directors. The Board considered that the best means of 
effectively undertaking this process was a combination of self - 
and peer- assessment. This process was led by the Chairman 
except in relation to his own performance as Chairman, which 
was led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.  
The results of such reviews are discussed by the Board and  
any appropriate action plan agreed.
Re-election
✓
 All Directors are submitted for annual election 
subject to continued satisfactory performance.
All directors will stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.  
The biographical details of each Director can be found on page 
21 of this report.
C. Accountability
Risk management and internal control
✓
 The Board is responsible for determining the nature 
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take 
in achieving its strategic objectives. The Board 
maintains sound risk management and internal 
control systems.
 
The Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the 
effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls to 
ensure the effectiveness of those controls in order to safeguard 
shareholders’ interests and the Company’s assets and guarantee 
that robust financial reporting processes are in place, and 
reports to the Board that it has done so. Such systems, including 
controls for financial, operational, compliance and risk 
management matters, are designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Company’s strategic 
objectives. However, it should be recognised that these systems 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. 
To enable the Company to identify, evaluate and manage 
significant risks, the Company has an ongoing process, in the 
form of a risk management framework (the Company’s Risk 
Register), which is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board. 
The processes have been in place for the whole of the period 
and up to the date of this report. 
The Board has established, with a view to providing effective 
internal control, the following key procedures:
•	 regular Board meetings to consider the schedule of matters 
reserved for the Board;
•	 a formal annual review of corporate strategy, including regular 
reviews of risks facing the business;
•	 a Risk Register which identifies the key risks facing the 
business and how these risks are monitored and managed  
on an ongoing basis;
•	 an established organisational structure with clearly defined 
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
•	 documented and enforced policies and procedures;
•	 appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their 
allotted responsibilities;
•	 comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the 
Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with 
performance monitored against them and explanations 
obtained for material variances;
•	 a detailed investment approval process;
•	 an Internal Audit function which performs continuous 
assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk 
management and the internal control environment;
•	 an Audit and Risk Committee of the Board, comprising 
Non-Executive Directors, which considers significant financial 
control matters as appropriate;
•	 regular reporting by the Audit and Risk Committee to the 
Board of Directors regarding internal audit, control updates 
and any changes to accounting policies and any accounting 
and legal developments;
•	 documented fraud, anti-bribery and whistleblowing policies 
and procedures, regular review of current whistleblowing 
regulations, and reporting of any whistleblowing incidents  
to the Audit and Risk Committee;
•	 a regular review of treasury policies and activities by the 
Audit and Risk Committee; 
•	 an established programme of management and staff 
development and succession planning; and
•	 formal financial reporting processes for preparation  
of the consolidated accounts.
Using this monitoring process, the Audit and Risk Committee, 
on behalf of the Board, has conducted a review of the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control during the period 
and has considered any material developments which have 
taken place since the year end. The Board is satisfied that the 
review demonstrated that the Company’s internal control system 
is effective. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Financial and Business Reporting
✓
 The Board presents a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. 
The Board should present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects; maintain 
sound risk management and internal control systems and 
manage an appropriate relationship with the Company’s auditor.
Further information about how these principles have been 
applied is detailed in the Audit and risk committee report on 
pages 30 to 31.
D. Remuneration
✓
 The remuneration procedure is formal and 
transparent and levels of remuneration are 
appropriate.
Two Committee members were independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The terms of reference of the Committee can be 
found on the Company’s website www.punchtavernsplc.com. 
During the period the Remuneration Committee held four 
scheduled committee meetings, the attendance of which  
is detailed in the table on page 25. 
Senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer  
and Company Secretary may be invited to attend for part or  
all of each meeting.
The main purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to:
•	 recommend to the Board the Company’s policy for the 
remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and  
other members of senior management;
•	 take into account factors which it deems necessary with the 
objective of ensuring that appropriate incentives are provided 
to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded in a 
fair and responsible manner for their individual contributions 
to the success of the Company; 
•	 review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by 
the Board and shareholders and determine each year whether 
awards will be made and when;
•	 determine the overall amount of share awards and the 
individual award levels to Executive Directors and senior 
management; 
•	 determine targets for any performance-related payments; and
•	 determine the policy for and scope of the pension 
arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and 
compensation commitments in relation to Executive Directors 
and senior management.
The levels of remuneration are reviewed for all Executive  
and Non-Executive Directors by the Remuneration Committee  
at least annually to ensure that they are sufficient to attract,  
retain and motivate the Directors and are linked to both  
the Company’s and their individual performance. Further  
details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and  
the levels of remuneration paid to the Board during the  
period, including details of how remuneration levels are  
set and external benchmarking procedures, can be found  
in the Report on Directors’ remuneration which can be found  
on pages 32 to 42.
E. Relations with shareholders
✓
 There is a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders 
based on mutual understanding of objectives. 
Communications with shareholders are given high priority to 
ensure that a balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects is given. The Company aims to 
provide as much information as is commercially sensible to both 
existing and potential investors, recognising that transparency  
is the best way to develop understanding of the Company’s 
strategy, performance and growth potential. 
The Company encourages two-way communication with both 
its institutional and private shareholders and aims to provide 
a timely response to all enquiries. During the Company’s capital 
restructuring process there has been extensive dialogue with 
shareholders and other stakeholders.
✓
 The AGM is used to communicate with shareholders  
and encourage participation.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional  
and private shareholders and welcomes their participation.  
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit 
and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination and Governance 
Committees and the Senior Independent Non-Executive  
Director attend the AGM to answer any relevant questions. 
During the year, our Chairman and Chief Financial Officer  
met with a number of our leading shareholders to discuss  
issues relating to the financial restructuring of the Company.  
The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive 
Directors are available to shareholders to discuss any matter 
they wish to raise.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders 
at least 20 working days before the meeting. Separate 
resolutions on each substantially separate issue are proposed, 
and all valid proxy appointments received are properly counted 
and recorded.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 30
Audit and risk committee report
To support the Board’s duty of stewardship the Audit and  
Risk Committee aims to ensure that appropriate corporate 
governance is applied to the Group’s systems of internal control, 
risk management, and other compliance areas. We monitor the 
integrity of financial information published externally. We ensure 
that the integrity of the Financial Statements is supported by  
an effective external and internal audit organisation. The 
Committee met six times during the year.
Membership of the Audit and Risk Committee
As at the date of the 2015 Annual Report the Audit and Risk 
Committee comprises of three Non-Executive Directors, John 
Allkins, Angus Porter and Ian Dyson, and Ian Dyson and I have 
recent and relevant financial experience. Due to his previous 
appointment as Chief Executive Officer of the Company until  
his resignation from the role at demerger of the Spirit Pub 
Company on 1 August 2011, Ian Dyson is not considered  
to be independent. Angus Porter and I are independent. 
The Chairman and other Board members as well as any member 
of senior management, the internal auditor and the external 
auditors may be invited to attend for part or all of each meeting. 
The internal and external auditors have unrestricted access to 
the Committee and its Chairman.
Roles and responsibilities of the Audit and Risk 
Committee
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the interests  
of shareholders are protected in relation to financial reporting 
and internal control; monitoring the integrity of the Company’s 
Financial Statements; monitoring any formal announcements 
relating to the Company’s financial performance; and reviewing 
and challenging as necessary the judgments and actions of 
management in relation to the Financial Statements.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
advising on the adequacy of the processes required to confirm 
that the Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable, and includes the information necessary to 
allow shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
The Committee has oversight of the relationship with the 
external auditor including the appointment and, where 
appropriate, re-appointment of the external auditor. The 
external auditor reports to the Committee; its independence, 
remuneration, terms of engagement and objectivity, including 
its appropriateness to undertake non-audit work; and reviews 
the nature, scope and effectiveness of the external audit.  
The audit plan and materiality are discussed in detail.
The Committee also has oversight of the internal audit function, 
reviews the internal audit plan, ensuring that management has 
followed up on issues raised and reviews the effectiveness  
of internal audit. The Committee reviews and monitors the 
Company’s risk management and internal control systems.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing arrangements 
by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or  
other matters.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling the Company’s 
obligations under the Code in particular in relation to legal 
requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules.
The Committee reports to the Board on how we have 
discharged our responsibilities. The full terms of reference  
of the Committee can be found on the Company’s website 
www.punchtavernsplc.com.
Key activities of the Audit and Risk Committee
Audit matters are reviewed during Committee meetings 
throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented  
for review. During the period the Committee held six scheduled 
meetings in which we discussed:
•	 the suitability of the Group’s accounting policies and practices;
•	 half year and full year financial results;
•	 the scope and cost of the external audit;
•	 the external auditor’s half year and full year reports, which  
it was noted, contained no unadjusted audit differences;
•	 various financial statements issued as part of the Group’s 
capital restructuring;
•	 reappointment and evaluation of the performance of the 
external auditor, including recommendations to the Board  
for approval by shareholders on the appointment of the 
Company’s external auditors and approval of fees and terms 
of engagement;
•	 non-audit work carried out by the external auditor and  
trends in the non-audit fees in accordance with the 
Committee’s policy;
•	 the safeguarding of audit independence;
•	 reports produced by internal audit during the period;
•	 the internal audit plan for the 2015 financial year regarding 
the level of achievement and the scope of the internal audit 
plan for the 2016 financial year;
•	 the Company’s Risk Management framework for the 
identification and control of major risks and the annual 
assessment of control effectiveness; and
•	 reports on allegations made via the Group’s whistleblowing 
procedures and the effectiveness of those procedures.
Significant issues considered in relation to the 
Financial Statements
During the period the Committee considered the following 
significant risks, issues and judgmental areas in relation to  
the Financial Statements. 
The Group holds significant assets in respect of its property 
portfolio. During the year the Group changed its accounting 
policy for its property portfolio from one of historical cost or 
deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment 
value, to revaluation at the end of the period. The valuation  
was carried out by independent property surveyors in 
accordance with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS) Valuation – Professional Standards January 2014, 
incorporating the International Valuation Standards 2013,  
and IFRS 13. Considering the size of the estate, in terms of 
number of properties, the range of assumptions used creates  
an appropriate, professional, estimate of the estate’s value.  
The process used and how it has been tested is described in 
Notes 1 and 12. All aspects of the valuation process were 
rigorously challenged. Our auditors used their specialist property 
valuation team as described in the Auditor’s report page 93.  
Key sensitivities around the property valuation are shown in 
note 12. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 31
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Impairment testing of goodwill and the Company’s investments 
in subsidiaries. The continued differences between the Group’s 
market capitalisation and the reported net assets remain  
an indicator of impairment. The Committee reviewed the 
assumptions for growth in profitability and cash flow from  
the Core Division and the rate at which these estimates  
are discounted as these are key judgments in the testing for 
impairment of both the goodwill held on the balance sheet  
and the carrying value of investments held by the Company.  
The carrying value of assets other than those included within 
the Core Division is also included in reviewing impairments  
for the carrying value of investments held by the Company.  
The cash flows in the value in use calculation are described in 
note 14 together with the sensitivities of the calculation, and 
potentially the carrying value, to movements in the assumptions. 
During the period the Committee also reviewed the use of  
the going concern assumption following the Group’s successful 
refinancing in October 2014. This has significantly reduced  
as a risk and judgmental area during the period.
The Committee also reviewed the accounting treatment, and 
any judgments inherent in that treatment, of the October 2014 
refinancing as detailed in notes 1 and 7 and the presentation of 
non-underlying items shown in note 6 and concluded both were 
appropriate and properly disclosed.
Role of Internal Audit
The Internal Audit function is independent of business 
operations and has a business-wide mandate. The Committee 
reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function and its 
relationship with the external auditor, including internal audit 
resources, plans and performance.
The Committee reviewed and approved the Internal Audit  
Terms of Reference which sets out the role, objectives, reporting 
lines and accountability, authority, independence and objectivity 
of the internal audit function.
Members of the Committee receive all issued internal audit 
reports, enabling them to challenge the reports’ content and 
related recommendations. The Committee approves the internal 
audit plan at the start of each financial year along with the 
effectiveness and workload of the internal audit function and 
the adequacy and effectiveness of resources used, including 
outsourced subject matter experts.
Effectiveness of external audit and non-audit fees
The Committee reviewed the external auditor’s performance 
and on-going independence in a structured discussion facilitated 
by the Company Secretary, taking into account input from 
management both present at the meeting and from a 
questionnaire, consideration of responses to questions posed  
by the Committee to the auditor and the audit findings reported 
to the Committee, the progress achieved against the agreed 
audit plan, and the competence with which the auditor handled 
the key accounting and audit judgments. Following this review 
the Committee concluded that the auditor, KPMG LLP, remained 
independent and provided a service that was robust and fit  
for purpose.
To maintain the independence of the external auditors,  
the Board has determined a policy, consistent with the Ethical 
Standards for Auditors, detailing what non-audit services  
can be provided by the Company’s external auditors. Under  
this policy, work of a consultancy nature is not offered to  
the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and 
value-added benefits to the Company. Approval from the 
Committee is required before non-audit work is undertaken by 
the auditor. The Committee monitors the level of non-audit fees 
paid to the external auditors and details of these fees can be 
found in note 3 to the financial statements on page 59.
External auditor appointment
KPMG were appointed as external auditors in 2010 following  
a formal tender process. There are no contractual obligations 
which restrict the choice of an external auditor. 
Since this time, KPMG LLP has complied with the partner 
rotation requirements set out in the Ethical Standards for 
Auditors. I met the new lead partner prior to his appointment. 
We have considered the new guidance in relation to auditor 
rotation including the proposed transition rules which will be 
considered when recommending the appointment of the 
external auditor in future years.
KPMG’s appointment was reviewed during the year and the 
Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is 
appropriate and is satisfied with their effectiveness and has not 
considered it necessary at this moment in time to run a tender 
process for the external audit work.
Whistleblowing
The Company’s whistleblowing policy enables employees to 
report, in confidence, any concerns about possible improprieties 
in financial and other matters without fear of reprisal. Details  
of the policy are set out in the Company’s Ethics and Code  
of Conduct Policy. The Committee receives quarterly reports  
on whistleblowing incidents and remains satisfied that the 
procedures in place are satisfactory to enable independent 
investigation and follow up action of all matters reported.  
No major issues have been reported in the 2015 financial year.
Accountability
The Committee has advised the Board that the processes  
in place to ensure that the Annual Report when taken as  
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable are adequate.  
The preparation of this document is coordinated by the Finance 
and Company Secretariat teams with Group-wide support  
and input from other areas of the business. Comprehensive 
reviews are undertaken at regular intervals throughout the 
process by senior management and other contributing and 
non-contributing personnel within the Group. The timetable for 
the preparation of the Annual Report is such that the Directors 
can read and question the content of the Annual Report.
Summary
The Committee is satisfied that appropriate corporate 
governance continues to be applied to the Group’s systems  
of internal control, risk management and other compliance 
areas. We welcome feedback on this report and I will be 
available at the AGM to answer questions.
John Allkins
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 32
Directors’ remuneration report
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Punch Taverns plc remuneration 
report for the year ended 22 August 2015. 
The Directors’ remuneration report is split into three sections, 
namely:
•	 This Annual Statement: summarising and explaining the 
major decisions on, and any substantial changes to, Directors’ 
remuneration in the year;
•	 Directors’ remuneration policy: which sets out the basis  
of remuneration for the Group’s Directors as approved by 
shareholders; and
•	 Annual report on remuneration: which sets out the 
remuneration earned by the Group’s Directors in the year 
ended 22 August 2015, together with how the policy will  
be implemented in the subsequent financial year.
The Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration 
will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 
forthcoming AGM on 18 January 2016. A minor amendment  
is being processed to the Directors’ Remuneration Policy to 
reflect the proposal to introduce an all employee Save As You 
Earn scheme to replace the current all employee Share Incentive 
Plan, and as a result the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will 
also be subject to a vote at the AGM.
Performance and reward in 2015/16
Duncan Garrood was appointed Chief Executive Officer  
on 15 June 2015 and his remuneration package has been 
structured in line with the approved policy. Further information 
is set out in this report. 
The Chief Financial Officer was eligible to receive awards of 
variable remuneration based on performance periods which 
completed at the end of the 2014/15 financial year. Reflecting 
both the Company’s performance in respect of the financial year 
and the challenging performance targets set, the Chief Financial 
Officer was awarded an annual bonus of 56.25% of the 
maximum potential and, reflecting the Company’s longer term 
share price performance, the LTIP awards granted in 2012 will 
not vest in 2015. 
Following Duncan Garrood’s appointment, Stephen Billingham 
reverted from Executive Chairman to Non-Executive Chairman. 
He continues to receive a fixed fee for the role. 
The year ahead
The Remuneration Committee has made the following decisions 
for the year ahead:
•	 Executive Directors’ salaries will be reviewed at the same time 
as any increase for the general workforce;
•	 The annual bonus maximum will remain the same at 100%  
of salary;
•	 LTIP awards will be granted in 2015/16 over shares equal to 
100% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and for the 
Chief Financial Officer. These awards are lower than the 
maximum permitted by the Remuneration Policy, and in the 
case of the Chief Executive Officer reflect the recent award 
made to him on joining the Company; and
•	 We are putting forward proposals for a new Save As You Earn 
scheme at the forthcoming AGM, for all employees of the 
Group, to replace the existing Share Incentive Plan.
The Committee unanimously recommends that shareholders 
vote to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
On behalf of the Board
Angus Porter
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 33
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Directors’ remuneration policy
Introduction and overview
The Committee’s reward policy is designed to help drive 
business performance and maximise shareholder value.  
It continues to be based on the following principles:
•	 Remuneration should be viewed holistically (‘Total Reward’), 
taking account of all reward elements;
•	 Total Reward should be set at a market-competitive level  
to retain and recruit people of the required talent and 
experience;
•	 Packages should be structured so that most of Total Reward  
is dependent on performance;
•	 Total Reward costs should be monitored and controlled; and
•	 Total Reward should support the creation of shareholder 
value.
Total Reward levels are compared against both listed UK pub, 
restaurant and hospitality sector companies and those UK 
companies of a similar size and complexity to the Group in  
other relevant sectors although external market comparisons  
are used with appropriate caution.
Change to the policy
While the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the 
Remuneration Policy, which was originally approved by 
shareholders at the 2015 AGM, remains appropriate, 
shareholder approval is being sought at the 2016 AGM for a 
minor amendment to the Remuneration Policy in respect of 
all-employee arrangements. Reflecting the proposal to replace 
the Share Incentive Plan with a Save As You Earn scheme,  
a minor amendment is being proposed to the Summary of  
the remuneration policy table. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The Company encourages continuous communication with both 
its institutional and private shareholders. The Committee also 
considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM 
each year at a meeting immediately following the AGM. This 
feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any 
meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the 
Group’s annual review of remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to engage directly with 
major shareholders and their representative bodies should any 
material changes be made to the remuneration policy. Details  
of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last  
year’s remuneration report and any matters discussed with 
shareholders during the year are set out in the Annual report  
on remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions  
elsewhere in the Group
The Committee considers the general base salary increase for 
the broader UK employee population when determining the 
annual salary increases for the Executive Directors. Employees 
have not been consulted in respect of the design of the Group’s 
senior executive remuneration policy, although the Committee 
will keep this under review. 
Summary of remuneration policy
Element Purpose Operation Limits
Performance targets and 
recovery provisions
Base salary To recognise the market value 
of the employee and the role.
Normally reviewed annually.
Salaries are benchmarked 
periodically against both listed UK 
pub, restaurant and hospitality 
sector companies and those UK 
companies of a similar size and 
complexity to the Group in other 
relevant sectors.
There is no prescribed maximum 
base salary or annual salary 
increase.
The Committee is guided by the 
general increase for the broader 
employee population but may 
decide to award a lower increase 
for Executive Directors or indeed 
exceed this to recognise, for 
example, an increase in the scale, 
scope or responsibility of the role 
and/or to take account of relevant 
market movements.
Current salary levels are set out in 
the Annual report on 
remuneration.
Not applicable.
Pension To provide a market 
competitive level of 
contribution to pension.
Company contribution normally 
paid monthly into the Company’s 
pension scheme, a personal 
pension arrangement and / or as  
a cash supplement.
Up to 25% of salary. Not applicable.
Benefits To provide a market 
competitive level of benefits.
Includes: company car or car 
allowance, private medical 
insurance, lump-sum life insurance 
for death in service and income 
protection insurance for long-term 
disability. Other benefits may be 
provided where relevant.
Provided at cost. Not applicable.
Annual bonus To drive and reward annual 
performance of individuals, 
teams and the Group.
Based on performance during  
the relevant financial year.
For Executive Directors, 50% of 
any bonus above 50% of base 
salary is deferred into shares for 
two years.
Up to 100% of base salary. Performance period: Normally  
one year.
Performance targets based at least 
50% on sliding scale financial 
targets with the remainder based 
on personal/ strategic targets.
Clawback provision operates. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 34
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Element Purpose Operation Limits
Performance targets and 
recovery provisions
Long-term 
incentives
To drive and reward sustained 
performance of the Group 
and to align the interests 
of participants with those 
of shareholders.
Long-term incentives have the 
following features:
•	 performance shares.
•	 vesting is dependent on the 
satisfaction of performance 
targets and continued service.
•	 performance and vesting 
periods are normally three 
years.
Up to 200% of salary.
(400% of salary exceptional limit).
Participants may benefit from  
the value of dividends paid over 
the vesting period to the extent 
that awards vest. This benefit is 
delivered in the form of cash or 
additional shares at the time that 
awards vest.
Performance period: Normally  
3 years.
Up to 25% of an award vests at 
threshold performance (0% vests 
below this), increasing to 100% 
pro-rata for maximum performance.
Performance will be measured 
against TSR and / or relevant 
financial measures.
Clawback provision operates.
The Committee also considers, 
inter alia, the Group’s like-for-like 
sales performance, underlying 
profit performance and debt levels 
when determining whether the 
Group’s financial performance is 
consistent with the level of vesting 
suggested by the performance 
targets.
All-employee 
share plans
Encouraged share ownership 
amongst all employees.
Plan open to all employees. As per HMRC limits. None.
Share 
ownership
Further aligns executives with 
investors, while encouraging 
employee share ownership.
The Committee requires that 
Executive Directors who participate 
in the Company’s LTIP satisfy  
a minimum shareholding 
requirement within five years of 
the Spirit demerger or, if later, five 
years of appointment to the Board. 
Targets are set to encourage 
Directors to retain shares received 
from share incentive schemes.
Minimum of 100% of salary. None.
Non-Executive 
Directors
To provide fees reflecting time 
commitments and 
responsibilities of each role, in 
line with those provided by 
similarly sized companies.
Cash fee paid on a four weekly 
basis.
Fees are reviewed annually  
and take into account:
•	 the median level of fees for 
similar positions in the market;
•	 the time commitment each 
Non-Executive Director makes  
to the Group; and
•	 taxable benefits may be 
provided where appropriate.
Fees are set within the limits set 
by the Articles of Association.
None.
Notes:
(1) A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy for the following financial year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration. 
(2)  Below Board, a lower or no annual bonus opportunity may apply and participation in the LTIP is normally limited to the Executive Directors and certain selected 
senior managers. In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of 
individuals, together with the fact that remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives typically has a greater emphasis on performance-related pay. 
(3)  The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should be 
appropriately challenging and tied to both the delivery of financial targets and specific individual objectives.
(4)  The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP (see Annual report on remuneration) are selected by the Remuneration Committee on the basis that they 
reward the delivery of long-term returns to shareholders and are consistent with the Company’s objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to 
shareholders following the successful refinancing.
(5)  The Committee operates the LTIP in accordance with the plan rules and the Listing Rules and the Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion 
over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plan.
(6)   While LTIP awards currently vest after 3 years subject to continued service and performance targets, the Committee will consider developments in best practice 
when setting future long-term incentive grant policies and, in particular, whether the introduction of a post vesting holding period, in addition to the existing 
shareholding guidelines, is appropriate for the Company.
Summary of remuneration policy continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 35
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Reward scenarios
The charts below show how the composition of the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer’s remuneration 
varies at different levels of performance under the policy set out 
above, as a percentage of total remuneration opportunity and 
as a total value. The Executive Chairman has not been shown  
as remuneration for this role, relinquished on 15 June 2015, 
comprised a fixed fee with no variable element of remuneration.
Notes:
(1)  The minimum performance scenario comprises the fixed elements of 
remuneration only, including:
	 • 	 S alar y , 	 as 	 f or 	 2 0 1 5 /1 6 	 as 	 s et 	 out 	 in 	 the 	 A nnual 	 re p or t 	 on 	 remuner ati on .
	 • 	 Pensi on , 	 at 	 2 0 % 	 of 	 s alar y .
	 • 	 B en e fit s, 	 as 	 p er 	 2 0 1 4 /1 5 	 ( annualis e d ) .
(2)  The on-target level of bonus is taken to be 50% of the maximum bonus 
opportunity (100% of salary), and the on-target level of LTIP vesting is 
assumed to meet threshold and be 25% of the face value of the LTIP award 
(100% of salary). These values are included in addition to the components/
values of minimum remuneration.
(3)  Maximum assumes full bonus payout (100% of salary only) and the full  
face value of the LTIP (100% of salary), in addition to fixed components of 
minimum remuneration. The additional 100% of salary LTIP award for the 
Chief Financial Officer in 2014/15 has been excluded from the chart given  
its one-off nature.
(4)  No share price growth has been factored into the calculations.
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would 
be set in accordance with the terms of the Company’s prevailing 
approved remuneration policy at the time of appointment and 
take into account the skills and experience of the individual,  
the market rate for a candidate of that experience and the 
importance of securing the relevant individual.
Salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract 
the most appropriate candidate and may be set initially at  
a below mid-market level on the basis that it may progress 
towards the mid-market level once expertise and performance 
has been proven and sustained. The annual bonus potential 
would be limited to 100% of salary and grants under the  
LTIP would be limited normally to 200% of salary, although  
in exceptional circumstances, long-term incentive awards  
of up to 400% of salary may be granted.
In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and/or 
share-based elements to replace deferred or incentive pay 
forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer if  
required in order to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances,  
the recruitment of the relevant individual. It would seek to 
ensure, where possible, that these awards would be consistent 
with awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected 
value and performance conditions.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable  
pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be 
allowed to pay out according to its terms. In addition, any  
other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to 
appointment may continue. 
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may 
agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and/or 
incidental expenses as appropriate.
Service contracts for Executive Directors
The policy on termination is that the Group does not make 
payments beyond its contractual obligations. In addition, 
Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss.  
The Committee ensures that there have been no unjustified 
payments for failure.
None of the Executive Directors’ contracts provides for 
liquidated damages. There are no special provisions contained  
in any of the Executive Directors’ contracts which provide for 
longer periods of notice on a change of control of the Company. 
Further, there are no special provisions providing for additional 
compensation on an Executive Director’s cessation of 
employment with the Group. 
The Committee’s policy is to offer service contracts for Executive 
Directors with notice periods of no more than twelve months.
At the Board’s discretion early termination of an Executive 
Director service contract can be undertaken by way of payment 
of salary and benefits in lieu of the required notice period.  
A summary of the main contractual terms surrounding 
termination are set out below:
Provision Policy
Notice period No more than 12 months
Termination 
payment
Payment in lieu of notice based on salary  
and specified benefits, and in some cases,  
the provision of outplacement services and  
the payment of any relevant legal fees
Remuneration 
entitlements
A bonus may be payable (pro-rated where 
relevant) and outstanding share awards may 
vest (see below)
Change of 
control
No Executive Director’s contract contains 
additional provisions in respect of change  
of control
Minimum Target
CEO
Maximum Minimum Target
CFO
Maximum
£499k
100% 62%
25%
13%
38%
31%
31%
100% 63%
12%
25%
38%
31%
31%
£799k
£1,299k
£359k
£574k
£932k
LTIP Bonus Fixed
Finance Director Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 36
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director 
under the Company’s share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules. In certain prescribed circumstances, such 
as death, injury, ill-health, disability, retirement or other 
circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, “good leaver” 
status may be applied. For good leavers, awards will normally 
vest at the normal vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of  
the relevant performance conditions at that time and reduced 
pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period 
actually served. However, the Remuneration Committee has 
discretion to determine that awards vest at an earlier date, but 
no earlier than the date of termination.
The Board allows Executive Directors to accept appropriate 
outside commercial Non-Executive Director appointments 
provided the aggregate commitment is compatible with their 
duties as Executive Directors. The Executive Directors concerned 
may retain fees paid for these services, which will be subject  
to approval by the Board. 
Non-Executive Directors
The Group’s policy is to appoint Non-Executive Directors to  
the Board with a breadth of skills and experience that is relevant 
to the Group’s business. Appointments are made by the Board 
upon the recommendations and advice from the Nomination 
Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but 
their appointments are subject to review every three years under 
the rotation provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association. 
The Chairman has a notice period of three months and all other 
Non-Executive Directors have notice periods of one month.
Executive Chairman
The role of Executive Chairman was temporary as a result  
of the unusual circumstances that prevailed during the capital 
restructuring. Following completion of the capital restructuring, 
the Company appointed a Chief Executive Officer on 15 June 
2015. Remuneration for the Executive Chairman comprised 
solely of a salary of £300,000 per annum. Benefits and pension 
were not provided and the Executive Chairman did not 
participate in any incentive arrangements.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 37
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 20 August 2016
Base salary
Base salary levels for the Executive Directors were reviewed in March 2015 and an increase of 1.5% was awarded to the Chief 
Financial Officer. This increase was in line with the increase for the general workforce. The table below shows the base salaries  
for both Executive Directors:
2014/15
 Base salary
2015/16
 Base salary
Duncan Garrood* Chief Executive Officer £400,000 £400,000
Steve Dando Chief Financial Officer £281,875 £286,103
* From appointment on 15 June 2015.
Pension
The Group will contribute 20% of base salary for the pension arrangements of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial 
Officer.
Benefits
Benefits provided will continue to include company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, lump-sum life insurance  
for death in service and income protection insurance for long-term disability.
Annual bonus
For 2015/16, the operation of the annual bonus arrangement for both Executive Directors will be similar to that operated in 
2014/15. Targets will continue to be based around sliding scale profit hurdles underpinned by strategic/personal targets. Annual 
bonus targets for 2015/16 are currently considered to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2015/16 
Annual report on remuneration.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentive awards will be made in line with the policy during 2015/16. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer will each receive an LTIP award over shares worth 100% of base salary. 
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Director fees will next be reviewed in 2015/16. A summary of current fees is as follows:
2014/15 2015/16 % increase
Chairman Fee £300,000 £300,000 –
Basic fee £42,000 £42,000 –
Senior Independent Director £45,000 £45,000 –
Additional fees
Chairmanship of Audit and Risk or Remuneration Committee £10,000 £10,000 –
Chairmanship of Nomination and Governance Committee
1
£5,000 £5,000 –
1 The fee for chairing the Nomination and Governance Committee has been waived by the Chairman.
Annual report on remuneration Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 38
Directors’ remuneration
The financial information in this part of the report has been audited where indicated.
The total of Directors’ emoluments in the 52 week period to 22 August 2015 was £1,108,000 (2014: £944,000), including 
pension contributions of £74,000 (2014: £59,000). The remuneration of the Directors during the period was as follows: 
Annual remuneration (audited)
 Basic salary/
 fees
1
 Benefits
2
 Bonus
5
 Gain on release 
 of shares
6
 Pension
7
 Total
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
Executive Directors
Duncan Garrood
3
77 – 4 – 43 – – – 15 – 139 –
Steve Dando 284 283 16 19 161 135 – – 59 59 520 496
Non-Executive Directors
Stephen Billingham
4
300 306 – – – – – – – – 300 306
Angus Porter 55 56 – – – – – – – – 55 56
John Allkins 52 53 – – – – – – – – 52 53
Ian Dyson 42 43 – – – – – – – – 42 43
Total 810 741 20 19 204 135 – – 74 59 1,108 944
1  Salaries for 2015 were paid in relation to service over the 2015 financial year which comprised 52 weeks. Salaries for the 2014 financial year were paid in relation  
to service over the 2014 financial year which comprised 53 weeks. 
2  Benefits comprise the following elements; health cover, car, fuel, death in service and income protection.
3  Appointed CEO on 15 June 2015. Salary shown relates to the period of 10 weeks served during the financial year.
4  Served as Executive Chairman over the period 4 February 2013 to 15 June 2015.
5  The performance related annual bonus for 2014/15 was based around sliding scale profit hurdles underpinned by strategic targets. The Chairman did not 
participate. Maximum bonus potential was set at 100% of salary with 50% of any bonus award over 50% of salary deferred into Punch Taverns plc shares for 
a period of two years. A clawback provision will continue to operate. Further disclosure of bonuses for 2014/15 is provided below.
6  The performance condition for LTIP awards which will vest in November 2015 is based on Punch Taverns plc Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over 3 financial years 
relative to two peer groups: 50% of an award is measured against a peer group of UK listed pub companies (Enterprise Inns, Fuller, Smith & Turner, Greene King, 
JD Wetherspoon, Marston’s and Mitchells & Butlers) with the other 50% of an award measured against the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). As the 
Company’s TSR over the period 19 August 2012 to 22 August 2015 was below the TSR of the median company in both comparator groups, the awards have lapsed.
7  Steve Dando and Duncan Garrood received a Group contribution paid into their pension arrangements representing 20% of their pensionable salary.
Annual bonus payment for 2014/15 (audited)
The annual bonus is determined first by EBITDA performance relative to annual targets, adjusted by a factor ranging between  
0.25x and 1.00x depending on the achievement of stretching targets for letting, beer volumes and investments. The Chief 
Executive Officer, having been appointed on 15 June 2015, was assessed against a set of personal objectives and targets for  
the ten week period. In 2014/15, the performance versus EBITDA targets yielded a figure of 90%, reflecting financial performance 
ahead of budget, whilst the factor for achievement of strategic targets was 0.625, yielding an overall bonus of 56.25% of salary. 
The factor of 0.625 reflected good performance against the operational objectives for letting and beer volumes, but an outcome 
on pub investment performance which fell short of the target set. 50% of any bonus award over 50% of salary is deferred into 
Punch Taverns plc shares for a period of two years. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 39
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Scheme interests awarded during the year
 Share Bonus Plan awards
1
 LTIP share awards
Number
Face value
£000 Number
Face value
£000
Duncan Garrood – – 650,406 800
2
Steve Dando – – 368,464 564
3
1  No awards were made under the Share Bonus Plan during the year.
2 The face value of this LTIP award is based on a price of 123 pence being the average price in the three days leading up to the date of award (15 June 2015).
3 The face value of this LTIP award is based on a price of 153 pence being the average price in the three days leading up to the date of award (17 November 2014).
Board changes/payments for loss of office
Duncan Garrood was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 15 June 2015. Following Duncan Garrood’s appointment,  
Steven Billingham reverted from Executive Chairman to Non-Executive Chairman. There were no payments for loss of office  
during 2014/15.
Payments to past Directors
No payments to past Directors were made during 2014/15.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) (audited)
The following table sets out the awards made under the LTIP. Full details of the operation of the LTIP are set out in the first part 
of this report. 
Value of shares conditionally awarded Value of shares released
Directors 
Date of
 award
Date of
 release
Share price
 at date of
 award (£)
Number
as at
23 August
 2014 £000
Percentage
 of salary 
at date of 
award
Awarded
during the
 period
Forfeited
 during the
 period
Lapsed
 during the
 period
Market
 price at
 date of
 release /
 lapse (£)
Gain on
 release
£000
Number
as at
23 August
 2014
£000
Steve Dando 30.11.11 30.11.14 2.40
1
56,912
1
137 50 – – 56,912 – – –
30.11.12 30.11.15 1.40
1
104,324
1
137 50 – – – – – 104,324
1
24.10.13 24.10.16 2.80
1
94,827
1
275 100 – – – – – 94,827
1
17.11.14 17.11.17 1.55 – 564 200 368,464 – – – – 368,464
Total 256,063 368,464 567,615
Duncan 
Garrood 15.06.15 15.06.18 1.21 – 800 200 650,406 650,406
Total 650,406 650,406
1 Share price and number of shares have been adjusted for the 1 for 20 share consolidation on 13 October 2014.
Awards granted in November 2012, October 2013, November 2014 and June 2015, in addition to the relevant underpin  
being deemed to have been met, will only be released if the Group’s TSR is equal to or greater than the median/index level  
of performance of the respective comparator groups over the three year period from grant at which point 25% of the award will 
be released. Full release of the award will occur for upper-quartile/index+5% p.a. performance with straight-line release between 
the threshold and maximum performance levels. Full details of the performance conditions, attached to these awards are detailed 
on page 34 in the first part of this report. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 40
Inland Revenue approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP) (audited)
There are no outstanding awards under the SIP for Executive Directors.
Share Bonus Plan (SBP) (audited)
The following table sets out the awards under the SBP in relation to the 2011/12 and 2012/13 annual bonus consistent with  
the requirement for Executive Directors to defer a portion of their annual bonus award. As the bonus threshold for deferral was  
not reached in 2013/14, no shares were granted. Full details of the operation of the SBP are detailed on page 33 in the first part of 
this report and note 28 to the accounts which can be found on page 83. 
Directors
Date of
 grant
Deferral
 period
Share Price
 at date of
 award (£)
Number of
 shares at
 23 August
 2014
Awarded
during the
 period
Released
during the
 period
Number of
 shares at
22 August
 2015
Steve Dando 30.11.12 2 years 1.321 12,165
1
– 12,165
1
–
24.10.13 2 years 2.901 6,780
1
– – 6,780
1
Total 18,945 6,780
1 Share price and number of shares have been adjusted for the 1 for 20 share consolidation on 13 October 2014.
The share price at the close of business on 22 August 2015 was £1.27, during the period following the consolidation on  
13 October 2014 the highest share price was £1.55 and the lowest was 87.25p.
Directors’ shareholdings (unaudited)
The table below sets out Directors shareholdings which are beneficially owned or subject to a performance or service condition.
Director
Interests in
 ordinary shares
Share awards subject to
 performance conditions
Share awards subject to
 time condition Total
23 August
2014
22 August
 2015
23 August
 2014
22 August
 2015
23 August
 2014
22 August
 2015
23 August
 2014
22 August
 2015
Duncan Garrood N/A – N/A 650,406 N/A – N/A 650,406
Steve Dando 22,890
1
35,055 256,063
1
567,615 18,945
1
6,780 297,898
1
609,450
Stephen Billingham – 32,194 – – – – – 32,194
Angus Porter – – – – – – – –
Ian Dyson 15,208
1
15,208 – – – – 15,208
1
15,208
John Allkins – – – – – – – –
1
 
Number of shares have been adjusted for the 1 for 20 share consolidation on 13 October 2014.
Directors’ service contracts (unaudited)
Detail of the service contracts of current Directors is set out below:
Executive Directors Company notice period Contract date
Unexpired term
of contract (months)
Potential termination
 payment
Potential payment 
on change of
 control/liquidation
Current Directors
Duncan Garrood 12 months 15 June 2015 Rolling contract 12 months’ salary Nil
Steve Dando 12 months 2 June 2003 Rolling contract 12 months’ salary Nil
Contracts will continue until terminated by notice either by the Company or the Director. 
Non-Executive Directors Company notice period Date of appointment
Unexpired term of 
contract (months)
Current Directors
Stephen Billingham 3 months 15 September 2011 9
Ian Dyson 1 month 1 August 2011 9
Angus Porter 1 month 26 March 2012 9
John Allkins 1 month 25 October 2012 9
Directors’ remuneration report continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 41
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
TSR performance graph (unaudited)
The graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by total shareholder return (TSR), compared with the FTSE 350 Travel and 
Leisure Index and the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts). The Committee considers these to be relevant indices for 
TSR comparison as the Company was a constituent of the FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure Index for the majority of the six-year period 
presented and is positioned in the FTSE Small Cap.
The graph above shows the value, at 22 August 2015, of £100 invested in Punch Taverns plc on 22 August 2009 compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE SmallCap and FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure indices over the same period. The other points 
plotted are the values at the intervening year ends.
Single figure six year history (unaudited)
Year Incumbent Role
Single figure of total
 remuneration
Annual bonus
 pay-out against
 maximum
PSP vesting
 against maximum
 opportunity
2014/15 Duncan Garrood
1
CEO £139,000 56% N/A
2014/15 Stephen Billingham
2
Executive Chairman £242,000 N/A N/A
2013/14 Stephen Billingham
2
Executive Chairman £300,000 N/A N/A
2012/13 Stephen Billingham
2
Executive Chairman £152,000 N/A N/A
2012/13 Roger Whiteside
3
CEO £257,000 0% 0%
2011/12 Roger Whiteside
3
CEO £706,000 15% 0%
2010/11 Roger Whiteside
3
CEO £931,000 67% 0%
2010/11 Ian Dyson
4
CEO £833,000 0% 0%
2010/11 Giles Thorley
5
CEO £23,000 0% 0%
1 Appointed CEO on 15 June 2015.
2  Executive Chairman from 4 February 2013 to 15 June 2015. Reverted to Non-Executive Chairman on 15 June 2015. 
3  Appointed CEO on 1 August 2011, stepped down as CEO on 1 February 2013.
4  Appointed CEO on 6 September 2010 and ceased to be CEO upon the demerger of Spirit Pub Company in August 2011.
5  Stepped down as CEO in September 2010.
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO and employees (unaudited)
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the Executive Chairman (as the Company did not have a CEO  
for most of the year) and the Company’s employees as a whole between the year 2014/15 and 2013/2014:
Percentage increase/(decrease)
 in remuneration in 2014/15 compared 
with remuneration in 2013/14
Executive Chairman*
Average pay based
 on all employees
Salary 0% 2%
Benefits N/A 6%
Annual bonus N/A 2%
* Comparison relates to remuneration for Stephen Billingham who does not receive benefits or annual bonus.
0
50
100
150
200
300
Aug 2009
Aug 2010
Aug 2011
Aug 2012
Aug 2013
Aug 2014
Aug 2015
Total shareholder return (Rebased)
Punch Taverns plc
FTSE SmallCap Index 
(excluding investment trusts)
FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure Index
Source: Datastream (Thompson Reuters)
Total shareholder return Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 42
Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited)
The following table shows the Group’s actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends:
2013/14 2014/15 % change
Staff costs (£m) 21.1 20.7 (1.9)%
Dividends (£m) 0 0 0%
Details of the remuneration committee, advisers to the committee and their fees
The Committee received independent remuneration advice from New Bridge Street (NBS). This independent adviser was appointed 
by the Committee and is accountable to it and provides no other services to the Company. The terms of engagement between  
the Committee and NBS are available from the Company Secretary on request. In addition, Computershare provides administration 
services connected to the Executive and all-employee share plans. The Committee also consults with the Company Secretary and 
the HR Director. However, no executive is permitted to participate in discussions or decisions about their personal remuneration. 
NBS do not provide any other services to the Company, and during the year fees in respect of remuneration advice amounted 
to £11,338. 
Statement of voting at general meeting (unaudited)
At the AGM held on 26 January 2015 the Annual report on remuneration and the Directors’ remuneration policy received the 
following votes from shareholders.
Annual report on remuneration Directors’ remuneration policy
Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 190,887,014 98.87 188,118,207 97.43
Against 61,816 0.03 107,002 0.06
Total votes cast (for and against) 190,946,618 98.90 188,225,209 97.49
Votes withheld 2,122,029 1.10 4,845,650 2.51
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 193,070,859 100.00 193,070,859 100.00
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board. It complies with the 
Companies Act and related regulations. The Annual Statement and Annual remuneration report will be put to shareholders  
for approval via an advisory vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 43
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent company financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent 
company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing 
each of the Group and parent company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
•	 state whether they have been prepared in accordance  
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and  
the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy  
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ 
remuneration report and Corporate governance statement  
that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Director’s responsibility statement
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge:
a)  the Group and parent company financial statements, 
prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the 
European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the Group as a whole; and
b)  the Directors have concluded that the Annual Report  
and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy; and
c)  the management report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and Group, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced.
On behalf of the Board
Duncan Garrood Steve Dando
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
11 November 2015 11 November 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 44
52 weeks to 22 August 2015 53 weeks to 23 August 2014
 Notes
Underlying
 items
£m
Non-
underlying
 items
(note 6) 
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
 items
£m
Non-
underlying
 items
(note 6) 
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2 420.8 – 420.8 448.1 – 448.1
Operating costs before depreciation and 
amortisation (232.2) (18.3) (250.5) (249.5) (27.3) (276.8)
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture 7.8 – 7.8 6.2 – 6.2
EBITDA
1
196.4 (18.3) 178.1 204.8 (27.3) 177.5
Depreciation and amortisation (12.5) – (12.5) (11.0) – (11.0)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment  
and non-current assets classified as held for sale – 21.9 21.9 – 10.7 10.7
Impairment 14 – (16.4) (16.4) – (50.8) (50.8)
Movement in valuation of properties – (483.8) (483.8) – – –
Goodwill disposed – (9.1) (9.1) – (3.6) (3.6)
Operating profit / (loss) 3 183.9 (505.7) (321.8) 193.8 (71.0) 122.8
Finance income 4 2.5 374.6 377.1 36.4 3.3 39.7
Finance costs 5 (125.5) – (125.5) (161.6) (214.7) (376.3)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps – (35.0) (35.0) – (26.4) (26.4)
Profit / (loss) before taxation 60.9 (166.1) (105.2) 68.6 (308.8) (240.2)
UK income tax (charge) / credit 9 (11.4) 34.0 22.6 (8.2) 73.3 65.1
Profit / (loss) for the financial period 
attributable to owners of the parent company 49.5 (132.1) (82.6) 60.4 (235.5) (175.1)
Earnings per share 10
- basic (pence) 25.0 (41.7) 181.5 (526.1)
- diluted (pence) 25.0 (41.7) 181.5 (526.1)
1  EBITDA represents earnings before depreciation and amortisation, profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and non-current assets classified as held for  
sale, impairment, movement in valuation of properties, goodwill disposed, finance income, finance costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps and tax  
of the Group.
Company income statement
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s income statement has not been included in these 
financial statements. The Company’s loss for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 was £265.1m (53 weeks ended 23 August 2014: 
profit £187.3m) of which £484.1m relates to the impairment of investments in subsidiary undertakings (53 weeks ended  
23 August 2014: £nil). See notes 14 and 15.
Consolidated income statement
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 45
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Notes
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Loss for the period attributable to owners of the parent company (82.6) (175.1)
Items that are or may be recycled subsequently to the income statement
Losses on cash flow hedges – (6.3)
Transfers to the income statement on cash flow hedges – 214.4
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income  
that can be reclassified into profit or loss – (53.2)
Items that cannot be recycled subsequently to the income statement
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 30 (3.0) (1.3)
Other items that cannot be recycled subsequently to the income statement (4.2) (0.9)
Unrealised surplus on revaluation of properties 12 293.2 –
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income  
that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss (1.6) 0.3
Other comprehensive profits for the period 284.4 153.0
Total comprehensive profit / (loss) for the period attributable  
to owners of the parent company 201.8 (22.1)
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 46
Balance sheet
at 22 August 2015
 Group Company
Notes
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,038.2 2,297.4 – –
Operating leases 13 – 4.0 – –
Other intangible assets 13 0.5 0.7 – –
Goodwill 13 163.5 172.6 – –
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 15 – – 1,105.2 1,342.4
Investment in joint venture 33 52.3 50.5 – –
Receivables 17 – – 1,663.7 1,445.8
Deferred tax asset 18 8.1 – 5.1 4.6
2,262.6 2,525.2 2,774.0 2,792.8
Current assets
Inventories 16 0.1 – – –
Trade and other receivables 17 30.5 34.0 – –
Current income tax assets 0.8 1.3 – –
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 20 93.1 69.8 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 19 140.1 315.6 0.3 2.8
Restricted cash 19 – 315.0 – –
264.6 735.7 0.3 2.8
Total assets 2,527.2 3,260.9 2,774.3 2,795.6
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (99.6) (99.9) (0.1) (0.3)
Short-term borrowings 22 (47.7) (79.9) – –
Cash-backed borrowings 24 – (315.0) – –
Derivative financial instruments 23 (15.8) (38.2) – –
Provisions 25 (0.7) (0.8) – –
(163.8) (533.8) (0.1) (0.3)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22 (1,511.7) (2,189.9) – –
Derivative financial instruments 23 (116.5) (240.3) – –
Deferred tax liabilities 18 – (12.1) – –
Retirement benefit obligations 30 (6.1) (4.3) – –
Provisions 25 (6.6) (6.8) – –
Other non-current payables 26 – – (1,609.1) (1,612.1)
(1,640.9) (2,453.4) (1,609.1) (1,612.1)
Total liabilities (1,804.7) (2,987.2) (1,609.2) (1,612.4)
Net assets 722.5 273.7 1,165.1 1,183.2
Equity
Called up share capital 27 2.1 0.3 2.1 0.3
Share premium 700.0 455.0 700.0 455.0
Revaluation reserve 291.0 – – –
Share based payment reserve 6.5 6.4 6.5 6.4
Retained earnings (277.1) (188.0) 456.5 721.5
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent company 722.5 273.7 1,165.1 1,183.2
On behalf of the Board
Duncan Garrood     Steve Dando
11 November 2015     11 November 2015
Company number: 3752645 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 47
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Statement of changes in equity
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015
Share
 capital
£m
Share
 premium
£m
Hedge
 reserve
£m
Revaluation
 reserve
£m
Share based
 payment
 reserve
£m
Retained
 earnings
£m
Total
 equity
£m
Group
Total equity at 17 August 2013 0.3 455.0 (154.9) – 7.2 (12.0) 295.6
Loss for the period – – – – – (175.1) (175.1)
Other comprehensive gains / (losses)  
for the period – – 154.9 – – (1.9) 153.0
Total comprehensive income / (loss)  
for the period attributable to owners  
of the parent company – – 154.9 – – (177.0) (22.1)
Share based payments – – – – (0.8) 1.0 0.2
Total equity at 23 August 2014 0.3 455.0 – – 6.4 (188.0) 273.7
Loss for the period – – – – – (82.6) (82.6)
Other comprehensive gains / (losses)  
for the period – – – 291.0 – (6.6) 284.4
Total comprehensive gain / (loss)  
for the period attributable to owners  
of the parent company – – – 291.0 – (89.2) 201.8
Share issue 1.8 245.0 – – – – 246.8
Share based payments – – – – 0.1 0.1 0.2
Total equity at 22 August 2015 2.1 700.0 – 291.0 6.5 (277.1) 722.5
Company
Total equity at 17 August 2013 0.3 455.0 – – 7.2 533.2 995.7
Profit for the period – – – – – 187.3 187.3
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – – 187.3 187.3
Share based payments – – – – (0.8) 1.0 0.2
Total equity at 23 August 2014 0.3 455.0 – – 6.4 721.5 1,183.2
Loss for the period – – – – – (265.1) (265.1)
Total comprehensive loss for the period – – – – – (265.1) (265.1)
Share issue 1.8 245.0 – – – – 246.8
Share based payments – – – – 0.1 0.1 0.2
Total equity at 22 August 2015 2.1 700.0 – – 6.5 456.5 1,165.1 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 48
Cash flow statement
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015
Group Company
 52 weeks to 
 22 August 
2015 
£m
 53 weeks to 
 23 August 
2014 
£m
52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015
£m
53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating (loss) / profit (321.8) 122.8 (483.4) (4.1)
Impairment of investment in subsidiary undertaking – – 484.1 –
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture (7.8) (6.2) – –
Depreciation and amortisation 12.5 11.0 – –
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment  
and non-current assets classified as held for sale (21.9) (10.7) – –
Impairment 16.4 50.8 – –
Movement in valuation of properties 483.8 – – –
Goodwill disposed 9.1 3.6 – –
Share based payment expense recognised in profit 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1
Increase in inventories (0.1) – – –
Decrease in trade and other receivables 1.2 0.1 – –
Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables 5.1 (18.5) (0.3) 0.1
Difference between pension contributions paid  
and amounts recognised in the income statement (1.4) (2.0) – –
Decrease in provisions and other liabilities (0.8) (1.4) – –
Cash generated from operations 174.5 149.7 0.6 (3.9)
Dividend received from joint venture 6.0 5.0 – –
Income tax received 1.3 3.0 – 0.7
Net cash from operating activities 181.8 157.7 0.6 (3.2)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (46.2) (51.3) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 31.3 60.0 – –
(Cost) / proceeds from sale of operating leases (0.2) 0.2 – –
Proceeds from sale of non-current assets classified as held for sale 58.3 50.4 – –
Purchase of other intangible assets (0.2) (1.1) – –
Purchase of shares in subsidiary undertaking – – (50.0) –
Interest received 2.4 7.6 – –
Net cash generated from investing activities 45.4 65.8 (50.0) –
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 50.0 – 50.0 –
Proceeds from issue of borrowings 7.0 – – –
Repayment of borrowings (346.5) (69.1) – –
Proceeds from new intercompany debt – – – 2.5
Repayment of intercompany debt – – (3.1) –
Repayment of derivative financial instruments (8.0) (6.7) – –
Interest paid (120.4) (165.5) – –
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (0.3) (0.2) – –
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (0.2) (0.2) – –
Proceeds from sale of shares held in trust – 5.2 – –
Other restructuring cash flows 15.7 – – –
Net cash used in financing activities (402.7) (236.5) 46.9 2.5
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (175.5) (13.0) (2.5) (0.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 315.6 328.6 2.8 3.5
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 140.1 315.6 0.3 2.8
  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 49
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption provided under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand 
pounds, except where indicated.
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Directors have prepared detailed operating and cash 
flow forecasts, which cover a period of more than 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements. These show 
that the Group has adequate funds for the foreseeable future to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group is financed through two whole business securitisations, the Punch A securitisation (£938m of gross debt secured against 
2,076 pubs) and the Punch B securitisation (£608m of gross debt secured against 1,453 pubs), as well as certain cash resources 
held across the Group. 
On the 8 October 2014 the Group announced the successful completion of the restructuring of its securitisation arrangements, 
including the resetting of its financial covenants, with a £0.6bn reduction in total net debt (including mark-to-market interest rate 
swaps).
Further details of the debt structure of the Punch A and Punch B securitisations following completion of the restructuring can be 
found in note 7 and also on the Punch website www.punchtavernsplc.com.
Further information in relation to the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Business review on pages 6 to 8 and Our key risks and uncertainties on pages 18 to 20. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings are described in the Financial review on pages 
9 to 11 and in notes 19, 22 and 23, together with information on the Group’s strategies surrounding managing interest rate risk, 
liquidity risk, capital risk and credit risk. 
Change of accounting policy (note 12)
During the second half of the financial year ending 22 August 2015, the Group adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio 
to market value, in accordance with the revaluation provisions of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. In accordance with IAS 8 
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, no prior year adjustment has been recognised in relation to this 
change in accounting policy.
The change in accounting policy reflects the adoption by the Group of the most appropriate accounting policy to carry our 
property portfolio at open market valuation, which gives greater transparency on the underlying value of our property assets. 
Under the previous accounting policy adopted by the Group, property, plant and equipment were stated at historical cost or 
deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. The impact on the financial statements of this change  
in accounting policy has been to:
•	 decrease the net book value of property, plant and equipment as at 22 August 2015 by £190.6m;
•	 recognise a net non-underlying charge against operating profit of £483.8m. This reflects the impact of downward revaluations 
of £523.8m where the fair value of the asset is below the net book value. Offsetting this charge is a £40.0m non-underlying 
credit against operating profit which reflects the impact of upward revaluations, where the fair value of the asset was greater 
than the net book value, and the credit to the income statement reverses a previous charge to the income statement for 
impairment; and
•	 recognise a £293.2m credit to the revaluation reserve on upward revaluations where any impairment previously taken to the 
income statement has already been reversed. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 50
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015
1. Accounting policies continued
New standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards, interpretations and amendments which have been endorsed by the EU:
Effective for the Group and the Company in these financial statements:
•	 IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ – effective from 1 January 2014.
•	 IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ – effective from 1 January 2014.
•	 IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’ – effective from 1 January 2014.
•	 IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ – effective from 1 January 2014.
•	 Amendments to IAS 36 ‘Recoverable amount disclosures for non financial assets’ – effective from 1 January 2014.
•	 Amendments to IAS 19 ‘Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions’ – effective from 1 July 2014.
The above amendments to published standards have had no material impact on the results or the financial position of the Group  
or the Company for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015.
Basis of consolidation
Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the parent company (Punch Taverns plc) and all  
of its subsidiaries. 
The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from 
its investment with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Subsidiaries are 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred out of the Group. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment in value in the financial 
statements of the Company. Investments in joint ventures are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share  
of accumulated comprehensive income, less distributions received and less any impairment in value.
Other investments in which the Group has an interest are reviewed dependent on how much control the Group has. If the Group 
maintains day-to-day control over the investment, the investment is treated as a subsidiary and the results and position are 
consolidated into the Group financial statements.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in full. 
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Goodwill (note 13)
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration of the business 
combination over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial 
recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Where assets are transferred between segments 
or disposed, the goodwill attributable to these assets is charged to the income statement.
Goodwill carried in the balance sheet is not amortised. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events  
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary 
acquired, the gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Operating leases and other intangible assets (note 13)
The operating head leasehold interests on acquisitions are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are carried as intangible assets. 
The Group has adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio during the second half of the financial year ending 22 August 2015 
with properties now stated at open market value and hence lease premium intangible assets are no longer separately carried, 
resulting in a £3.3m charge to the income statement. Other intangible assets are capitalised at cost.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 51
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Amortisation
Amortisation on other intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives 
of intangible assets. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Software 
3 to 10 years
Payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are accounted for as intangible assets and amortised over the 
lease term on a straight-line basis.
Property, plant and equipment (note 12)
The Group has adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio during the second half of the financial year ending 22 August 2015 
with properties now stated at open market value.
The change in accounting policy reflects the adoption by the Group of the most appropriate accounting policy to carry our 
property portfolio at open market valuation, which gives greater transparency on the underlying value of our property assets. 
Revaluation
Properties will be revalued professionally by independent valuers on a five-year rolling basis.
Surpluses arising from a revaluation increase are recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the revaluation reserve or are 
recognised as a credit in the income statement to the extent that they reverse a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously 
recognised as a charge to the income statement. Any deficit arising from a revaluation decrease is recognised as a charge to other 
comprehensive income in the revaluation reserve to the extent that there is a credit balance in the revaluation reserve in respect of 
that asset. Any further decrease in value is recognised as a charge to the income statement. 
Land and buildings as at 23 August 2014 were stated at historical cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
impairment in value. These were depreciated in accordance with the policy detailed below during the 53 weeks ended 23 August 
2014 and in the current year to the point of revaluation. 
Landlord’s fixtures and fittings include removable items, which are generally regarded as within landlord ownership. These are 
depreciated in accordance with the policy detailed below.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual values, by equal annual 
instalments as follows:
Licensed properties, unlicensed properties and owner-occupied properties
50 years or the life of the lease if shorter
Landlord’s fixtures and fittings, office furniture and fittings and motor vehicles
5 years
Information technology equipment
3 to 5 years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
An annual assessment of residual values is performed and there is no depreciable amount if residual values are the same as,  
or more than, book value. Residual values are based on the estimated amount that would be currently obtainable from disposal  
of the asset net of disposal costs if the asset were already of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful life.
Impairment 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and when events  
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets that are subject to depreciation or 
amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable. A review for indicators of impairment is performed annually. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by 
which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less 
costs to sell and value in use. Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs. When  
an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the 
carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, up to the carrying amount that would 
have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 52
1. Accounting policies continued
Provisions (note 25)
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic resources as a result 
of past events.
Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date. Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material. The discount rate used to determine the 
present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Borrowings (note 22)
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with  
the borrowings. 
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. Amortised cost is calculated taking account of any issue costs, and any discounts or premiums on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through the amortisation 
process.
When debt is purchased from the market, a profit or loss is recognised at the point of purchase. The debt is then held at amortised 
issue value until it is cancelled. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation (note 9)
Income tax expense comprises both the income tax payable, based on taxable profits for the year, and deferred tax.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or where the deferred 
tax asset or liability arises on an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be 
utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Movements in 
deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement, except where they relate to items charged or credited directly to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Leasing (note 22)
Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified  
as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower,  
the present value of the minimum lease payments. A corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease 
obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve a constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are accounted for as intangible assets and amortised over the lease 
term on a straight-line basis.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 53
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Pensions (note 30)
The Group operates one defined benefit scheme which requires contributions to be made to separately administered funds.  
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit arrangements is the difference 
between the fair value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities. Any defined benefit assets are limited to  
the present value of economic benefits in the form of any future refunds from the scheme or reductions in future contributions  
to the scheme. The cost of providing benefits under the scheme is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial method.  
The current service cost is charged to operating profit. A single net interest cost or income, which is calculated on the net defined 
benefit liability by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability, is shown in finance costs and finance income as 
appropriate. The cumulative net deficits on this defined benefit pension scheme have been recognised in full in equity at the date 
of transition to IFRS and the difference between the actual return on plan assets and interest income, together with actuarial gains 
and losses, are included within remeasurements of defined benefit scheme which are recognised in the Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income.
The Group also contributes to money purchase pension plans for employees. Contributions are charged to the income statement  
as they become payable.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities (note 23) 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risk associated with interest rate 
fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and subsequently re-measured to fair value.  
The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. 
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and 
if so, the nature of the item being hedged. For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges 
when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or cash flow hedges where they hedge 
exposure to variability in forecast transactions.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, 
as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions  
are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated as and qualify as cash flow hedges are 
recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies  
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in 
equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or 
loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement immediately. The replacement or rollover of a hedging instrument 
into another hedging instrument is not an expiry, sale or termination where such replacement or rollover is part of the documented 
hedging strategy.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Changes in fair value of any derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately  
in the income statement.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 54
1. Accounting policies continued
Share based payment transactions (note 28)
A number of employees of the Group (including Directors) receive an element of remuneration in the form of share based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’).
Equity-settled transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of transactions involving the granting  
of shares is determined by the share price at the date of grant. The fair value of transactions involving the granting of share  
options is calculated by an external valuer based on a binomial model, a beta model or the Monte Carlo model dependent upon 
the most appropriate valuation model for the individual scheme. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of  
any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Punch Taverns plc (‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period based on the Group’s estimate of how many of the awards will eventually vest. No expense is recognised for 
awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as 
vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been 
modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification,  
as measured at the date of the modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not  
yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and 
designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were 
a modification to the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected  
as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for  
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and VAT. All operations take place solely in the 
United Kingdom.
Drink sales 
Revenue in respect of drink sales is recognised at the point at which the goods are provided, net of any discounts or volume  
rebates allowed.
Rents receivable 
Rents receivable are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. 
Machine income
The Group’s share of net machine income is recognised in the period to which it relates. 
Inventories (note 16)
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Trade and other receivables (note 17)
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amount.  
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Receivables are written  
off against the doubtful debt provision when management deems the debt to be no longer recoverable.
Cash (note 19)
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale (note 20)
Properties identified for disposal which are classified in the balance sheet as non-current assets held for sale are held at the lower 
of carrying value on transfer to non-current assets held for sale, as assessed at the time of transfer, and fair value less costs to sell. 
The fair value less costs to sell is based on estimated net disposal proceeds which are provided by third party property agents 
who have been engaged to sell the properties. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and  
the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale and completion  
is expected within one year from the date of classification.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 55
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Other investments
Other investments, such as holdings in shares in other companies, are held at fair value, and any movements in the fair value  
are taken to the income statement in the period they occur.
Dividend distribution
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements in the period in which  
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Non-underlying items (note 6)
In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management consider 
will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments. 
Non-underlying items include:
•	 Financial and operational restructuring costs;
•	 Profit / (loss) on sale of properties and associated goodwill; and
•	 Changes in the fair value, impairment and valuation of non-current assets and financial instruments.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgements including those relating to income taxes, deferred tax, 
financial instruments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, valuations, provisions and post-employment 
benefits.
Management bases its estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets 
and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different 
assumptions and conditions.
The estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are  
detailed below.
Goodwill impairment (note 14)
The Group assesses whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis. The recoverable amounts of the cash generating  
units (CGUs) to which goodwill has been allocated is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require 
assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present 
value of those cash flows. Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and operating leases (note 14)
Property, plant and equipment and operating leases are reviewed for impairment if circumstances suggest that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. Recoverable amounts are determined based on value-in-use calculations and estimated sale proceeds. 
These calculations require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order 
to calculate the present value of those cash flows. Actual outcomes may vary from these estimates.
Revaluation (note 12)
Properties are revalued annually (from the second half of the 2015 financial year) to fair value in accordance with the Royal Institute 
of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Valuation – Professional Standards January 2014, incorporating the International Valuation Standards 
2013, and IFRS 13. The valuation is based on current and future projected trading levels of each property, taking into account the 
location, physical attributes and sustainability of rent of each property. Changes in assumptions underlying valuations, such as the 
assessment of fair maintainable trade for each property, could impact the carrying value of land and buildings. 
Post-employment benefits (note 30)
The present value of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities is determined on an actuarial basis and depends on a number  
of actuarial assumptions. Any change in these assumptions could impact the carrying amounts of pension liabilities. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 56
1. Accounting policies continued
Effectiveness of cash flow hedges
The Group performs an assessment of the probability of future cash flows on the floating rate notes and related interest rate 
swaps. Where future expected hedged cash flows are expected to still be highly probable, the Group continues to account for 
these as effective cash flow hedges, with the effective portion being recognised in equity. Where future expected cash flows  
are deemed not to be highly probable but are still expected to occur, the Group discontinues hedge accounting from the date of 
the assessment. From this date, all movements in the fair value of the cash flow hedges are recognised in the income statement. 
The implications of a debt restructuring of the securitisation arrangements were considered during the prior year with regards  
to the continued effectiveness of hedge accounting for the interest rate swaps and also in relation to whether the hedge reserve 
should be recycled through the income statement. As a result of the capital restructuring proposals the interest rate swap relating 
to the Punch B C1 loan note and the Punch A B3, D1 and M2(N) loan notes were reclassified as an ineffective cash flow hedge,  
and its hedge reserve balance was recycled through the consolidated income statement accordingly. See note 6.
Investment in joint venture (note 34)
The investment in the joint venture of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited was not classified as held for sale at the year end  
as the disposal was not considered highly probable at the balance sheet date. 
Capital restructuring (note 7)
It was not possible to identify which elements of the capital restructuring costs related solely to the inception of new debt 
instruments, as opposed to the negotiation and settlement of old debt instruments, due to the complexity of the 
restructuring.  These costs were therefore not capitalised but were charged to the income statement. 
Authorisation of financial statements
The Group’s and Company’s financial statements of Punch Taverns plc for the period ended 22 August 2015 were authorised  
for issue by the Board of Directors on 11 November 2015 and the balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by Duncan 
Garrood and Steve Dando.
Corporate information
Punch Taverns plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England. The Company’s shares are listed  
on the London Stock Exchange.
2. Segmental analysis 
The Punch business consists of a core estate and a non-core estate, each having its own clear strategy. Each of these strategic 
business units consists of a number of cash generating units (CGUs), which are individual pubs. These CGUs generate their own 
revenues, which are consolidated to give the Group revenue and as a result, Group revenue is not reliant on one significant customer. 
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, represented by the Board, reviews the performance of the core and non-core divisions 
separately, at an underlying EBITDA level, as included in the internal management reports.
The Group operates solely in the United Kingdom.
52 weeks to 22 August 2015
Core
£m
Non-core
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Drink revenue 267.6 37.6 – 305.2
Rental income 92.6 10.2 – 102.8
Other revenue 10.5 2.3 – 12.8
Underlying revenue 370.7 50.1 – 420.8
Underlying operating costs
1
(170.1) (27.9) (34.2) (232.2)
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture – – 7.8 7.8
EBITDA
2
 before non-underlying items 200.6 22.2 (26.4) 196.4
Underlying depreciation and amortisation (12.5)
Operating non-underlying items (505.7)
Net finance income 251.6
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (35.0)
UK income tax credit 22.6
Loss for the financial period attributable to owners of the parent company (82.6)
1 Unallocated underlying operating costs represent corporate overheads that are not allocated down to the divisional performance.
2  EBITDA represents earnings before depreciation and amortisation, profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and non-current assets classified as held for sale, 
impairment, movement in valuation of properties, goodwill disposed, finance income, finance costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps and tax of the Group.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 57
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
2. Segmental analysis continued
53 weeks to 23 August 2014
Core
£m
Non-core
£m
Unallocated
£m
 Total
£m
Drink revenue 275.4 50.8 – 326.2
Rental income 96.4 14.5 – 110.9
Other revenue 8.2 2.8 – 11.0
Underlying revenue 380.0 68.1 – 448.1
Underlying operating costs
1
(173.8) (38.7) (37.0) (249.5)
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture – – 6.2 6.2
EBITDA
2
 before non-underlying items 206.2 29.4 (30.8) 204.8
Underlying depreciation and amortisation (11.0)
Operating non-underlying items (71.0)
Net finance costs (336.6)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (26.4)
UK income tax credit 65.1
Loss for the financial period attributable to owners of the parent company (175.1)
1 Unallocated underlying operating costs represent corporate overheads that are not allocated down to the divisional performance.
2  EBITDA represents earnings before depreciation and amortisation, profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and non-current assets classified as held  
for sale, impairment, movement in valuation of properties, goodwill disposed, finance income, finance costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps  
and tax of the Group.
Assets and liabilities
22 August 2015
Core
£m
Non-core
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Segment assets 2,094.4 195.3 5.1 2,294.8
Unallocated assets – – 232.4 232.4
Total assets 2,094.4 195.3 237.5 2,527.2
Segment liabilities – – – –
Unallocated liabilities – – (1,804.7) (1,804.7)
Total liabilities – – (1,804.7) (1,804.7)
Net assets / (liabilities) 2,094.4 195.3 (1,567.2) 722.5
23 August 2014
Core
£m
Non-core
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Segment assets 2,293.6 241.4 8.8 2,543.8
Unallocated assets – – 717.1 717.1
Total assets 2,293.6 241.4 725.9 3,260.9
Segment liabilities – – – –
Unallocated liabilities – – (2,987.2) (2,987.2)
Total liabilities – – (2,987.2) (2,987.2)
Net assets / (liabilities) 2,293.6 241.4 (2,261.3) 273.7 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 58
2. Segmental analysis continued
Capital expenditure 
22 August 2015
Core
£m
Non-core
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Acquisition spend – – – –
Investment spend 36.8 3.2 6.4 46.4
Total capital expenditure 36.8 3.2 6.4 46.4
23 August 2014
Core
£m
Non-core
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Acquisition spend – – – –
Investment spend 42.6 4.6 5.2 52.4
Total capital expenditure 42.6 4.6 5.2 52.4
There are no sales between the segments. Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, operating leases, non-current 
assets classified as held for sale and goodwill and exclude other intangible assets, receivables, inventories, cash, restricted cash, 
taxation, investments in joint ventures and other investments, whilst all liabilities are unallocated.
In January 2015 71 pubs were transferred from the non-core estate to the core estate. At the same time 65 pubs were transferred 
from the core estate to the non-core estate. The capital expenditure table for the previous financial period has not been restated. 
At the start of the previous financial period 116 pubs were transferred from the non-core estate to the core estate. 
3. Analysis of expenses 
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit / (loss):
 52 weeks to 
22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to 
23 August
 2014 
£m
Drink costs 172.5 186.1
Leasehold rentals 8.3 8.7
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture (7.8) (6.2)
Depreciation 11.4 8.2
Amortisation 1.1 2.8
Impairment losses 16.4 50.8
Movements in valuation of properties (note 12) 483.8 –
Goodwill disposed 9.1 3.6
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and non-current assets classified as held for sale (21.9) (10.7)
Other costs 69.7 82.0
Total costs deducted from revenue to determine operating profit / (loss)
1
742.6 325.3
1 Non-underlying costs of £18.3m are included within other costs above (August 2014: £27.3m). 
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 59
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
3. Analysis of expenses continued 
Auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Audit services  
Statutory audit of Group financial statements 0.2 0.2
Statutory audit of subsidiary companies pursuant to legislation – –
 
Audit related services
1
– 0.5
Non-audit services
Other services
2
0.3 –
1 Relates to restructuring fees £nil (August 2014: £0.5m).
2 Relates to the disposal of the 50% interest in Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited.
The accounts of the parent company do not include details of remuneration receivable by the auditor and its associates for 
non-audit services, as the Group accounts are required to include this information as required by Regulation 5(1)(b) of The 
Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements) Regulations 2008 on a consolidated basis.
4. Finance income
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Bank interest receivable 2.2 6.5
Loan note redemptions 0.3 29.9
Non-underlying finance income (note 6) 374.6 3.3
Total finance income 377.1 39.7
5. Finance costs
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Interest payable on loan notes
1
124.3 158.8
Interest payable on finance leases 0.2 0.2
Net pension interest costs 0.4 0.4
Amortisation of deferred issue costs 0.1 1.6
Effect of unwinding discounted provisions (note 25) 0.5 0.6
Non-underlying finance costs (note 6) – 214.7
Total finance costs 125.5 376.3
1  Interest payable on loan notes is net of £2.1m credit (August 2014: £5.4m credit) for the amortisation of fair value adjustments and £1.2m net credit  
(August 2014: £2.6m net credit) for interest rate swaps, all of which relates to financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 60
6. Non-underlying items
In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management consider 
will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments. 
Included in the income statement are the following non-underlying items:
 52 weeks to
 22 August 
2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August 
2014 
£m
Operating non-underlying items
Capital restructuring (18.3) (27.3)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and non-current assets classified as held for sale 21.9 10.7
Impairment losses (note 14) (16.4) (50.8)
Movement in valuation of properties
1
(483.8) –
Goodwill disposed
2
(9.1) (3.6)
(505.7) (71.0)
Finance income
Movement in fair value of provision for share scheme settlement
3
 – 3.3
Profit on capital restructuring (note 7) 374.6 –
374.6 3.3
Finance costs
Loss on sale of shares held in trust – (0.3)
Recycling of hedge reserve
4
– (214.4)
– (214.7)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps
5
(35.0) (26.4)
Total non-underlying items before tax (166.1) (308.8)
Tax
Tax impact of non-underlying items 34.0 73.6
Change in standard rate of tax (0.6) (1.2)
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods 0.6 0.9
34.0 73.3
Total non-underlying items after tax (132.1) (235.5)
1  The movement in the valuation of properties of £483.8m comprises a downward valuation of £523.8m where the fair value of an asset is less than the net book 
value, offset by a credit of £40.0m where the fair value of an asset is greater than the net book value and the credit reverses a previous charge to the income 
statement for impairment.
2   Represents the goodwill relating to those core pubs disposed of in the period and also the goodwill relating to pubs transferred or identified for transfer to 
non-core.
3  Represents movement in fair value of shares held to settle future share schemes and release of provision for share schemes.
4  Represents the recycling of the hedge reserve relating to the Punch A B3, D1 & M2(N) interest rate swaps following its reclassification as ineffective during the 
prior financial period, due to the announcement of the capital restructuring proposals. 
5 Represents the movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting.
7. Capital restructuring
Completion of restructuring
On 8 October 2014 Punch announced the successful completion of restructuring proposals for the Punch A and Punch B securitisations. 
The impact of the restructuring reduced total net debt (including mark-to-market on interest rate swaps) by £0.6bn. The Group  
also issued a total of 3,771,151,200 new ordinary shares in connection with the restructuring proposals, of which 1,273,005,000 
was a firm placing at 3.93 pence per share. 
On 13 October 2014 Punch announced the consolidation of its ordinary shares, as described in the combined circular and 
prospectus dated 18 August 2014, had become effective. As a result of the share consolidation, the existing ordinary shares  
in Punch Taverns plc have been consolidated into consolidated ordinary shares on the basis of one consolidated ordinary share  
for every 20 existing ordinary shares.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 61
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
7. Capital restructuring continued
Punch A debt structure
Immediately following completion of the restructuring, the revised debt structure of the Punch A securitisation was as set out below:
Class of Notes Notional Cash coupon PIK coupon Maturity
Super Senior Hedge Notes £123.4m Libor – 2021
A1 (F) £202.5m 7.274% – 2026
A1 (V) £67.5m 7.274% – 2026
A2 (F) £137.4m 7.320% – 2025
A2 (V) £45.8m 7.320% – 2025
M3 £300.0m Libor+5.500%
1
– 2027
B4 £89.9m 1.500% 13.500% 2028
Gross debt £966.4m
1 An interest rate swap is in place to swap the Libor interest rate on the Class M3 floating rate note to a fixed rate of 5.954%.
Punch B debt structure
Immediately following completion of the restructuring, the revised debt structure of the Punch B securitisation was as set out below:
Class of Notes Notional Cash coupon PIK coupon Maturity
Super Senior Swap Loan £49.0m Libor+0.400% – 2019
A3 £146.9m 7.369% – 2021
A6 £220.0m 5.943% – 2022
A7 £149.1m 5.267% – 2024
B3 £72.9m 7.750% – 2025
Gross debt £637.9m
Profit on capital restructuring
 52 weeks
 to 22 August
 2015
£m
Reduction in nominal debt 794.0
Cash payments (271.1)
Equity issued (196.5)
Class B3 note issued 7.0
Deferred issue costs written off 22.6
Loan fair value premiums written off (1.9)
Other profits on capital restructuring 20.5
Profit on capital restructuring (note 6) 374.6
The £196.5m equity consideration comprised 2,498,146,197 shares issued at 7.86p. The firm placing of 1,273,005,000 shares  
at 3.93p generated £50.0m of cash to be used in the restructuring. Three new Ordinary shares were issued to the Company 
Secretary to facilitate a 1 for 20 share consolidation.
Further details of the debt structure of the Punch A and Punch B securitisations following completion of the restructuring can  
be found on the Punch website www.punchtavernsplc.com. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 62
8. Employees and directors
The staff costs are set out below:
 52 weeks to
 22 August 
2015
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August 
2014 
£m
Wages and salaries 17.2 17.5
Social security costs 2.0 2.0
Share based payments 0.3 0.3
Other pension costs 1.2 1.3
20.7 21.1
The average number of employees employed by the Group during the period was as follows:
 52 weeks to
 22 August 
2015 
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
Management and administration
1
409 425
1 Employee numbers relate to actual employees rather than full time employee equivalents.
The Non-Executive Directors are remunerated by the Company, as were the Executive Directors for part of the year.
Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 32 to 42.
9. Taxation
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Tax charged / (credited) in the income statement
52 weeks to 22 August 2015 53 weeks to 23 August 2014
Underlying
£m
Non-
underlying
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
£m
Non-
underlying
£m
Total
£m
Current tax 
UK corporation tax – current period 11.4 (11.4) – 7.4 (7.4) –
UK corporation tax – adjustments in respect of prior periods – (0.8) (0.8) – (2.3) (2.3)
11.4 (12.2) (0.8) 7.4 (9.7) (2.3)
Deferred tax (note 18)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
– current period – (22.0) (22.0) 0.8 (65.0) (64.2)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
– adjustments in respect of prior periods – 0.2 0.2 – 1.4 1.4
– (21.8) (21.8) 0.8 (63.6) (62.8)
Total tax charge / (credit) 11.4 (34.0) (22.6) 8.2 (73.3) (65.1)
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 63
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
9. Taxation continued
Tax on items credited to equity
In addition to the amount credited to the income statement, tax movements recognised directly in equity through the Consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income were as follows:
 52 weeks to
 22 August 
2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August 
2014 
£m
Deferred tax
Deferred tax credit on loss on actuarial valuation of pension schemes (0.6) (0.3)
Deferred tax charge on effective element of cash flow hedges – 53.2
Deferred tax charge on movement in revaluation of properties 2.2 –
Deferred tax charge recognised directly in equity 1.6 52.9
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The effective rate of tax is different to the full rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below: 
52 weeks to 22 August 2015 53 weeks to 23 August 2014
 Underlying
 items
£m
Non-
underlying
 items 
(note 6)
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
 items
£m
Non-
underlying
items 
(note 6)
£m
Total 
£m
Profit / (loss) on ordinary activities before tax 60.9 (166.1) (105.2) 68.6 (308.8) (240.2)
Tax at current UK tax rate of 20.61%  
(August 2014: 22.22%) 12.6 (34.2) (21.6) 15.2 (68.6) (53.4)
Effects of:
Net effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes and 
non-taxable income (underlying items) (1.2) – (1.2) (7.0) – (7.0)
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods 
(non-underlying items) – (0.6) (0.6) – (0.9) (0.9)
Current period non-underlying charges / (credits):
- Change in standard rate of tax – 0.6 0.6 – 1.2 1.2
-  Expenses not deductible for tax purposes / (income not 
chargeable for tax purposes) – 0.2 0.2 – (5.0) (5.0)
Total tax charge / (credit) reported in  
the income statement 11.4 (34.0) (22.6) 8.2 (73.3) (65.1)
Details of the non-underlying tax credits and charges are included in note 6.
(c) Deferred tax recognised in the Consolidated income statement
52 weeks to 22 August 2015 53 weeks to 23 August 2014
 Underlying
 items
£m
Non-
underlying
 items 
(note 6)
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
 items
£m
Non-
underlying
 items 
(note 6)
£m
Total 
£m
Temporary differences (6.5) 8.6 2.1 2.1 (60.2) (58.1)
Accelerated capital allowances 6.5 (31.2) (24.7) (1.3) (6.0) (7.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – 0.2 0.2 – 1.4 1.4
Restatement of deferred tax liability  
for change in UK tax rate – 0.6 0.6 – 1.2 1.2
– (21.8) (21.8) 0.8 (63.6) (62.8)
See note 18 for the movement in deferred tax and for factors affecting the tax charge in future periods. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 64
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust, which are treated  
as cancelled.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (adjusted for the effects of dilutive options).
The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the prior year has been adjusted for the impact of the 
consolidation of ordinary shares as announced on 13 October 2014 following successful completion of restructuring proposals.  
The ordinary shares of 0.04786p in Punch Taverns plc have been consolidated into ordinary shares of 0.9572p in Punch Taverns plc 
on a one for 20 basis. 
As part of the restructuring proposals the Group issued 3,771,151,200 new ordinary shares on 8 October 2014, prior to the share 
consolidation. The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding in the periods leading up to the share issue has not 
been retrospectively adjusted for as per IAS 33: Earnings per share. The share issue resulted in an increase in cash resources and 
as the share issue was not offered to all existing shareholders it was deemed that there was no bonus element associated with 
this issue. 
The adjustment to the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding impacts the current and prior period. 
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares are set out below:
 52 weeks to 
22 August 2015 
53 weeks to 
23 August 2014
Earnings
£m
Per share
 amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Per share
 amount
pence
Results attributable to ordinary shareholders:
Basic earnings per share (82.6) (41.7) (175.1) (526.1)
Diluted earnings per share (82.6) (41.7) (175.1) (526.1)
Supplementary earnings per share figures:
Basic earnings per share before non-underlying items 49.5 25.0 60.4 181.5
Diluted earnings per share before non-underlying items 49.5 25.0 60.4 181.5
The impact of dilutive ordinary shares is to increase weighted average shares by 23,442 (August 2014: nil) for employee  
share options.
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
No. (m)
53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
No. (m)
Basic weighted average number of shares 198.0 33.3
Diluted weighted average number of shares 198.1 33.3
11. Dividends
No dividends have been declared and paid during the current or prior year. 
The Directors will not be proposing the payment of a final dividend.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 65
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
12. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
 buildings
£m
Public house
 fixtures and
 fittings
£m
Other 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 17 August 2013 2,561.0 71.0 16.2 2,648.2
Additions 46.7 5.2 0.2 52.1
Net transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale (85.1) (2.3) – (87.4)
Disposals (65.8) (1.5) – (67.3)
At 23 August 2014 2,456.8 72.4 16.4 2,545.6
Additions 39.9 5.9 0.7 46.5
Revaluation (376.8) – – (376.8)
Net transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale (58.5) (6.8) – (65.3)
Disposals (36.2) (1.2) – (37.4)
At 22 August 2015 2,025.2 70.3 17.1 2,112.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 17 August 2013 182.9 52.8 15.3 251.0
Charge for the year 2.8 4.9 0.5 8.2
Impairment losses (note 14) 50.8 – – 50.8
Net transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale (44.8) (2.3) – (47.1)
Disposals (13.9) (0.8) – (14.7)
At 23 August 2014 177.8 54.6 15.8 248.2
Charge for the year 6.8 4.4 0.2 11.4
Impairment losses (note 14) 13.1 – – 13.1
Revaluation (186.2) – – (186.2)
Disposals (11.5) (0.6) – (12.1)
At 22 August 2015 – 58.4 16.0 74.4
Net book value at 22 August 2015 2,025.2 11.9 1.1 2,038.2
Net book value at 23 August 2014 2,279.0 17.8 0.6 2,297.4
During the second half of the financial year ending 22 August 2015, the Group adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio 
to market value, in accordance with the revaluation provisions of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. In accordance with IAS 8 
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, no prior year adjustment has been recognised in relation to this 
change in accounting policy. The valuation was performed by GVA Grimley Limited, independent chartered surveyors.
The change in accounting policy reflects the adoption by the Group of the most appropriate accounting policy to carry our 
property portfolio at open market valuation, which gives greater transparency on the underlying value of our property assets. 
Under the previous accounting policy adopted by the Group, property, plant and equipment and operating leases were stated  
at historical cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment value. The impact on the financial statements  
of this change in accounting policy has been to:
•	 decrease the net book value of property, plant and equipment as at 22 August 2015 by £190.6m;
•	 recognise a net non-underlying charge against operating profit of £483.8m. This reflects the impact of downward revaluations 
of £523.8m where the fair value of the asset is below the net book value. Offsetting this charge is a £40.0m non-underlying 
credit against operating profit which reflects the impact of upward revaluations, where the fair value of the asset is greater than 
the net book value, and the credit to the income statement reverses a previous charge to the income statement for impairment; 
and
•	 recognise a £293.2m credit to the revaluation reserve through the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
on upward revaluations where any impairment previously taken to the income statement has already been reversed.
Surpluses arising from a revaluation increase are recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the revaluation reserve or are 
recognised as a credit in the income statement to the extent that they reverse a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously 
recognised as a charge to the income statement. Any deficit arising from a revaluation decrease is recognised as a charge to other 
comprehensive income in the revaluation reserve to the extent that there is a credit balance in the revaluation reserve in respect 
of that asset. Any further decrease in value is recognised as a charge to the income statement.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 66
12. Property, plant and equipment continued
The cost of work in progress within property, plant and equipment at 22 August 2015 was £20.5m (August 2014: £16.6m).  
Work in progress is not depreciated.
The Group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties and other assets under finance leases.  
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Included in property, plant and equipment above are properties held under finance leases with a net book value of £1.5m  
(August 2014: £1.7m).
Included in land and buildings are properties with a net book value of £2,022.9m (August 2014: £2,274.4m) over which  
the Group’s borrowings are secured by way of fixed and floating charges.
Fair value measurement of property, plant and equipment
Properties are revalued annually (from the second half of the 2015 financial year) to fair value in accordance with the Royal Institute 
of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Valuation – Professional Standards January 2014, incorporating the International Valuation Standards 
2013, and IFRS 13. 
The valuations of assets have been assessed as being level 3 valuations, as there are no directly comparable market observable 
inputs. The appropriate classes of assets for fair value disclosures are deemed to be public houses and unlicensed properties, 
considering the nature, characteristics and risks of the assets. 
The valuation is based on current and future projected trading levels of each property, taking in to account the location, physical 
attributes and sustainability of rent of each property. Once a fair maintainable trade (FMT) income stream has been determined  
for each pub, including an assessment of wholesale and machine income and rent that could be achieved with a reasonably 
efficient operator, taking into account future trading potential, it is capitalised using an appropriate multiple.
The unlicensed properties are valued considering the rents achieved and lease terms and then by using an appropriate multiple.
The assets are valued at their highest and best use which is deemed to be their current use by the Group, unless when reviewed  
on an asset by asset basis circumstances indicate that there may be a higher or better use. 
The tables below show, by class of asset, the number of properties in each FMT and multiple banding. 
Public houses – number of properties
under
8 times
8-10
times
10-12
times
over
12 times Total
FMT income
more than £90,000 p.a. 12 164 518 7 701
£60,000 to £90,000 p.a. 91 1,015 8 11 1,125
£30,000 to £60,000 p.a. 897 698 7 11 1,613
less than £30,000 p.a. 120 24 1 4 149
1,120 1,901 534 33 3,588
Unlicensed – number of properties
under
8 times
8-10
times
10-12
times
over
12 times Total
FMT income
more than £90,000 p.a. – – – – –
£60,000 to £90,000 p.a. – – 1 1 2
£30,000 to £60,000 p.a. 1 1 – 2 4
less than £30,000 p.a. 21 – 6 6 33
22 1 7 9 39
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 67
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
12. Property, plant and equipment continued
The table below shows the reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurements.
Public
 houses
£m
Unlicensed
£m
Total
£m
Opening balance 2,279.3 17.5 2,296.8
Additions 39.4 6.4 45.8
Net transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale (65.3) – (65.3)
Transfers between classes (7.9) 7.9 –
Revaluation:
 Recognised in the income statement (482.4) (1.4) (483.8)
 Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 289.6 3.6 293.2
Impairment losses (note 14) (13.1) – (13.1)
Depreciation (9.0) (2.2) (11.2)
Disposals (20.4) (4.9) (25.3)
Closing balance 2,010.2 26.9 2,037.1
Net book value of other assets 1.1
Net book value of property, plant and equipment 2,038.2
Sensitivities
The significant unobservable inputs used in the level 3 fair value measurements of the Group’s estate are FMT and a multiple. 
Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the valuation of the Group’s properties. The sensitivities below 
are considered to be reasonably likely.
Sensitivity
FMT
+2%
£m
FMT
- 2%
£m
Multiple
+0.25
£m
Multiple
-0.25
£m
Public houses and unlicensed 41.9 (41.9) 58.1 (58.1)
If land and buildings had been measured using the cost model, the carrying amounts would be as follows:
Land and
 buildings
£m
At 22 August 2015
Cost 2,461.0
Accumulated depreciation (239.9)
Net book value 2,221.1 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 68
13. Goodwill, operating leases and other intangible assets
Operating
 leases
£m
Other
 intangible
 assets
£m
Goodwill
£m
Cost
At 17 August 2013 39.3 16.6 246.6
Additions – 1.5 –
Disposals (0.5) – (5.0)
At 23 August 2014 38.8 18.1 241.6
Additions – 0.2 –
Disposals (0.9) – (12.7)
At 22 August 2015 37.9 18.3 228.9
Amortisation and impairment
At 17 August 2013 33.5 16.2 70.4
Charge for the year 1.6 1.2 –
Disposals (0.3) – (1.4)
At 23 August 2014 34.8 17.4 69.0
Charge for the year 0.7 0.4 –
Impairment (note 14) 3.3 – –
Disposals (0.9) – (3.6)
At 22 August 2015 37.9 17.8 65.4
Net book value at 22 August 2015 – 0.5 163.5
Net book value at 23 August 2014 4.0 0.7 172.6
Included within operating leases are properties with a net book value of £nil (August 2014: £3.7m) over which the Group’s 
borrowings are secured by way of fixed and floating charges.
Other intangible assets relate to computer software. 
14. Impairment losses
Property, plant and equipment and operating leases
When any indicators of impairment are identified, including the difference between market capitalisation and net assets of the 
business, property, plant and equipment and operating leases are reviewed for impairment based on each cash-generating unit 
(CGU). The CGUs are individual pubs. The carrying values of these individual pubs are compared to the recoverable amount of the 
CGUs, which is the higher of value in use (VIU) and fair value less costs to sell (FVLCS). Cash flows used in the VIU calculation were 
based on earnings before interest and taxation, and used the forecasted cash flows included within the Group business plan for the 
first three years (2014: first five years), and then the cash flows were extrapolated for a further 47 years (2014: 45 years), applying 
a terminal value which is broadly in line with the most recent property valuation of the estate, having had the long term growth 
rate applied to it. The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate applied to cash flow projections was 8.3% (2014: 8.0%), being the 
Group’s adjusted weighted average cost of capital. The growth rate applied to cash flows over the 47 year period was 2% (2014: 
over the 45 year period: 2%) which was selected as being in line with the Group’s estimate of the long-term growth rate. The key 
driver to maintaining the growth rate is management’s ability to successfully deliver on its strategic plan. The forecast cash flows 
are then discounted to give a value in use. 
During the year, the FVLCS of the assets transferring into the non-current assets classified as held for sale category, and the 
remaining assets in the wider non-core estate, have been reviewed, and an impairment of £13.1m (23 August 2014: £50.8m)  
has been identified. The FVLCS was assessed on both external and internal valuations.
The Group has adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio during the second half of the financial year ending 22 August 
2015 with properties now stated at open market value and hence lease premium intangible assets are no longer separately carried, 
resulting in a £3.3m charge to the income statement.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 69
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
14. Impairment losses continued
The impairments recognised in the current and prior periods are as follows:
52 weeks to
 22 August
2015
£m
53 weeks to
 23 August
2014
£m
Property, plant and equipment 13.1 50.8
Operating leases 3.3 –
16.4 50.8
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the synergistic benefits of operating a large pub estate and is allocated to groups of CGUs. The leased estate  
is organised into two groups of CGUs; core and non-core. No goodwill is allocated to the non-core estate given the low value  
of the properties in the estate and the low level of synergistic benefits. 
During the current and prior financial period, a review for impairment was carried out on the remaining goodwill allocated to pubs 
in the core estate. This review compared the carrying amount of the goodwill to the recoverable amount. Cash flows used in the 
VIU calculation were based on earnings before interest and taxation, and used the forecasted cash flows included within the Group 
business plan for the first three years (2014: first five years), and then the cash flows were extrapolated for a further 47 years 
(2014: 45 years), applying a terminal value which is broadly in line with the most recent property valuation of the estate, having 
had the long term growth rate applied to it. The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate applied to cash flow projections was 8.3% 
(2014: 8.0%), being the Group’s adjusted weighted average cost of capital. The long term annual growth rate applied to cash 
flows over the 47 year period was 2% (2014: over the 45 year period 2%) which was selected as being in line with the Group’s 
estimate of the average long-term growth rate. The key driver to maintaining the growth rate is management’s ability to 
successfully deliver on its strategic plan. The forecast cash flows are then discounted to give a value in use. 
As at 22 August 2015, the headroom on the impairment test between the recoverable amount and carrying value of goodwill  
was £142.4m and consequently there was no impairment to goodwill in the period. The calculation of value in use is most sensitive, 
in particular, to changes in the assumptions for the pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate and the long term growth rate. Management 
considers that reasonably possible changes in these assumptions would be a 1% point increase in the discount rate, which would 
result in a £73m impairment of goodwill, or a 1% point decrease in the growth rate, which would result in a £55m impairment  
of goodwill. 
Should there be a 2% point increase in the discount rate there would be a full impairment of goodwill (leaving no goodwill 
remaining on the balance sheet). Should there be a 2% point decrease in the growth rate there would be a £158m impairment  
of goodwill.
The discount rate could increase to 8.9% or the growth rate could decrease to 1.3% before any impairment would be required.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings (note 15)
During the period a review for impairment was carried out on the Company’s investments in subsidiary undertakings, comparing 
the carrying amount to the recoverable amount, being the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The assumptions 
in the calculation were the same as those described above for goodwill. As well as the cash flows associated with the value in  
use of the core estate, the assessment of impairment also takes into account other key cash flows such as the non-core estate,  
the value of the Matthew Clark investment and the repayment of debt. 
An impairment of £484.1m of the investment in subsidiary undertakings was recognised by the Company in the period.
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive, in particular, to changes in the assumptions for the pre-tax risk adjusted discount 
rate and the long term growth rate. Management considers that reasonably possible changes in these assumptions would be  
a 1% point increase in the discount rate, which would result in an additional £219m impairment of the investment, or a 1% point 
decrease in the growth rate, which would result in an additional £199m impairment of the investment. 
Should there be a 2% point increase in the discount rate there would be an additional £317m impairment of the investment. 
Should there be a 2% point decrease in the growth rate there would be an additional £303m impairment of the investment. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 70
15. Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures
Company
Total
£m
At 17 August 2013 1,342.2
Additions 0.2
At 23 August 2014 1,342.4
Additions 246.9
Impairment (note 14) (484.1)
At 22 August 2015 1,105.2
During the period, the Company made a capital contribution of £0.1m (August 2014: £0.2m) to its immediate subsidiary 
undertaking, Punch Taverns (PGE) Limited. 
As part of the capital restructuring, the Company increased its holding in its immediate subsidiary undertaking, Punch Taverns 
(PGE) Limited, by £246.8m.
Following an impairment review, the Company impaired its investment in its immediate subsidiary undertaking, Punch Taverns 
(PGE) Limited, by £484.1m (note 14).
Details of the subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures at 22 August 2015 are as follows:
Subsidiary undertakings owned directly:
Name of company Nature of business 
Punch Taverns (PGE) Limited Holding company
Punch (IB) Limited Dormant
Punch Retail (Acquisition Jersey) Limited Dormant
All of which are directly or indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of Punch Taverns (PGE) Limited:
Key trading companies:
Name of company Nature of business 
Punch Partnerships (PGRP) Limited Pub operating company
Punch Partnerships (PML) Limited Pub operating company
Punch Partnerships (PTL) Limited Pub operating company
Punch Taverns (Services) Limited Intermediate supply company
Punch Taverns Finance plc Financing company
Punch Taverns Finance B Limited Financing company
Punch Taverns (Finco) Limited Intermediate holding company
Punch Taverns (Offices) Limited Property leasing company
Punch Taverns Holdco (A) Limited Intermediate holding company
Punch Taverns Holdco (B) Limited Intermediate holding company
Non-trading companies:
Punch Taverns (PMH) Limited Punch Taverns Holdings Limited Punch Taverns Intermediate Holdco (A) Limited
Punch Taverns Intermediate Holdco (B) Limited Punch Taverns (BS) Company Limited Punch Taverns Investments (B) Limited
Agnew Stores (Holdings) Limited Punch Taverns (Centrum) Limited Punch Taverns Investments Limited
Avebury Group Limited Punch Taverns (CMG) Limited Punch Taverns Loanco (A) Limited
BK Investments Limited Punch Taverns (ES) Limited Punch Taverns Loanco (B) Limited
Broomco (3708) Limited Punch Taverns (Fradley) Limited Rhesus Limited
Inn Business Limited Punch Taverns (IB) Limited Scorpio Inns Limited
Inn Business Property Limited Punch Taverns (OS) Limited Silverhoney Limited
InnSpired (ITB) Limited Punch Taverns (PGRH) Limited Sycamore Taverns Limited
InnSpired Company Limited Punch Taverns (PMG) Limited Trent Taverns Limited
InnSpired Group Limited Punch Taverns (PPCF) Limited Tudor Street Acquisitions Limited
InnSpired Holdings Limited Punch Taverns (PR) Limited White Rose Inns Limited
L&P 34 Limited Punch Taverns (RH) Limited Punch Funding II Limited
Marr Taverns Limited Punch Taverns (SPML) Limited Avebury Properties Limited
Mill House Inns (Trading) Limited Punch Taverns (VPR) Limited Punch Taverns (Redwood Jerseyco) Limited
Pioneer Pub Company Limited Punch Taverns (Woodville) Limited Punch Taverns (PRAF) Limited
Punch Taverns (Avebury) Limited Punch Taverns Interco (A) Limited 
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 71
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Dormant companies:
AABCO Limited Ivell Inns Limited Punch Taverns (Red) Limited
ADR Financial Services (Birmingham) Limited J. & M. Polson, Limited Punch Taverns (Redwood Guaranteeco) Limited
ADR Financial Services (Finchley) Limited J. T. & S. (Allied) Limited Punch Taverns (Redwood Midco) Limited
Agnews Liquorworld Limited Jodsal Limited Punch Taverns (Redwood Newco 1A) Limited
Alloa Brewery Company Limited La Societe Brasserie Bleu Limited Punch Taverns (Shawshank) Limited
Alloa Pubs & Restaurants Limited M. Milne Limited Punch Taverns (SPM) Limited
Andrew Dick & Sons, Limited Ma Pardoe’s Steak and Ale Houses Limited Punch Taverns (Trent) Limited
Ansells Ind Coope (South Wales) Limited Marr Holdings Limited Punch Taverns (Vintage) Limited
Ansells Leisure Limited Marr Trustees Limited Punch Taverns (Willow) Limited
Ansells Limited Mercury Taverns (Holdings) Limited Punch Taverns Barton Intermediate Holding 
Company Limited
Ansells Properties Limited Mercury Taverns Limited Punch Taverns Barton Loan Company Limited
Archibald Arrol & Sons Limited Mill House Inns (Leaseholds) Limited Punch Taverns Development Company Limited
Ardeer Tavern Mill House Inns (Retford) Limited Punch Taverns Group Limited
Avebury Inns Limited Mill House Inns Limited Punch Taverns Intermediate Holdings Limited
Avebury Pub Company Limited Millhouse Pubs Limited Punch Taverns Investments (A) Limited
B.W.B. Limited Newmarsh Limited
Bartlett & Hobbs Limited Old Tradition Inns Limited Punch Taverns Properties Limited
Brierley Court Hop Farms Limited PGL (A1) Limited Punch Taverns QUEST Trustee Limited
Bruce’s Brewery (World’s End) Limited Pioneer Inns and Taverns Limited Punch Taverns Reserve Company Limited
Bunker Beverage Company Limited Plyvine Inns Limited Punch Taverns Reserve II Company Limited
Cameron Park Limited Poacher Inns Limited Revival Inns Ltd.
Caskies of Alloa Limited Powertitan Limited Rogano. Limited
Cavalier Restaurants Limited Pub.Com Limited Silverhoney Holdings Limited
CB (1994) Limited Punch (JT) Limited Skol Lager Limited
Chas Rose & Co. Limited Punch Beer Brands Limited Stanford Pubs Limited
Coinmine Limited Punch Centrum Intermediate Holding 
Company Limited
Stanford Taverns Limited
Conquest Inns (Property) Limited Punch Centrum Loan Company Limited Strettons Brewery Company Limited
Conquest Inns (Trading) Limited Punch Inns (UK) Limited Sycamore Taverns (Management) Limited
Conquest Inns Limited Punch Jubilee Intermediate Holding  
Company Limited
Sycamore Taverns Trust Company Limited
Coollight Limited Punch Jubilee Loan Company Limited Tetley Limited
Cougar Beer Company Limited Punch Management Services Limited Tetley Walker Limited
Dalgarno (Wine Cellars) Limited Punch National Brands Limited Tetley Walker Production Limited
Duke’s of Argyle Street Limited Punch Partnership Limited The Aylesbury Brewery Company, Limited
Duke’s of Exchange Place Limited Punch Taverns (AH) Limited The Dublin Pub Company Limited
Enrichtech Limited Punch Taverns (APL 278) Limited The Inn Partnership Pension Scheme Limited
Friary Meux Limited Punch Taverns (APL 35) Limited The Local Pub Company Limited
Golden Pheasant Restaurant Limited Punch Taverns (Ash) Limited The Pear Tree Inn Limited
Golisha Limited Punch Taverns (Barton) Limited The Pitfield Brewery Company Limited
Graham’s Golden Lager Limited Punch Taverns (Branston) Limited The Tetley Pub Company Limited
Guildford Holdings Limited Punch Taverns (CMS) Limited The Wiltshire Brewery Investments Limited
Halls Brewery Company Limited Punch Taverns (CPM) Limited The Wiltshire Brewery Property Company Limited
Harpplan Limited Punch Taverns (DC) Holdings Limited The Wine Market Limited
Hooden Horse Inns Limited Punch Taverns (DPM) Limited Thorne Brothers,Limited
I.C.E.A. Limited Punch Taverns (FH) Limited Tolchard & Son Limited
Ind Coope (E.M.) Limited Punch Taverns (ITG) Limited Top Dog Pub Company Limited
Ind Coope (London) Limited Punch Taverns (JPC) Limited Tramhill Limited
Ind Coope (West Midlands) Limited Punch Taverns (Jubilee) Limited Tudor Street Holdings Limited
Ind Coope-Friary Meux Limited Punch Taverns (MH) Limited United Breweries Limited
Inn Business (Marr) Limited Punch Taverns (PGRA) Limited Ushers of Trowbridge Limited
15. Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 72
Dormant companies: continued
Inn Business (Sycamore) Limited Punch Taverns (PGRF) Limited Verdon Developments Limited
Inn Partnership Limited Punch Taverns (PM) Limited Victoria Wine (Concessions) Limited
InnSpired (Cedar) Limited Punch Taverns (PMI) Limited Walker Cain Limited
InnSpired (ESOP) Limited Punch Taverns (PMM) Limited William Jackson (Sunderland) Limited
InnSpired Developments Limited Punch Taverns (PMMH) Limited Avebury Holdings Limited
InnSpired Pubs Limited Punch Taverns (PMST) Limited Avebury Holdings Group Limited
InnSpired Taverns II Limited Punch Taverns (PMT) Limited Stanford Property Limited
InnSpired Taverns Limited Punch Taverns (PRAC) Limited
All of which are directly or indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of Punch (IB) Limited:
Dormant companies:
Punch (Inn Business) Limited Punch Retail Limited 
Joint ventures:
Name of company Nature of business 
Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited Intermediate holding company of Matthew Clark
The Company owns 100% of the ordinary share capital directly or indirectly and controls 100% of the voting rights of the 
companies listed above, with the exception of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited, of which the Company indirectly owns 50%  
of the ordinary share capital and exercises joint control. See also note 34: Post balance sheet events.
All the companies listed above are incorporated in the United Kingdom other than: Punch Taverns Finance B Limited and Punch 
Funding II Limited which are incorporated in the Cayman Islands; Avebury Properties Limited, Avebury Holdings Limited, Avebury 
Holdings Group Limited and Stanford Property Limited which are incorporated in Guernsey; and Punch Retail (Acquisition Jersey) 
Limited and Punch Taverns (Redwood Jerseyco) Limited which are incorporated in Jersey.
In addition to those investments listed above, the Group also maintains day-to-day control over Punch Taverns plc General 
Employee Benefit Trust, a Trust set up purely for holding shares related to share based payment schemes. Although no company  
in the Group owns any shares either directly or indirectly in Punch Taverns plc General Employee Benefit Trust, the financial 
statements are also consolidated into the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS 10.
16. Inventories
Group Company
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Finished goods 0.1 – – –
0.1 – – –
17. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 21.5 23.5 – –
Prepayments 9.0 9.6 – –
Other receivables – 0.9 – –
30.5 34.0 – –
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts due from group undertakings – – 1,663.7 1,445.8
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015
15. Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 73
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
18. Deferred tax
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows:
Deferred tax
Group Company
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
(Liabilities) / assets at beginning of period (12.1) (22.0) 4.6 5.5
Credited / (charged) to income statement (note 9) 21.8 62.8 0.5 (0.9)
Charged to other comprehensive income (note 9) (1.6) (52.9) – –
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) at end of period 8.1 (12.1) 5.1 4.6
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period are shown below: 
Deferred tax assets
Group
Tax 
losses
£m
Retirement
 benefit
 liabilities
£m
Financial
 instruments
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 17 August 2013 6.4 0.9 54.5 2.9 64.7
(Charged) / credited to income statement (0.9) (0.4) 57.4 (0.2) 55.9
Credited / (charged) to equity – 0.3 (53.2) – (52.9)
At 23 August 2014 5.5 0.8 58.7 2.7 67.7
Credited / (charged) to income statement 54.1 (0.2) (52.6) (0.5) 0.8
Credited to equity – 0.6 – – 0.6
At 22 August 2015 59.6 1.2 6.1 2.2 69.1
Company 
Tax losses
£m
At 17 August 2013 5.5
Charged to income statement (0.9)
At 23 August 2014 4.6
Credited to income statement 0.5
At 22 August 2015 5.1
Deferred tax liabilities
Group
Accelerated
 capital
 allowances
£m
At 17 August 2013 86.7
Credited to income statement (6.9)
At 23 August 2014 79.8
Credited to income statement (21.0)
Charged to equity 2.2
At 22 August 2015 61.0
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £300.5m (August 2014: £30.2m) and unused capital losses of 
£1,784.0m (August 2014: £1,779.7m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect 
of £298.2m (August 2014: £27.9m) of such losses, which are expected to be utilised against future profit streams within the Group. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £1,786.3m (August 2014: £1,782.0m) of losses due to the 
unpredictability of future profit streams. Current legislation deems that these losses may be carried forward for an unlimited 
number of years. The availability of sizeable capital allowance pools amounting to c.£210m at the period end is expected  
to result in no corporation tax payments being due for the next financial year.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% (effective 1 April 2015) were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.  
In the budget on 8 July 2015, the Chancellor announced additional planned reductions to 18% by 2020. This will reduce the 
Company’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax asset at 22 August 2015 and 23 August 2014 has been 
calculated based on the rate of 20%; the rate substantively enacted at the balance sheet dates. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 74
19. Cash
Group Company
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 140.1 315.6 0.3 2.8
Restricted cash
1
– 315.0 – –
1  Represents ring fenced funds drawn down following a rating downgrade of one of the liquidity facility providers, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc in June 2012 
and being the available commitment amount of £147.0m for the Punch A securitisation and £168.0m for the Punch B securitisation. The funds drawn down were 
ring fenced from an operational perspective and could not be utilised for any activities other than their original purpose. A corresponding liability (note 24) has been 
recognised in these financial statements. On completion of the restructuring the ratings triggers were amended and the restricted cash was repaid  
to the liquidity facility provider.
20. Non-current assets classified as held for sale
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 93.1 69.8
Non-current assets classified as held for sale represents pubs that are individually being actively marketed for sale with varying 
expected completion dates within one year. The value of non-current assets classified as held for sale represents the lower of the 
carrying value of the asset and expected net disposal proceeds. As at 22 August 2015 £65.5m of the non-current assets classified 
as held for sale were situated in the non-core estate (August 2014: £36.3m).
21. Trade and other payables
Group Company
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Trade payables 29.9 15.5 – –
Other tax and social security payable 5.7 6.6 – 0.1
Other payables 23.7 24.1 – –
Accruals 40.3 53.7 0.1 0.2
99.6 99.9 0.1 0.3
22. Financial liabilities
22 August 2015 23 August 2014
Amounts falling due Amounts falling due
within one
 year
£m
after more
 than one
 year
£m
Total
£m
within one
 year
£m
after
 more than
 one year
£m
Total
£m
Secured loan notes:
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance plc 19.9 919.7 939.6 42.6 1,359.6 1,402.2
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance B Limited 27.5 590.2 617.7 36.9 828.3 865.2
Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 47.4 1,509.9 1,557.3 79.5 2,187.9 2,267.4
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 1.8 2.1 0.4 2.0 2.4
Total financial liabilities 47.7 1,511.7 1,559.4 79.9 2,189.9 2,269.8
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 75
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
22. Financial liabilities continued
Secured loan notes
The secured loan notes have been secured by way of fixed and floating charges over various assets of the Group.
Interest is paid quarterly in arrears on all secured loan notes. Scheduled capital repayments are made quarterly on those loan  
notes that are amortising. The details for the secured loan notes, including the date of the final scheduled instalment for each  
class of note, as indicated in its description, are as follows:
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance plc:
 22 August 2015 23 August 2014
Amounts falling due Amounts falling due
within
 one year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
Within
 one year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
Super Senior Hedge Notes secured floating  
rate notes repayable by July 2021 at LIBOR
1&2
– 97.4 97.4 – – –
Class A1 (F) secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by October 2026 at 7.274% per annum 10.5 185.5 196.0 – – –
Class A1 (V) secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by October 2026 at 7.274% per annum – 67.5 67.5 – – –
Class A2 (F) secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by October 2025 at 7.32% per annum 9.2 122.8 132.0 – – –
Class A2 (V) secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by October 2025 at 7.32% per annum – 45.8 45.8 – – –
Class M3 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by October 2027 at LIBOR
1
 +5.50% per annum – 300.0 300.0 – – –
Class B4 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by October 2028 at 1.50% per annum in cash  
and 13.5% per annum PIK – 99.1 99.1 – – –
Class A1 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by April 2022 at 7.274% per annum – – – 9.6 260.4 270.0
Class A2 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by July 2020 at 6.82% per annum – – – 27.8 155.3 183.1
Class M1 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by October 2026 at 5.883% per annum – – – 4.7 93.4 98.1
Class M2 (N) secured floating rate notes repayable  
by July 2029 at LIBOR
1
 +0.20% to July 2014 
and LIBOR
1
 +0.50% thereafter – – – – 398.7 398.7
Class B1 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by April 2026 at 7.567% per annum – – – – 79.5 79.5
Class B2 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by July 2029 at 8.374% per annum – – – – 83.7 83.7
Class B3 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by July 2031 at LIBOR
1
 +0.24% to July 2014  
and LIBOR
1
 +0.60% thereafter – – – – 134.0 134.0
Class C secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by April 2033 at 6.468% per annum – – – – 85.1 85.1
Class D1 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by October 2032 at LIBOR
1
 +0.82% to July 2014  
and LIBOR
1
 +2.05% thereafter – – – – 67.7 67.7
19.7 918.1 937.8 42.1 1,357.8 1,399.9
Add: premium arising from fair value adjustment 0.2 1.6 1.8 0.7 3.6 4.3
Less: deferred issue costs – – – (0.2) (1.8) (2.0)
19.9 919.7 939.6 42.6 1,359.6 1,402.2
1 For 3 month deposits.
2 Plus margin ratchet if the shadow amortisation profile is not met.
In the current period the Group completed the restructuring of the Punch A securitisation. Further details of the debt structure 
following completion of the restructure can be found in note 7 and also on the Punch website www.punchtavernsplc.com.
In the prior period, the Group redeemed Class D1 notes with a nominal value of £16.0m. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 76
22. Financial liabilities continued
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance B Limited:
22 August 2015 23 August 2014
Amounts falling due Amounts falling due
within one
 year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
within one
 year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
C1 swap loan secured floating rate loan repayable  
by September 2019 at LIBOR
1
 +0.4% ratchetting up to 
LIBOR
1
 +2.4% by March 2019 7.6 29.6 37.2 – – –
Class A3 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by September 2021 at 7.369% per annum  
(prior to restructuring repayable by June 2022) 17.4 120.5 137.9 16.3 134.7 151.0
Class A6 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by September 2022 at 5.943% per annum  
(prior to restructuring repayable by December 2024) – 220.0 220.0 – 220.0 220.0
Class A7 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by March 2024 at 5.267% per annum (prior to 
restructuring repayable by June 2033 at 4.767%  
per annum) 0.8 139.3 140.1 13.6 138.6 152.2
Class B3 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by December 2025 at 7.750% per annum – 72.9 72.9 – – –
Class A8 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by June 2033 at LIBOR
1
 +0.28% until June 2015  
and LIBOR
1 
+0.7% thereafter – – – 2.9 40.7 43.6
Class B1 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by June 2025 at 8.44% per annum – – – – 61.5 61.5
Class B2 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by June 2028 at 6.962% per annum – – – – 99.4 99.4
Class C1 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by June 2035 at LIBOR
1
 +1.1% until June 2015  
and LIBOR
1
 +2.75% thereafter – – – – 106.1 106.1
25.8 582.3 608.1 32.8 801.0 833.8
Add: premium arising from fair value adjustment 1.8 9.2 11.0 4.5 28.7 33.2
Less: deferred issue costs (0.1) (1.3) (1.4) (0.4) (1.4) (1.8)
27.5 590.2 617.7 36.9 828.3 865.2
1 For 3 month deposits.
In the current period the Group completed the restructuring of the Punch B securitisation. Further details of the debt structure 
following completion of the restructuring can be found in note 7 and also on the Punch website www.punchtavernsplc.com.
In the current period the Group redeemed Class A7 notes with a nominal value of £8.6m.
In the prior period, the Group redeemed Class C1 notes with a nominal value of £18.9m.
These figures are net of notes held by the Group not yet cancelled, which as at 23 August 2014 were £11.3m Class A7 notes, 
£16.0m Class B1 notes, £25.6m Class B2 notes and £7.4m Class C1 notes held by Punch Partnerships (PML) Limited and £11.5m 
Class C1 notes held by Punch Taverns Investments (B) Limited. There are no notes held by the Group as at 22 August 2015. 
Interest rate swaps
The Group has taken out various interest rate swaps to reduce the interest rate risk associated with floating rate loans as follows:
Punch Taverns Finance plc
Interest rate swap agreements have been entered into which swap the LIBOR interest rate on the Class M3 floating rate notes  
to a fixed rate of 5.954%. The capital amount of this swap matches the contractual repayment profile of the floating rate notes.  
As a result of the capital restructuring proposals announced during the prior financial period, the interest rate swap relating to  
the Punch A B3, M2(N) and D1 loan notes was reclassified as an ineffective cash flow hedge, and its hedge reserve balance was 
recycled through the Consolidated income statement accordingly.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 77
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
22. Financial liabilities continued
After taking account of the interest rate swaps entered into by the Group, the interest rate exposure of the Group’s financial 
liabilities is set out below. There are no financial liabilities other than short term payables and provision for share schemes excluded 
from this analysis:
 22 August 2015 23 August 2014
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m
Total
£m
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m
Total
£m
Secured loan notes:
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance plc 842.2 97.4 939.6 1,402.2 – 1,402.2
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance B Limited 580.5 37.2 617.7 865.2 – 865.2
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,422.7 134.6 1,557.3 2,267.4 – 2,267.4
Obligations under finance leases 2.1 – 2.1 2.4 – 2.4
Total financial liabilities 1,424.8 134.6 1,559.4 2,269.8 – 2,269.8
Interest rate analysis
The weighted average effective interest rates of interest-bearing loans and borrowings (including PIK), including the effect of 
interest rate swaps, at the balance sheet date are as follows:
22 August
 2015
%
23 August
 2014
%
Secured loan notes 7.8 7.2
Finance leases 6.5 6.5
The average interest rate for Group loans and borrowings is 7.8% (August 2014: 7.2%).
Obligations under finance leases
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
22 August 2015 23 August 2014
Minimum
 lease 
payments
£m
Present
 value
 of future
 obligations
£m
Minimum
 lease 
payments
£m
Present
 value
 of future
 obligations
£m
Within one year 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4
Within one to five years 0.6 0.5 0.8 0.7
Over five years 5.8 1.3 6.2 1.3
6.7 2.1 7.4 2.4
Maturity of Group debt
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s debt at 22 August 2015 and 23 August 2014 based on contractual, 
undiscounted cash flows including interest.
 Period ended 22 August 2015
Within 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than
 five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
– capital 45.5 40.9 116.2 1,767.4 1,970.0
– interest 88.4 87.8 257.2 403.1 836.5
– interest rate swaps 15.9 14.7 39.4 86.3 156.3
149.8 143.4 412.8 2,256.8 2,962.8 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 78
22. Financial liabilities continued
 Period ended 23 August 2014
Within 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
– capital 74.9 103.9 353.8 1,701.1 2,233.7
– interest 104.7 99.1 250.8 379.4 834.0
– interest rate swaps 58.1 60.0 178.9 551.1 848.1
237.7 263.0 783.5 2,631.6 3,915.8
The contractual maturity of trade and other payables is within one year.
23. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Financial assets
Receivables (amortised cost) 21.5 23.5
Cash and short-term deposits 140.1 315.6
Liquidity facility agreement drawdown – 315.0
161.6 654.1
Financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps – at fair value through profit or loss 132.3 278.5
Amortised cost 1,587.2 2,282.9
Finance lease obligations 2.1 2.4
Liquidity facility agreement drawdown – 315.0
1,721.6 2,878.8
The Company holds financial assets and financial liabilities at amortised cost as shown in note 33, principally receivables  
and payables with subsidiary undertakings, as well as cash.
All derivative financial instruments are held on the balance sheet at fair value; the effective portion of changes in the fair value  
of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, are recognised in equity. The gain or loss 
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled 
in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss. Changes in fair value of any derivative 
financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivative financial instruments, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid 
resources. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various 
other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, capital risk, credit risk and market 
risk. There is no material currency exposure as all material transactions and financial instruments are in sterling. The Group has no 
material exposure to equity securities or commodity price risk and it is the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial 
instruments shall be undertaken. The Board reviews and agrees policies for each of these risks and they are summarised on  
pages 17 to 20.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 79
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
23. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
As the Group has no significant interest bearing assets, other than cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s income and operating 
cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. Income and cash flows from cash and cash equivalents 
fluctuate with interest rates.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of equity shareholders’ funds and loan notes. The Group borrows at both 
fixed and floating rates of interest and then employs derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to generate the 
desired interest rate profile and to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The cash balances attract interest  
at floating rates. 
Where over-hedging arises (for example, due to early repayment of floating rate notes) the Group will seek to eliminate the 
over-hedging, where this is financially practicable, by terminating the over-hedge. As at the year end, the Group held £nil  
(August 2014: £nil) of floating rate notes for which interest swaps remain outstanding. 
The Group has taken out derivative financial instruments such that 91% of all loans at 22 August 2015 (23 August 2014: 100%) 
were either at fixed rate or were converted to fixed rate as a result of swap arrangements thereby largely eliminating the Group’s 
exposure to changes in interest rates.
Cash flows associated with cash deposits, debt and interest rate swaps and the fair value of these instruments fluctuate with 
changes in interest rates. If the interest rates had been 1% higher or lower during the period, the effect on the income statement 
would be as follows:
Interest
 receivable
£m
Interest
 payable
£m
Movement
 in fair value
 of interest
 rate swaps
£m
Period ended 22 August 2015
Impact on income statement if interest rates increased by 1%: gain / (loss) 1.7 (1.1) 36.7
Impact on income statement if interest rates decreased by 1%: gain / (loss) (0.8) 0.7 (41.3)
Period ended 23 August 2014
Impact on income statement if interest rates increased by 1%: gain / (loss) 6.6 – 97.6
Impact on income statement if interest rates decreased by 1%: gain / (loss) (4.5) – (112.2)
Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments exposes 
the Group to fair value interest rate risk such that the Group would not benefit from falls in interest rates and would be exposed 
to unplanned costs, such as breakage costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments be restructured or repaid early.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s funding strategy is to ensure a mix of financing methods offering flexibility and cost-effectiveness to match the 
requirements of the Group. The Group is largely financed by secured loan notes. As at 22 August 2015 approximately 87% of  
the capital balance of the loan notes was repayable after more than five years. The Board continues to review alternative sources  
of finance. The Group’s objective is to smooth the debt maturity profile and to arrange funding ahead of requirements such  
that maturing short term debt may be refinanced or paid as it falls due. Cash flow forecasts are frequently produced to assist 
management in identifying liquidity requirements and are stress-tested for possible scenarios. Cash balances are invested in 
short term deposits such that they are readily available to settle short term liabilities or to fund capital additions. 
As at 22 August 2015 the Group held an undrawn liquidity facility of £132.8m within the Punch A securitisation and £83.8m within 
the Punch B securitisation. The liquidity facilities are available to meet debt service obligations falling due in the securitisations 
to the extent that there are insufficient funds available from operations to meet such payments, and for no other purpose.
Security
The Group is financed through two whole business securitisations, the Punch A securitisation and the Punch B securitisation.  
The loan notes for each securitisation are secured by way of fixed and floating charges against the assets and undertakings  
of each securitisation group. As at 22 August 2015 the properties in the Punch A securitisation were valued at £1,300.1m  
and the properties in the Punch B securitisation were valued at £791.2m. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 80
23. Financial instruments continued
Punch A securitisation
Senior and Class M Debt has security over the Punch A Note Issuer’s assets and undertaking as well as a first-ranking fixed charge 
over shares in Punch Taverns Holdings Limited and a first-ranking floating charge over the assets and undertaking of Punch Taverns 
Intermediate Holdco (A) Limited. 
Class B junior debt does not have any security over the Punch A Note Issuer’s assets and undertaking but has a first-ranking fixed 
charge over shares in Punch Taverns Intermediate Holdco (A) Limited and a first-ranking floating charge over the assets and 
undertaking of Punch Taverns Holdco (A) Limited.
Punch B securitisation
Senior Debt has security over the Punch B Note Issuer’s assets and undertaking as well as a first-ranking fixed charge over shares  
in Punch Taverns (PMH) Limited and a first-ranking floating charge over the assets and undertaking of Punch Taverns Intermediate 
Holdco (B) Limited. 
Junior debt does not have any security over the Punch B Note Issuer’s assets and undertaking but has a first-ranking fixed charge 
over shares in Punch Taverns Intermediate Holdco (B) Limited and a first-ranking floating charge over the assets and undertaking  
of Punch Taverns Holdco (B) Limited.
Covenants
Both securitisations have the following covenants that are tested at each quarter end: 
Ratio of:
•	 EBITDA to interest charges not less than 1.25 : 1 (increasing to 1.70 : 1 by August 2022);
•	 Free cash flow to debt service not less than 1.0 : 1; and
•	 Net senior debt to EBITDA not greater than 5.3 : 1 (decreasing to 3.0 : 1 by December 2019) for Punch A and not greater  
than 8.6 : 1 (decreasing to 6.0 : 1 by December 2018) for Punch B.
Additionally the Punch A securitisation also has the quarterly covenant of net total leverage not greater than 9.0 : 1 (decreasing  
to 4.5 : 1 by December 2023).
Both securitisations also have a minimum net worth covenant of £50m that is tested annually.
As at the balance sheet date there is sufficient headroom in all of these covenants.
Forecasts of covenant compliance are reviewed at Board level.
Capital risk
The Group’s capital structure is made up of net debt, issued share capital and reserves. These are managed effectively to minimise 
the Group’s cost of capital, to add value to shareholders and to service debt obligations. The Group’s debt is divided into two 
separate securitisations. The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures, which are reported to the debt providers on  
a quarterly basis. The Group assesses the performance of the business, the level of available funds and the short to medium term 
strategic plans concerning capital spend as well as the need to meet financial covenants and such assessment influences the level  
of dividends payable. The Group monitors capital on the basis of a net debt ratio, being net debt divided by net debt plus equity. 
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Total debt 1,559.4 2,269.8
Cash (140.1) (315.6)
Net debt 1,419.3 1,954.2
Equity 722.5 273.7
Net debt ratio 66% 88%
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 81
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
23. Financial instruments continued
Credit risk
With the exception of cash and short term deposits invested with banks and financial institutions, there are no significant 
concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by  
the carrying value as at the balance sheet date. The Group’s objective is to minimise credit risk by ensuring that surplus funds  
are invested with banks and financial institutions with appropriate credit ratings and that the Group deals with third parties that 
have been subject to credit checks, or that have good credit scores, where appropriate. Trade and other receivables, as shown  
on the Consolidated balance sheet, comprise a large number of individually small amounts from unrelated customers and are 
shown net of a provision for doubtful debts. Management estimates the provision for doubtful debts based on a review of all 
individual receivable accounts, experience and known factors at the balance sheet date, taking into account any collateral held  
in the form of cash deposits, which is quantified. These cash deposits are applied against unpaid debt when publicans leave the 
pubs, and vary in size. The amount of cash deposits held at 22 August 2015 is £20.1m (23 August 2014: £21.7m). These are held 
on the balance sheet within trade and other payables. Receivables are written off against the doubtful debt provision when 
management deems the debt no longer recoverable. 
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables for doubtful debts is shown below:
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Provision for doubtful debts at beginning of period 1.8 2.6
Charged to income statement 1.8 1.6
Utilised during the period (1.3) (2.0)
Released during the period (0.7) (0.4)
Provision for doubtful debts at end of period 1.6 1.8
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date, net of the doubtful debt provision, is as follows:
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Current 20.5 21.4
Overdue 1.0 2.1
21.5 23.5
There are no indicators at 22 August 2015 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of the net amount  
of trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet. 
Derivative financial instruments
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments in the balance sheet are as follows:
 Group
 22 August 2015
Current
 liabilities
£m
Non-current
 liabilities
£m
Interest rate swaps 15.8 116.5
 Group
 23 August 2014
Current
 liabilities
£m
Non-current
liabilities
£m
Interest rate swaps 38.2 240.3
The interest rate swaps replace the LIBOR rate on the Group’s secured floating rate loan notes with a fixed rate. The capital amount 
of the swaps reduces over time to match the contractual repayment profile of the associated notes over their life (see note 22 for 
more detail). Of the total carrying value of the interest rate swaps £nil (23 August 2014: £nil) qualify as, and are treated as, cash 
flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39 and movements in their fair values are recognised in other comprehensive income. The 
remaining £132.3m (23 August 2014: £278.5m) do not qualify for hedge accounting with movements in their fair value being 
recognised in the income statement. Following the completion of the restructuring the only interest rate swap held by the Group 
was against the new Class M3 note. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 82
23. Financial instruments continued
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities
With the exception of the Group’s secured loan notes, there are no material differences between the carrying value of 
non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of the Group’s secured loan notes at 22 August 2015 is £1,557.3m (23 August 2014: £2,267.4m) and  
the fair value, measured at market value, of this debt at that date is £1,561.1m (23 August 2014: £1,977.6m). 
The fair value of the Group’s secured loan notes have been measured by a level 1 valuation method as defined below.
Fair value hierarchy
Financial instruments carried at fair value are required to be measured by reference to the following levels:
Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly  
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
All other financial instruments carried at fair value have been measured by a level 2 valuation method.
24. Cash-backed borrowings
Group Company
 
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
22 August
2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Cash-backed borrowings
1
– 315.0 – –
1 Representing a draw down of funds following a rating downgrade of one of the liquidity facility providers (note 19).
25. Provisions
Group
Property
 leases
£m
Share
 schemes
£m
Total
£m
At 17 August 2013 8.4 3.2 11.6
Unwinding of discount effect of provisions (note 5) 0.6 – 0.6
Credited to income statement (0.5) (3.2) (3.7)
Utilised during the period (0.9) – (0.9)
At 23 August 2014 7.6 – 7.6
Unwinding of discount effect of provisions (note 5) 0.5 – 0.5
Credited to the income statement (0.1) – (0.1)
Utilised during the period (0.7) – (0.7)
At 22 August 2015 7.3 – 7.3
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Current 0.7 0.8
Non-current 6.6 6.8
7.3 7.6
Property leases
The provision for property leases has been set up to cover operating costs of vacant or loss-making premises. The provision covers 
the expected shortfall between operating income and rents payable. Payments are expected to be ongoing on these properties  
for a number of years.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 83
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
26. Other non-current payables
Company
 
22 August
2015
£m
23 August
2014
£m
Amounts owed to group undertakings 1,609.1 1,612.1
Included within amounts owed to group undertakings are various loan balances, for which additional detail is disclosed in note 33. 
Remaining balances have no restrictive terms or conditions associated with them.
27. Share capital 
22 August 
2015
No. (000)
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
No. (000)
23 August
 2014
£m
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 0.04786p – – 665,806 0.3
Ordinary shares of 0.9572p 221,906 2.1 – –
The movements in the called-up share capital are set out below:
Ordinary
 shares
No. (000)
Ordinary
 shares
£m
At 17 August 2013 665,423 0.3
Issued on exercise of share options 383 –
At 23 August 2014 665,806 0.3
Issued on exercise of share options 46 –
Issued on capital restructuring 3,771,151 1.8
Ordinary shares of 0.04786p at 7 October 2014 4,437,003 2.1
Consolidation of ordinary shares of 0.04786p to Ordinary shares of 0.9572p 221,850 2.1
Issued on exercise of share options 56 –
At 22 August 2015 221,906 2.1
Rights of shareholders 
All ordinary shares in issue at 22 August 2015 rank pari passu in all respects.
On 13 October 2014 the Company undertook a consolidation of its ordinary shares, as described in the combined circular and 
prospectus dated 18 August 2014. As a result of the share consolidation, the ordinary shares of 0.04786p have been consolidated 
into ordinary shares of 0.9572p on the basis of one ordinary share of 0.9572p for every 20 ordinary shares of 0.04786p.
28. Share based payments
The Company has three share incentive schemes by which Directors and employees are able to acquire shares in the Company.  
All of these schemes are equity-settled schemes. 
Long Term Incentive Plan
The first scheme is a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) whereby senior management may receive conditional rights over ordinary 
shares in the Company. Eligible employees are awarded rights to the issue of a maximum number of shares at the beginning of  
a three year period, a proportion of which they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period depending on the extent to 
which the performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation is made are satisfied. Further 
information on the performance conditions of the LTIP are shown in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 32 to 42. 
At 22 August 2015 the outstanding LTIP awards for 30 November 2012 award, 24 October 2013 award and 17 November 2014 
award will be satisfied by shares already held in the Employee Benefit Trust. The outstanding LTIP award for 15 June 2015 will be 
partly satisfied by shares already held in the Employee Benefit Trust, which may result in the issue of the remaining amount of 
205,904 shares on 15 June 2018.
Share Bonus Plan
The second scheme is a Share Bonus Plan (SBP) whereby, senior management received part of their post-tax annual bonus  
in shares. During the period no shares (2014: 135,605 shares) were awarded under the SBP and are being held in trust. These 
awards, as they formed part of the individuals’ annual bonuses, are not subject to further performance criteria and will be released 
to the individuals on the second anniversary of the award.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 84
28. Share based payments continued
Share Incentive Plan
The third scheme is a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) open to all eligible employees, whereby proceeds contributed by employees are 
used to buy shares in the Company at prevailing market values. These shares are called Partnership Shares and are held in a trust  
on behalf of the employee. For every Partnership Share bought by the employee the Company will give the employee one share 
free of charge (‘Matching Share’). The employees have to take their shares out of the plan on leaving the Group and will not be 
entitled to the Matching Share if they leave within three years of buying the Partnership Shares. If the Company awards dividends 
to its shareholders, the employee will receive a dividend on each of the Partnership and Matching Shares they hold. The Company 
arranges for the dividends to be used to buy extra shares (‘Dividend Shares’). Dividend Shares must be held in the plan for three 
years before they can be removed unless the employee leaves the Group in which case they must be taken out. The scheme was 
introduced in June 2004 with shares being acquired at market values on a monthly basis. 
Fair value of share awards
The fair value is measured using the valuation technique that is considered to be the most appropriate to value each class of award. 
Long Term Incentive Plan
The key assumptions for awards made in the current and previous period are as follows:
Grant date
15 June 
2015
17 November 
2014
24 October 
2013
1
Valuation model Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo
Share price at date of grant £1.21 £1.55 £2.80
Shares under option 650,406 368,464 94,827
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 50.8% 65.5% 53.0%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 0.8% 0.9% 0.7%
Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Expectation of meeting performance criteria 100% 100% 100%
Fair value per option £0.36 £0.94 £1.80
1 Adjusted for the 1 for 20 share capital consolidation which took place on 13 October 2014.
Expected volatility has been calculated based on the historic volatility of the Company’s share price corresponding to the expected 
life of the option or share award.
The expected term of the options is based on the life to the point of expected exercise. This is determined through analysis  
of historically evidenced exercise patterns of option holders.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
Share Incentive Plan
The fair value of the Matching Shares issued under the Company’s Share Incentive Plan is recognised as the market value of  
the shares issued at the date of purchase. This charge is spread over the three-year vesting period on a straight line basis.
Movements in options and awards under share based payment schemes
Reconciliations of movements for the LTIP, SBP and SIP schemes over the 52 weeks to 22 August 2015 are shown below:
Long Term Incentive Plan
22 August
 2015
No.
23 August
 2014
1
No.
Outstanding at beginning of period 296,420 516,877
Granted during the period 1,018,870 94,827
Expired during the period (97,269) (315,284)
Forfeited during the period – –
Outstanding at end of period 1,218,021 296,420
1 Adjusted for the 1 for 20 share capital consolidation which took place on 13 October 2014.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 85
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
28. Share based payments continued
Share Bonus Plan
22 August
 2015
No.
23 August
  2014
1
No.
Outstanding at beginning of period 37,967 104,884
Granted during the period – 6,780
Released during the period (31,187) (73,697)
Outstanding at end of period 6,780 37,967
1 Adjusted for the 1 for 20 share capital consolidation which took place on 13 October 2014.
Share Incentive Plan
22 August
 2015
No.
23 August
  2014
1
No.
Outstanding at beginning of period 149,965 163,632
Granted during the period 58,099 19,144
Forfeited during the period (6,295) (19,278)
Released during the period (9,878) (13,533)
Outstanding at end of period 191,891 149,965
1 Adjusted for the 1 for 20 share capital consolidation which took place on 13 October 2014.
The total charge for the period relating to employee share based plans was £0.3m (53 weeks ended 23 August 2014: £0.3m)  
all of which related to equity settled share based payment transactions. 
Due to the nature of the LTIP, SBP and SIP schemes, it is not necessary to calculate the weighted average exercise price.
29. Net debt
(a) Analysis of net debt
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Secured loan notes (1,545.9) (2,233.7)
Cash-backed borrowings – (315.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 140.1 315.6
Restricted cash – 315.0
Nominal value of net debt (1,405.8) (1,918.1)
Capitalised debt issue costs 1.4 3.8
Fair value adjustments on acquisition of secured loan notes (12.8) (37.5)
Fair value of interest rate swaps (132.3) (278.5)
Finance lease obligations (2.1) (2.4)
Net debt (1,551.6) (2,232.7)
Balance sheet:
Borrowings (1,559.4) (2,269.8)
Cash-backed borrowings – (315.0)
Derivative financial instruments (132.3) (278.5)
Cash and cash equivalents 140.1 315.6
Restricted cash – 315.0
Net debt (1,551.6) (2,232.7) Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 86
29. Net debt continued
(b) Analysis of changes in net debt
At 
17 August
 2013
£m
Cash
 flow
£m
Non-cash
 movements
£m
At 
23 August
 2014
£m
Cash
flow
£m
 Non-cash
 movements
£m
At 
22 August
 2015
£m
Current assets
Cash at bank and in hand 328.6 (13.0) – 315.6 (175.5) – 140.1
Restricted cash 315.0 – – 315.0 (315.0) – –
643.6 (13.0) – 630.6 (490.5) – 140.1
Debt 
Borrowings (2,372.8) 69.3 33.7 (2,269.8) 339.8 370.6 (1,559.4)
Cash-backed borrowings (315.0) – – (315.0) 315.0 – –
Derivative financial instruments (254.3) 6.7 (30.9) (278.5) 8.0 138.2 (132.3)
(2,942.1) 76.0 2.8 (2,863.3) 662.8 508.8 (1,691.7)
Net debt per balance sheet (2,298.5) 63.0 2.8 (2,232.7) 172.3 508.8 (1,551.6)
Net debt incorporates the Group’s borrowings, cash-backed borrowings, derivative financial instruments and obligations under 
finance leases, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash.
Non-cash movements relate to amortisation of deferred issue costs and premium on loan notes (including amounts written  
off on capital restructuring (note 7)) and fair value movement in derivative financial instruments and profit on the purchase  
of securitised debt. 
(c) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the period (175.5) (13.0)
Cash outflow from change in cash deposits (315.0) –
Cash outflow from change in debt financing 662.5 75.8
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 172.0 62.8
Non-cash movements in net debt 508.8 2.8
Change in net debt resulting from non-cash flows 508.8 2.8
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.2
Movement in net debt 681.1 65.8
Net debt at beginning of period (2,232.7) (2,298.5)
Net debt at end of period (1,551.6) (2,232.7)
30. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
During the current and prior period, the Group operated one funded defined benefit pension scheme; the Pubmaster Pension 
Scheme. The pension plan has not invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor in properties or other assets used 
by the Group.
The tables below illustrate the impact of the defined benefit scheme on the income statement and the balance sheet.
Number of members in the defined benefit pension scheme at 22 August 2015:
Active Preserved Pensioner 
Number of members 4 259 334
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
Analysis of amounts charged to operating costs:
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Current service cost (0.1) (0.1)
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 87
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
30. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
Analysis of amounts included within finance income and finance costs:
52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Net interest cost (0.2) (0.2)
Remeasurement gains and losses shown in the SOCI in the period:
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Actuarial return on assets excluding interest income 0.9 1.6
Experience loss on scheme obligations – 1.6
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme obligations:
Financial (3.9) (4.5)
Demographic – –
Remeasurement losses recognised in the SOCI (3.0) (1.3)
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Present value of scheme liabilities (68.5) (64.5)
Fair value of scheme assets 62.4 60.2
Net retirement benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet (6.1) (4.3)
Movements in the present value of scheme liabilities are as follows:
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Present value of scheme liabilities at beginning of year 64.5 61.6
Current service cost 0.1 0.1
Interest cost 2.5 2.7
Actuarial loss 3.9 2.9
Benefits paid (2.5) (2.8)
Present value of scheme liabilities at end of year 68.5 64.5
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 60.2 56.8
Interest on scheme assets 2.3 2.5
Remeasurement gains 0.9 1.6
Contributions paid by employer 1.5 2.1
Benefits paid (2.5) (2.8)
Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 62.4 60.2
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the balance sheet date and the expected return on scheme assets is derived  
as a weighted average of the expected return on each asset class, recognising the proportions of the assets invested in each.  
The expected return on each asset class is determined after taking external expert advice and by reference to relevant equity  
and bond indices.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
22 August
 2015
23 August
 2014
Equities 23.7% 24.1%
Bonds 30.8% 29.6%
Diversified growth funds 43.3% 44.5%
Other 2.2% 1.8% Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 88
30. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
The history of experience adjustments on the scheme for the current and previous financial years is as follows:
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
17 August
 2013
£m
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (68.5) (64.5) (61.6) (55.6) (54.4)
Fair value of plan assets 62.4 60.2 56.8 52.9 46.5
Net liability in the scheme (6.1) (4.3) (4.8) (2.7) (7.9)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (3.9) (2.9) (5.6) (0.5) 0.8
Percentage of scheme liabilities 5.7% 4.5% 9.1% 0.9% 1.5%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 0.9 1.6 1.6 2.9 (1.5)
Percentage of scheme assets 1.4% 2.7% 2.8% 5.5% 3.2%
The expected contributions to defined benefit schemes for the next financial year, beginning 23 August 2015, are £1.0m.
Scheme funding
The Pubmaster Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme operated in the UK. The values of the scheme’s liabilities have been 
determined by a qualified actuary based on the results of an actuarial valuation as at 6 April 2013, updated to 22 August 2015,  
the balance sheet date. 
The Scheme is subject to the Statutory Funding Objective under the Pensions Act 2004. A valuation of the Scheme is carried  
out at least once every three years to determine whether the Statutory Funding Objective is met. As part of the process the Group 
must agree with the Trustees of the Scheme the contributions to be paid to address any shortfall against the Statutory Funding 
Objective and contributions to pay for the future accrual of benefits. The Statutory Funding Objective does not currently impact  
on the recognition of the Scheme in these accounts.
The Scheme is managed by a board of Trustees appointed in part by the Group (which includes a professional independent  
trustee) and part from elections by members of the Scheme. The Trustees have responsibility for obtaining valuations of the fund, 
administering benefit payments and investing the Scheme’s assets. The Trustees delegate some of these functions to their 
professional advisers where appropriate.
The Scheme exposes the Group to a number of risks:
•	 Investment risk: The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values. While  
these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional funding  
to be required if a deficit emerges.
•	 Interest rate risk: The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds to discount the 
liabilities. As the Scheme holds assets such as equities, the value of the assets and liabilities may not move in the same way.
•	 Inflation risk: A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s assets 
are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could lead to deficits 
emerging.
•	 Mortality risk: In the event that members live longer than assumed a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.
•	 Member options: Certain benefit options may be exercised by members without requiring the consent of the Trustees or the 
Company, for example exchanging pension for cash at retirement. In this example, if fewer members than expected exchange 
pension for cash at retirement then a funding strain will emerge.
•	 Insurer covenant risk: The Trustees hold annuity policies for a group of pensioners in the Scheme. If the insurance company 
goes insolvent then these pensions will have to be provided directly by the Scheme and a deficit will emerge.
The mortality assumptions at the year end are based on standard mortality tables that allow for future mortality improvements.  
The assumptions are that the life expectancy of a member who retires at the age of 65 is as follows:
22 August
 2015
23 August
 2014
Male currently aged 50 23.4 years 23.2 years
Male currently aged 65 21.7 years 21.6 years
Female currently aged 50 25.9 years 25.7 years
Female currently aged 65 24.1 years 24.0 years
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 89
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
30. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
The assumptions used in determining the valuations are as follows:
22 August
 2015
23 August
 2014
Rate of increase of salaries 4.50% 4.60%
Rate of increase in pensions 2.70% 2.75%
Discount rate 3.45% 3.90%
Inflation assumption (RPI) 3.25% 3.35%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.25% 2.35%
The results are very sensitive to the assumptions used. The table below shows the approximate effect on the Scheme’s liabilities  
of changing some of the key financial assumptions, whilst all other assumptions remain the same. The impact of adjustments 
to assumptions are as follows:
Adjustments to assumptions
Approximate
 effect on
liabilities 
and deficit
 £m
Reduce discount rate by 0.1% per annum 1.1
Increase inflation by 0.1% per annum (and all associated assumptions) 0.8
The assets in the scheme are:
Value at
 22 August
 2015
£m
Value at
 23 August
 2014
£m
Equities 14.8 14.5
Bonds 19.2 17.8
Diversified growth funds 27.0 26.8
Insured pensions 1.0 1.1
Cash 0.4 –
Total market value of assets 62.4 60.2
Present value of scheme liabilities (68.5) (64.5)
Net pension liability before deferred tax (6.1) (4.3)
Deferred tax asset 1.2 0.8
Net pension liability (4.9) (3.5)
The pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are as follows:
 52 weeks to
 22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
 23 August
 2014 
£m
Defined contribution schemes 1.1 1.1
Pension risk
The Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme which is closed to new members. The scheme is subject to risk regarding 
the relative amount of the scheme’s assets, which are affected by the value of investments and the returns generated by such 
investments, compared to the scheme’s liabilities, which are affected by changes in the life expectancy, actual and expected price 
inflation, changes in bond yields and future salary increases. The difference in value between scheme assets and scheme liabilities 
may vary significantly in the short term, potentially resulting in an increased deficit being recognised on the Group’s balance sheet. 
In the current period, the Group has made payments to the scheme totalling £1.5m. The Group has agreed to deficit reduction 
payments of £1.0m per annum to April 2018.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 90
31. Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
Group
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August 
2014
£m
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 8.9 9.0
Between one and five years 31.7 31.5
After five years 130.4 139.9
171.0 180.4
The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases when discounted to present value are £79.9m  
(August 2014: £83.1m).
The Group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties under non-cancellable operating lease 
agreements. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles under 
non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are £68.7m (August 2014: £69.1m).
The Group is a lessor of licensed properties to retailers. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.  
The total non-cancellable future minimum lease payments expected to be received are:
Land and
 buildings
 22 August
 2015
£m
Land and
 buildings 
23 August
 2014
£m
Within one year 96.3 102.4
Between one and five years 277.7 300.3
After five years 232.4 266.9
606.4 669.6
The Company has no operating lease commitments at 22 August 2015 (August 2014: £nil).
32. Capital and other financial commitments
Group
Capital commitments for property, plant and equipment
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Contracted but not provided 13.3 14.6
The Company has no capital commitments at 22 August 2015 (August 2014: £nil).
33. Related party transactions
Group
Transactions with key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Group in the current period comprise members of the Punch Taverns plc Board of Directors.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows:
 52 weeks to
22 August
 2015 
£m
 52 weeks to
23 August
 2014 
£m
Short term employee benefits 1.0 0.8
Post-employment employee benefits 0.1 –
Share based payments – –
1.1 0.8
There are no other long-term benefits or termination benefits payable to key management personnel in the current or prior period.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 91
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
33. Related party transactions continued
Transactions with joint ventures
At 22 August 2015, Punch Taverns (Finco) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, held 50% of the entire issued share 
capital of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited, the holding company of the Matthew Clark group of companies, a wholesale and 
agency drinks distributor operating in the UK. The Group’s investment in this joint venture at 22 August 2015 is £52.3m (August 
2014: £50.5m). The Group had transactions of £9.4m with Matthew Clark during the 52 weeks to 22 August 2015 (53 weeks  
to 23 August 2014: £10.9m).
Year end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Amounts owed to joint ventures (1.2) (0.4)
Reconciliation of movement in carrying value of investment in joint ventures
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August 
2014
£m
Carrying value at the beginning of the period 50.5 49.3
Share of profit from joint venture 7.8 6.2
Dividends received from joint venture (6.0) (5.0)
Carrying value at the end of the period 52.3 50.5
Summarised financial information for joint ventures
The consolidated accounts for Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited are made up to 28 February 2015 and 28 February 2014, 
respectively. The consolidated accounts are prepared under UK Accounting Standards (UK GAAP). A summary of the financial 
information contained in these accounts can be found below:
28 February
 2015
£m
28 February
 2014
£m
Current assets 135.0 131.9
Non-current assets 26.3 29.2
Current liabilities (108.5) (106.0)
Non-current liabilities (4.9) (8.1)
Net assets 47.9 47.0
Revenue 811.2 805.5
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 12.9 9.0
See note 34: Post balance sheet events.
Company
Transactions with key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Company comprise members of the Punch Taverns plc Board of Directors.  
The Non-Executive Directors were remunerated by the Company, as were the Executive Directors for part of the year.  
The Company did not have any transactions, with the exception of transactions related to remuneration, with the Directors 
during the financial period (August 2014: £nil). Details of these transactions are provided in the Report on Directors’ remuneration.
Following the successful completion of the restructuring proposals, the Company Secretary purchased 3 ordinary shares in 
Punch Taverns plc in order to effect the 1 for 20 consolidation. 
Transactions with subsidiary undertakings
The Company enters into loans with its subsidiary undertakings at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis. 
The Company has received interest income of £217.9m (August 2014: £192.1m) on these loans and advances. 
 52 weeks to
22 August
 2015 
£m
 53 weeks to
23 August 
2014 
£m
Loans and advances 
Increase in loan notes owed by subsidiary undertakings 217.9 192.1
Increase in other loans and advances owed to subsidiary undertakings (3.0) (2.5) Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 92
33. Related party transactions continued
Year end balances arising from transactions with subsidiary undertakings
22 August
 2015
£m
23 August
 2014
£m
Receivables 1,663.7 1,445.8
Payables (1,609.1) (1,612.1)
The amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings include £1,663.3m (August 2014: £1,445.5m) of loan notes which are interest 
bearing. In addition, the Company has £0.4m (August 2014: £0.3m) of other balances owed by subsidiary undertakings that are 
non-interest bearing. The loan notes accrue interest at fixed rates ranging between 12% and 15%, which is capitalised quarterly  
in arrears. In addition the Company has £548.8m (August 2014: £545.8m) of loans and £1,063.3m (August 2014: £1,066.3m)  
of other balances owed to subsidiary undertakings that are non-interest bearing.
Transactions with advisors
Save in relation to the Restructuring and the Firm Placing the Group has not entered into any material transactions with related 
parties. In the year, the Company has paid the fees and expenses of certain advisers to Glenview and Luxor, which are related 
parties in relation to the Company, in a total amount of £nil (excluding VAT where applicable) (August 2014: £156,000). The 
amount of such fees and expenses fell within the exemption for small related party transactions under the Listing Rules. Following 
such payments, the Company has no further obligation to pay any fees or expenses of Glenview, Luxor or any other related parties.
34. Post balance sheet events
Following the year end (on 11 September 2015), the Group completed the sale of a package of 158 pubs for £53.5m to 
NewRiver Retail, a leading Real Estate Investment Trust focused on the UK retail sector. The disposal comprised 150 pubs from 
the non-core estate and 8 pubs from the core estate that no longer met the Group’s criteria as a core pub. The disposal at an 
average of c.£340,000 per pub, was above book value and significantly ahead of the average proceeds achieved for previous 
non-core disposals. 
On 7 October 2015 the Group completed the disposal of our 50% shareholding in Matthew Clark (our joint venture investment 
with Accolade Wines) for £99m in cash (after £2m of transaction costs) and at a £46m premium to book value. The sale of 
our investment in Matthew Clark, which was a non-core asset, enhances the Group’s financial flexibility to pursue its strategic 
objectives.
On completion, the Group entered into a 10 year non-exclusive drinks supply contract with Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited. 
Under this supply agreement, Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited will supply selected wines and spirits drinks products for sale  
to the Group at agreed pricing levels.
The investment in joint venture was not classified as held for sale at the year end as the disposal was not considered highly 
probable at the balance sheet date.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 93
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Opinions and conclusions arising 
from our audit
1.  Our opinion on the financial statements  
is unmodified
  We have audited the financial statements of Punch Taverns plc 
(“the Group”) for the 52 week period ended 22 August 2015 
set out on pages 44 to 92. In our opinion: 
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs  
as at 22 August 2015 and of the Group’s loss for the  
52 week period then ended; 
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
(IFRSs as adopted by the EU);
•	 the Parent Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
  In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had  
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows. 
  Valuation of Property assets and Non-current 
assets classified as held for sale (£2,118.3m)
  Refer to pages 30 to 31 (Audit and Risk Committee Report), 
page 51 (Accounting policies) and page 65 (note 12: 
Property, plant and equipment).
•	 The risk – The Group holds significant assets in respect  
of its property portfolio and non-current assets classified  
as held for sale. The Group has changed its accounting 
policy for its property portfolio from one of historical cost, 
less cumulative impairment, to revaluation at the end of  
the financial period. The properties are subject to valuation  
by independent property surveyors in accordance with  
the provisions of Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
Appraisal and Valuation Standards (‘The Red Book’). 
  This is considered the largest estimate within the financial 
statements as it is judgmental and compounded by the  
size of the property estate and the variety of assumptions 
made with reference to the valuation itself, in particular the 
sampling techniques used which could result in individual 
assets, and therefore the estate as a whole, being over or 
under valued with a corresponding impact on the income 
statement or statement of other comprehensive income.
  Our response – Our audit procedures included using 
KPMG valuation specialists to challenge the appropriateness 
of the valuation methodology applied, in particular  
whether the independent surveyors had inspected or  
visited a representative sample of the estate, based on key 
characteristics such as location, condition and commercial 
offering. In addition whether the independent surveyor  
had considered the ‘Highest and Best’ use in valuing the 
  individual assets. The valuation specialist helped form an 
assessment of the independence and competence of the 
external valuation specialists engaged by management.
  We liaised with the Group’s independent property surveyors 
to discuss and challenge the basis of the valuation in 
particular around potential alternative use of properties,  
the assumptions made, the derivation of key inputs 
including fair maintainable trade and the multiples applied, 
as well as the overall nature and extent of their work.  
We sought explanations from the external surveyor for  
the movement in the valuation of individual pubs where 
either the valuation change, or the absolute value, were 
considered significant and corroborated these explanations 
to, amongst others, changes in trading performance since 
the previous valuation that occurred organically or through 
completion of a refurbishment in the period.
  We considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosure 
around impairment to property assets and the current  
year change to a policy of revaluation of its property  
assets. In addition, we considered the completeness  
and appropriateness of significant accounting estimates  
and judgments disclosed within the accounting policies.
  Recoverability of Goodwill (£163.5m)  
and investment held by Punch Taverns plc,  
the Company, in its subsidiary undertaking 
(£1,105.2m)
  Refer to pages 30 to 31 (Audit and Risk Committee Report), 
page 50 (Accounting policies) and page 68 (note 14: 
Impairment losses).
•	 The risk – Goodwill within the business relates solely to  
the Core division, which contains all core assets. There is  
an indication of impairment as a result of the continuing 
difference between the Group’s market capitalisation and 
its reported Net Assets. The Group operates in a market 
with ongoing competitive pressures and an active regulator. 
These factors lead to a risk that the business does not  
meet the growth projections necessary to support the 
carrying value of the intangible asset. Due to the inherent 
uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting cash 
flows, which are the basis of the Group’s assessment of 
recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas  
that our audit is concentrated on. This risk also inherently 
extends to indicate a risk of impairment of the investment 
held by Punch Taverns plc, the Company, in its immediate 
subsidiary undertaking.
  Our response – Our audit procedures included critically 
assessing the key assumptions used in deriving the value  
in use calculation of the Core division to be compared to 
the carrying value of the Core Segment, including Goodwill.  
We used breakeven analysis to determine those factors that 
were most sensitive within the valuation model, to be the 
long term growth rates of 2% applied from Year 3 of the 
Group forecast cash flows and the pre-tax risk adjusted 
discount rate of 8.3%. We assessed the long term growth 
rate through external market information on current and 
forecast performance of the sector as well as long term 
inflationary returns, peer group benchmarking and the 
actual trading history of the Group. Our own internal 
valuation specialists assisted us in assessing the discount 
rate by recalculating the rate based on external market 
data, taking into account the Group’s financial position  
and consideration of specific risks associated with it.
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Punch Taverns plc only Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 94
  We assessed the reasonableness of differences between  
the market capitalisation and net assets and considered  
this within the impairment testing.
  An indirect consequence of this assessment led to  
an impairment of £484.1m being booked against the 
investment held by Punch Taverns plc, the Company,  
in its immediate subsidiary undertaking.
  We considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures 
about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment 
assessment to changes in key assumptions. 
  In our audit report for the 53 week period ended 23 August 
2014 we included Going Concern as one of the risks of 
material misstatement that had the greatest effect on  
our audit. On 8 October 2014, the Group successfully 
completed the refinancing of its two Securitisation groups. 
Consequently, we considered this risk to be less significant  
in the current year, as explained in Note 1 to the accounts.
3.  Our application of materiality and an overview  
of the scope of our audit
  The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
was set at £10.0m. This has been determined with reference 
to the total Group assets (of which it represents 0.4%), 
which we consider to be one of the principal considerations 
for members of the Company in assessing the financial 
performance of the Group.
  We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee to report to  
it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified 
through our audit with a value in excess of £0.5m in addition 
to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we 
believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
  The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group  
as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information. 
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out 
above and covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group 
profit before taxation, and total Group assets.
4.  Our opinion on other matters prescribed by  
the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
  In our opinion: 
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to  
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and  
the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which  
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with  
the financial statements.
5.  We have nothing to report in respect of the 
matters on which we are required to report  
by exception 
  Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to  
you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our 
audit, we have identified other information in the annual 
report that contains a material inconsistency with either  
that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
  In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
•	 we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
•	 the Audit and Risk Committee Report, as set out on pages 
30 to 31 does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
  Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
•	 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or 
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. 
  Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•	 the directors’ statement, set out on page 43, in relation  
to going concern; 
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 
25 to 29 relating to the Company’s compliance with the ten 
provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration. 
  We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
  Scope of report and responsibilities
  As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 43, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of 
the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on 
the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. 
  This report is made solely to the Company’s members  
as a body and is subject to important explanations and 
disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on  
our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full  
and should be read to provide an understanding of the 
purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken  
and the basis of our opinions.
  Simon Haydn-Jones (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
  C h a r t e r e d A c co u nt a nt s 
One Snowhill 
  Snow Hill Queensway
  B i r m i n gh am 
  B 4 6 G H 
  11 November 2015
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Punch Taverns plc only Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 95
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Beta model
A model for pricing share options which applies the same 
principles as the binomial model but takes into account the 
relationship of the share price to a portfolio of a comparator 
group companies’ shares.
Binomial model
A model for pricing share options which applies the same 
principles as decision-tree analysis by considering the possibilities 
that prices may increase or decrease by a certain percentage.
Cash flow hedges
A hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows.
The 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code
The 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code is a guide to a 
number of key components of effective board practice. It is 
based on the underlying principles of all good governance: 
accountability, transparency, probity and focus on the 
sustainable success of an entity over the longer term.
Convertible bond
A corporate bond that can be exchanged for a specific number 
of ordinary shares. Convertible bonds generally have lower 
interest rates than non-convertible bonds because they accrue 
value as the price of the underlying shares rise. Convertible 
bonds therefore reflect a combination of the benefits of shares 
and corporate bonds.
Corporate governance
Corporate governance describes the system by which  
an organisation is directed and controlled.
Derivative financial instruments
Financial instruments whose value changes in response to 
changes in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, 
commodity price, foreign exchange rate, or other variable,  
and are settled at a future date.
Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share is earnings per share after allowing 
for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares 
of the weighted average number of options outstanding 
during the period and shares from the assumed conversion 
of convertible bonds.
Earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings per share is a performance measure that expresses  
the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by  
the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during 
the period.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents earnings before depreciation and 
amortisation, profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 
and non-current assets classified as held for sale, impairment, 
movement in valuation of properties, goodwill disposed, finance 
income, finance costs, movement in fair value of interest rate 
swaps and tax of the Group.
Effective interest rate method
A method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial  
asset or financial liability and of allocating the interest income  
or expense over the relevant period.
Experience gains / losses
Changes in the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme 
that arise when events have not coincided with the actuarial 
assumptions made for the previous valuation.
Fair value
The amount at which assets can be exchanged, or liabilities 
settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s 
length transaction.
Finance lease 
A method of purchasing an asset by making rental payments 
throughout the expected lifetime of the asset. The lessee  
shows an asset and a corresponding liability in the balance 
sheet. Finance lease payments are accounted for as a reduction 
in the liability.
Goodwill
Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a company  
over the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date  
of acquisition.
IAS
International Accounting Standards.
IASB
International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRIC
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRS 
International Financial Reporting Standards.
Indexation allowance
Indexation allowance is tax relief given when calculating capital 
gains that takes into account inflation based on the Retail Prices 
Index (RPI). Indexation allowance can only reduce an un-indexed 
gain to nil and cannot create or increase a capital loss.
Interest cover
A performance measure that shows the number of times 
EBITDA covers the net finance income and finance cost.
Interest rate swap
A derivative financial instrument used to minimise exposure  
to changes in interest rates by payment to receive a fixed interest 
rate in exchange for a floating rate interest rate, or payment  
to receive a floating rate interest rate in exchange for a fixed 
interest rate.
LIBOR
London Inter Bank Offered Rate. The interest rate quoted 
between banks, which is a recognised basis for calculating  
a floating interest rate.
Monte Carlo valuation method
A model for pricing share options that generates many random 
possible price paths, calculates assumed exercise values, then 
averages and discounts to give the value of the option.
MRO
Market Rent Only.
Financial glossary Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 96
Net debt
Loans, convertible bonds, derivative financial instruments and 
finance leases net of other interest-bearing deposits and cash 
and cash equivalents.
Nominal value of net debt
The value of a security stated by the issuer (unrelated  
to market value), net of cash, cash equivalents and other  
interest bearing deposits.
Non-underlying items
Items which management consider will distort comparability, 
either due to their significant non-recurring nature or because  
of specific accounting treatments. These are separately 
identified in order to provide a trend measure of underlying 
performance.
Operating lease
A method of renting assets over a period that is less than the 
expected life of the asset. The lessee does not show an asset  
or liability on their balance sheet and periodic payments are 
accounted for by the lessee as operating expenses in the period.
Operating result
Profit after deducting all operating expenses including 
depreciation and amortisation.
Over-hedge
An over-hedge occurs when the notional principal amount of 
the hedging instrument is greater than that of the hedged item.
PBT 
Profit before tax.
Projected unit credit method
The accounting method used to calculate provisions for 
pensions. It includes not only the pensions and vested interests 
accrued at the date of calculation, but also anticipated increases 
in salaries and pensions.
Securitisation
The process of raising finance by creating a financial instrument 
secured by pooling other financial assets to back the instrument.
Segmental reporting
Information regarding the financial position and results of 
operations in different business areas.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
The growth in value of a shareholding over a specific period, 
assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional 
shares.
Working capital
Short-term disposable capital used to finance day-to-day 
operations. It is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
Financial glossary continued Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 97
Registered office
Jubilee House
Second Avenue
Burton upon Trent
DE14 2WF
+44 (0)1283 501600
Company number
3752645
Advisers
Auditors
KPMG LLP
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
+44 (0)121 232 3000
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B3 2WN
+44 (0)121 480 5562
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London
EC1Y 8YY
+44 (0)20 7600 1200
Broker & financial adviser
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London
EC4A 2BB
+44 (0)20 7774 1000
Broker
Numis Securities 
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
+44 (0)20 7260 1000
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services plc
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
+44 (0)870 702 0003
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting
Half year end
Interim results announcement
Year end
Preliminary results announcement
Directors of the Company
Stephen Billingham
Duncan Garrood
Steve Dando
Angus Porter
John Allkins
Ian Dyson
January 2016
5 March 2016 
April 2016
20 August 2016
October 2016
Non-Executive Chairman 
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Financial Officer
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
This report is printed using papers which are FSC Mixed Credit certified.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it,  
please pass it on to interested readers, return it to Punch Taverns or  
dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. Thank you.
Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.instinctif.com
Company information Punch Taverns plc
Jubilee House
Second Avenue
Burton upon Trent
Staffordshire
DE14 2WF
www.punchtavernsplc.com
Tel: +44 (0)1283 501600
Fax: +44 (0)1283 501601
