 Annual Report 2015 Defence Security Aerospace Commercial
We work across four key markets:
Through their technical expertise, domain know-how 
and rigorous independent thinking, our engineers 
and scientists are uniquely placed to help customers 
meet challenges that define the modern world. 
Our prized possession is trust. We inspire confidence by 
working in partnership with our customers to ensure 
that they meet their goals, first time, every time. 
Defence, security and aerospace are our key markets but we have a growing position in select 
commercial markets. Our customers are predominantly government organisations, including 
defence departments, as well as international customers in other targeted sectors.
QinetiQ Group plc
Find out more about our key markets on page 6. Strategic  
report
02
Overview
Highlights 02
Our business model 04
Market overview 06
Chairman’s statement 08
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 10
Our Organic-Plus strategy 12
Our strategic priorities 14
Our strategy in action 16 
Key performance indicators 20
Responsible business  24
Risk management 30
Principal risks and uncertainties 32
Performance
Operating review 
 EMEA Services 38 
 Global Products 42 
Chief Financial Officer’s review 44
Corporate governance statement 48 
 Relations with shareholders 52
 Leadership 54
 Board of Directors 58
 Effectiveness 60
 Accountability 63 
Directors’ remuneration report 72
Directors’ report 86
Independent auditor’s report 90
Glossary 141
Shareholder information 142
Additional information 143
Read more online: www.QinetiQ.com 
You can view this Annual Report and Accounts, all other results materials and additional case studies at www.QinetiQ.com. 
In addition, the QinetiQ Investor Relations iPad App gives you the latest investor and financial media information.  
The App allows you to get the latest share price information and corporate news, as well as view financial reports.
Governance
48
Financial 
statements
93
141
Additional 
information
Consolidated income statement 93
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 94
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 94
Consolidated balance sheet 95
Consolidated cash flow statement 96
Reconciliation of movement in net cash 96
Notes to the financial statements 97
Company balance sheet 137
Notes to the Company financial statements 138
Five-year record 140
01
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Contents 2013
864.0^
2014
782.6^
2015
763.8
2013
145.0^
2014
113.7^
2015
111.3
2013
16.6^
2014
13.8^
2015
15.2
2013
74.0
2014
170.5
2015
195.5
2013
3.8
2014
4.6
2015
5.4
2013
(133.2)
2014
(12.7)
2015
104.7
Revenue 
£763.8m
2014: £782.6m^
Underlying operating profit* 
£111.3m
2014: £113.7m^
Underlying EPS* 
15.2p
2014: 13.8p^
Total dividend  
5.4p
2014: 4.6p
Net cash
£195.5m
2014: £170.5m
Note: year end references (2015, 2014 and 2013) relate to the years ending 31 March.
* Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
^  Restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1 to the financial statements on page 97).
Profit/(loss) after tax  
£104.7m
2014: (£12.7m)
Strong financial  
performance
Financial
02
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Highlights Meeting changing  
customer needs
Operational
Organic-Plus strategy delivered  
increased earnings
P12 Our Organic-Plus strategy
Strong performance in EMEA Services  
with core Air, Weapons and Maritime 
businesses all delivering good results
P38 EMEA Services
5% Club membership reaches over 
70 companies that are committed to  
creating opportunities for young people
P24 Responsible business
New President appointed to lead 
repositioning of US Global Products 
P42 Global Products
03
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 EMEA
Services
Principal markets
Business units
How we generate value What makes QinetiQ different How we deliver
Divisions
Global
Products 
 
 
Test & Evaluation
Research
Advice
Technology Solutions
Licensing
Working in
partnership 
to shape 
needs and
deliver 
solutions   
 
 
 
 
  
Defence
Enhances skills, specialist domain understanding 
and reputation. Generates IP.
Air 
Weapons 
Maritime
Australia 
Procurement Advisory Services  
Training 
C4ISR  
Cyber Security 
Cyveillance® 
EMEA products
US products
OptaSense® 
Space Products  
Rigorous
independent
thinking
Technical
expertise
Unique
facilities
Domain
know-how
Security Commercial Aerospace
The technical expertise and domain know-how of our people 
differentiate our customer offerings from our peers. 
QinetiQ is trusted, impartial and independent – we are not a 
manufacturer. We rarely compete directly with aerospace and  
defence companies, but instead work in partnership with them. 
We also work in partnership with customers, leveraging our assets, 
facilities and capabilities to deliver rigorous independent thinking  
that ensures they meet their goals. 
Understanding  
what QinetiQ does
QinetiQ’s level of customer intimacy has been developed over many 
years. Our specialist know-how about customer domains is nurtured 
by working in partnership to understand their problems, shape their 
needs and deliver solutions that help meet their challenges now and 
for the future.
Our principal revenue streams are research, technology, advice, test 
and evaluation, technology solutions and the royalties from licensing.
04
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our business model EMEA
Services
Principal markets
Business units
How we generate value What makes QinetiQ different How we deliver
Divisions
Global
Products 
 
 
Test & Evaluation
Research
Advice
Technology Solutions
Licensing
Working in
partnership 
to shape 
needs and
deliver 
solutions   
 
 
 
 
  
Defence
Enhances skills, specialist domain understanding 
and reputation. Generates IP.
Air 
Weapons 
Maritime
Australia 
Procurement Advisory Services  
Training 
C4ISR  
Cyber Security 
Cyveillance® 
EMEA products
US products
OptaSense® 
Space Products  
Rigorous
independent
thinking
Technical
expertise
Unique
facilities
Domain
know-how
Security Commercial Aerospace
Our business model is robust and sustainable because our  
knowledge base is constantly refreshed. As well as enhancing  
the domain know-how and reputation of our people, our work 
provides a dynamic source of new intellectual property and  
future technology-based offerings.
As a business whose reputation and achievements are centred  
around our people, QinetiQ has low capital and resource 
requirements. Our future success is primarily dependent on  
our ability to recruit, develop and retain exceptional employees, 
subject matter experts and world renowned specialists.
05
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FY11
39,035
Outturn Plans
Source: HM Treasury – Public expenditure statistical analysis
FY12
37,980
FY13
35,874
FY14
36,181
FY15
36,436
Front Line
Command
QinetiQ
business
Training 
C4ISR
Cyber Security 
Joint
Forces
Navy
Army
Air
Air
Maritime
Weapons
Understanding  
our markets
UK Ministry of Defence budget (£m)
QinetiQ business units are aligned closely 
to the Front Line Commands
In the US, the Federal Government continues to 
pursue technological superiority in response to the 
deteriorating security situation and as its principal 
source of military advantage. President Obama 
recently requested an 8% increase to the US defence 
budget for 2016, forcing the Republican majority to 
weigh up competing concerns about defence and 
tackling the ongoing fiscal deficit. 
Elsewhere, governments and commercial organisations 
continue to build capability and balance budgetary 
constraints with security concerns. 
These fiscal pressures, both in the UK and worldwide, 
are no longer new. Despite reduction in the UK defence 
budget over the last parliamentary term, QinetiQ 
was able to improve its financial performance. 
The world is an increasingly uncertain and less 
secure place. Technology proliferation has lowered 
the bar for terrorism, organised crime and conflict, 
meaning that threats to security are increasing  
in number and diversity. 
At the same time, technology proliferation 
enables governments to ‘spin-in’ technologies 
from the commercial sector with the help of 
organisations like QinetiQ which are independent 
from the supply chain and experts in the 
application of technology.
QinetiQ’s ability to innovate and apply technology  
to mitigate security threats, enables us to ‘work 
smarter’ and to leverage available resources to help 
customers deliver when budgets are under pressure. 
The UK Government continues to face a significant 
budget deficit, and a further period of fiscal austerity 
looks likely following the 2015 election result. 
Defence expenditure is not protected by Government 
ring-fencing, unlike spending on healthcare, schools 
and international aid, but the UK Ministry of Defence 
(MOD) has made significant progress over the last 
five years in balancing its budget. 
Market drivers
UK defence market
To date, the UK Government has aimed to spend  
2% of GDP on defence and 1.2% of the budget on 
science and technology, although these commitments 
are likely to be considered as part of the Strategic 
Defence and Security Review (SDSR) expected in 
2015. As in 2010, we expect the SDSR to include 
consultation with industry to help the Government 
meet the challenges facing UK defence, and look 
forward to contributing to topics including test and 
evaluation, and research and technology. QinetiQ 
has maintained the capability to carry out work not 
required to be undertaken within Government and 
the rationalisation of defence budgets and structures 
could provide further opportunities in this area. 
Defence transformation has been a priority since 2010, 
incorporating a number of significant programmes. 
For example, the MOD’ s procurement agency Defence 
Equipment and Support (DE&S) is transforming its 
operating model and has been given access to private 
sector expertise to help improve its performance.
The Front Line Commands (Navy, Army, Air and 
Joint Forces) are exercising their newly delegated 
powers to shape future capabilities and our 
business units are aligned closely to these 
Commands and are well placed to help them  
with their growing procurement responsibilities.
Joint Forces Command has been created to bring 
‘improved focus to technological enablers’ and 
‘give intellectual energy’ to how warfare should be 
conducted ‘in the information age’ . With its own 
procurement arm and multi-billion pound budget, 
Joint Forces Command provides a more focused 
channel for our Cyber Security, C4ISR, and Training 
businesses which were aligned during the year. 
Revised single source regulations and pricing terms 
for single source contracts are now in place under 
the new ‘Orange Book’ . They cover new contracts 
worth £5m or more, requiring additional reporting 
and tightening definitions of allowable costs. Our 
combination of capabilities is unique in the UK and, 
consequently, 33% of EMEA Services revenue is 
derived from single source contracts, excluding the 
non-tasking element of the Long Term Partnering 
Agreement (LTPA). Greater transparency and an 
independent regulator – the Single Source Regulations 
Office (SSRO) – will help demonstrate the value for 
money the Government derives from single source 
contracts. The SSRO has confirmed the Government 
profit formula for 2016 is broadly consistent  
with 2015 but has stated it will be reviewing the 
methodology for this formula for future periods. 
06
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Market overview
P4 Our business model
P38 EMEA Services UK MOD 67
US Department 
of Defence (DoD) 6
Government agencies 11
Commercial defence 6
Commercial 10
2015 %
 
Air 25
Weapons 26
Maritime 10
Cyber, C4ISR
and Training 15
Other EMEA Services 6
Global Products – US  8 
Global Products – EMEA  10
2015 %
Defence transformation, and the forthcoming 
Comprehensive Spending Review and SDSR are 
expected to have an impact on the UK defence 
market this year. This will provide future opportunities 
for EMEA Services to build on its strong record of 
delivering ‘more for less’, whilst recognising that in 
FY16 there will be uncertainty and the potential for 
interruptions to order flow. The portion of revenue 
under contract at the start of FY16 was similar to a 
year ago and the balance is supported by a pipeline 
of opportunities but order flow and contract cover 
will be watched closely over the coming months. 
Overall, given the opening backlog position, 
expectations for the performance of EMEA Services 
in the current financial year are unchanged.
In Global Products, newer products are recording 
notable milestones and the amount of revenue 
under contract at the start of FY16 is up slightly on  
a year ago, but the drawdown of American overseas 
military forces is continuing to depress demand for 
conflict-related products. As the division has a lumpy 
revenue profile which is dependent on the timing 
and shipment of key orders, there is a range of 
possible outcomes for the performance of Global 
Products in the current year. 
In balancing the market uncertainties with the 
strength of the Group’s operations, the Board is 
maintaining its expectations for Group performance 
in the current financial year. 
2016 Outlook
Breakdown of revenue by customer
Breakdown of revenues by key domains 
Although our traditional markets are the UK  
and US, many of our unique capabilities are 
transferable to other geographies. For example,  
as the Canadian and Australian Governments pursue 
similar defence transformation programmes to the 
UK, they value our independent advice, test and 
evaluation in support of better procurement.
Governments in Europe, the Middle East and Asia  
are building their defence capabilities in response to 
the increasing volume and diversity of the threats to 
security, increasing the demand for C4ISR, cyber and 
training expertise.
Amongst the prime contractors, competition is 
becoming fiercer. They are liaising with the supply 
chain to find new sources of competitive advantage.
Much of QinetiQ’s innovation is created from solving 
a specific set of customer problems, and at the same 
time generating technology and expertise with the 
potential to be transferred into new sectors offering 
higher growth potential.
In May 2014, we completed the sale of the US 
Services division and are no longer active in the  
US federal services market. Our Global Products 
division has a significant US footprint, providing a 
route to the world’s largest defence market.
The US Government is continuing to drawdown the 
number of troops deployed on Overseas Contingency 
Operations (OCO) and reduce the accompanying 
OCO procurement budget. Although there are ‘reset’ 
opportunities, this continues to depress demand for 
conflict-related products. 
US military customers are assessing their post-war 
requirements and formulating new Programs of 
Record which will determine the ‘peacetime’ demand 
for products, such as unmanned systems. Our US 
products business is responding to these opportunities 
with a greater focus on these Programs of Record, 
contract-funded research and development, and 
non-defence markets. The disposal of US Services 
has helped to facilitate this renewed focus by removing 
any customer concerns about Organisational Conflict 
of Interest.
Global markets
Impact on our business
We rarely compete directly with aerospace  
and defence companies but instead provide 
client-side support through the domain know-how 
and technical expertise of our people. In general,  
we are not significantly impacted by changes in 
individual procurement projects. Instead we provide 
research, technical advice, and test and evaluation 
across all military domains and the majority of 
equipment programmes through the LTPA and 
other key contracts.
Our position, independent from the supply  
chain, means we bring unique, impartial skills that 
help our customers meet the dual challenges of 
declining budgets and increasing security threats. 
Although the MOD transformation programme,  
the election of a new Government and SDSR may 
slow decision-making this year and create some 
short-term uncertainty in the UK, they also provide 
opportunities for us to build on our strong record  
of a smarter way of working and efficient and 
effective outcomes. This track record underpins  
our ability to increase the scope of existing contracts, 
win new outsourcing opportunities and take our 
capabilities to new international markets.
07
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
P20 Key performance indicators
P42 Global Products Another year of progress
Mark Elliott 
Non-executive Chairman
• Strong demand for QinetiQ’s highly differentiated capabilities
•  Steve Wadey appointed as CEO – an outstanding leader 
with a track record of driving growth  
• £150m share buyback well advanced 
• 17% increase in full year dividend reflecting upgrade at  
the half year and the Group’s progressive dividend policy
• Maintaining expectations for Group performance in the 
current financial year
At QinetiQ, our most prized possession is trust. Our leaders are 
responsible for ensuring that ethical and responsible business 
practices are embedded in our culture. We would like to thank the 
leadership team for continuing to drive a more open and empowered 
culture across the Group.
QinetiQ has many sites distributed across the UK. We recognise and 
support the important role our employees play in local communities 
and their environmental stewardship of those sites.
Along with customers and employees, shareholders are key stakeholders 
as the owners of the company. QinetiQ operates across many platforms 
and contracts, so we set ourselves the target of providing information 
to shareholders that is timely, clear and concise. We would like to thank 
our shareholders for their continued support and the time that they 
commit to a constructive dialogue with our Board and executive team. 
Strategy
We are encouraged that the Group’s strategy has delivered further 
progress this year, with increased demand for the capabilities provided 
by our core businesses and further development of our pipeline of new 
opportunities, all underpinned by continued financial discipline. 
The sale of US Services, completed in May, was a key step in transforming 
QinetiQ into a Group that is differentiated by the expertise of its 
people and by its innovation, which provides a dynamic source of 
potential future revenue streams. We now have a new leadership 
team and Proxy Board in North America which is starting to reshape 
our US products business.
The Group is cash generative and disciplined about capital allocation. 
This supports ongoing investment in growth opportunities, a progressive 
dividend policy and the maintenance of the balance sheet strength 
necessary in an uncertain trading environment.
Results
In today’s world, where threats to our security are many and varied, 
demand for QinetiQ’s highly differentiated capabilities is strong and  
we are pleased to be able to report another year of progress. 
In the year to 31 March 2015, Group revenue was £763.8m (2014: 782.6m^), 
and underlying operating profit* was £111.3m (2014: £113.7m^). Full year 
underlying earnings per share* were 15.2p (2014: 13.8p^). Total Group 
profit after tax was £104.7m (2014: loss of £12.7m). Underlying operating 
cash conversion remained strong at 103% (2014: 93%^) with net cash 
increasing to £195.5m (31 March 2014: £170.5m).
The Board is maintaining its expectations for Group performance in the 
year to 31 March 2016. 
Employees, customers and shareholders 
The expertise and domain know-how of our people is our key competitive 
advantage. We prioritise the safety and development of highly skilled 
employees because they underpin the relationships with our customers 
that build mutual trust and deliver unique benefits. We are pleased  
to report further progress with employee engagement and customer 
satisfaction scores this year and that we remain committed to 
customer service excellence.
Key highlights
08
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement •   Continuity in governance structures put in 
place at the end of 2013, with the Operating 
Committee overseeing operational 
management and the Governance Committee 
overseeing risk management
• Continued focus on succession planning, 
with changes at Executive and Non-executive 
Director level during the year
• Good working relationship established with 
the new Proxy Board in the USA following the 
US restructuring in 2014
• Continued focus on strategy and greater 
measurement of progress against targets
* Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
^  Restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1 to the financial statements  
on page 97). 
Dividend and shareholder returns 
The Board proposes a final dividend of 3.6p per share for the year 
ended 31 March 2015 (2014: 3.2p), making the full year dividend  
5.4p (2014: 4.6p). Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, 
the final dividend will be paid on 4 September 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 7 August 2015. The full year dividend represents an 
increase of 17%, reflecting the Group’s progressive dividend policy 
and upgrade at the half year. 
In May 2014, we were pleased to be able to initiate a £150m capital 
return to shareholders by way of a share buyback. We believe the 
scale of the return reflects the strong cash generative characteristics 
of the Group, as well as its confidence in its strategy, while taking  
into account the continuing uncertainty in QinetiQ’s end markets,  
its pension obligations and the strength of its working capital 
position. By 15 May 2015, the Group had bought back 63 million 
shares at a cost of £128m. The Board remains committed to 
maintaining an efficient balance sheet. 
The Board
The priorities that I have set for the Board are strategic growth 
balanced with capital discipline, succession planning and to ensure  
the effective stewardship of QinetiQ through appropriate governance 
processes and systems of control. Good governance is pivotal in the 
relationship of trust between QinetiQ, its customers, its employees 
and other key stakeholders. 
In June 2014, we announced the appointment of Ian Mason as 
Non-executive Director and the retirement of Noreen Doyle after 
nearly nine years on the Board. 
On 15 October 2014, Leo Quinn tendered his resignation as CEO of 
QinetiQ to take up a new role as CEO of Balfour Beatty. Leo arrived  
at QinetiQ in 2009 at a difficult point in the Company’s history with  
a downturn in defence spending on the horizon. Under his leadership, 
QinetiQ has been transformed into the strong, competitive company  
it is today, and on behalf of the Board, we wish him every success in 
his new role. 
Following Leo’s departure, Chief Financial Officer David Mellors  
took over as interim CEO in addition to his existing responsibilities. 
We would also like to place on record the Board’s appreciation for 
David’s outstanding leadership during this period. 
In January 2015, we were pleased to announce the appointment  
of Steve Wadey as our new CEO, with effect from 27 April 2015. 
We were looking for an outstanding leader with a track record of 
driving growth, a deep understanding of the defence industry and 
the technological know-how to lead QinetiQ in the next stage of our 
Organic-Plus strategy. Steve fits all these criteria and is respected 
across the MOD and European defence sector; we look forward  
to working with him on the next stage of our strategic journey.
Mark Elliott
Non-executive Chairman 
21 May 2015
Audit Committee
Paul Murray, Committee Chairman 
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 
Michael Harper 
Ian Mason 
Susan Searle
Nominations Committee
Mark Elliott, Committee Chairman 
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 
Michael Harper 
Ian Mason 
Paul Murray 
Susan Searle 
Steve Wadey
Remuneration Committee
Michael Harper, Committee Chairman 
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 
Mark Elliott 
Ian Mason 
Paul Murray 
Susan Searle
Risk & CSR Committee
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Committee Chairman 
Mark Elliott 
Michael Harper 
Ian Mason 
David Mellors 
Paul Murray 
Susan Searle 
Steve Wadey
Security Committee
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Committee Chairman 
Michael Harper 
Ian Mason 
David Mellors 
Paul Murray 
Susan Searle 
Steve Wadey
Current Board Committee members
Key governance highlights
09
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
P48 Governance  Steve Wadey 
Chief Executive Officer
QinetiQ is a company that is focused firmly on its customers. 
I am delighted to be leading QinetiQ – a company that is built on the 
expertise of its people focused on providing effective solutions for  
our customers. 
There’s no denying that global markets are challenging, but they also 
present opportunities. Throughout the world, the proliferation and 
pace of technology means that threats to our security are increasing 
in number and diversity. The ability to harness information, knowledge 
and technology is critical to meeting these global challenges. 
In the UK, Government customers need to deliver more with less and 
so are seeking greater value. They are looking for suppliers that not 
only have a track record of delivering efficiencies but can also help 
them meet new challenges through innovation. 
In the US, the Federal Government continues to pursue technological 
superiority as its principal source of military advantage and has posed 
the question – ‘what next?’ Disruptive innovation will be at the heart 
of any answer, and this will have an impact on military customers and 
markets worldwide.
Amongst prime contractors, competition is becoming more fierce. 
They are engaging with the supply chain to find new sources of 
competitive advantage. 
Although changes in market dynamics can cause uncertainty, they 
also create chances to do things differently, particularly for companies 
like QinetiQ with the right foundations and inherent capabilities. 
Competitive and financially robust, QinetiQ is a company that is ready 
for a new phase of its journey. Our people already have a sense of 
where we are going in the future but the changes in global markets 
demand that we are more externally facing. 
Success will be built on operational excellence – doing what we say  
we are going to do, and underpinned by continued capital discipline.
It will be driven by investing in our organic capabilities and responding 
proactively to the changes in our global markets through agility and 
innovation that deliver effective solutions for our customers.
I look forward to leading QinetiQ during the next phase in its journey 
and to the exciting future that we have ahead of us, focused firmly on 
continuing to meet our customers’ needs.
Steve Wadey
Chief Executive Officer
21 May 2015
Customer-focused
•  Operational excellence and capital discipline
• Innovation and investment in organic capabilities
• Customer focus
Future priorities
P14 Our strategic priorities
10
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 2015 Year in review – David Mellors, CFO
• Strong performance in EMEA Services with increased orders,  
revenue and operating profit 
• Core Air, Weapons and Maritime businesses all performed well
• New President appointed to lead repositioning of US Global Products 
in response to a challenging market
• Continued high cash conversion
• £150m share buyback well advanced; £128m complete at 15 May 2015
• 17% increase in full year dividend reflecting upgrade at the half year  
and progressive dividend policy 
• 77% revenue under contract at start of 2016 consistent with prior year; 
balance supported by pipeline of opportunities 
• Maintaining expectations for Group performance in the current  
financial year
Orders grew 3% to £613.6m (2014: £596.9m^), and Group Book-to-Bill ratio 
was 1.1x. At the beginning of the new financial year, 77% of the Group’s  
FY16 revenue was already under contract, a similar level to a year ago.
Revenue was £763.8m (2014: £782.6m^). EMEA Services delivered a strong 
performance, with a 3% increase in revenue and the core Air, Weapons and 
Maritime businesses all delivering improved results. The performance of 
Global Products continued to be impacted by the ongoing reduction of US 
military forces deployed to Afghanistan, which depressed demand for 
conflict-related products. 
Underlying operating profit* was £111.3m (2014: £113.7m^) with growth  
in EMEA Services offset by Global Products, which was impacted by the 
reduction in revenue and by approximately $5m of additional one-off costs 
associated with separating from US Services infrastructure. 
Underlying profit before tax* increased 7% to £107.8m (2014: £101.2m^)  
with underlying net finance costs* falling to £3.5m (2014: £12.5m^) as a  
result of the early repayment of the private placement debt in June 2014.
Underlying earnings per share* for the continuing Group were up 10% at 15.2p 
(2014: 13.8p^), benefiting from the higher underlying profit before tax* and 
reduced number of shares following the repurchase of £107m of the £150m 
share buyback programme as at 31 March 2015. Basic earnings per share for 
the total Group (including US Services) were 16.6p (2014: 1.9p loss per share).
Underlying operating cash conversion* remained strong at 103% (2014: 93%^), 
delivering an underlying cash flow from continuing operations* of £114.9m 
(2014: £106.2m^). At 31 March 2015, the Group had £195.5m net cash, 
compared to £170.5m net cash at 31 March 2014 and £205.7m at 30 
September 2014.
QinetiQ investment case
1 .  Unique  and  resilient 
competitive position
• Unique technical expertise  
and domain know-how
•  Trusted advisor – independent 
position in supply chain
• Excellent customer relationships 
•  Underpinned by a portfolio  
of large long-term contracts 
•  Sustainable core businesses well 
positioned to win market share
•  Opportunity to expand  
existing capabilities into  
new international markets
2 .  Deliv ering  earnings  gro w th  and
shareholder returns
•  Strategy for growing sustainable 
earnings through effective management 
of the Group’s portfolio
• Competitive cost base
• High cash generation
• Strong balance sheet 
•  Disciplined investment management 
for core and ‘Explore’ portfolios,  
with ‘Test for Value’ largely  
customer funded
• Progressive shareholder returns
3. Signif ic ant  option  value
•  Potential for profitable growth from 
emerging ‘Explore’ businesses with 
demonstrable markets
• Development of new options from 
customer-funded R&D in rigorously 
managed ‘Test for Value’ portfolio
* Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
^  Restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1 to the financial statements  
on page 97). 
11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
P4 Our business model P44 Chief Financial Officer’s review Operated under strict rigour
Growth in new markets
Explore
Commercial traction
Test for Value
Strategic Priorities
Increased market share
Core
10%
Revenue
85%
Revenue
Customers Employees
 
5%
Revenue
Growth Orientation
IP as an additional benefit
Our value pipeline
Organic-Plus strategy 
• The objective of our Organic-Plus strategy is to  
deliver growing sustainable earnings by optimising 
our portfolio.
• We aim to win market share in core markets and 
nurture ‘Explore’ opportunities to deliver growth 
particularly beyond defence, all underpinned by 
continued financial discipline.
• The Group is sufficiently cash generative and 
disciplined about capital allocation to support 
ongoing investment in growth opportunities,  
a progressive dividend policy and the maintenance 
of a strong balance sheet.
Value pipeline
• Our Organic-Plus strategy prioritises active 
portfolio management. All of our business 
operations are graded within a value pipeline  
which gives us full visibility and direction over  
our assets and capabilities. 
• Whether they are well-established business models 
or new capabilities with as yet unclear commercial 
potential, we manage and invest in them according 
to three criteria:
 – Maturity: how ready is our offering  
and is there an attractive market?
 – Potential scale: can it one day earn  
significant profits?
 – Investment: how much will it cost  
to achieve success?
The Group’s principal role is to optimise business 
returns by allocating resources appropriately. 
Sustainable and defensible businesses, focused on growing market share. 
This is the ‘engine’ on which our reputation and customer relationships  
are built, the driver for continual renewal of our expertise and technology, 
and the source of the majority of our profit and cash flow.
Our core businesses are focused on relatively resilient sectors in which  
the technical expertise and domain know-how of our people is used  
to provide trusted independent advice and solutions for our customers’  
critical operations.
These are our sustainable and defensible core capabilities, mostly  
comprising EMEA Services, and operating largely in the defence, security  
and aerospace markets.
Much of the revenue is derived from longer-term contracts, with known  
dates for renewal and re-tender. These contracts exhibit relatively low risk 
characteristics with low capital requirements and strong, predictable cash  
flows that can be invested for future growth. Our core businesses also provide  
a dynamic source of new intellectual property that is initially collected and 
categorised in ‘Test for Value’ and managed through the value pipeline. 
Representing around 85% of our revenue, the performance of the core is  
the main driver of the future value of the Group and the majority of capital 
investment is focused on these businesses. We are investing selectively  
in key capabilities to win market share in existing markets  
and to deploy these capabilities in new sectors and  
international territories.
12
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our Organic-Plus strategy Operated under strict rigour
Growth in new markets
Explore
Commercial traction
Test for Value
Strategic Priorities
Increased market share
Core
10%
Revenue
85%
Revenue
Customers Employees
 
5%
Revenue
Growth Orientation
IP as an additional benefit
Our ‘Explore’ businesses are high potential, emerging 
businesses, typically with a proven competitive offering in 
growth markets, often beyond defence. They represent 
the best opportunities for future growth, to at least 
$100 million revenue a year, from both our services 
and products divisions.
These are established, commercially viable businesses that 
have proven technology and customers. In many cases, they 
have been separated out as ‘Explore’ business units in their 
own right, with appropriate support from the corporate team.
The challenge they face is to evolve a business model that can 
achieve significant scale in order to become the sustainable, 
value-accretive core businesses of the future. By meeting 
this challenge we will deliver a broader base of significant 
businesses, thereby increasing the diversification of the Group. 
We are selectively investing in these businesses to determine 
their ability to deliver growth both in the UK and overseas. 
Investments can include new leadership and skills, accelerated 
business development, strategic acquisitions, alliances and 
partnership as appropriate to build momentum.
 ‘ Test for Value’ offerings are early-stage options that  
are typically based around innovative technology  
or know-how. 
These technologies are often developed under customer-
funded programmes, so the portfolio can be likened to a 
drug pipeline for a pharmaceutical company, except that 
development takes place in partnership with customers 
who provide the majority of early-stage funding.
Investment is required to achieve full commercialisation  
and so we rigorously assess the viability of these options 
and their markets to determine how best to realise their 
potential. Technologies are often licensed out to reduce 
implementation and sales risks, or taken to market with 
partners. They can also be integrated to ‘Explore’ and 
receive investment, divested or closed.
13
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S t r a t e g i c  P r i o r i ti e s  
Capability through our People Who Know How To deliver
The way we work
Employees
Empowered, engaged and highly skilled employees who are  
passionate about customer service excellence, innovation and  
responsible business practice.
Creating the right environment
Building a collaborative, empowered culture that recognises  
the contribution of all employees 
  
 Enhanced engagement with the EEG, our independent  
consultative forum
  
EST community established for our Engineers,  
Scientists and Technicians 
  Facilitate greater collaboration by building understanding  
of cross-functional working 
 
 Develop training, guidance and support networks to ensure  
inclusivity of all employees 
Attracting talent
 Sourcing People Who Know How today and developing the 
pipeline for tomorrow 
 
Focused Centre of Excellence created for Early Careers 
 
5% Club target achieved 
Developing our people’s potential
Investing in our people to enhance their knowledge and skills 
 
Learning and development Centre of Excellence established 
  
Launched eLearning tools for technical skills, management  
and leadership 
  Launch QinetiQ Academy to develop our people to their  
full potential 
  Develop structured Early Careers Programmes to improve  
the development of young employees 
Retaining talent
Creating opportunities for our people to flourish and grow 
  
Build transparency of the employee proposition by 
developing Total Reward Statements 
• Health and safety
• Voluntary employee turnover
• Employee engagement
• % Apprentices and graduates
• Recruitment and retention
Measuring progress 
• Underlying operating profit
• Total Group profit after tax
• Underlying EPS
• Underlying operating cash flow
Risk sensitive 
• Emerging and reputational risk
• Significant breach of relevant laws, regulations,  
IT and security
• Defined benefit pension obligations and tax legislation
What we are striving for
How we are getting there
Key:
 2015 progress
 
2016 priorities
KPIs 
The KPIs used as a measure of executive  
performance are marked in bold.
Risks
P30 Risk management P20 Key performance indicators 
14
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our strategic priorities Increased market share UK and international growth
Customers G r o w t h  O r i en t a ti o n
Helping shape the requirement
Listening to and helping to shape the needs of our customers 
 
Structure aligned with MOD Front Line Commands 
 
Board-to-Board meetings established with key customers 
 
Develop new propositions for the MOD 
 
Extend customer base 
Delivering solutions  
 Working in partnership with them to understand and solve  
their problems 
 
Working with the MOD to support its transformation
 
Invest in Long Term Partnering Agreement 
  Support Front Line Commands with their new accountabilities 
Excellence in delivery 
Doing what we say we are going to do and ensuring good  
contract governance
  
‘Safe for Life’ programme supported by 70 safety champions 
  
Launched an academy for development of over 400  
project managers 
  Customer feedback gathered every year by independent  
third party 
 
Launch accredited training for commercial managers 
‘Working smarter’
Fully leveraging available resources 
  
Hackathons held regularly, offering innovation  
for customers 
• Customer satisfaction
• Defence and security spending
• Complex market characteristics and contract profile
Customer relationships which build mutual trust so we can 
help our customers shape and achieve their current and 
future challenges. 
Developing our existing business 
Actively managing our portfolio 
 
US Services sale completed 
  
‘Explore’ opportunities established as independent 
business units 
 Increase frequency of engagement with senior customers 
Looking for new opportunities 
Developing new partnerships and alliances and rigorously  
evaluating opportunities for risk.
 International Business Development Director appointed 
  Canadian market potential developing with the opening  
of our Ottawa office 
 Develop international strategy, model and propositions 
  Target countries and regions through independent  
market research 
Developing new ideas 
Generating new intellectual property 
 Chief Technology Officer appointed focused on innovation 
  
Reposition My Contribution programme to focus on 
innovation and growth 
• Orders
• Organic revenue growth 
• Trading in a global market
Growth both in and beyond the UK, using our domain 
know-how and the reputation of our people, plus a pipeline  
of future technology-based offerings to remain ahead of 
global technology proliferation.
High performance culture 
• Protecting and enhancing our reputation by being a responsible and sustainable business
• Working smarter through operational excellence and continuously improving our productivity
• Environmental stewardship and community investment
P24 Responsible business 
15
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Defence
Transportable ranges 
protect vessels and 
save money
Often delivered in difficult conditions and 
under severe time pressures, our Maritime 
Stealth Information and Range Services 
team provides the UK Royal Navy with 
world-class stealth management capabilities, 
helping to make vessels combat ready. 
Rather than sailing mine-hunters out and 
back for six-month tours in the Middle East, 
our in-theatre expertise saves the customer 
more than 85,000 nautical miles, allowing 
four vessels to be based in the region for 
years. We place magnetic and acoustic 
sensors in the water, sail a vessel over 
them, and then calibrate onboard systems 
to avoid detection by aggressors. 
Mechanical Engineering Officer, HMS 
Shoreham – “Ranging highlighted issues  
we were unaware of... identifying defects 
that may otherwise be missed.”
Weapons Engineering Officer,  
HMS Shoreham – “I consider the level  
of support received from QinetiQ  
during the magnetic ranging to be of  
the highest level; very proactive.”
Growth Orientation
Independent of manufacturers and 
proven in the field – we are already the 
‘go to’ solutions provider for a leading 
navy – these services are available to 
other navies, subject to MOD approval. 
Potential customers recognise our ranges 
are among the world’s most sensitive  
and, coupled with our high performance 
modelling software, far superior to  
other offerings. 
World-class capabilities to protect vessels
Making an 8,500 tonne destroyer look like a much smaller vessel
Customers 
Employees 
An expert stealth team
Neil Allan, QinetiQ project manager –  
“We minimise a ship’s signature both 
magnetically and acoustically, making  
an 8,500-tonne Type 45 Destroyer 
virtually unrecognisable by a mine.”
Rob Wild, MOD Operational Signature 
Services – “The service includes managing 
all the associated and wide ranging logistics 
in getting equipment into theatre, managing 
subcontractors such as divers and 
providing the specialist, knowledgeable 
and highly experienced QinetiQ staff.”
16
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our strategy in action Security
Protecting the public  
in ‘soft target’ mass  
transit locations 
Customers
The TSA has awarded QinetiQ a $3m 
two-year contract for an innovative threat 
detection system that uses our passive 
millimetre wave technology: SPO-NX™.  
With the TSA concerned about terrorist 
threats to targets like railway stations, ferry 
and bus terminals, it wanted leading-edge 
technology to help secure these venues. 
Working at a range of up to 15 metres, our 
SPO™ technology scans a crowd and detects  
if a person is hiding something under 
clothing – perhaps an explosive device – 
Detecting threats for the US Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Growth Orientation
We aligned our experience, know-how 
and innovation with this customer’s active 
participation and investment to develop 
next-generation threat detection. With 
SPO-NX™ intended for a mass market,  
we plan to expand its reach and deliver 
larger quantities to customers in the US 
and organisations in Europe and the 
Middle East that face security challenges. 
Addressing terrorist threats in new  
ways and more locations
Employees 
Innovative technology from  
expert engineers
We’ve been developing passive millimetre 
wave technology for many years, initially 
to see through dense foggy environments, 
and earlier versions of SPO™ were used in 
operational trials, informing the next 
generation. Colin Cameron, QinetiQ 
Technical Lead: “Through constant 
contact with the customer and exploring 
how the product can be used successfully, 
we’ve directly helped the TSA plug a real 
capability gap.”
without people needing to stop. Travellers 
are not inconvenienced, the system doesn’t 
emit harmful radiation, and no privacy laws 
are contravened. 
With earlier versions deployed in  
locations including New Jersey, Washington 
and Los Angeles, QinetiQ also provides 
maintenance, support and end user 
training. Crucially, the TSA itself is actively 
involved in developing the system.
17
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Defence
Combined Aerial Target Service (CATS) builds on unparalleled weapons know-how
Customers
Under a 20-year contract, we provide  
aerial targets worldwide for the UK Army, 
Royal Navy, RAF and project teams working 
on new weapons. Previously, the MOD  
had several contracts with different 
providers, including ageing and soon-to-be 
obsolete systems. With reduced military 
spending and increased emphasis on 
affordability, it decided to bring all aerial 
target needs under a single contract with 
one provider: QinetiQ. We have also 
completed successful aerial target projects 
for the US Air Force, Swiss MOD, Danish 
Navy and BAE Systems.
Steve Attrill, MOD – “The CATS contract  
has been a success for the MOD, and 
QinetiQ is delivering a high level of service. 
QinetiQ makes available an extremely 
flexible and responsive service, often 
reacting at short notice to Armed Forces 
requirements”. During this contract, both 
customer satisfaction and reliability have 
consistently increased.
Growth Orientation
Demand for our services is rising: a recent 
contract for Sweden involved working 
with a US target manufacturer to deliver 
launchers and operators, and we are now 
exploring opportunities to bring other 
suppliers’ targets into CATS to offer even 
better performance and value for money 
to customers.
Continuing innovation in the air 
Innovation in aerial 
targets: delivering 
accuracy worldwide
Employees
Delivering customer-focused  
target solutions
In this heavily regulated environment,  
our experience in aviation, engineering  
and operations management means  
we can organise the complex logistics 
required for the most accurate aerial 
target engagements for our customers 
worldwide while continuously improving 
safety and compliance. Mark Sydenham, 
QinetiQ Target Services Manager:  
“Our 40-strong team works around  
the world, is highly mobile and deploys 
fast, often at short notice.”
18
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our strategy in action continued Aerospace
Leading-edge satellite 
technology breaks  
new ground in space
Growth Orientation
This mission will demonstrate the importance 
of formation flying for scientific research, 
with QinetiQ expertise contributing to  
the success of future missions. Our Space 
business is currently running four additional 
ESA satellite studies, expected to feed  
into future missions, with each project  
won competitively.
A future in space
The European Space Agency awarded 
QinetiQ Space a €16m three-year contract 
to develop the computer and avionics for 
its Proba-3 mission: two satellites making 
a virtually ‘fixed’ structure in space by 
precise formation flying only 150 metres 
apart. Proba-3 will study the Sun’s corona 
using an eclipsing mechanism, with a 
camera fixed on one satellite and an 
occulting disk on the other – and flying  
at the optimal distance apart to shield  
the camera from the Sun and create 
conditions usually only observable during 
a solar eclipse. 
Our Belgium-based team is creating  
highly compact avionics able to process 
millions of instructions per second while 
also operating effectively in the punishing 
high-radiation environment of space. 
Affordability was a critical element in  
this technically challenging project.
Compact, highly complex avionics power 
a remarkable spaceflight
Customers 
Employees 
Pushing the boundaries of the possible
Frank Preud’homme, QinetiQ Space – 
“We’ve established an enviable track 
record through our work on previous 
missions such as Proba-2, which captured 
the famous image of March’s solar eclipse. 
ESA chose QinetiQ because Proba-3 
requires a small and agile platform at an 
affordable price, and we can deliver 
cutting-edge technology in shorter time 
scales and at lower cost.” 
19
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2013 2014
77
2015
85
Customer satisfaction
(%)
2013
6.3
2014
5.8
2015
5.6
Health and safety
LTIR
Non-financial KPIs
Measuring our progress
2015 performance
85%
Of our customers recognise  
us as a top three supplier
Description
QinetiQ’s customer satisfaction survey was 
introduced in 2014, following suspension  
of the MOD survey, to ask all UK customers 
with contracts over £200,000 about QinetiQ’s 
delivery, engagement and relationship. In 
the US, customer satisfaction metrics are 
reviewed on a contract-by-contract basis. 
Rationale
Using an independent third party we annually 
survey around 100 of our largest projects  
to help us understand our performance and 
what we need to be doing to continuously 
improve. We also gather qualitative feedback 
through structured interviews. 
Performance this year
Of those surveyed, 85% told us that QinetiQ 
is performing as a ‘top three’ supplier, up 
from 77% last year. We are moving in the 
right direction.
Link to strategy
Developing relationships with our customers 
that are built on mutual trust is a key 
strategic priority. 
2015 performance
5.6
Calculated on the lost time  
incident rate (LTIR)
Description
The LTIR is calculated using the total number 
of accidents resulting in at least one day taken 
off work, multiplied by 1,000 divided by the 
average number of employees in that year. 
 
 
 
Rationale
Health and safety performance is monitored 
to drive continual improvement in minimising 
risks to employees and reducing harm. 
 
 
 
Performance this year
The LTIR has decreased slightly from previous 
year . The absolute number of lost time incidents, 
resulting in at least one day off work, is broadly 
similar to last year.
Link to strategy
The safety, health and wellbeing of our people 
are intrinsically linked to our strategic success.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
The objective of our Organic-Plus strategy 
is to deliver growing sustainable earnings 
by optimising our portfolio. Progress is 
measured through a range of financial and 
non-financial key performance indicators. 
Measurements of health and safety, 
customer satisfaction and employee 
engagement underpin sustainability. 
Measures such as order intake, organic 
revenue growth, profitability and cash  
flow track financial performance.
Similar indicators are used to review 
performance in each of the Group’s 
businesses.
P24 Responsible business
Continuing operations
All KPIs have been restated to reflect  
the continuing operations only.  
P24 Responsible business P72 Directors’ remuneration report
20
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Key performance indicators 2013
575
2014
593
2015
613
Employee engagement
(Score out of 1,000)
2013
3.3
2014
4.8
2015
5.9
Apprentices and graduates
(%)
2013
9.4
2014
9.1
2015
8.9
Voluntary employee turnover
(%)
2015 performance
613
Scale of 0–1,000 based on Best  
Companies Employee Survey
Description
A measure of employee engagement  
(in the UK) on a scale of 0–1,000, based  
on the Best Companies Employee Survey. 
Through this survey, employees share  
their views about working at QinetiQ under 
the headings of management, leadership, 
company, personal growth, my team, giving 
something back, fair deal and wellbeing.
Rationale
The annual survey enables comparison 
between QinetiQ and other UK companies.  
 
 
 
 
Performance this year
We have again seen an improvement in our 
overall engagement score, taking us into the 
Best Companies ‘ones to watch’ category. 
Link to strategy
QinetiQ seeks to develop, engage and 
empower highly skilled employees who  
are passionate about customer service 
excellence, innovation and responsible 
business practice.
2015 performance
5.9%
Total percentage  
of our UK workforce
Description
The number shown is the total number of 
apprentices and graduates as a percentage  
of our UK workforce. 
 
 
 
 
Rationale
Provides a measure of QinetiQ’s ability to 
attract and develop new employees. It is also 
a measure of our commitment to The 5% 
Club, an industry-led initiative to grow the 
number of young people on apprenticeships 
and graduate programmes. 
Performance this year
We have increased the percentage of our  
UK workforce who are on apprenticeships  
or graduate programmes to 5.9%, meeting 
the target we set last year. 
Link to strategy
To deliver outstanding value for our stakeholders 
we need to source People Who Know How 
today and develop the pipeline for tomorrow. 
QinetiQ is seeking to inspire a new generation 
of engineers and scientists.
2015 performance
8.9%
Employees leaving not  
at QinetiQ’s instigation
Description
This is a measure of the number of 
employees leaving the Company not  
at QinetiQ’s instigation. 
 
 
 
 
Rationale
Provides a measure of the Group’s ability  
to retain employees. 
 
 
 
 
Performance this year
The trend of a reduction in voluntary 
employee turnover has continued this year, 
falling to 8.9%.  
Link to strategy
Our employees are our principal source of 
competitive advantage, directly impacting 
our ability to win and retain business.  
As such, QinetiQ’s future success lies  
in its ability to create opportunities for  
our people to flourish and grow.
P24 Responsible business P72 Directors’ remuneration report
21
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2013
626.1
2014
596.9
2015
613.6
Orders
(£m)
2013
(9)
2014
(4)
2015
(2)
Organic revenue growth/decline
(%)
2013
145.0
2014
113.7
2015
111.3
Underlying operating profit*
(£m)
Financial KPIs – continuing operations unless stated
2015 performance
(2)%
Organic decline in revenue
Description
The Group’s organic revenue growth  
is calculated by taking the increase in  
revenue over prior year pro-forma revenue,  
at constant exchange rates. Prior year 
pro-forma revenue excludes the impact  
of acquisitions and disposals.
Rationale
Organic revenue growth demonstrates  
the Group’s capability to expand its 
operations within its chosen markets  
before the effect of acquisitions,  
disposals and currency translation. 
Performance this year
Continuing operations in total recorded a 
2% decline in revenue at constant currency. 
At a divisional level a 21% decline in 
Global Products masked a 3% growth 
in EMEA Services. 
 
Link to strategy
Organic revenue growth reflects the  
Group’s ability to work in partnership  
with our customers to understand and  
help meet their challenges. 
*  Definitions of underlying measures of performance and specific adjusting items can be found in the glossary on page 141.
2015 performance
£613.6m
Value of orders booked in the year
Description
The level of new orders (and amendments  
to existing orders) booked in the year. 
 
 
 
Rationale
This provides a measure of the Group’s ability 
to replace completed contracts/business 
with new contracts/business. 
 
 
Performance this year
This year reflects a return to growth in orders 
for the continuing business.  
 
 
 
 
Link to strategy
The level of orders reflects the Group’s  
ability to listen to, and help shape the needs 
of, our customers.
2015 performance
£111.3m
Description
The earnings before interest and tax, 
excluding all specific adjusting items*. 
 
 
 
Rationale
Underlying operating profit is used by the 
Group for performance analysis as a measure 
of operating profitability that is tracked over 
time. Specific adjusting items are excluded 
because their size and nature mask the true 
underlying performance year on year.
Performance this year
Underlying operating profit declined by 2% in 
the year. At a divisional level a 32% reduction 
in Global Products offset a 7% increase in 
EMEA Services.  
 
 
Link to strategy
This measure is a reflection of the 
productivity of the Group’s activities and  
is used for executive remuneration. 
P72 Directors’ remuneration report
22
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Key performance indicators continued 2013
16.6
2014
13.8
2015
15.2
Underlying earnings per share (EPS)*
(p)
2013
(133.2)
2014
(12.7)
2015
104.7
Total Group profit after tax
(£m)
2013
129.8
2014
106.2
2015
114.9
Underlying operating cash flow*
(£m)
2015 performance
15.2p
Per share
Description
The underlying earnings, net of interest and 
tax, expressed in pence per share. 
 
 
 
Rationale
Underlying EPS provides a measure of the 
earnings generated by the Group after 
deducting tax and interest. Specific adjusting 
items are excluded because their size and 
nature mask the true underlying 
performance year on year.
Performance this year
Underlying EPS grew by 10%. A marginal 
decline in underlying operating profit was 
more than offset by a reduction in net 
finance expense (following repayment  
of private placement debt), a marginal 
reduction in the tax rate and a lower  
number of shares in issue. 
Link to strategy
This is used for executive remuneration, 
determining the level of pay-out for certain 
of the Group’s long-term incentive plans. 
*  Definitions of underlying measures of performance and specific adjusting items can be found in the glossary on page 141.
2015 performance
£104.7m
Description
This is the total Group profit/(loss),  
net of interest and tax, including all  
specific adjusting items and including 
discontinued items*. 
 
Rationale
This shows the overall financial performance 
of the Group reflecting both underlying and 
specific adjusting items of income and 
expenditure. A key financial measure used 
to reflect overall financial performance for 
the year.
Performance this year
The significant step up in the total Group 
profit after tax primarily results from the 
absence of impairment charges in the year  
as the prior years both contained significant 
impairments of goodwill.  
 
Link to strategy
This is a key financial measure of overall 
financial performance for the year. 
2015 performance
£114.9m
Description
This represents net cash flow from 
operations before cash flows of specific 
adjusting items, less net cash outflows  
on the purchase/sale of intangible assets  
and property, plant and equipment. 
Rationale
This provides a measure of the Group’s ability 
to generate cash from its operations and 
gives an indication of its ability to service its 
debt, make discretionary investments and 
pay dividends to shareholders. 
Performance this year
Underlying operating cash flow increased 
from the prior year and represents a cash 
conversion of more than 100%. 
 
 
Link to strategy
This is a measure of the cash-generative 
characteristics of the Group and is a measure 
used for executive remuneration. 
P72 Directors’ remuneration report P105 Note 4 – Specific adjusting items P72 Directors’ remuneration report
23
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Making a positive impact
• CBI Award for The 5% Club
• Green Apple Award for Energy  
Matters programme
• Successful pilot of the Safe for  
Life programme
• Improved Employee Engagement 
Survey score
Key highlights
Engaging with our stakeholders 
Our Corporate Responsibility strategy reflects the material issues for our business 
– defined by our overall business strategy and taking into account stakeholder 
priorities. We ensure that we understand these priorities through regular dialogue 
such as investor meetings, involvement in the MOD-Industry Sustainable Procurement 
Working Group and our employee engagement programmes. We have introduced 
a corporate responsibility network with representatives from across the business 
to raise awareness of programmes and plans. We are actively engaged with 
industry through the Defence Growth Partnership and trade body working groups 
on topics such as skills, environment and ethics. 
Managing our approach to responsible business
Governance
Successful delivery of responsible business practice is driven by strong leadership 
and governance and we have Board and executive level commitment to corporate 
responsibility through the Group Risk & CSR Committee.
  P70 – Report of the Risk & CSR Committee
The Committee receives reports and briefings on all material corporate 
responsibility issues including business ethics, health and safety, environment, 
reputational risk and human rights for its regular meetings. In QNA the Proxy  
Board oversees these activities, obtaining independent assurance on the adequacy 
of its compliance programmes on an ongoing basis. QinetiQ’s commercial success 
is influenced by our ability to conduct business in overseas territories, transacting 
with foreign governments and commercial organisations in a legally compliant 
manner, controlling the international movement of certain strategic items. 
Employees are provided with annual training on export controls.
Certification
The Group’s policies and management systems underpin our corporate responsibility 
programmes. In the UK, the business assurance tool provides internal assurance and 
we have the external certification ISO 14001 for our environmental management 
system, ISO 9001 for our quality management system and OHSAS 18001 for our 
health and safety management system.  
Supplier management
While QinetiQ prides itself on having ‘The People Who Know How’ , we also draw upon 
the goods and services provided by our approved suppliers. Our suppliers range from 
other industry primes to Small and Medium sized Enterprises (SMEs), meaning that 
QinetiQ contracts and collaborates with a wide variety of industry partners, and 
ensuring that our customers receive the best available solutions in the marketplace. 
Our robust procurement and supplier risk management processes ensure that we 
work openly and ethically, in the best interest of our customers.
QinetiQ’s corporate 
responsibility priorities
Our priorities can be summarised across  
four themes, which we believe ensures that 
we meet our stakeholders’ expectations  
and contribute to our future success.
Business ethics
To be a responsible and  
sustainable business 
Responsibility to our people
To attract, engage and  
develop the best people 
Community investment
To make a positive contribution  
to the community
Environmental stewardship
To be an excellent  
environmental steward
  P28
  P29
  P25
  P26
24
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Responsible business
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Business ethics
Corporate responsibility in action
STEM Outreach: Inspiring 
the next generation
Our Malvern site welcomed more than 
90 children from four schools to a special 
STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Maths) event. With competitive activities 
such as creating autonomous Lego robots, 
programming airlocks, behavioural modelling 
and building Android apps alongside live 
The 5% Club: Investing  
in a generation
In September 2014, The 5% Club won the  
CBI Special Award for ‘Outstanding Business  
Led Campaign’. The award was presented  
to The 5% Club Campaign Director, QinetiQ’s  
Dr Sam Healy, who said:
In December 2014 we updated the QinetiQ 
Group Code of Conduct, including a new 
section on ethical decision-making. The Code 
lays out our ethical standards, providing 
employees with clear direction and guidance 
on how we do business across the Group. 
Employees are encouraged to talk to a 
manager if they have a concern and are 
provided with contact details for our ethics 
email advice services and our independently 
run, 24/7 confidential reporting line. 
Employees are supported in understanding 
and using the Code of Conduct through our 
annual business ethics training, which is a 
mandatory requirement for all employees.  
It is also undertaken by our Board and is 
available for our contractors and customers 
as well. In addition to explaining the Code  
of Conduct, the training provides a number 
of challenging scenarios to help employees 
know what to do if they were to come across 
issues such as bribery, fraud, discrimination 
and conflict of interest. We have also 
communicated with managers to remind 
them of the need to act if employees come 
to them with issues. We have provided help 
and advice in response to all queries received 
via our ethics email advice services and all 
communication through the whistleblowing 
line is appropriately investigated.
Anti-bribery and corruption
We have a zero-tolerance approach to 
bribery and corruption and have put in  
place a range of governance measures.  
Anti-bribery risk management is embedded 
in our business processes; we have a process 
for undertaking due diligence, monitoring 
and auditing of our use of commercial 
intermediaries, and we use expert third-
party providers of due diligence where 
appropriate. We provide more in-depth 
anti-bribery training for those in higher 
risk roles, for example those who carry  
out overseas business. Our anti-bribery 
programmes are overseen by our Chief  
Ethics Officers, who are senior executives.
Human rights
QinetiQ recognises that the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights  
set a standard of conduct expected of 
companies. We seek to anticipate, prevent 
and mitigate potential negative human  
rights impacts through our policy and 
process, and through our Code of Conduct 
and business ethics training for employees, 
all of which underpin our commitment to 
responsible business conduct. QinetiQ has 
policies in place, among others, to support 
adherence to export controls, health and 
safety, non-discrimination, anti-bribery and 
environmental laws and guidance. This is 
further supported by our procedures on 
product safety, sustainable procurement, 
due diligence and risk management. We 
monitor the application of these policies and 
procedures through our business assurance 
processes. We believe that this embedded 
approach is effective. We have recently 
implemented a more structured approach  
to understanding human rights risk within 
our international business risk management 
process. We have also been working to 
improve our approach to human rights  
risk in the supply chain.
“Aiming to tackle the dual issues of youth 
unemployment and skills shortages, the 
campaign encourages members to provide 
great ‘earn and learn’ opportunities for young 
people with the aim of having 5% of their 
workforce on apprenticeships or graduate 
programmes. It’s been a rewarding experience 
to work on this campaign. I’m delighted by the 
response from industry – we now have over 70 
members and I’m looking forward to working 
with even more organisations in the future.” 
demonstrations of QinetiQ technology,  
our objective is to continue inspiring the  
next generation of scientists and engineers. 
The event organiser, QinetiQ systems 
engineer and STEM ambassador Tara Francis, 
has been an outstanding volunteer in 
outreach initiatives, and was nominated  
in 2014 for a national STEMNET “Most 
Dedicated STEM Ambassador” Award.
25
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 Highlights
•  The 5% Club received the CBI Award for 
Outstanding Business Led Campaign
• Increased employee engagement
• Successful pilot of Safe for Life
2016 Priorities
•  Introduce a UK Safety Culture Climate 
Survey score
•  Continuing reduction in Lost Time 
Incident Rate
• Increase employee engagement
•  Continued commitment to The 5% Club
Safety, health and wellbeing
QinetiQ puts the safety, health and wellbeing 
of its people at the heart of operations and 
safety, health and wellbeing underpin our 
strategic goals. We continue to focus on 
reducing accidents and work-related ill health 
as part of our continuous improvement activity. 
Last year we decided to move away from a 
focus on the UK RIDDOR (Reporting of Injuries, 
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 
2013) to overall Lost Time Incident (LTI) Rate, 
which provides a more internationally relevant 
lagging indicator for the Group. LTI Rate  
is highly dependent on the number of 
employees (calculated as the number of lost 
time incidents, where the employee is away 
from work for one or more days, times 1,000 
divided by the total number of employees). 
The headcount in the North American 
business reduced significantly with the 
divestment of US Services. Therefore the  
LTI Rate of prior years has been restated to 
exclude the US Services business. On this 
restated basis the LTI Rate has reduced  
slightly from 5.8 to 5.6. 
Lost Time Incident Rate 2015 2014 2013
QinetiQ Group  
(Excluding US Global 
Products) 5.0 5.0 5.3 
US Global Products 17.8 17.8 17.6
Total 5.6 5.8 6.3
Adjusted in prior years to exclude US Services business.
Last year we recognised a weakness in lagging 
Responsibility to our people 
indicators and, coupled with the desire to 
improve safety, we introduced ‘Safe for Life’ 
into our UK Weapons business. ‘Safe for Life’ 
focuses on behavioural safety including safety 
leadership, human factors, error management 
and everyday behaviours of our people.  
The programme is underpinned by a Safety 
Culture Climate Survey and is supported by 
local champions. The pilot programme will 
complete with another Safety Culture Climate 
Survey in the first half of 2016. Whilst it is too 
early to identify changes in the safety climate, 
safety theory would suggest that where safety 
culture is working well there will be ongoing 
reduction in significant incidents accompanied 
by an increase in the reporting of safety related 
behaviours and hazards. Encouragingly the 
significant incident rate has halved from 2.7  
to 1.3 (per 1,000 employees) and the reporting 
of safety related behaviours and hazards has 
significantly increased. 
There were no prosecutions, prohibition 
notices or improvement notices issued by 
regulators in the UK in 2015.
We continue to develop our health and 
wellbeing programmes. The UK Wellbeing 
programme and QinetiQ Benefits+ scheme  
in the UK are offering more services, with 
increasing uptake by employees. Free flu jabs 
and health assessments (measuring BMI, blood 
pressure and cholesterol) continue to be 
popular. A new area of focus in the coming year 
will be improving the inclusion of employees 
who have underlying health conditions by 
providing an expert support network.
Safety of products 
Our most prized possession is trust; 
delivering products and services safely  
is essential to our commitment to  
customers. We have created distinct lines  
of responsibility for both ensuring and 
assuring product safety and compliance,  
with competent individuals holding formally 
delegated responsibilities. In the UK, 
technical assurance and independent  
design review have been fully integrated into 
our product and engineering lifecycles.  
We continue to invest in attracting and 
developing engineers and scientists with 
specialist safety expertise and competence. 
Improvements continue to be driven by our 
Engineering, Science and Technical leadership 
team, supported by independent review and 
audit. We actively support collaborative 
working with the MOD and other industry 
organisations, including professional 
institutions, in order to develop and 
implement best practice safety standards.
Employee engagement
We regularly communicate with employees 
to ensure they understand QinetiQ strategy and 
business priorities. Company performance  
is shared to ensure our employees are aware  
of what the results mean to our business,  
how we have made progress against our 
strategic direction and the market challenges 
we face. We do this through a wide range of 
communications channels, e.g. the intranet, 
roadshows and townhalls.
Our UK Employee Engagement Group (EEG)  
is an independent consultative forum which 
covers almost 85% of the Group workforce. 
Representatives, elected by employees, share 
views with leadership teams at local, divisional 
and executive level; so everyone gets to have 
their say. The EEG listens, gathers feedback and 
represents employees through times of change; 
whether it’s a local or Company-wide issue.  
The representatives are the employee voice to 
constructively challenge policy decisions and 
actions that have an effect on employees’ 
working lives or wellbeing. 
The annual independent Employee Engagement 
Survey is one of the key tools used to gain 
feedback from our employees. Following the 
divestment of US Services, the survey now 
covers over 90% of employees (it excludes US 
Global Products). The response rate in 2015 
was 73%, which is high in comparison to 
industry norms, and we scored 613, up from 
593, which places us in Best Companies  
‘Ones to watch’ category. The leadership 
teams develop specific action plans to 
address areas identified for improvement, 
e.g. collaboration between teams. 
Learning and development
Our people are critical to the delivery of 
excellent service to our customers and  
we have a highly qualified, experienced  
26
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Responsible business continued Responsibility to our people 
and stable workforce. We have a continued 
focus on attracting, developing, supporting 
and retaining our people, which creates the 
foundation for our future growth. We have 
established an Engineering, Science and 
Technical community to create a supportive 
and collaborative environment for our 
technical people and we have appointed  
six new Fellows, who are recognised by 
QinetiQ customers and peers for their 
expertise and excellence in their field.
In 2016 we will be launching the QinetiQ 
Academy, which will underpin our continued 
focus on delivering excellent training and 
development. It will support our people in  
the competencies they need to deliver their 
roles today, but also ensure they have the 
skills and succession opportunities for the 
future. By developing leadership programmes  
to enhance the skills and knowledge of our 
current senior team, and growing our next 
leaders through our talent pool, QinetiQ is 
well placed to respond to change and look  
to new horizons. 
The 5% Club – Investing in a Generation
The 5% Club, spearheaded by QinetiQ,  
has gone from strength to strength, with 
membership at 72 (at 31 March 2015) and 
including large and small companies from  
a range of sectors and recently the MOD.  
The 5% Club involves formalising what an 
organisation does in terms of apprentice and 
graduate programmes and making the public 
commitment that these will comprise 5%  
of the UK workforce within the next five 
years. By encouraging employers to offer 
great ‘earn and learn’ opportunities for 
young people, we see this as a key step  
in developing the future skills, knowledge 
and experience needed across the UK. 
The 5% Club 2015 2014
Number of apprentices 208 121
Number on  
graduate programmes 102 106
Number of  
sponsored students 8 17
Percentage of UK workforce 5.9% 4.8%
Given QinetiQ’s commitment to the 
development of the next generation, we  
have reviewed our UK Graduate Scheme  
and will be improving the overall experience. 
Graduates will be given opportunities outside 
their main specialism, with the ability to grow 
their career with us across a much wider career 
remit. We are refreshing ‘Cortex’ , which provides 
a practical and friendly support network for 
those at the start of their careers. Recognising 
the difference in the attraction and support 
needed to continue to achieve our objectives 
with The 5% Club, we have separated out the 
Early Careers Team into a specialist Centre of 
Excellence within HR. This team continues to 
look at new and innovative ways to engage  
with schools, colleges, universities and other 
establishments to attract talented people.
A team of QinetiQ apprentices reached  
the final of the Brathay Apprentice  
Challenge 2014, a six-month competition  
that saw them come in second place and 
raise £2,300 for charity. Supported by the 
National Apprenticeship Service, the 
Challenge tests non-technical work skills  
and the personal attributes of competing 
apprentices. The eight finalist teams were 
selected from over 110 teams and 1,000 
apprentices who entered the competition.
The QinetiQ Brathay challenge team, 2014.
Diversity and inclusion
Inclusion of all employees is a key objective. 
The US Global Products business has a 
number of alliance partners that assist in  
all aspects of inclusion. In the UK, we are 
working with the Employers Network for 
Equality and Inclusion and, using tools they 
have developed, we have undertaken a gap 
analysis to evaluate areas for improvement  
in our approach to diversity and inclusion. 
This will form the baseline to measure 
improvement. With the Global Working 
Centre of Excellence being set up to look  
at issues related to the increased activity 
across the global market, they will also give 
consideration to diversity and inclusion 
issues across the territories and regions  
in which we work.
The breakdown of the number of employees 
by gender at the end of March 2015 is shown 
in the table below. 
Level Female Male
Board Directors 1 8
Senior managers 33 279
All employees 1,236 5,014
27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
QinetiQ is committed to being a good 
neighbour in the communities in which  
we operate. We believe it’s the right thing  
to do and it is valued by our employees.  
The ‘giving something back’ section in  
our employee survey allows employees  
to express their opinions on our  
community programmes.
One way in which employees contribute to 
being a good neighbour is by volunteering 
their time and professional skills. Our UK 
Employee Volunteering Scheme has been 
running since 2011 and provides employees 
with time and access to a bursary. A similar 
programme has been launched this year  
in Australia, called ‘Operation Give Back’, 
where employees volunteer as individuals  
or in teams for one day a year. 
Our flagship initiative is our STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering & Maths) outreach 
programme with the aim of inspiring the  
next generation of scientists and engineers. 
We value our relationships with organisations 
such as STEMNET, the Arkwright Scholarship 
Trust and the SmallPeice Trust in the UK and 
various robotics education programmes in 
the US. Our UK STEM Ambassadors have 
organised STEM outreach events for school 
children such as the annual Powerboat 
Challenge and have hosted the UK Cyber 
Security Challenge. QinetiQ Australia has 
provided its Paramarine Ship and Submersible 
Design Software to students of Australian 
schools participating in the Future Submarine 
Technology Challenge (SUBS in Schools) in 
association with the Re-Engineering Australia 
Foundation Ltd. QinetiQ’s Space business  
in Belgium participates in STEM outreach 
programmes such as Technoteens. 
QinetiQ is a signatory of the ‘Your Life’ campaign, 
and our priorities are to encourage employees 
to take part in STEM outreach programmes, 
and ensure that we are reaching more girls. 
Our non-STEM employees also use their 
2015 Highlights
• Several successful flagship STEM 
outreach events including Schools 
Powerboat Challenge
• Second year of awarding the Volunteer 
of the Year award
• Employee Engagement Survey score 
‘giving something back’ increased
2016 Priorities
•  Continue to increase employee 
volunteering participation and reaching 
more girls as part of the Your Life 
campaign pledge
Community investment
professional skills in the communities where 
we operate through programmes such as 
Young Enterprise and they offer mentoring 
through the Social Mobility Foundation. 
Last year we created a new Volunteer  
of the Year award, which recognised the 
achievement of an employee who has made 
an outstanding contribution by volunteering 
in the community. Last year’s award was won 
by Dr Ruth Tunnell for her mentoring through 
the Social Mobility Foundation. 
QinetiQ in the UK continues to support three 
corporate charities voted for by employees 
(Cancer Research UK, Help for Heroes and 
RNLI) by providing matched funding for any 
employee fundraising activities. A sponsorship 
and donations committee reviews charity 
requests and a small number of additional 
donations to local charities are made on a 
case by case basis where there is an alignment 
to our strategy. Employees can also choose  
to give to their chosen charity pre-tax through 
payroll giving. In the US, employees focus  
on supporting wounded military and their 
families by contributions to a range of 
specialist organisations. In Belgium they 
continue to support a community investment 
project at a school in Baladharshan, India.
QinetiQ employees climbed Helvellyn mountain via Striding Edge  
for Cancer Research UK. Together they raised over £3,000.
28
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Responsible business continued  
2015 Highlights
• Green Apple Award for Energy  
Matters programme
• Good progress against energy  
reduction target
2016 Priorities
• Improve asset re-use and waste recycling 
• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions due  
to UK energy use by 17% by 2020 from 
the 2013 baseline
Environmental stewardship
QinetiQ’s environmental management system 
(EMS) is geared to the unique challenges of 
delivering a compliant, sustainable and ever 
improving workplace against the background 
of MOD and technology based trials, often 
within environmentally sensitive areas. Our 
UK EMS, certified to ISO 14001, is supported 
through the collaboration of the business, 
site and functional teams, with specialist 
support from our regional Environmental 
Advisors. The use of sustainability appraisals, 
in trial and project planning, enables early 
identification of potential hazards/impacts 
and determination of suitable and sufficient 
mitigation measures. In addition, our 
monitoring processes have been further 
strengthened, during 2015, via structured 
Evaluation of Compliance formats and 
processes, feeding a site status EMS matrix.
UK waste management
Total waste levels in FY15 were lower than in 
the previous year with 5,001 tonnes (including 
313 tonnes of hazardous waste) compared  
to 5,514 tonnes (including 112 tonnes of 
hazardous waste) in FY14. However we 
missed our challenging objective to have less 
than 10% waste go to landfill. We achieved 
13%, principally due to the need to review 
and re-balance segregation and collection 
arrangements following footprint and waste 
service changes. There was, however, a slight 
increase in recycling, reaching 76% (up from 
74% in FY14). Enhanced re-use of assets and 
segregation/recycling of waste will continue 
to be our focus during FY16.
Greenhouse gas emissions and  
energy management
We are making good progress on UK energy 
reduction via our Energy Matters programme. 
Energy Matters brings together a focused 
campaign element, promoting involvement 
and the contribution that can be made at  
all levels within the organisation, with a 
structured network of Energy Champions  
and Energy Engineers to identify and manage 
significant consumption reduction projects 
and maintenance. During 2015, we received  
a Green Apple Award for the Energy Matters 
initiative. Our UK electricity usage was 7% 
lower than last year and oil use reduced  
by 5%, however there was a 2% increase  
in our use of gas. 
We continue to submit voluntarily to the  
CDP Climate Change Programme and are 
registered for the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment (CRC) scheme. During 2016,  
we will be seeking accreditation to the  
ISO 50001 Energy Management standard,  
as part of our ongoing commitment to driving 
and demonstrating improvement across the 
footprint and to meet the requirements  
of ESOS (the Energy Savings Opportunity 
Scheme). We continue to capture and report 
our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across 
the Group to reflect the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic report and 
Directors’ report) Regulations 2013. 
Environmental stewardship
The GHG emissions statement below provides 
a summary of the Group’s emissions from  
1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015, giving a 
summary of Scope 1 (fuel combustion  
and operation of facilities) and Scope 2 
(purchased electricity) emissions and an 
intensity ratio (per £m of revenue). We have 
adopted a financial control approach and  
have used the UK Government’s Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2014 and 
Defra reporting guidance (October 2013).
The figures below reflect a number of 
changes in our business, including the 
divestment of US Services, some acquisitions, 
and some improvements in data capture.
Group GHG emissions
Year 
ended  
31 March 
2015
Year 
ended  
31 March 
2014
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 26,534 27,590
Total Scope 2 emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 39,668 38,371
Total Scope 1 and 2  
emissions (tCO
2
e) 66,202 65,960
Intensity ratio  
(tCO
2
e per £m of revenue) 87 55
Conservation
Our partnership with Marwell Wildlife,  
for the management of the Eelmoor Marsh 
Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI),  
at our Head Office in Farnborough, goes  
from strength to strength, ensuring ongoing 
‘favourable condition’ status. During FY15, 
we enhanced communications to our 
employees and introduced some guided 
tours of the area, with significant positive 
feedback; an initiative we are keen to repeat 
during FY16. Many of our sites and those  
we manage on behalf of the MOD contain 
designated conservation areas and our 
sustainability appraisal process plays an 
important part in addressing any potential 
issues as we deliver our test, evaluation and 
training support services.
Director of facilities management and Energy manager, 
receiving the Green Apple Award for the Energy  
Matters Initiative. 
29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Establishing the context
Monitor and review
Risk treatment
Risk assessment
Risk analysis 
Communication and consultation
Risk evaluation
Risk identification
Understanding and  
managing our risks
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 
Risk & CSR Committee Chairman
The Board recognises that QinetiQ operates in varied business 
environments and that risk management must reflect both the need 
to take risk and to avoid harm. Board level oversight is discharged 
through two committees, the Audit Committee, which focuses on 
risks where the primary impact is financial, and the Risk & CSR 
Committee, which focuses on risks where the primary impact is 
non-financial; both committees retain visibility of both the financial 
and non-financial risks. 
The Board agrees and reviews its tolerance of risk through 
establishing a clear risk appetite and setting appropriate delegations  
of authority to the executive and senior leaders. The Board’s risk 
appetite is set to provide boundaries and guidance to support 
executives and senior leaders in their decision-making and allow 
operational flexibility. Local decision-making is supported within 
defined delegation of authority and the Board requires all employees 
to abide by relevant legal requirements as a minimum.
Managing risk
30
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Risk management Risks relating 
to strategy:
 Defence and security spending
 Complex market characteristics 
and contract profile
 Trading in a global market
 Emerging and reputational risk
 US foreign ownership 
regulations
Risks relating 
to people:
 Recruitment and retention
 Breaches of security and IT systems failure
 Significant breach of relevant
laws and regulations
Risks relating to financial
management and markets:
 Defined benefit pension obligations
 Tax legislation
 Exchange rates
 Inflation, credit and interest rates
1 2 3
Our areas of risk
Risk appetite within QinetiQ focuses on those critical risk areas 
necessary to achieve our strategic goals. Three categories of appetite 
are defined as follows:
• Hungry: Willing to consider all delivery options and eager to  
be innovative and to choose options offering potentially higher 
business rewards, with a mature understanding of inherent risk
• Balanced: Preference for delivery options that have a low or 
moderate degree of residual risk and where successful delivery 
also provides an acceptable level of reward and value for money
• Cautious: Avoidance of risk and uncertainty is the key objective, 
a greater level of control and mitigation may be required. 
Significantly greater returns expected for commercial 
opportunities to offset risk
Within the context of the core, ‘Explore’ and ‘Test for Value’ strategy, 
the Board’s commercial appetite is:
• Hungry for opportunities relating to increased market  
share where we have proven delivery, existing and potential  
new customers
• Balanced for opportunities that translate proven delivery into 
new markets or new capability/delivery into existing customers 
or that commit QinetiQ to unlimited or excessive liabilities
• Cautious for opportunities that involve new capability or 
delivery into new markets and any opportunity into a new 
country outside the US and UK
The Board agrees and reviews its tolerance of risk through appropriate 
delegations of authority to the executive and senior leaders.
The management of risk is key to ensuring QinetiQ is successful  
in delivering its objectives, whilst protecting the interests of its 
stakeholders. QinetiQ’s risk management methods and processes 
provide a framework which allows:
• Risk identification: identification of risks and opportunities 
relevant to the Group’s objectives 
• Risk analysis: assessment of risks in terms of likelihood  
and impact
• Risk evaluation: determine and prioritise which risks  
need treatment 
• Risk treatment: appropriate management strategies put in place
• Monitor and review: monitoring and oversight of risk management
The Group Risk Register consists of material risks relating to effective 
delivery of our strategy. These risks may emerge as standalone  
risks or be present through the aggregation or interlinking of risks. 
Our reputation is a highly valuable asset and reputational impact  
is considered as a factor in assessing overall risk impact. The Group 
Risk Register is reviewed by the executive and the Board. In addition, 
the risk owners present an update of current status and mitigating 
actions by rotation throughout the year. 
31
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Key risk Associated  
strategic  
priority
Description and impact Likelihood/Impact Mitigation Associated  
KPIs
Responsibility Risk 
appetite
Defence  
and security 
spending
Customers
•  The Group’s revenue is predominantly derived from government customers in  
the defence and security sector. 70% of the Group’s revenue comes directly from 
contracts with the UK Government and 7% comes directly from contracts with  
the US Government. 
•  Any reduction in government defence and security spending in either the UK  
or the US could have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial performance.
•  The financial burden on both UK and US Government budgets from the current 
economic downturn may lead to reduced spending in the markets in which the  
Group operates.
•  This could be exacerbated by the Comprehensive Spending Review (CSR) as well as 
the next Strategic Defence and Security Review (SDSR) expected to follow the 2015 
General Election. The SDSR is expected to take place in the next 12 months. The total 
amount, and subdivision of, UK defence spending post SDSR may be different to the 
current budget. The Group’s main contracts are exposed to spend on Test & Evaluation 
and Research & Technology, both of which are expected to be studied in the SDSR. 
•  The Group’s US products business (approximately £60m annual revenue) has been 
largely funded through overseas contingency budgets which are expected to decline 
as the US withdraws from Afghanistan. 
Medium/High •  The Group services the UK defence domains of Air, Land, Maritime and Joint Forces  
as well as adjacent sectors. This provides a degree of portfolio diversification.  
The Group will continue to monitor expenditure changes in its traditional markets  
and will adjust business activities where appropriate.
•  The MOD has made considerable progress in balancing its equipment budget. 
In defence research, where QinetiQ is the private sector market leader, spending 
was stabilising at about £400m p.a. due to the 1.2% floor on R&T spend (pre SDSR).
•  QinetiQ monitors and responds to potential opportunities arising from the MOD’s 
actions to deliver improved value for money by making proactive proposals that 
deliver the desired outcome.
•  QinetiQ expects that the SDSR process will enable consultation between Government 
and industry to ensure UK defence priorities are properly considered.
•  Further investment in the pursuit of international opportunities assists in the 
diversification away from the dependency on UK and US Government spending.
•  US products (such as unmanned systems) are targeted to be funded through Programs  
of Record (i.e. in the US Base budget) in approx 2017 .
•  C u s t o m e r 
satisfaction
•  B u s i n e s s  
Development  
Director 
•  St r a t e g i c  
Business 
Director  
– Defence
Hungry
Complex 
market 
characteristics 
and contract 
profile
Customers
•  The aerospace, defence and security markets are highly competitive. The Group’s 
performance may be adversely affected should it not be able to compete in the 
markets in which it aims to operate.
•  Following the Currie Review, the Defence Reform Act and the Single Source 
Regulations are now in place. The Single Source Regulations Office (SSRO) is 
established with a Chairman and Board appointed. The ‘Yellow Book’, a legally  
binding framework, has been replaced by the ‘Orange Book’ for how single sourced 
work must be contracted to ensure that a fair and reasonable price is paid for  
goods and services procured in the absence of competition.
•  This could have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial performance.  
The ‘Baseline Profit Rate’ for single sourced work has been set at 10.6% for 2016  
(2015: 10.7%) This percentage is reviewed annually. The new regulations apply  
to new single source contracts over £5m in value from April 2015. Approximately  
33% of EMEA Services revenue is derived from single sourced work, excluding the 
non-tasking element of the LTPA contract. 
•  The ongoing ‘transformation’ of the UK MOD’s Defence Equipment and Support 
(DE&S) organisation has now adopted a model of ‘bespoke trading entity’ rather  
than Government-Owned Contractor-Operated, which was the intended model.  
DE&S has hired ‘Managed Service Providers’ (MSPs), companies to help drive the 
transformation programme to improve programme delivery and implement new 
systems and processes as it looks to reduce costs.
•  Some of the Group’s revenue is derived from contracts that have a fixed price.  
There is a risk that the costs required for the delivery of a contract could be  
higher than those agreed in the contract as a result of the performance of new  
or developed products, operational over-runs or external factors. Any significant 
increase in costs which cannot be passed on to a customer may reduce the 
profitability of a contract or even result in a contract becoming loss making.
•  Many of the Group’s contracts have terms, not unusual in defence, that provide  
for unlimited liabilities for the Group, or termination rights for the customer,  
often without cause.
•  The timing of orders receipts could have a material impact on the Group’s 
performance in a given reporting period as the amounts payable under some 
government contracts can be significant. 
Medium/High •   QinetiQ seeks to focus on areas within these markets in which its deep customer 
understanding, domain knowledge, technical expertise and platform independence 
provide a strong proposition and a significant advantage in competitive bidding.
•  QinetiQ and defence industry partners have been fully engaged with the MOD in  
the development of the new ‘Orange Book’ framework and its practical application. 
QinetiQ and defence industry partners have been consulted by the SSRO on the 
draft Statutory Guidance, due to be published early in 2015. 
•  The contracts and orders pipeline is regularly reviewed by senior operational management.
•  The nature of many of the services provided under fixed-price arrangements is often  
for a defined amount of effort or resource rather than firm deliverables and, as a 
result, mitigates the risk of costs escalating. The Group ensures that its fixed-price 
bids and projects are reviewed for early detection and management of issues which 
may result in cost over-run or excessive delivery risk.
•  C u s t o m e r 
satisfaction
•  B u s i n e s s 
Development 
Director
•  St r a t e g i c 
Business 
Director 
– Defence
Balanced
Understanding and
managing our risks
32
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Principal risks and uncertainties  Key risk Associated  
strategic  
priority
Description and impact Likelihood/Impact Mitigation Associated  
KPIs
Responsibility Risk 
appetite
Defence  
and security 
spending
Customers
•  The Group’s revenue is predominantly derived from government customers in  
the defence and security sector. 70% of the Group’s revenue comes directly from 
contracts with the UK Government and 7% comes directly from contracts with  
the US Government. 
•  Any reduction in government defence and security spending in either the UK  
or the US could have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial performance.
•  The financial burden on both UK and US Government budgets from the current 
economic downturn may lead to reduced spending in the markets in which the  
Group operates.
•  This could be exacerbated by the Comprehensive Spending Review (CSR) as well as 
the next Strategic Defence and Security Review (SDSR) expected to follow the 2015 
General Election. The SDSR is expected to take place in the next 12 months. The total 
amount, and subdivision of, UK defence spending post SDSR may be different to the 
current budget. The Group’s main contracts are exposed to spend on Test & Evaluation 
and Research & Technology, both of which are expected to be studied in the SDSR. 
•  The Group’s US products business (approximately £60m annual revenue) has been 
largely funded through overseas contingency budgets which are expected to decline 
as the US withdraws from Afghanistan. 
Medium/High •  The Group services the UK defence domains of Air, Land, Maritime and Joint Forces  
as well as adjacent sectors. This provides a degree of portfolio diversification.  
The Group will continue to monitor expenditure changes in its traditional markets  
and will adjust business activities where appropriate.
•  The MOD has made considerable progress in balancing its equipment budget. 
In defence research, where QinetiQ is the private sector market leader, spending 
was stabilising at about £400m p.a. due to the 1.2% floor on R&T spend (pre SDSR).
•  QinetiQ monitors and responds to potential opportunities arising from the MOD’s 
actions to deliver improved value for money by making proactive proposals that 
deliver the desired outcome.
•  QinetiQ expects that the SDSR process will enable consultation between Government 
and industry to ensure UK defence priorities are properly considered.
•  Further investment in the pursuit of international opportunities assists in the 
diversification away from the dependency on UK and US Government spending.
•  US products (such as unmanned systems) are targeted to be funded through Programs  
of Record (i.e. in the US Base budget) in approx 2017 .
•  C u s t o m e r 
satisfaction
•  B u s i n e s s  
Development  
Director 
•  St r a t e g i c  
Business 
Director  
– Defence
Hungry
Complex 
market 
characteristics 
and contract 
profile
Customers
•  The aerospace, defence and security markets are highly competitive. The Group’s 
performance may be adversely affected should it not be able to compete in the 
markets in which it aims to operate.
•  Following the Currie Review, the Defence Reform Act and the Single Source 
Regulations are now in place. The Single Source Regulations Office (SSRO) is 
established with a Chairman and Board appointed. The ‘Yellow Book’, a legally  
binding framework, has been replaced by the ‘Orange Book’ for how single sourced 
work must be contracted to ensure that a fair and reasonable price is paid for  
goods and services procured in the absence of competition.
•  This could have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial performance.  
The ‘Baseline Profit Rate’ for single sourced work has been set at 10.6% for 2016  
(2015: 10.7%) This percentage is reviewed annually. The new regulations apply  
to new single source contracts over £5m in value from April 2015. Approximately  
33% of EMEA Services revenue is derived from single sourced work, excluding the 
non-tasking element of the LTPA contract. 
•  The ongoing ‘transformation’ of the UK MOD’s Defence Equipment and Support 
(DE&S) organisation has now adopted a model of ‘bespoke trading entity’ rather  
than Government-Owned Contractor-Operated, which was the intended model.  
DE&S has hired ‘Managed Service Providers’ (MSPs), companies to help drive the 
transformation programme to improve programme delivery and implement new 
systems and processes as it looks to reduce costs.
•  Some of the Group’s revenue is derived from contracts that have a fixed price.  
There is a risk that the costs required for the delivery of a contract could be  
higher than those agreed in the contract as a result of the performance of new  
or developed products, operational over-runs or external factors. Any significant 
increase in costs which cannot be passed on to a customer may reduce the 
profitability of a contract or even result in a contract becoming loss making.
•  Many of the Group’s contracts have terms, not unusual in defence, that provide  
for unlimited liabilities for the Group, or termination rights for the customer,  
often without cause.
•  The timing of orders receipts could have a material impact on the Group’s 
performance in a given reporting period as the amounts payable under some 
government contracts can be significant. 
Medium/High •   QinetiQ seeks to focus on areas within these markets in which its deep customer 
understanding, domain knowledge, technical expertise and platform independence 
provide a strong proposition and a significant advantage in competitive bidding.
•  QinetiQ and defence industry partners have been fully engaged with the MOD in  
the development of the new ‘Orange Book’ framework and its practical application. 
QinetiQ and defence industry partners have been consulted by the SSRO on the 
draft Statutory Guidance, due to be published early in 2015. 
•  The contracts and orders pipeline is regularly reviewed by senior operational management.
•  The nature of many of the services provided under fixed-price arrangements is often  
for a defined amount of effort or resource rather than firm deliverables and, as a 
result, mitigates the risk of costs escalating. The Group ensures that its fixed-price 
bids and projects are reviewed for early detection and management of issues which 
may result in cost over-run or excessive delivery risk.
•  C u s t o m e r 
satisfaction
•  B u s i n e s s 
Development 
Director
•  St r a t e g i c 
Business 
Director 
– Defence
Balanced
33
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Key risk Associated  
strategic  
priority
Description and impact Likelihood/Impact Mitigation Associated  
KPIs
Responsibility Risk 
appetite
Complex 
market 
characteristics 
and contract 
profile 
(continued) 
Customers
•  Organisational Conflicts of Interest (OCI) may occur where the Group provides 
services to both a defence end-user customer as well as those within the defence 
supply chain.
Medium/High •  QinetiQ takes proactive steps to manage any potential OCI and maintain its  
ability to provide independent advice. QinetiQ operates under the MOD’s generic 
formal compliance regime and applies a rigorous compliance process.
•  Where QinetiQ wishes to operate on both the advice and supply chain side  
of an opportunity we do so only after receiving approval from the MOD.
•  C u s t o m e r 
satisfaction
•  St r a t e g i c 
Business  
Director 
– Defence
Balanced
Customers
•  The Group is reliant on a limited number of major customers. A material element  
of the Group’s revenue is derived from one contract. The Long Term Partnering 
Agreement (LTPA) is a 25-year contract to provide test, evaluation, and training 
services to the MOD. The original contract was signed in 2003. The LTPA operates 
under five-year periods with specific programmes, targets and performance 
measures set for each period.
•  I n 2 01 5 the LTPA directly contributed 26% of the Group’s revenue and supported  
a further 17% through tasking services using LTPA managed facilities.
Medium/High •  In February 2013 the Group signed the LTPA for a third five-year period with the 
MOD. The next scheduled ‘re-pricing’ break point is in 2018.
•  The Group continues to achieve strong customer performance and satisfaction levels, 
and significantly exceeded the agreed minimum performance rating of 80% in 2014.
•  The Group has achieved significant cost savings for the MOD on delivered services,  
and is on track to exceed the £700m of savings originally projected to be delivered 
over the life of the contract.
•  The Group expects to engage with the MOD regarding the study of future plans for 
test and evaluation services within the SDSR.
•  C u s t o m e r 
satisfaction
• LTPA Director Hungry
Recruitment 
and retention 
Employees
•  The Group operates in many specialised engineering, technical and scientific domains. 
•  The lack of graduates in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) domains leads to future skills shortage. 
•  Key capabilities and competencies may be lost through failure to recruit and  
retain employees due to internal factors, as well as macro factors across the  
sector affecting the desirability, intake and training of engineers, scientists  
and technicians.
Low/High •  The Group conducts regular activities to identify key roles and personnel. Succession 
plans are in place looking internally at candidates ready now or in need of development 
to fill particular roles and externally to identify people QinetiQ may wish to attract.
•  QinetiQ has made improvements in employee engagement and conducts an annual 
satisfaction survey.
•  STEM outreach from primary school age through to work experience and 
graduate opportunities.
•  QinetiQ is leading industry in The 5% Club, a campaign to increase the recruitment  
of graduates and apprentices.
•  H ea l t h a n d 
Safety
•  V o lu n t ar y 
employee 
turnover
•  E mp l o y e e 
satisfaction
•  % of graduates 
and apprentices
•  B u s i n e s s Uni t  
Managing 
Directors
Balanced
Breaches  
of security  
and IT systems  
failure
The way  
we work
•   The Group operates in a highly regulated IT environment.
•   The data held by QinetiQ is confidential and needs to be secure,  
against a background of increasing cyber threat.
•   A breach of data security or IT systems failure could have an adverse impact  
on our customers’ operations, resulting in significant reputational damage,  
as well as the possibility of exclusion from some types of government contracts.
•  The Group’s financial systems are required to be adequate to support US and UK 
Government contracting regulations.
High/High •   Data security is assured through a multi-layered approach that provides a 
hardened environment, including robust physical security arrangements and data 
resilience strategies.
•   Comprehensive internal and external testing of potential vulnerabilities is conducted 
along with 24/7 monitoring.
•  The Group engages with US and UK Government contracting audit agencies, to enable 
them to test relevant financial systems and data, and implements any recommended 
improvement plans.
•   Information systems are designed with consideration to single points of failure and 
the removal of risk of minor and major system failures.
•   The Group maintains business continuity plans that cover geographical assets as well 
as the technical capability of employees. These plans cover a range of scenarios 
(including loss of access to IT) and are regularly tested.
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating profit
•  Profit after tax
•  Un d e r l y i n g E P S
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating  
cash flow
•  B u s i n e s s Uni t 
Managing 
Directors 
•  Fu n c t i o n a l 
Directors
Cautious
Trading in a 
global market
Growth 
Orientation
•  QinetiQ operates internationally. Risks include: regulation and administration 
changes, taxation policy, political instability, civil unrest, and differences in culture.
•  Negative events could disrupt some of the Group’s operations and have a material 
impact on its future financial performance.
Low/Medium •  While the Group has a growing geographical footprint, its traditional activities are 
confined to the UK and the US.
•  Relationships or contracts in new markets are assessed for their inherent risks, using 
our International Business Risk Assessment process, before being formally agreed. 
This allows opportunities to be reviewed at different levels of management according 
to their inherent risk.
•  O r d er s
•  O r g a n i c r e v e n u e 
growth
•  B u s i n e s s Uni t  
Managing 
Directors 
•  I nt e r na t i o na l 
Business 
Development 
Director
Cautious
34
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Associated  
strategic  
priority
Description and impact Likelihood/Impact Mitigation Associated  
KPIs
Responsibility Risk 
appetite
Complex 
market 
characteristics 
and contract 
profile 
(continued) 
Customers
•  Organisational Conflicts of Interest (OCI) may occur where the Group provides 
services to both a defence end-user customer as well as those within the defence 
supply chain.
Medium/High •  QinetiQ takes proactive steps to manage any potential OCI and maintain its  
ability to provide independent advice. QinetiQ operates under the MOD’s generic 
formal compliance regime and applies a rigorous compliance process.
•  Where QinetiQ wishes to operate on both the advice and supply chain side  
of an opportunity we do so only after receiving approval from the MOD.
•  C u s t o m e r 
satisfaction
•  St r a t e g i c 
Business  
Director 
– Defence
Balanced
Customers
•  The Group is reliant on a limited number of major customers. A material element  
of the Group’s revenue is derived from one contract. The Long Term Partnering 
Agreement (LTPA) is a 25-year contract to provide test, evaluation, and training 
services to the MOD. The original contract was signed in 2003. The LTPA operates 
under five-year periods with specific programmes, targets and performance 
measures set for each period.
•  I n 2 01 5 the LTPA directly contributed 26% of the Group’s revenue and supported  
a further 17% through tasking services using LTPA managed facilities.
Medium/High •  In February 2013 the Group signed the LTPA for a third five-year period with the 
MOD. The next scheduled ‘re-pricing’ break point is in 2018.
•  The Group continues to achieve strong customer performance and satisfaction levels, 
and significantly exceeded the agreed minimum performance rating of 80% in 2014.
•  The Group has achieved significant cost savings for the MOD on delivered services,  
and is on track to exceed the £700m of savings originally projected to be delivered 
over the life of the contract.
•  The Group expects to engage with the MOD regarding the study of future plans for 
test and evaluation services within the SDSR.
•  C u s t o m e r 
satisfaction
• LTPA Director Hungry
Recruitment 
and retention 
Employees
•  The Group operates in many specialised engineering, technical and scientific domains. 
•  The lack of graduates in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) domains leads to future skills shortage. 
•  Key capabilities and competencies may be lost through failure to recruit and  
retain employees due to internal factors, as well as macro factors across the  
sector affecting the desirability, intake and training of engineers, scientists  
and technicians.
Low/High •  The Group conducts regular activities to identify key roles and personnel. Succession 
plans are in place looking internally at candidates ready now or in need of development 
to fill particular roles and externally to identify people QinetiQ may wish to attract.
•  QinetiQ has made improvements in employee engagement and conducts an annual 
satisfaction survey.
•  STEM outreach from primary school age through to work experience and 
graduate opportunities.
•  QinetiQ is leading industry in The 5% Club, a campaign to increase the recruitment  
of graduates and apprentices.
•  H ea l t h a n d 
Safety
•  V o lu n t ar y 
employee 
turnover
•  E mp l o y e e 
satisfaction
•  % of graduates 
and apprentices
•  B u s i n e s s Uni t  
Managing 
Directors
Balanced
Breaches  
of security  
and IT systems  
failure
The way  
we work
•   The Group operates in a highly regulated IT environment.
•   The data held by QinetiQ is confidential and needs to be secure,  
against a background of increasing cyber threat.
•   A breach of data security or IT systems failure could have an adverse impact  
on our customers’ operations, resulting in significant reputational damage,  
as well as the possibility of exclusion from some types of government contracts.
•  The Group’s financial systems are required to be adequate to support US and UK 
Government contracting regulations.
High/High •   Data security is assured through a multi-layered approach that provides a 
hardened environment, including robust physical security arrangements and data 
resilience strategies.
•   Comprehensive internal and external testing of potential vulnerabilities is conducted 
along with 24/7 monitoring.
•  The Group engages with US and UK Government contracting audit agencies, to enable 
them to test relevant financial systems and data, and implements any recommended 
improvement plans.
•   Information systems are designed with consideration to single points of failure and 
the removal of risk of minor and major system failures.
•   The Group maintains business continuity plans that cover geographical assets as well 
as the technical capability of employees. These plans cover a range of scenarios 
(including loss of access to IT) and are regularly tested.
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating profit
•  Profit after tax
•  Un d e r l y i n g E P S
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating  
cash flow
•  B u s i n e s s Uni t 
Managing 
Directors 
•  Fu n c t i o n a l 
Directors
Cautious
Trading in a 
global market
Growth 
Orientation
•  QinetiQ operates internationally. Risks include: regulation and administration 
changes, taxation policy, political instability, civil unrest, and differences in culture.
•  Negative events could disrupt some of the Group’s operations and have a material 
impact on its future financial performance.
Low/Medium •  While the Group has a growing geographical footprint, its traditional activities are 
confined to the UK and the US.
•  Relationships or contracts in new markets are assessed for their inherent risks, using 
our International Business Risk Assessment process, before being formally agreed. 
This allows opportunities to be reviewed at different levels of management according 
to their inherent risk.
•  O r d er s
•  O r g a n i c r e v e n u e 
growth
•  B u s i n e s s Uni t  
Managing 
Directors 
•  I nt e r na t i o na l 
Business 
Development 
Director
Cautious
35
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Key risk Associated  
strategic  
priority
Description and impact Likelihood/Impact Mitigation Associated  
KPIs
Responsibility Risk 
appetite
Significant 
breach of 
relevant  
laws and 
regulations
The way  
we work
•   The Group operates in highly regulated environments and recognises that its 
operations have the potential to have an impact on a variety of stakeholders.
•   Failure to comply with particular regulations could result in a combination of fines, 
penalties, civil or criminal action.
•  In addition, failure may also lead to suspension or debarment from government 
contracts, as well as reputational damage to the QinetiQ brand. 
•  Key areas of focus for the Group include the following:
 – Safety liability of products, services and advice.
 – Workplace and occupational health, safety and environmental matters.
 – Bribery and ethics.
 – International trade controls.
Low/High •  The Group has robust policy, procedures and training in place to ensure that it meets  
all current regulations; for example role-specific safety training and business ethics 
training which is mandatory for Board members and all employees across the Group. 
•  The QinetiQ Code of Conduct defines clear expectation for the Group and its 
employees; for example it states that the Group does not tolerate bribery and 
corruption and will comply with relevant international trade regulations.
•    The Group manages the effective identification, measurement and control  
of regulatory risk.
•    Local management continuously monitor local laws. Professional advice is sought  
when engaging in new territories to ensure that the Group complies with local  
and international regulations.
•    Accreditation to external standards; for example safety and environmental systems 
continue to be accredited to international standards; external authorisation for 
regulated design and maintenance services in the aviation sector.
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating profit
•  Profit after tax
•  Un d e r l y i n g E P S
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating  
cash flow
•  H ea l t h a n d 
Safety
•  B u s i n e s s Uni t 
Managing 
Directors 
•  Fu n c t i o n a l 
Directors
Cautious
Defined  
benefit  
pension 
obligations
The way  
we work
•  The Group operates a defined benefit (DB) pension scheme which is closed  
to future accrual. 
•   At the year end the DB pension scheme was a liability of £39.4m under an  
IAS 19 basis. 
•    The size of the deficit may be materially affected by a number of factors, including 
inflation, investment returns, changes in interest rates and improvements in life 
expectancy of members.
•    Any change to the deficit may require the Group to increase the cash contributions  
to the scheme, which would reduce the Group’s cash available for other purposes.
Medium/High •   Scheme performance is reviewed regularly by Group management in conjunction  
with the scheme’s independent Trustee.
•    External actuarial and investment advice is regularly taken to ensure the best 
interests of both the Group and the scheme members.
•   The Group works in collaboration with the Trustees to agree an investment strategy  
that progressively de-risks the scheme as the funding level improves.
•    The Company continues to pay the deficit recovery payments outstanding from  
the 2011 valuation. Company contributions to the scheme are expected to continue 
at £13m per annum until 2018.
•      The scheme was closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013.
•    At the year end 45% of the inflation risk is hedged and 20% of interest rate risk 
hedged, measured on a gilts basis. A 5% inflation cap protects £264m of pensioner 
liabilities for ten years to 2025.
•  Profit after tax
•  Un d e r l y i n g E P S
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating  
cash flow
•  G r o up 
Treasurer
Balanced
Tax legislation
The way  
we work
•    QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries in which it operates, principally the UK  
and the US.
•    Changes in tax legislation in these countries could have an adverse impact on the 
level of tax paid on profits generated by the Group.
•    In the UK, R&D Expenditure Credits (RDEC) were introduced from 1 April 2013 and 
will be mandatory from 1 April 2016, replacing the R&D super deduction. Until that 
date, QinetiQ expects to claim the super deduction while the treatment of RDEC  
for MOD single source contracts remains under discussion between industry and  
the Government.
High/High •  External advice and consultation are sought on potential changes in tax legislation  
in the UK, the US and elsewhere as necessary enabling the Group to plan for and 
manage potential changes.
•    The Group is currently actively engaging with industry, MOD and industry bodies 
regarding the treatment of RDEC.
•    The Group has £291.6m of UK tax losses carried forward as at 31 March 2015  
(2014: £213.9m).
•   P r o f i t a f t e r t a x
•  Un d e r l y i n g E P S
•  G r o u p Ta x 
Manager
Balanced
36
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Associated  
strategic  
priority
Description and impact Likelihood/Impact Mitigation Associated  
KPIs
Responsibility Risk 
appetite
Significant 
breach of 
relevant  
laws and 
regulations
The way  
we work
•   The Group operates in highly regulated environments and recognises that its 
operations have the potential to have an impact on a variety of stakeholders.
•   Failure to comply with particular regulations could result in a combination of fines, 
penalties, civil or criminal action.
•  In addition, failure may also lead to suspension or debarment from government 
contracts, as well as reputational damage to the QinetiQ brand. 
•  Key areas of focus for the Group include the following:
 – Safety liability of products, services and advice.
 – Workplace and occupational health, safety and environmental matters.
 – Bribery and ethics.
 – International trade controls.
Low/High •  The Group has robust policy, procedures and training in place to ensure that it meets  
all current regulations; for example role-specific safety training and business ethics 
training which is mandatory for Board members and all employees across the Group. 
•  The QinetiQ Code of Conduct defines clear expectation for the Group and its 
employees; for example it states that the Group does not tolerate bribery and 
corruption and will comply with relevant international trade regulations.
•    The Group manages the effective identification, measurement and control  
of regulatory risk.
•    Local management continuously monitor local laws. Professional advice is sought  
when engaging in new territories to ensure that the Group complies with local  
and international regulations.
•    Accreditation to external standards; for example safety and environmental systems 
continue to be accredited to international standards; external authorisation for 
regulated design and maintenance services in the aviation sector.
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating profit
•  Profit after tax
•  Un d e r l y i n g E P S
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating  
cash flow
•  H ea l t h a n d 
Safety
•  B u s i n e s s Uni t 
Managing 
Directors 
•  Fu n c t i o n a l 
Directors
Cautious
Defined  
benefit  
pension 
obligations
The way  
we work
•  The Group operates a defined benefit (DB) pension scheme which is closed  
to future accrual. 
•   At the year end the DB pension scheme was a liability of £39.4m under an  
IAS 19 basis. 
•    The size of the deficit may be materially affected by a number of factors, including 
inflation, investment returns, changes in interest rates and improvements in life 
expectancy of members.
•    Any change to the deficit may require the Group to increase the cash contributions  
to the scheme, which would reduce the Group’s cash available for other purposes.
Medium/High •   Scheme performance is reviewed regularly by Group management in conjunction  
with the scheme’s independent Trustee.
•    External actuarial and investment advice is regularly taken to ensure the best 
interests of both the Group and the scheme members.
•   The Group works in collaboration with the Trustees to agree an investment strategy  
that progressively de-risks the scheme as the funding level improves.
•    The Company continues to pay the deficit recovery payments outstanding from  
the 2011 valuation. Company contributions to the scheme are expected to continue 
at £13m per annum until 2018.
•      The scheme was closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013.
•    At the year end 45% of the inflation risk is hedged and 20% of interest rate risk 
hedged, measured on a gilts basis. A 5% inflation cap protects £264m of pensioner 
liabilities for ten years to 2025.
•  Profit after tax
•  Un d e r l y i n g E P S
•  U n d e r ly i n g 
operating  
cash flow
•  G r o up 
Treasurer
Balanced
Tax legislation
The way  
we work
•    QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries in which it operates, principally the UK  
and the US.
•    Changes in tax legislation in these countries could have an adverse impact on the 
level of tax paid on profits generated by the Group.
•    In the UK, R&D Expenditure Credits (RDEC) were introduced from 1 April 2013 and 
will be mandatory from 1 April 2016, replacing the R&D super deduction. Until that 
date, QinetiQ expects to claim the super deduction while the treatment of RDEC  
for MOD single source contracts remains under discussion between industry and  
the Government.
High/High •  External advice and consultation are sought on potential changes in tax legislation  
in the UK, the US and elsewhere as necessary enabling the Group to plan for and 
manage potential changes.
•    The Group is currently actively engaging with industry, MOD and industry bodies 
regarding the treatment of RDEC.
•    The Group has £291.6m of UK tax losses carried forward as at 31 March 2015  
(2014: £213.9m).
•   P r o f i t a f t e r t a x
•  Un d e r l y i n g E P S
•  G r o u p Ta x 
Manager
Balanced
37
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 EMEA Services
Financial performance
 2015
£m
2014
£m
Orders
(1) 
461.6 447.8
Revenue 625.6 607.0
Underlying operating profit* 93.0 86.7
Underlying operating margin* 14.9% 14.3%
Book to bill ratio
(1)
 1.1x 1.1x
Funded backlog
(1)
678.6 661.0
(1)
  Excludes the £998m third term of the LTPA contract. B2B ratio is orders won 
divided by revenue recognised, excluding the LTPA contract.
*  Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary 
on page 141.
P93 Financial statements
Markets and outlook
• The Front Line Commands (Navy, Army, Air and Joint Forces)  
are exercising their newly delegated powers to shape future 
capabilities. QinetiQ’s business units are aligned closely to  
these Commands and so are well placed to help them with  
their growing procurement responsibilities.
• During the year our Cyber, C4ISR and Training businesses  
were aligned to meet the requirements of the recently created  
Joint Forces Command, such as the need for information  
superiority, as well as demand from other government and 
commercial customers. 
Defence transformation, the forthcoming comprehensive spending 
review and SDSR are expected to have an impact on the UK defence 
market this year. This will provide future opportunities for EMEA 
Services to build on its strong record of delivering ‘more for less’, 
whilst recognising that in FY16 there will be uncertainty and the 
potential for interruptions to order flow. The portion of revenue 
under contract at the start of FY16 was similar to a year ago and  
the balance is supported by a pipeline of opportunities but order  
flow and contract cover will be watched closely over the coming 
months. Overall, given the opening backlog position, expectations  
for the performance of EMEA Services in the current financial year 
are unchanged.
Our value pipeline
Our Organic-Plus strategy prioritises active portfolio management.  
All of our business operations are graded within a value pipeline which 
gives us full visibility and direction over our assets and capabilities. 
Core Explore Test for value
Training
Cyber Security
Cyveillance®
 P ro cu rem en t  
Advisory Services
International ranges
UAS Services
Air
Weapons
Maritime
C4ISR
Australia
International 
procurement advice
Smart metering 
assurance
Directed Energy 
Weapons
 S e c u r ed n a v i ga t i on 
systems
P12 Our Organic-Plus strategy P6 Market overview
EMEA Services combines world-leading expertise with unique facilities to provide technical assurance, test and evaluation and training 
services, underpinned by long-term contracts. The most significant of these contracts is the Long Term Partnering Agreement (LTPA) for 
test, evaluation and training services which has delivered an improved service and significant savings for the MOD over the last 12 years. 
Capital expenditure is likely to increase in the future as we continue to invest in the LTPA contract. EMEA Services is also a market leader 
in research and advice in specialist areas such as C4ISR, procurement advisory services and cyber security. 
EMEA Services delivered a strong performance in 2015. Each of the 
core Air, Weapons and Maritime businesses performed well despite 
the uncertainty in the UK defence market resulting from the MOD 
transformation programme and forthcoming Strategic Defence and 
Security Review. 
Orders, excluding the £998m third term of the LTPA contract, grew 
3% to £461.6m (2014: £447.8m) demonstrating the unique strengths 
of the division and its highly differentiated position in its markets. 
Revenue grew 3% on an organic basis at constant currency, building 
on the 3% increase last year. At the beginning of the new financial 
year, 80% of the division’s FY16 revenue was already under contract, 
a similar level to a year ago. 
Underlying operating profit* increased 7% to £93.0m (2014: £86.7m) 
assisted by an insurance recovery and the completion of a final 
milestone on an international project. 
38
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Operating review  Year in review
Core
QinetiQ’s Air business de-risks complex aviation programmes. It works 
with supply chain partners and signed new long-term agreements with 
key suppliers to deliver additional flexibility for customers. During the 
year it secured a £16m extension to its largest MOD test and evaluation 
contract, and a four-year £5m contract for research into aircrew 
performance. The business also continued to grow its engineering 
services offering and now provides maintenance, repair and overhaul 
services for fixed and rotary wing aircraft across three main contracts, 
with opportunities to take this capability into new international markets. 
QinetiQ’s Weapons business supplies independent research, evaluation 
and training services for integrated weapons systems. The business 
delivers the MOD’s conventional weapons research programme 
through the Weapons Science and Technology Centre, which secured 
£17m of orders during the year. In response to the growing complexity 
of weapons systems trials work, major infrastructure improvements 
took place at a number of the ranges that the business runs under the 
LTPA contract including new communications infrastructure in the 
Hebrides and a new range control centre at Aberporth in Wales. 
QinetiQ’s expertise continues to attract international customers with 
work undertaken for the South Korean government as well as European 
customers. The Weapons business has a long track record of delivering 
complex managed services in high risk environments and is pursuing a 
number of outsourcing opportunities. 
The Maritime business delivers operational advantage to naval 
clients worldwide through the provision of independent technical 
advice and support, particularly in the areas of platform performance, 
stealth, command information systems and systems integration.  
The business won a £5m contract from a competitor to deliver the 
MOD’s mobile underwater targets service at the BUTEC range it 
operates off North West Scotland, which also benefited from over 
£20m of investment to modernise its acoustic measurement system, 
enhancing QinetiQ’s ability to deliver stealth-related services. During 
the year the business supported the integration of a new radar on 
Type 23 frigates and a new Command System for the helicopter 
carrier HMS Ocean. This expertise underpins a new mission systems 
integration service to meet demand from international customers, 
particularly in the Asia Pacific region. The business was also awarded  
a contract to deliver technical support for ship procurement for 
the Canadian government. QinetiQ’s Portsdown site was selected 
to host the Defence Growth Partnership’s Centre for Maritime 
Intelligent Systems which will help UK industry meet customer 
interest in emerging technologies such as autonomous systems. 
QinetiQ Australia provides impartial advice and services predominantly 
to government customers. The business is underpinned by two long-term 
contracts with the Commonwealth Government of Australia’s Department 
of Defence – the Defence Science and Technology Organisation 
(DSTO) contract which is focused on provision of engineering services 
workshops and the Aircraft Structural Integrity contract which supports 
the airworthiness of military aircraft. QinetiQ Australia delivered a 
steady performance against a background of fiscal pressures and 
defence reform, securing a two-year extension to the services  
it delivers at DSTO Fishermans bend in Melbourne. Greg Barsby,  
a former KBR executive, took up the role of Managing Director in 
December 2014. His remit is to target long-term contracts through 
improved commercial and business development capabilities as well  
as to reinforce partnerships with government and industry.
QinetiQ’s C4ISR business provides research, advice and bespoke 
solutions for secure communications, command and control, 
surveillance sensors and information management. It is the MOD’s 
leading supplier of C4ISR research, which underpins the advice 
capability of the business as well as future opportunities to support 
customers’ transformation and innovation needs. In the UK, recent 
funding rounds and announcements have protected or enhanced 
budgets for C4ISR. The UK’s Joint Forces Command provides a focus 
for multi-billion pound procurements of ‘enabling’ capabilities that 
have not existed before and C4ISR is now aligned with the Cyber and 
Training businesses to meet these requirements. In addition, ongoing 
instability in the Middle East is increasing opportunities from 
governments in the region. 
Explore
In the ‘Explore’ category, QinetiQ’s Training business uses 
Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) technology to connect people  
and assets for mission rehearsal and tactic development. The business 
secured its largest ever contract for the continued provision in the  
UK of Distributed Synthetic Air Land Training valued at £33m over 
five years. It also beat a number of competitors to win the next  
stage of a core research programme worth £3m over four years.  
As a result, the business is well positioned for future opportunities  
as the MOD moves towards its vision of a network of simulators 
across the UK to augment live training. Having established an office  
in Orlando, Florida, the heart of the US training and simulation market, 
the business has secured a position on three IDIQ contracts working  
in partnership with established prime contractors such as Alion  
and developing a promising pipeline of opportunities in the US. 
Cyber Security is an ‘Explore’ business with opportunities in critical 
national infrastructure, as well as defence and security. It won a new 
£3m contract to deliver secure monitoring and hosting services for  
a major financial institution. In recognition that compliant systems 
alone do not necessarily reduce business risk, the business is 
integrating QinetiQ’s human science expertise into its consultancy 
offering and is investing in its cyber intelligence capabilities. Closer 
alignment with the Training business will ensure that QinetiQ is  
better able to meet the demand for cyber training. QinetiQ’s cyber 
intelligence business, Cyveillance®, launched a cloud-based cyber 
threat centre that monitors the internet, provides alerts and delivers 
data on domain names, IP addresses, phishing and malware attacks. 
This provides direct access for customers to its monitoring and 
investigative tools and complements its existing consultancy-based 
services. QinetiQ’s suite of cyber security offerings is completed by  
its wholly-owned subsidiary Boldon James, which provides data 
classification and secure messaging solutions and is reported as  
part of the Global Products division. 
Procurement Advisory Services was established as a stand-alone 
‘Explore’ business in 2014. It provides tender assessment, cost and 
analytical services principally to support complex procurement 
programmes in highly regulated markets. During the year, the business 
provided horizon scanning for the UK Cabinet Office, cost forecasting 
services to the MOD, and won a £2m MOD contract for business case 
support to help address frontline challenges such as the supply of water, 
fuel and power. Procurement Advisory Services is spear-heading QinetiQ’s 
presence in Canada, where an office was opened during the year. 
39
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Understanding our business
What we do Approximate annual  
revenue
Approximate total 
employees
Key sites  
(UK unless stated) 
Key contracts
 
Air De-risk complex aviation 
programmes by testing 
military aircraft and 
equipment, evaluating the 
risks and assuring safety.
c.£190m c.1,600
• Boscombe 
Down
• Farnborough
• Long Term Partnering 
Agreement (LTPA)
Core
 
Weapons Supplies independent 
research, evaluation  
and training services  
for integrated  
weapons systems.
c.£200m c.1,200
• Shoeburyness
• Fort Halstead
• Farnborough
• Hebrides
• Aberporth
• Pendine
• West Freugh
• LTPA
• Combined Aerial 
Targets Service (CATS)
• Weapons, Science and 
Technology Centre
Core
 
Maritime Delivering operational 
advantage to naval  
clients worldwide  
through the provision  
of independent technical 
advice and support.
c.£75m c.700
• Portsdown 
Technology Park 
(PTP)
• Haslar
• LTPA
• Maritime Strategic 
Capabilities Agreement 
(MSCA)
• Naval Combat System 
Integration Support 
Services (NCSISS)
Core
 
Australia Delivers impartial advice  
and services predominantly 
to government customers.
under
£25m
c.200
• Melbourne, 
Australia
• Canberra, 
Australia
• New South  
Wales, Australia
• DSTO – munitions
• ASI – airworthiness
Core
 
C4ISR A leading supplier of 
research and advice on 
sensors, communications 
and intelligence.
c.450
• Malvern 
• Farnborough
• DSTL research
Core
Training Uses technology to reduce 
the cost of training, drawing 
on training capability from 
across QinetiQ.
 c.£120m
c.100
• Farnborough
• Malvern
• Distributed Synthetic 
Air Land Training 2
Explore
 
Cyber Security Protects critical national 
infrastructure through the 
provision of consultancy, 
managed security services, 
secure information 
exchange, and threat and  
risk assessments.
c.100
• Malvern
• Farnborough
Explore
 
Procurement  
Advisory Services 
Provides decision support, 
cost, analytical and tender 
assessment services.
under
£25m
c.150
• Bristol,
• Farnborough
• Boscombe 
Down
• Malvern
• Operational Support 
Programme Customer 
Friend
Explore
Cyveillance® Provides open source threat 
intelligence and remediation 
to customers across the 
world including many of the 
Fortune 500.
under
£25m
c.100
• Reston, 
Virginia US
Explore
Test for value
Within the Air business, QinetiQ delivers turnkey services for customers 
using Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) to meet growing demand 
particularly from international organisations such as the United 
Nations. The business has developed commercial relationships with 
the three largest manufacturers of unmanned aircraft outside the  
US and in September opened the UK’s first airfield capable of 
operating large UAS at Llanbedr in Wales. During the year, it was 
awarded a competitively-won contract to provide manpower for  
a short duration service for an international institution. 
EMEA Services is ‘testing for value’ a number of early stage offerings. 
These include the provision of technical services in support of Directed 
Energy Weapons (DEW) and the delivery of secured navigation systems 
such as the secure signal processing already being provided for the 
Galileo constellation of satellites – the European Union version of GPS.
40
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Operating review continued Growth Orientation
A flexible resource for  
tomorrow’s needs
Adaptability is fundamental to DSALT: 
reconfiguration means training can  
evolve to meet changing operational 
needs. The move into ‘contingent 
operations’ required an even more 
proactive approach, working with the 
customer to deploy training to best effect 
while future proofing the capability for 
later programmes. This capability is also 
fully transferable to address a range of 
commercial requirements.
Fraser Bruce, DSALT Programme Technical Manager – “With UK 
Armed Forces no longer in Afghanistan, requirements shifted 
from specific predeployment training to training for ‘contingent 
operations’. We adapted and configured systems and services, 
listening to the customer and using virtualisation technologies  
to address obsolescence and deliver savings.” Dawn Harrison, 
QinetiQ Training, sums it up – “This is testament to our ability  
to seamlessly pull together subject matter experts and  
sub-contractors: the customer comes to QinetiQ because  
they trust our team. We deliver.”
Under a five-year contract that runs from 
2014, QinetiQ is delivering the Distributed 
Synthetic Air Land Training 2 capability for 
UK MOD, building on successful delivery  
of a previous five-year contract. Operating 
from the Air Battlespace Training Centre  
in Lincoln, the £33m DSALT2 training 
programme provides the UK Army and  
Royal Air Force with extremely realistic  
and flexible representations of operating 
environments. Our bid was supported  
by a pan-QinetiQ team and includes 
sub-contractors Boeing and Plexsys.
Russ Cole, Flight Simulation and Synthetic 
Trainers Team Leader at MOD’s Defence 
Equipment and Support – “Simulation  
and synthetic training is an extremely 
important part of training…the ability to 
practise and train in highly realistic but safe 
environments is a vital, life-saving capability 
essential to effective mission preparation.”
Defence
More flexible and  
realistic training drives  
mission success
Employees
World-leading simulation and synthetic training from  
domain experts
Meeting and exceeding customer needs
Customers
41
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Global Products
Markets and outlook
• In January 2015, Jeff Yorsz took up his appointment as President of 
QinetiQ’s US products business, joining from Northrop Grumman.  
Jeff is leading the realignment of the business in response to structural 
changes in its core markets. This will result in a greater focus on 
contract-funded research and development and US DoD Programs  
of Record, as well as on commercial and international markets. 
In Global Products, newer products are recording notable milestones 
and the amount of revenue under contract at the start of FY16 is up 
slightly on a year ago, but the drawdown of American overseas military 
forces is continuing to depress demand for conflict-related products. 
As the division has a lumpy revenue profile which is dependent on  
the timing and shipment of key orders, there is a range of possible 
outcomes for the performance of Global Products in the current year.
Financial performance
The performance of Global Products continued to be impacted by the 
ongoing reduction of US military forces deployed to Afghanistan and 
reduced funding for US military operations which depressed demand 
for conflict-related products. 
Revenue was £138.2m (2014: £175.6m) primarily due to reduced sales 
of conflict-related products.
Orders grew by 2% to £152.0m (2014: £149.1m) as demand for EMEA 
products offset the slow order intake in the US products business.  
The Global Products division had more than half of its FY16 revenue 
already under contract at the beginning of the new financial year, 
slightly better than at the same time last year. 
Underlying operating profit* was £18.3m (2014: £27.0m), 
impacted by the reduction in revenue and by approximately 
$5m of additional one-off costs associated with separating from 
US Services infrastructure. 
Core Explore Test for value
OptaSense®
 S p a ce P r o d u c t s
Robotic appliqué kits 
– DriveRobotics™
Commerce 
Decisions – AWARD®
TALON® robots
Survivability 
products
Contract-funded 
R&D
ASX™
SPO™
MEWS™
Linewatch™
High density 
generator
Our value pipeline
Our Organic-Plus strategy prioritises active portfolio management.  
All of our business operations are graded within a value pipeline which 
gives us full visibility and direction over our assets and capabilities. 
P12 Our Organic-Plus strategy
P93 Financial statements
Understanding our business
What we do Approximate  
annual revenues
Approximate total 
employees
Key sites 
(UK unless stated)
US products Contract-funded research and development  
and innovative products that protect people  
and assets, such as military robots.
c.£60m
c.250
• Waltham,  
Massachusetts,  
US
Core
OptaSense® A bespoke fibre sensing business that delivers 
Decision Ready Data to multiple vertical markets.
under
£25m c.150
• Farnborough, Winfrith  
and Portishead, UK
• Houston, US
• Calgary, Canada
• Dubai, UAE
Explore
Space Products Provides satellites, payload instruments,  
sub-systems and ground station services.
under
£25m
c.150
• Antwerp, Belgium 
• Farnborough
Explore
 
EMEA products Provides research services and bespoke solutions 
developed from IP spun out from the core.
c.£40m N/A
• N/A
Test for value
 2015
£m
2014
£m
Orders 152.0 149.1
Revenue 138.2 175.6
Underlying operating profit* 18.3 27.0
Underlying operating margin* 13.2% 15.4%
Book to bill ratio 1.1x 0.8x
Funded backlog 116.7 97.1
*   Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on 
page 141.
Despite the continued prevalence of Lowest-Price-Technically-Acceptable 
acquisitions in the US, careful cost control and a reduction of headcount 
provided some protection to profitability, with the division delivering 
an underlying operating profit margin* of 13.2% (2014: 15.4%).
P6 Market overview
Global Products combines cutting-edge technologies with an intimate understanding of customer problems and strong productisation skills to 
deliver innovative solutions to meet customer requirements. The division also undertakes contract-funded research and development, developing 
intellectual property in partnership with key customers, with potential for new revenue streams. To reduce the volatility of its revenue profile over 
time, QinetiQ is seeking to increase its portfolio of products and to find new markets and applications for its existing offerings.
42
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Operating review continued Core
US Global Products continues to meet the US Department for Defence 
(DoD) requirements for maintenance, repair and overhaul for military 
robots, demonstrating the customer’s commitment to keeping 
unmanned systems as a principal part of Explosive Ordnance 
Disposal missions. The business won $24m of orders to reset TALON® 
robots, modernising them for future operations. These ‘reset’ awards 
position the business well for future US DoD Programs of Record, 
although to date these have been slow to emerge. The fifth 
generation of TALON® was launched during the year, incorporating 
the ability to use third-party commercial components to capitalise on 
the continued convergence of military and civil robotic technologies. 
In addition, $14m of orders for unmanned systems were won from 
international customers. In response to the growing use of robotics in 
the construction and demolition industries, the US products business 
launched DriveRobotics
TM
, an appliqué kit that transforms existing 
and new Bobcat vehicles into unmanned vehicles. Demand for 
survivability products continues to be impacted by the drawdown  
of US military operations, although new orders were received for 
armour for the C-130 aircraft. 
The sale of QinetiQ’s US Services division, completed in May  
2014, removed organisational conflict of interest (OCI) barriers  
that prohibited the US Global Products business from pursuing 
strategically important DoD research and development contracts. 
The business is now building on its base of contract-funded R&D 
projects both as an alternative revenue stream and as a source  
of future intellectual property; it saw a modest increase in these 
activities during the year. For example, it was one of two suppliers  
to receive a contract from the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
Agency (DARPA) for the first phase development of the Hydra 
programme to develop a distributed undersea network of modular 
unmanned platforms and payloads. This positions the business well 
for follow-on phases of the programme and other projects with the 
US Office of Naval Research. 
 
Explore
OptaSense® is a Distributed Acoustic Sensing (DAS) business which  
is organised around market-facing business development units and  
a single technical Centre of Excellence now incorporating the laser 
manufacturer Redfern Integrated Optics (RIO) acquired this year.  
The business made progress implementing its strategy of developing 
partnerships with leading industry players to exploit its key markets.
In rail, OptaSense® continues to work with German rail operator 
Deutsche Bahn and also won a $5m initial award from the  
Saudi Rail Organisation to provide security monitoring for over 
1,000km of rail line. In oil and gas, the product development 
agreement with Shell continues to deliver significant technical 
progress. This year, the fall in the oil price, and consequent capex 
reductions by Oil Majors, slowed the adoption of DAS for well 
completion but improved the economics of its use for flow 
monitoring and seismic profiling. Immediately after year end  
the business entered into a non-exclusive strategic alliance  
with Weatherford to deliver solutions to optimise well planning, 
construction and production. In infrastructure security, the delivery 
of some key projects was interrupted by a worsening security situation 
particularly in the Middle East, however the increased threat to 
Year in review
national infrastructure also increased demand. At the end of the year, 
OptaSense® signed a framework supply agreement to protect  
critical national infrastructure including pipelines, airports and  
other facilities for a customer in the Middle East. When complete,  
the two-year project could involve 200 units and encompass up  
to 8,000km of assets.
QinetiQ’s Space Products business provides satellites, payload 
instruments, sub-systems and ground station services. At the end  
of the year, it was awarded a contract worth €16m over three years 
to develop the computer and avionics for the European Space 
Agency’s (ESA’s) Proba-3 satellites that will fly in formation and use  
an eclipsing mechanism to study the Sun. The business is also playing 
a vital role in ESA’s IXV mission launched in February 2015, as its 
technology will be responsible for guiding the ‘space taxi’, a smaller 
version of the US space shuttle, safely back to Earth. 
Subsidiaries Boldon James and Commerce Decisions are reported  
in Global Products. Commerce Decisions delivered record revenue 
and profit in 2015, securing an enterprise-wide contract for the third 
year from the MOD for its AWARD® procurement software, as well  
as delivering growth in the UK health and transport markets. The 
business also secured its first order in Canada shortly after year end. 
Test for value
 
In the ‘Test for Value’ category, field evaluations are underway for 
the Linewatch
TM
 power line sensor system, which precisely measures 
voltage and currents on power grids. The product is designed to meet 
emerging Smart Grid requirements for the detection of faults and power 
theft, condition-based maintenance, and distributed power generation. 
In addition, the US products business is developing a High Power 
Density Generator which can provide the modular ‘roll-on/roll-off’ 
power required for emerging defence and civil applications.
QinetiQ’s UK business has world-leading capabilities in electronic 
signals intelligence and during the year it launched ASX
TM
, a small 
sensor that delivers airborne surveillance capability. The MOD 
selected QinetiQ’s Modular Electronic Warfare System (MEWS
TM
) 
ahead of more established products to form the basis of its  
Medium Weight Electronic Surveillance Capability for expeditionary 
operations. Further milestone orders won during the year included  
a $3m contract with the US Transportation Security Administration  
to develop the next generation of QinetiQ’s SPO
TM
 stand-off 
Millimetre Wave threat detection system.
43
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Working capital
Retirement benefit obligation (before tax)
Net (debt/cash)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
200
0
(200)
(400)
(600)
 “ Another strong year  
of operational cash flow  
and the completion of the 
US Services disposal has 
enabled us to clear debt  
and return £150m to 
shareholders, whilst 
retaining a strong  
balance sheet”
David Mellors 
Chief Financial Officer 
•  Strong performance from EMEA Services with 3% growth  
in both orders and revenue
•  Further strengthening of the balance sheet with net cash  
of £195.5m at 31 March 2015 (2014: £170.5m)
•  Re-basing of the dividend, with full year dividend of  
5.4p, 17% growth on prior year
• Completed sale of the US Services division for net  
cash inflow in the year of £78.6m. This was associated  
with pay-down of private placement debt and a £6m 
contribution to the pension scheme
• Revolving credit facility refinanced during the year, with a 
new five-year, multi-currency facility of £166m and $100m
• Completed £107m of the planned £150m share  
buyback programme
Financial highlights
Strengthening of the balance sheet (£m)
44
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Financial Officer’s review Group summary – continuing operations
2015 2014
^
Revenue (£m) 763.8 782.6
Organic change at constant currency (%) (2%) (4%)
Underlying operating profit* (£m) 111.3 113.7
Underlying operating margin* (%) 14.6% 14.5%
Total operating profit (£m) 109.5 97.1
Underlying profit before tax* (£m) 107.8 101.2
Total profit before tax (£m) 105.4 84.0
Underlying net finance expense* (£m) (3.5) (12.5)
Underlying effective tax rate* (%) 10.9% 11.3%
Underlying earnings per share* (pence) 15.2p 13.8p
Basic earnings per share (pence) 18.6p 10.4p
Dividend per share (pence) 5.4p 4.6p
Underlying net cash from operations (post-capex)* (£m) 114.9 106.2
Underlying operating cash conversion (%) 103% 93%
Net cash (£m) 195.5 170.5
Headline results
Group revenue was £763.8m (2014: £782.6m), down 2% on an organic 
basis at constant currency, excluding a £3.7m decrease due to foreign 
exchange movements (primarily a weakening of the Australian dollar 
and the Euro). EMEA Services performed well during the year returning 
3% growth in both orders and revenue. Revenue was £625.6m (2014: 
£607.0m). Global Products revenue was £138.2m (2014: £175.6m),  
a 21% decrease at constant currency. Performance was again impacted 
by the reduction in demand for US conflict-related products. 
Specific adjusting items
Specific adjusting items, shown in the ‘middle column’, include a 
profit of £15.9m recognised on the disposal of US Services, a one-off 
accelerated interest cost of £28.8m associated with the early 
repayment of the private placement debt and £25.2m in respect of 
the capitalisation of a proportion of the Group’s unused tax losses. 
The prior year statutory operating profit included a one-off net 
benefit of £27.1m following the closure of the Group’s defined benefit 
pension scheme to future accrual. Details of all specific adjusting 
items and a reconciliation of underlying profit to total profit is shown 
in the table below.
Specific adjusting items
The performance of the Group after allowing for specific adjusting items is shown below:
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m
Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders – continuing operations 96.0 89.8
– discontinued operations 0.7 14.2
Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders – total 96.7 104.0
Impairment of goodwill – (125.9)
US Services transaction costs – (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions (3.6) (11.0)
Release/(charge) in respect of the 2013 US restructuring 1.0 (0.3)
Reduction in pension liabilities on closure to future accrual – 31.1
Pension closure mitigation costs – (4.0)
Pension net finance expense (0.6) (1.7)
Impairment reversal in respect of property – 1.4
(Loss)/gain on business divestments and disposals of investments (12.9) 1.1
Tax impact of items above (1.1) (1.4)
Recognition of deferred tax asset in respect of UK trade losses 25.2 –
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 104.7 (12.7)
* Definitions of specific adjusting items and underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141. 
^ Restated for the reclassification of US Services (excluding Cyveillance®) as a discontinued operation.
45
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Finance costs
Net finance costs were £4.1m (2014: £14.2m
^
). The underlying net 
finance costs* were £3.5m (2014: £12.5m
^
), with an additional  
£0.6m (2014: £1.7m) in respect of the pension net finance expense 
reported within specific adjusting items. The reduction in underlying 
net finance costs* reflects pay down of the private placement debt 
during 2015.
Taxation
The effective tax rate for the continuing Group was 10.9%  
(2014: 11.3%^). 
The effective tax rate continues to be below the statutory rate in the 
UK, primarily as a result of the benefit of research and development 
relief. The effective tax rate is expected to remain below the UK 
statutory rate in the medium term, subject to the impact of any tax 
legislation changes, the geographic mix of profits and the assumption 
that the benefit of R&D relief continues to be reported in the tax  
line. The 2013 Finance Act allows the continued super-deduction 
approach for R&D expenditure until April 2016, when mandatory  
R&D Expenditure Credit (RDEC) treatment is introduced. 
At 31 March 2015 the Group had unused tax losses of £291.6m  
(31 March 2014: £213.9m) available to offset against future profits. 
These comprise UK and overseas trade and non-trade losses.  
A deferred tax asset of £25.2m in respect of an element of these 
losses was capitalised on the balance sheet in the year due to the 
probability of them being used in the foreseeable future. The income 
statement credit associated with this capitalisation went through the 
‘middle column’ rather than underlying earnings. No deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of other tax losses due to 
uncertainty over timing and extent of their utilisation.
Earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share* for the continuing Group  
were 15.2p (2014: 13.8p^) benefiting from the higher profit before 
tax and the reduced number of shares in issue following £107m  
of the £150m share buyback programme as at 31 March 2015.  
Basic earnings per share for the total Group (including US Services) 
were 16.6p (2014: 1.9p loss per share). The average number of  
shares in issue during the year, as used in the basic earnings per  
share calculations, was 630.9m (2014: 651.7m), and there were 
608.6m shares in issue at the year end.
Dividend
The Board proposes a final dividend of 3.6p per share for the year 
ended 31 March 2015 (2014: 3.2p). Subject to approval at the AGM, 
the final dividend will be paid on 4 September 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 7 August 2015.
Cash flow
The Group’s cash flow from operations before cash flows in  
respect of specific adjusting items but after capital expenditure  
was £114.9m (2014: £106.2m^). Underlying operating cash 
conversion* remained strong at 103% (2014: 93%^).
The net cash outflow in the year on restructuring was £0.6m  
(2014: £10.3m). 
At 31 March 2015 net cash was £195.5m (2014: £170.5m), reflecting 
continued strong operating cash performance.
Total committed facilities available to the Group at year end amounted 
to £233.3m (2014: £416.8m). This is made up of a revolving credit 
facility of £233.3m (2014: £267.9m), which is currently undrawn.  
2014 included private placement debt of £148.9m.
Treasury policy
The Group treasury department works within a framework of policies 
and procedures approved by the Audit Committee. As part of these 
policies and procedures, there is strict control on the use of financial 
instruments. Speculative trading in financial instruments is not 
permitted. The policies are established to manage and control risk in 
the treasury environment and to align the treasury goals, objectives 
and philosophy of the Group.
Pensions
The net pension deficit under IAS 19 (revised), before deducting 
deferred tax, was £39.4m (2014: £22.2m). The increase in net pension 
deficit is primarily driven by macro-economic factors. An actuarial 
loss arises from the resultant changes to financial assumptions which 
is partially offset by re-measurement gains on scheme assets. 
The key assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation of the scheme were: 
Assumption 2015 2014 
Discount rate 3.2% 4.2%
Inflation – CPI 2.1% 2.6%
Life expectancy – male (currently aged 40) 91 90
Life expectancy – female (currently aged 40) 93 92
*  Definitions of specific adjusting items and underlying measures  
of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
^  Restated for the reclassification of US Services (excluding Cyveillance®)  
as a discontinued operation.
46
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Financial Officer’s review continued Each assumption is selected by the Group in consultation with the 
Company actuary and takes account of industry practice amongst 
comparator listed companies. The sensitivity of each of the key 
assumptions is shown in the table below. The market value of the 
assets at 31 March 2015 was £1,454.6m (2014: £1,304.6m) and the 
present value of scheme liabilities was £1,494.0m (2014: £1,326.8m).
Assumption Change in assumption 
Indicative effect  
on scheme liabilities  
(before deferred tax) 
Discount rate Increase/decrease  
by 0.1%
Decrease/increase  
by £28m
Inflation Increase/decrease  
by 0.1%
Increase/decrease  
by £28m
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by £37m
The latest triennial valuation of the scheme is being completed  
as at 30 June 2014. It is expected that the recovery plan will  
require £13m contributions per annum until 31 March 2018,  
the same annual funding level as previously. 
Foreign exchange risk management
The principal exchange rates affecting the Group were the sterling  
to US dollar exchange rate and the sterling to Australian dollar 
exchange rate. 
Assumption 2015 2014 
£/US$ – opening rate 1.67 1.52
£/US$ – average rate 1.63 1.59
£/US$ – closing rate 1.49 1.67
£/A$ – opening rate 1.80 1.46
£/A$ – average rate 1.85 1.69
£/A$ – closing rate 1.95 1.80
The Group’s income and expenditure is largely settled in the functional 
currency of the relevant Group entity, mainly sterling or US dollar.  
The Group has a policy in place to hedge all material transaction 
exposure at the point of commitment to the underlying transaction.
Uncommitted future transactions are not routinely hedged.  
The Group continues its practice of not hedging income statement 
translation exposure.
Tax risk management
QinetiQ’s tax strategy is to ensure compliance with all relevant tax 
legislation, wherever we do business, whilst managing our effective 
and cash tax rates. Tax is managed in alignment with our corporate 
responsibility strategy in that we strive to be responsible in all our 
business dealings. These principles are applied in a consistent and 
transparent manner in pursuing the Group’s tax strategy and in all 
dealings with tax authorities around the world.
Accounting standards
As a UK-listed company, the Group is required to adopt EU endorsed 
IFRSs and comply with the Companies Act 2006. The effect of changes 
to financial reporting standards in the year is disclosed in note 1 to the 
financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments 
A description and consideration of the critical accounting estimates 
and judgments made in preparing these financial statements is set 
out in note 1 to the financial statements.
David Mellors
Chief Financial Officer 
21 May 2015
47
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Mark Elliott
Non-executive Chairman
Focus on governance
In this section:
• Compliance 49
• Relations with shareholders 52
• Leadership 54
 – Roles and responsibilities 54
 – Board objectives 54
 – Composition of the Board 55
 – Board meetings and attendance 55
 – Committees 55
• Directors’ biographies 58
• Effectiveness 60
 – Director training and development 60
 – Independence of Non-executive Directors 60
 – Performance of the Board 60
• Report of the Nominations Committee 62
• Accountability 63
 – Identification and review of risks 63
 – Internal control 64
 – Management and control of US subsidiaries 65
• Report of the Audit Committee 66
• Report of the Risk & CSR Committee 70
• Report of the Security Committee 71
• Directors’ remuneration report 72
 – Report of the Remuneration Committee 72
 – Remuneration Policy Summary 76
 – Annual Report on Remuneration 78
• Directors’ report 86
• Directors’ responsibility statement 89
• Independent auditor’s report 90
Good governance is pivotal to the relationship of trust between the 
Company, its customers, its employees and other key stakeholders. 
Effective stewardship and risk management are key to the markets  
in which QinetiQ operates and provide the stability necessary to 
enable the Group to grow its business and create future success.
Succession planning continued to be a key priority for the Board. 
Following the departure of Colin Balmer and the appointment  
of Susan Searle during the 2014 financial year, further changes  
took place with the appointment of Ian Mason as an additional 
Non-executive Director in June 2014 and the retirement of Noreen 
Doyle as a Non-executive Director in July 2014, having completed 
nearly nine years on the Board. Leo Quinn resigned as Chief Executive 
Officer with effect from December 2014 and Steve Wadey was 
appointed as the new Chief Executive Officer with effect from  
April 2015. This process of change and renewal is critical as the  
Group moves from the period of transformation under Leo Quinn  
to a greater focus on growth. I am delighted to be working with  
Steve Wadey as we begin this new phase in QinetiQ’s development.
At the executive level, the Operating Committee continued to be 
responsible for the day to day management of the Group’s activities 
(other than for the part of the US business that is subject to a  
Proxy agreement) and the Governance Committee continued to  
be responsible for overseeing risk management. Both committees 
report to the Board via the Chief Executive Officer. At the annual 
Board strategy meeting in October, members of the Board had an 
opportunity to meet with and challenge business leaders on their 
business plans and strategy.
Following completion of the sale of the US Services business in May 
2014 and the appointment of the new Proxy Board to manage that 
element of the retained US business that is required to be insulated 
from foreign ownership, control or influence (as detailed on page 65), 
work began in evaluating the retained US business. An excellent 
working relationship has been established with the new Proxy Board 
and the Proxy Board Chairman, Len Moodispaw, has joined the UK 
Board on occasion. The internal audit function continues to work 
closely with US management to gain assurance that an effective 
control environment is in place.
During the year ended 31 March 2015 the Board oversaw significant 
change within the Group, both in terms of personnel and in terms  
of its structure. The governance arrangements ensured ‘business  
as usual’ throughout this period and continue to provide a stable 
environment for the new Chief Executive Officer.
Mark Elliott
Non-executive Chairman
21 May 2015
48
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement Defence 6
Engineering 3
Financial 8
Science 4
2015  Number of Directors
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Non-independent 37.5
Independent 62.5
2015 %
Non-executive Chairman 12.5
Non-executive Directors 62.5
Executive Directors 25
2015 %
Compliance statement
QinetiQ is subject to the Financial Reporting Council’s UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) as currently in effect. The Code  
and associated guidance are publicly available on the Corporate 
Governance page of the Financial Reporting Council’s website,  
www.frc.org.uk.
With the exception of the external evaluation of the Board, as 
detailed below, the Board considers that QinetiQ has complied  
with all relevant Provisions of the Code throughout the last financial 
year. This statement provides details of the way in which the  
Main Principles of the Code have been applied during that year. 
External evaluation of the Board – Code Provision B.6.2. 
Code Provision B.6.2. states that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 
companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years. 
An external evaluation of the Board would have taken place during 
the year under review, however, pending the appointment of the  
new Chief Executive Officer, the Board decided to defer the external 
evaluation process by one year, and to proceed with an externally 
provided online questionnaire-based review tool in 2015, to allow 
time for the new Chief Executive Officer to take up his role. Further 
details of the review can be found in the ‘Effectiveness’ section on 
page 60. 
An overview of the Group’s corporate governance arrangements  
can be found on the QinetiQ website at: 
www.QinetiQ.com/about-us/corporate-governance.
Effective governance
An effective Board sets the tone, influencing culture and behaviours 
through its decisions and leadership. To be effective, a Board should 
comprise experienced individuals with a range of background and 
experience, who are independent in character and judgment.
Board skills
Board independence
Board composition
49
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information A. Leadership (pages 54 to 59) B. Effectiveness (pages 60 to 63)
A1 The Role of the Board
The Board met seven times during the year. There is a schedule  
of matters reserved to the Board and the Board has a set of 
objectives and responsibilities. Details of the Board membership 
and their attendance at Board and Committee meetings are 
included in this Annual Report on page 55.
A2 Division of Responsibilities
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are not exercised by the 
same individual and their separate responsibilities are established.
A3 The Chairman
The Chairman, working with the Company Secretary, sets the 
agenda for Board meetings and encourages an open and 
constructive debate.
A4 Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors provide constructive challenge to 
management. The Board has appointed a Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director. Regular meetings are held with the Chairman 
and Non-executive Directors without the executives present.
B1 The Composition of the Board
At least half the Board (excluding the Chairman) comprises 
independent Non-executive Directors. The Board considers the 
overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard  
to the experience and skills the Directors bring to their duties.
B2 Appointments to the Board
The Nominations Committee oversees appointments to the  
Board, its balance of skills and experience and the succession 
planning process. The report of the Nominations Committee  
can be found on page 62.
B3 Time Commitment
The anticipated time commitment required in respect of  
the non-executive role is communicated in the appointment 
process. The Board is notified of changes to other significant 
commitments and the Chairman consulted where appropriate.
B4 Director Training and Development
All Directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board.  
Site visits and training are made available to enable Directors  
to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
B5 Information and Support for Directors
The Chairman, working in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary, ensures that the Board receives accurate,  
timely and clear information.
B6 Performance evaluation
An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees 
and individual Directors is carried out annually.
B7 Re-election of Directors
The Company requires each serving member of the Board  
to be put forward for election or re-election on an annual  
basis at each Annual General Meeting.
Overview of the application of  
the Main Principles of the Code
50
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued C. Accountability (pages 63 to 71)
E. Relations with shareholders (pages 52 to 53)
D. Remuneration (pages 72 to 85)
C1 Financial and Business Reporting
The Board presents its results at the full year and the half year  
and provides quarterly updates to the market. The Annual Report 
and Accounts contains a Strategic report which provides an 
explanation of the business model and the strategy for delivering 
the objectives of the Company. A going concern statement is 
included on page 88, responsibility statements can be found  
on pages 88 to 89, and details of the process for ensuring that  
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable can be 
found on page 89. There is also a statement in the auditor’s  
report on page 92 about their reporting responsibilities. 
C2 Risk Management and Internal Control 
The risk management process and the system of internal control 
necessary to manage risks are overseen by the Audit Committee 
(financial risks) and the Risk & CSR Committee (non-financial risks). 
A report on specific risk review activity undertaken during the  
year by those committees, together with the current risk registers, 
was presented by the CEO to the Board at its March meeting.  
The Strategic report contains on pages 30 to 37 details of risk 
management and the Company’s principal risks and uncertainties, 
their impact and how they are managed. Details of risk management 
and internal control processes can be found on pages 63 to 65.
C3 Audit Committee and Auditors
The Board has established an Audit Committee comprising at  
least three independent Non-executive Directors, with formal 
terms of reference. It oversees the financial risk management  
and internal controls process, the effectiveness of internal audit 
activities, the external auditor’s independence and objectivity  
and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of the 
reappointment of the external auditor and their remuneration. 
The report of the Audit Committee can be found on pages 66 to 69.
D1 Level and Components of Remuneration
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee with  
formal terms of reference. It is responsible for ensuring that levels 
of remuneration are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate 
Directors of sufficient quality and that any performance related 
elements are relevant, stretching and designed to promote the 
long-term success of the Company.
D2 Developing Remuneration Policy and Packages
The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on  
pages 72 to 74 and provides details of, or links to, the procedure for 
setting policy on Executive Director remuneration. The Committee 
also recommends and monitors the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management.
E1 Dialogue with Shareholders
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are made aware of major 
shareholder issues and concerns, by way of reports from the 
Executive Directors at Board meetings, attendance at key financial 
calendar events and by making themselves available to meet 
shareholders as required.
E2 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting
All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting 
and to ask questions. The Chairs of the Audit, Nominations, 
Remuneration, Risk & CSR and Security Committees attend the 
meeting and are available to answer any questions on the work  
of the committees.
51
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Relations with shareholders
The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness  
of its communications with shareholders and sets itself the target of 
providing information that is timely, clear and concise. Responsibility 
for maintaining regular communications with shareholders rests with 
the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), 
assisted by the Investor Relations Director.
An investor perception audit was conducted during the financial  
year by an independent third party comprising interviews with a 
dozen leading institutional shareholders in July and August 2014 
controlling some 45% of the issued equity. The results of this  
audit were considered by the Board as part of its review of Group 
strategy in October, and when setting the criteria for the new CEO 
recruitment process.
According to the audit, the QinetiQ investor relations team had  
met with over 100 institutional contacts in the preceding 12 months, 
accounting for more than three-quarters of QinetiQ’s institutional 
shareholding base. More than 70 of these meetings were hosted  
by the Executive Directors, who met with eight out of ten top 
shareholders and 21 out of the top 30.
The Chairman proactively offers to attend meetings with key 
shareholders, and their corporate governance teams, on a regular 
basis. The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and  
Non-executive Directors routinely attend key financial calendar 
events such as presentations of interim and preliminary results  
and make themselves available to meet shareholders as required.
Following the announcement of the resignation of the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chairman and Investor Relations Director engaged with 
top shareholders, subsequently meeting with a number of them 
face-to-face. All top shareholders were also proactively contacted 
following the announcement of the appointment of Steve Wadey  
as the Group’s new CEO.
The Board as a whole is informed on a regular basis about the views 
of key shareholders, including their concerns. The Investor Relations 
Director reports to the CEO, and provides regular updates to the 
Chairman and Non-executive Directors by way of face-to-face 
briefings, email updates and a section in the Executive Directors’ 
report which is included in the Board papers as a standing item.  
The following information is included in these reports:
• financial calendar and draft material;
• share price performance;
• the composition of the shareholder register;
• feedback from investor meetings, including key questions;
• covering sell-side analysts, their recommendations and 
expectations; and
• peer group news.
Other investor activity during the last financial year included: 
• telephone briefings for analysts and investors, at least six times 
per year in conjunction with key financial announcements and 
financial period ends;
• face-to-face presentations of full year and half-year results,  
in May and November respectively, where the Chairman and 
Directors were available for discussions with investors;
• live and post-event webcasts of key presentations such as the 
full year and half-year results;
• investor ‘road shows’ held in London, Edinburgh, and the east 
and west coasts of the United States in May, June, November 
and December;
• visits, sales team briefings, group lunches, conference 
presentations and ad hoc meetings on request;
• web-based investor centre optimised for mobile devices and 
iPad app updated regularly and incorporating best practice; and
• the Annual General Meeting held on 22 July 2014.
52
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued Annual General Meeting
The Code notes that the Board should use the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) to communicate with investors and encourage their 
participation. The Board invites holders of ordinary shares to attend 
the Company’s AGM each year and to ask questions. The Chairs of  
the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Risk & CSR and Security 
Committees are available at that meeting to answer any questions  
on the work of the Committees.
The 2014 AGM was held at Pennyhill Park Hotel, Bagshot, Surrey on 
22 July 2014 and, with the exception of Noreen Doyle, who had a 
prior engagement, each member of the Board attended the meeting 
and was available to take questions.
The 2015 AGM is scheduled to be held at the same venue, Pennyhill 
Park Hotel, Bagshot, Surrey, on 22 July 2015. The Company confirms 
that it will send the Notice of Meeting and relevant documentation to 
all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM. 
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications 
electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents in the 
‘Investors’ section of the Group’s website. All shareholders will be 
entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the AGM and, to ensure that 
all votes are counted, a poll will be taken on all of the resolutions in 
the Notice of Meeting. The results of the votes on the resolutions will 
be published on the Company’s website, www.QinetiQ.com, in the 
‘Investors’ section. 
Website information
All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the 
Annual Report, presentations to investors, AGM documentation, key 
financial information, regulatory news, financial calendar, share and 
dividend data and other significant information about QinetiQ in the 
‘Investors’ section of the Company’s website, www.QinetiQ.com.  
The site also provides contact details for any investor-related queries, 
by telephone and by email.
The Company continues to look at ways of improving the quality  
of its engagement with shareholders and to explore with investors 
any additional practical means by which it can give effect to the 
requirements of the Financial Reporting Council’s UK Stewardship 
Code for institutional investors, and of the Code.
Details of the Company’s share capital, which are required to be 
disclosed in accordance with rule 7.2.6 of the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, and the 
Directors’ powers in relation to issuing and buying back shares  
can be found on pages 88 and 86 respectively in the Directors’  
report section of this Annual Report.
53
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Leadership
Operation
The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, 
which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the 
Board and its Committees during the annual business cycle.
This includes the level of delegated authorities (both financial  
and non-financial) available to Executive Directors and other layers 
of management in the business, QinetiQ’s business ethics, risk 
management, and health, safety and environmental processes.
The Board devotes one entire meeting each year to consider 
strategy and planning issues that have an impact on the Group, 
from which the corporate plan is generated. It is also regularly  
kept up to date on strategic issues throughout the year. 
Roles and responsibilities
The Board of Directors:
• is responsible for overseeing the Executive Directors’ 
management of operations and, in this capacity, determines 
the Group’s strategic and investment policies;
• monitors the performance of the Group’s senior management 
team and organises its business to have regular interaction 
with key members of senior management; and
• is responsible for overseeing the management of the business 
of the Group. Its powers are subject to the Articles of 
Association and any applicable legislation and regulation.
Board objectives
The overarching remit of the Board is to demonstrate the highest 
standards of corporate governance in accordance with the Code:
• to ensure the continuing evolution and implementation of  
the Group’s strategy to deliver value to all stakeholders: 
customers, employees and shareholders;
• to develop challenging objectives for the business and monitor 
management performance against those goals;
• to provide a framework of effective controls to assess and 
manage risks, with clear expectations of conduct to the 
highest standards of ethics;
• to provide support and constructive challenges to the CEO  
to promote the Group’s success;
• to demonstrate leadership in management systems around 
health, safety and environment; and
• to manage succession planning for the Board and the Group’s 
executive management.
Matters reserved to the Board
The Board has a clearly articulated set of matters which are 
specifically reserved to it for consideration.
These include:
• reviewing and approving the annual budgets;
• raising indebtedness;
• granting security over Group assets;
• approving Group strategy and the corporate plan;
• approving the Annual and Interim Report and Accounts;
• approving significant investment, bid, acquisition and  
divestment transactions;
• approving HR policies (including pension arrangements);
• reviewing material litigation; and
• monitoring the overall system of internal control,  
including risk management.
The Board
The Board represents the interests of both QinetiQ and its shareholders. 
It comprises a range of experience and expertise required to meet the challenges  
facing the Group. The Non-executive Directors bring independent judgment on  
key issues affecting the Group and its business operations, including strategy, 
performance, resources (including key appointments) and standards of conduct. 
Directors receive ongoing training about the Company and their duties.
P55 See Operation of the Board for more information
54
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued Composition of the Board
At the date of this report, the Board has eight members: the  
Non-executive Chairman; five other Non-executive Directors;  
and two Executive Directors – the CEO and the CFO. Their names  
and biographical details can be found on pages 58 to 59.
The following changes in Board membership took place during the year:
• Ian Mason was appointed as a Non-executive Director on  
3 June 2014.
• Noreen Doyle retired as a Non-executive Director on 22 July 
2014, having served on the Board for more than eight years. 
• Leo Quinn resigned as an Executive Director and Chief Executive 
Officer on 31 December 2014.
• David Mellors was appointed as interim Chief Executive Officer 
from 1 January 2015 until 26 April 2015.
The following change took place after the year end:
• Steve Wadey was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief 
Executive Officer on 27 April 2015.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees  
– 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015
Committee
Members Board Audit Nominations Remuneration
Risk  
& CSR
Mark Elliott 7/7 – 4/4 6/6 4/4
Admiral  
Sir James 
Burnell-Nugent 7/7 5/5 4/4 6/6 4/4
Noreen Doyle 
~
1/2 2/2 1/1 1/2 1/2
Michael Harper 7/7 5/5 4/4 6/6 4/4
Ian Mason 6/6 3/3 3/3 5/5 3/3
David Mellors
 <
7/7 – 2/2 – 4/4
Paul Murray 7/7 5/5 4/4 6/6 4/4
Leo Quinn 5/5 – 1/2 – 2/3
Susan Searle 7/7 5/5 4/4 6/6 4/4
 Steve Wadey has not been included in the above table as he did not serve as a Director 
during the year under review.
~  Noreen Doyle was unable to attend the July meetings due to a prior engagement.
<  David Mellors was interim CEO during the period from 1 January 2015 to 26 April 2015 
and attended meetings in that capacity where appropriate.
Operation of the Board
For each meeting, the Board receives a written report from the  
CEO and CFO, together with a separate report on investor relations 
which is prepared in consultation with QinetiQ’s brokers, and a  
report produced by the Company Secretary on key legal and 
regulatory issues that affect the Group. The CEO’s and CFO’s report 
addresses the key strategic initiatives which have had an impact on 
the Group since the previous Board meeting, with particular focus  
on the progress of each of the businesses. Other key areas of focus 
include health, safety and environmental matters; employee and 
organisational issues; corporate responsibility; the status of key 
account management/customer relationship initiatives; the pipeline 
of potential bids, acquisitions, disposals and investments; and the 
post-acquisition performance of recently acquired businesses.
The Board also receives updates from key functional areas on an  
‘as needed’ basis, on issues such as human resources, treasury, corporate 
responsibility, real estate, security, trade controls and pensions.
Key issues considered by the Board in the past year include:
a) the impact of the disposal of the US Services division;
b) the strategy for the Group as a whole; and
c) succession planning.
Further details are set out on the next page.
Committees
QinetiQ operates by way of two key Executive Committees and five 
principal Board Committees. Details can be found on page 57.
55
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Key issues covered by the Board during the past year include:
a) Disposal of the US Services business
The US Services business disposal was completed in May 2014. 
The retained US business was split into those areas where no 
Proxy arrangement was necessary, and the US Global Products 
business where a new Proxy arrangement was required (as 
detailed on page 65). Since then the Board has received updates, 
via the regular Executive Directors’ Report to the Board and by 
presentations from the US Global Products executive team, 
b) Group strategy
During the year, the Board received updates on progress against 
strategy by way of regular presentations from the Group Strategy 
Director. The presentations included a measurement of progress 
against milestones/objectives and a linkage between strategy and 
daily activity. In October, the Board held its annual two-day strategy 
meeting at an off-site location where the strategy for the Group as  
a whole was reviewed. In advance of the meeting, the Board had 
given guidance to the Group Strategy Director on subject areas it 
would like to see covered at the strategy meeting. As in the previous 
year, the Managing Directors from each business and the leaders  
of key corporate functions attended the two-day meeting and gave 
presentations on the strategy for their respective business areas. 
The Board was able to meet both formally and informally with 
business leaders, to understand the key drivers and risks (including 
their mitigation) for their business areas. Following the meeting,  
the strategic business plans were updated and form the basis for 
regular progress reports to the Board by the Group Strategy Director. 
c) Succession planning
Succession planning, both at Executive and Non-executive level, 
remains a key focus for the Board. In July 2014 the Board highlighted 
succession planning as one of its top priorities for the year. The 
Board stated its objective of reviewing comprehensive succession 
plans for the top 12 to 15 executive positions with a focus on 
improving the talent pipeline and diversity. In addition, the Board 
stated that it will continue to focus on the succession plans for the 
Non-executive Directors, including both training and refreshment, 
to ensure they align Board skills with the needs of the strategy. 
Membership of the Board was refreshed during the year, with the 
appointment of Ian Mason as a Non-executive Director in June 2014 
and the search and appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer 
which was completed with the appointment of Steve Wadey, who 
joined the Board in April 2015. Further details can be found in the 
report of the Nominations Committee on pages 62 to 63.
of progress with the new Proxy arrangement, an evaluation of the 
business and its strategy, and measurement against its objectives. 
During the year, a new president was appointed to drive forward 
the development of the business, which will remain an important 
subject of the Board’s focus.
Alongside the process for the setting and review of Group strategy, 
the Board also commissioned an external report to identify 
shareholder perspectives and observations on the Company’s 
stated strategy and investment proposition. The report was tabled 
at a Board meeting and it was noted that, amongst other things, 
shareholders’ general observations were that the Company had 
been transformed into a more focused and manageable business 
with net cash on its balance sheet, there was strong support for 
management and a well understood strategy. The output from the 
report in terms of growth has been used to inform the Company’s 
strategic thinking in respect of value creation and growth. 
As regards talent management within the wider Group, at the 
September Board meeting, the Director of Capability updated the 
Board on the activities being taken in respect of equality, diversity 
and inclusion. The Board approved the policy and noted the means 
of measuring progress by way of a scorecard approach. At the 
October strategy meeting, the Director of Capability gave a 
presentation on enhancing human capability within the Group, 
including to protect and secure suitably qualified and experienced 
personnel, in particular to support the business strategy and to 
continue to develop the Company’s culture, with improved diversity, 
an emphasis on unlocking the potential of the workforce and the 
encouragement of innovation.
Further details on diversity can be found in the Responsible 
business section on pages 24 to 29.
56
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued Board Committees
Executive Committees
Audit  
C om m i ttee
Nom i n a tions 
C om m i ttee
R em u ner ation 
C om m i ttee
Risk & CSR  
C om m i ttee
Security  
C om m i ttee
The Board and its Committees
Board
The Board of Directors is responsible for the governance of the Company and 
for agreeing its strategy and monitoring its progress. Details of the Directors  
at the date of this report can be found on page 55. 
The Board has established five principal Committees: the Audit Committee,  
the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Risk & CSR 
Committee and the Security Committee. Each operates within written  
terms of reference approved by the Board. The full terms of reference  
can be found in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at  
www.QinetiQ.com/about-us/corporate-governance. 
Given the size of the Board, and in the interests of full Board participation  
and transparency, the Board maintains a policy of all-Director membership  
of Committees, other than where prohibited by the Code, statutory or  
Security Committee requirements.
Where a Committee is not attended by the full Board, details of the key issues 
discussed, and decisions taken, are circulated to all members of the Board after 
the relevant Committee meeting.
A report in respect of each of these Committees is contained on pages 62  
to 74. The details of each Committee member’s attendance at Committee 
meetings are set out in the table contained within each Committee report. 
Details of the Group’s reward and remuneration policies and payments, 
together with the report of the Remuneration Committee, can be found in  
the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 72 to 85 which is incorporated 
into this corporate governance statement by reference.
O p er atin g  C omm i tt ee
• Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group’s activities, 
with the exception of QinetiQ’s US Global Products business (which is 
managed through the Proxy Board, as described in the section on page 
65 headed ‘Management and control of US subsidiaries’). It reports via 
the Chief Executive Officer to the Board.
• Its specific focus during the year continued to be on the 
achievement of the Group’s strategic goals in respect of  
growth and operational excellence.
• During the year the Operating Committee met on a monthly basis, 
and received weekly updates on key operational issues by way  
of pre-scheduled conference calls.
G o v erna nc e  C om m i ttee
• Responsible for oversight of the risk management process and its 
implementation by the divisions. It reports via the Chief Executive 
Officer to the Board and supports the Board Committees.
• Matters covered during the year included non-financial corporate 
objectives, targets and key performance indicators, approval of 
Operating Framework policy documents and the review of business 
risk registers and the Group Risk Register.
• During the year the Committee met on a quarterly basis.
Member ship  of  the  E x ecutiv e  C ommittees  during  the  y ear
• Chief Executive Officer
• Chief Financial Officer
• UK Divisional Managing Directors
• Business Development Director
• Capability Director
• Chief Technology Officer
• Company Secretary & Group General Counsel
• Group Strategy Director
• Investor Relations and Communications Director
• Operations and Shared Services Director
57
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information  Mark Elliott
Non-executive Chairman
Steve Wadey
Chief Executive Officer
David Mellors
Chief Financial Officer 
Michael Harper
Deputy Chairman and  
Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Ian Mason
Non-executive Director
Admiral Sir James 
Burnell-Nugent
Non-executive Director
Paul Murray
Non-executive Director
Susan Searle
Non-executive Director
Jon Messent
Company Secretary and  
Group General Counsel
Appointment  
to the Board
Appointed Non-executive 
Chairman in March 2010; 
Non-executive Director between 
June 2009 and February 2010.
Appointed Chief Executive 
Officer in April 2015.
Appointed Chief Financial Officer 
in August 2008. Interim Chief 
Executive Officer from 1 January 
2015 until 26 April 2015.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in November 2011. 
Appointed Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director  
in February 2012.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in June 2014.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in April 2010.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in October 2010.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in March 2014.
Appointed Company Secretary 
and Group General Counsel in 
January 2011.
Independent Independent on appointment Not applicable Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable
Skills and experience •  Extensive experience in the 
technology services sector 
having worked for IBM for over 
30 years in a number of senior 
management positions. 
•  Experience of a variety  
of industry sectors from 
membership of the boards  
of FTSE listed companies.
•  The Board considers that 
Mark’s extensive experience, 
including listed company 
governance experience, is a 
valuable asset to the Group  
in terms of leadership and of 
addressing the strategic issues 
that affect the Group.
•  I n - d epth e x p er i e n c e  
of the defence industry  
and technology.
•  E x t e n s i v e o p er a ti o n a l  
and corporate experience  
and stewardship.
•  Fellow of the Royal 
Academy of Engineering.
•  Fellow of the Institution  
of Engineering and 
Technology.
•  Fellow of the Royal 
Aeronautical Society.
•  E x t e n s i v e e x p e r i en c e  
of working in a listed  
company environment.
•  Knowledge of the  
defence, technology  
and services sectors.
•  A member of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants  
in England and Wales.
•  A depth of operational and 
corporate experience and 
stewardship, including in  
the engineering sector.
•  The Board considers  
that Michael’s wealth of 
operational and corporate 
experience, including  
listed company governance 
experience, enables him  
to make a significant 
contribution to the Board.
•  C o n s i d e r a ble e x p e r i e nce  
in strategy, business 
transformation, eCommerce 
and international development. 
•  The Board considers  
that Ian’s experience  
in strategy, business 
transformation and 
international development  
is of significant benefit  
to the Board.
•  Si gn i f i c a n t e x p er i en c e  
of the defence industry, 
contracting with government 
and management. 
•  The Board considers that  
Sir James’ expertise in the 
Government contracting 
domain, particularly with the 
UK MOD and HM Treasury,  
is highly beneficial in the context 
of QinetiQ’s government-
sourced operations.
•  A broad range of experience 
in finance and corporate 
governance from a range  
of industries.
•  The Board considers  
that Paul’s experience  
in finance and corporate 
governance from a 
cross-section of industries,  
all of which leverage 
technology, and including  
listed company governance 
experience, is of significant 
benefit to the Board.
•  Extensive experience of the 
new technologies sector.
•  A founder of Imperial 
Innovations Group plc.
•  The Board considers  
Susan’s strong experience  
of commercialising new 
technologies and intellectual 
property of particular relevance 
to QinetiQ as it pursues its 
Organic-Plus strategy.
•  Extensive experience as  
a General Counsel and 
Company Secretary in  
other FTSE250 companies.
•  Background in legal  
private practice.
External appointments •  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
of G4S plc, where he is the 
Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
•  Chairman of Kodak Alaris 
Holdings Limited (appointed 
during the year under review).
•  Co-chair of the Defence 
Growth Partnership. 
•  N o n - e x ec u t i v e d i r ec t o r  
of the MOD Research  
and Development Board.
• None •  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
of the Aerospace  
Technology Institute.
• None • High Sheriff of Devon. •  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
and Chair of the Audit & Risk 
Committee at Royal Mail 
Group plc. 
•  Director of Independent  
Oil and Gas plc.
• Director of Ventive Ltd. 
• Director of Naked Energy Ltd.
• Benchmark Holdings plc.
 (a)
•  H or i z on D i s co v e r y  
Group plc.
 (a)
•  Chair of Woodford Patient 
Capital Trust plc.
• Mercia Technologies plc.
 (b)
•  Member of the international 
advisory board of PTT.
• Trustee of Fight for Sight.
• None
Past roles •  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
of Reed Elsevier Group plc  
(and also Chairman of its 
Remuneration Committee)  
and Reed Elsevier NV from 
April 2003 until April 2013.
•  Worked for IBM for over  
30 years where he occupied  
a number of senior management 
positions, including General 
Manager of IBM Europe, 
Middle East and Africa.
•  Member of IBM’s worldwide 
Management Council.
•  Various roles with MBDA 
from 2001 to 2014, most 
recently as Managing 
Director, MBDA UK and 
Technical Director for  
the MBDA Group. 
•  Matra BAe Dynamics 
– various roles in 
engineering held  
from 1996 to 2001.
•  Various roles with British 
Aerospace held from 1989 
to 1996.
•  Co-Chair of the National 
Defence Industries Research 
& Development Group.
•  Deputy Chief Financial  
Officer of Logica plc. He was 
also Chief Financial Officer  
of Logica’s international 
division, covering operations  
in North America, Australia, 
the Middle East and Asia and, 
before that, was the Group 
Financial Controller. 
•  Various roles with CMG  
plc, Rio Tinto plc and  
Price Waterhouse.
•  Chairman of Ricardo plc  
from November 2009 until 
November 2014, having  
joined that Board in 2003. 
•  Chairman of BBA Aviation plc 
from June 2007 until May 
2014, having joined that  
Board in 2005. 
•  Chairman of Vitec Group  
plc from 2004 to 2012.
•  Director of Williams plc  
where, at the time of the 
demerger in 2000, he  
became CEO of Kidde plc.
•  Group Chief Executive  
of Electrocomponents plc  
from 2001 until 31 March 
2015, having joined that 
company in 1995.
•  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
of the Sage Group plc  
from 2007 to 2013.
•  37-year career in the  
Royal Navy that culminated  
in his appointment as 
Commander-in-Chief Fleet.
•  Commanded the aircraft 
carrier HMS Invincible  
and three other ships  
and submarines.
•  B e t w e en o p e r a ti o n a l  
duties, several positions  
at the MOD and gained 
cross-Whitehall experience 
while on secondment to  
HM Treasury.
•  Director of Knowledge  
Peers plc.
•  Senior Independent Director 
of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
•  Non-executive Director of 
Thomson SA. 
•  Non-executive Director of 
Tangent Communications plc.
•  Group Finance Director of 
Carlton Communications plc.
•  Group Finance Director of 
LASMO plc.
• Trustee of Pilotlight.
•  CEO of Imperial Innovations 
Group plc from 2002  
to July 2013.
•  Previously Susan has  
served on a variety of  
private company boards  
in engineering, healthcare  
and materials. 
 
(a)
  Non-executive Director and Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee.
(b)
  Deputy Chair and Chair of the  
Audit Committee.
•  Joined QinetiQ from  
Chloride Group plc.
•  General counsel and company 
secretarial experience in  
other FTSE250 companies.
Committee membership Nominations Committee 
(Chairman)
Remuneration Committee 
Risk & CSR Committee
Nominations Committee
Risk & CSR Committee
Security Committee
Risk & CSR Committee
Security Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee 
Remuneration Committee 
(Chairman)
Risk & CSR Committee
Security Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee 
Risk & CSR Committee 
Security Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee 
Risk & CSR Committee (Chairman)
Security Committee (Chairman)
Audit Committee (Chairman)
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee
Risk & CSR Committee 
Security Committee
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee 
Risk & CSR Committee
Nominations Committee
Security Committee
58
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board of Directors  Mark Elliott
Non-executive Chairman
Steve Wadey
Chief Executive Officer
David Mellors
Chief Financial Officer 
Michael Harper
Deputy Chairman and  
Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Ian Mason
Non-executive Director
Admiral Sir James 
Burnell-Nugent
Non-executive Director
Paul Murray
Non-executive Director
Susan Searle
Non-executive Director
Jon Messent
Company Secretary and  
Group General Counsel
Appointment  
to the Board
Appointed Non-executive 
Chairman in March 2010; 
Non-executive Director between 
June 2009 and February 2010.
Appointed Chief Executive 
Officer in April 2015.
Appointed Chief Financial Officer 
in August 2008. Interim Chief 
Executive Officer from 1 January 
2015 until 26 April 2015.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in November 2011. 
Appointed Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director  
in February 2012.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in June 2014.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in April 2010.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in October 2010.
Appointed Non-executive 
Director in March 2014.
Appointed Company Secretary 
and Group General Counsel in 
January 2011.
Independent Independent on appointment Not applicable Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable
Skills and experience •  Extensive experience in the 
technology services sector 
having worked for IBM for over 
30 years in a number of senior 
management positions. 
•  Experience of a variety  
of industry sectors from 
membership of the boards  
of FTSE listed companies.
•  The Board considers that 
Mark’s extensive experience, 
including listed company 
governance experience, is a 
valuable asset to the Group  
in terms of leadership and of 
addressing the strategic issues 
that affect the Group.
•  I n - d e pth e x p er i e n c e  
of the defence industry  
and technology.
•  E x t e n s i v e o p er a ti o n a l  
and corporate experience  
and stewardship.
•  Fellow of the Royal 
Academy of Engineering.
•  Fellow of the Institution  
of Engineering and 
Technology.
•  Fellow of the Royal 
Aeronautical Society.
•  E x t e n s i v e e x p er i en c e  
of working in a listed  
company environment.
•  Knowledge of the  
defence, technology  
and services sectors.
•  A member of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants  
in England and Wales.
•  A depth of operational and 
corporate experience and 
stewardship, including in  
the engineering sector.
•  The Board considers  
that Michael’s wealth of 
operational and corporate 
experience, including  
listed company governance 
experience, enables him  
to make a significant 
contribution to the Board.
•  C o n s i d e r a ble e x p e r i e nce  
in strategy, business 
transformation, eCommerce 
and international development. 
•  The Board considers  
that Ian’s experience  
in strategy, business 
transformation and 
international development  
is of significant benefit  
to the Board.
•  Si gn i f i c a n t e x p er i en c e  
of the defence industry, 
contracting with government 
and management. 
•  The Board considers that  
Sir James’ expertise in the 
Government contracting 
domain, particularly with the 
UK MOD and HM Treasury,  
is highly beneficial in the context 
of QinetiQ’s government-
sourced operations.
•  A broad range of experience 
in finance and corporate 
governance from a range  
of industries.
•  The Board considers  
that Paul’s experience  
in finance and corporate 
governance from a 
cross-section of industries,  
all of which leverage 
technology, and including  
listed company governance 
experience, is of significant 
benefit to the Board.
•  Extensive experience of the 
new technologies sector.
•  A founder of Imperial 
Innovations Group plc.
•  The Board considers  
Susan’s strong experience  
of commercialising new 
technologies and intellectual 
property of particular relevance 
to QinetiQ as it pursues its 
Organic-Plus strategy.
•  Extensive experience as  
a General Counsel and 
Company Secretary in  
other FTSE250 companies.
•  Background in legal  
private practice.
External appointments •  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
of G4S plc, where he is the 
Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
•  Chairman of Kodak Alaris 
Holdings Limited (appointed 
during the year under review).
•  Co-chair of the Defence 
Growth Partnership. 
•  N o n - e x ec u t i v e d i r ec t o r  
of the MOD Research  
and Development Board.
• None •  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
of the Aerospace  
Technology Institute.
• None • High Sheriff of Devon. •  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
and Chair of the Audit & Risk 
Committee at Royal Mail 
Group plc. 
•  Director of Independent  
Oil and Gas plc.
• Director of Ventive Ltd. 
• Director of Naked Energy Ltd.
• Benchmark Holdings plc.
 (a)
•  H or i z on D i s co v e r y  
Group plc.
 (a)
•  Chair of Woodford Patient 
Capital Trust plc.
• Mercia Technologies plc.
 (b)
•  Member of the international 
advisory board of PTT.
• Trustee of Fight for Sight.
• None
Past roles •  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
of Reed Elsevier Group plc  
(and also Chairman of its 
Remuneration Committee)  
and Reed Elsevier NV from 
April 2003 until April 2013.
•  Worked for IBM for over  
30 years where he occupied  
a number of senior management 
positions, including General 
Manager of IBM Europe, 
Middle East and Africa.
•  Member of IBM’s worldwide 
Management Council.
•  Various roles with MBDA 
from 2001 to 2014, most 
recently as Managing 
Director, MBDA UK and 
Technical Director for  
the MBDA Group. 
•  Matra BAe Dynamics 
– various roles in 
engineering held  
from 1996 to 2001.
•  Various roles with British 
Aerospace held from 1989 
to 1996.
•  Co-Chair of the National 
Defence Industries Research 
& Development Group.
•  Deputy Chief Financial  
Officer of Logica plc. He was 
also Chief Financial Officer  
of Logica’s international 
division, covering operations  
in North America, Australia, 
the Middle East and Asia and, 
before that, was the Group 
Financial Controller. 
•  Various roles with CMG  
plc, Rio Tinto plc and  
Price Waterhouse.
•  Chairman of Ricardo plc  
from November 2009 until 
November 2014, having  
joined that Board in 2003. 
•  Chairman of BBA Aviation plc 
from June 2007 until May 
2014, having joined that  
Board in 2005. 
•  Chairman of Vitec Group  
plc from 2004 to 2012.
•  Director of Williams plc  
where, at the time of the 
demerger in 2000, he  
became CEO of Kidde plc.
•  Group Chief Executive  
of Electrocomponents plc  
from 2001 until 31 March 
2015, having joined that 
company in 1995.
•  N o n - e x ec u t i v e Di r ec t o r  
of the Sage Group plc  
from 2007 to 2013.
•  37-year career in the  
Royal Navy that culminated  
in his appointment as 
Commander-in-Chief Fleet.
•  Commanded the aircraft 
carrier HMS Invincible  
and three other ships  
and submarines.
•  B e t w e en o p e r a ti o n a l  
duties, several positions  
at the MOD and gained 
cross-Whitehall experience 
while on secondment to  
HM Treasury.
•  Director of Knowledge  
Peers plc.
•  Senior Independent Director 
of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
•  Non-executive Director of 
Thomson SA. 
•  Non-executive Director of 
Tangent Communications plc.
•  Group Finance Director of 
Carlton Communications plc.
•  Group Finance Director of 
LASMO plc.
• Trustee of Pilotlight.
•  CEO of Imperial Innovations 
Group plc from 2002  
to July 2013.
•  Previously Susan has  
served on a variety of  
private company boards  
in engineering, healthcare  
and materials. 
 
(a)
  Non-executive Director and Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee.
(b)
  Deputy Chair and Chair of the  
Audit Committee.
•  Joined QinetiQ from  
Chloride Group plc.
•  General counsel and company 
secretarial experience in  
other FTSE250 companies.
Committee membership Nominations Committee 
(Chairman)
Remuneration Committee 
Risk & CSR Committee
Nominations Committee
Risk & CSR Committee
Security Committee
Risk & CSR Committee
Security Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee 
Remuneration Committee 
(Chairman)
Risk & CSR Committee
Security Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee 
Risk & CSR Committee 
Security Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee 
Risk & CSR Committee (Chairman)
Security Committee (Chairman)
Audit Committee (Chairman)
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee
Risk & CSR Committee 
Security Committee
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee 
Risk & CSR Committee
Nominations Committee
Security Committee
59
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Effectiveness
The Board considers that the skills and experience of its individual 
members, particularly in the areas of UK defence and security,  
the commercialisation of innovative technologies, corporate finance 
and governance, mergers and acquisitions, and risk management, 
have been fundamental in the pursuit of QinetiQ’s strategic initiatives  
(as described on pages 10 to 19 of this report) in the past year.  
In addition, the quoted company experience of members of the Board  
in a variety of industry sectors and international markets has also 
been invaluable to the Group as it seeks to consolidate its position  
in its core markets and geographic territories.
Director training and development
On appointment, Directors receive a tailored induction programme, 
comprising site visits, meetings with management and training where 
required. On an ongoing basis, Directors receive appropriate training 
about the Company and their duties. The Company Secretariat organises 
site visits and training to suit individual requirements. Recent training 
has included regulatory updates presented at Board meetings by the 
Company’s legal advisors and by the auditor.
Independence of Non-executive Directors
Of the current Directors of the Company, the Board considers all the 
Non-executive Directors to be independent of QinetiQ’s executive 
management and free from any business or other relationships that 
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgment. The Board considers that more than half its members were 
independent Non-executive Directors throughout the last financial year.
The Non-executive Directors bring independent judgment on key 
issues affecting the Group and its business operations including 
strategy, performance, resources (including key appointments)  
and standards of conduct. Their independence of character and 
integrity, together with the experience and skills that they bring to 
their duties, prevent any individual or small group from dominating  
the decision making of the Board as a whole. 
Performance of the Board
QinetiQ continues each year to evaluate the performance of the 
Board and its Committees. The most recent external evaluation  
of the Board’s effectiveness was carried out by Independent Audit 
Limited in 2012 and reported in that year’s Annual Report and Accounts. 
In 2013 and 2014, the Board’s effectiveness was assessed internally  
by way of a questionnaire completed by Board members and 
individual performance reviews carried out by the Chairman  
and the Senior Independent Director.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, the Company was due to carry  
out an external evaluation of the performance of the Board, however, 
owing to the change of Chief Executive Officer during the year, it was 
considered appropriate to defer the external review by one year, to 
allow time for the incoming Chief Executive Officer to take up his new 
role. Accordingly, to ensure an external and independent perspective  
on the self-assessment, the Company used an online questionnaire tool 
provided by Independent Audit Limited which was completed by Board 
members, coupled with individual performance reviews carried out by 
the Chairman. Independent Audit Limited had no other connection with 
the Company during the period, other than the provision of advice to 
the Audit Committee on the continued independence of the external 
auditor in connection with contractual arrangements.
In terms of the fulfilment of its governance responsibilities, the overall 
conclusion of the 2014 review had been that the Board was satisfied 
that it continued to be effective in executing its duties and that 
progress had been made in a number of areas since the last review.
Following on from the 2014 review, the Board had undertaken during 
2015 a programme of continuous improvement, as follows: 
• strategy and succession remained key priorities for the Board. 
With regard to strategy, the Board required improved reporting  
of daily activity implementing the strategy, with the preparation  
of a note of achievement against strategy by the use of milestones 
and the preparation of key objectives against which plans are 
measured. These details have since been included in the regular 
updates on progress against strategic targets provided to the 
Board by the Group Strategy Director;
• alignment of Board risk appetite as it related to the Company’s 
growth strategy;
• the Company Secretariat facilitates site visits for the Non-executive 
Directors at their request and there were visits to five sites by 
Non-executive Directors during the year;
• Board training – continuation of the focus on individual training 
requirements. Recent training included a group training session 
on cyber risk management and a formal presentation to the 
Board by the external auditor on the changes to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code;
60
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued • continue the practice of making key senior management 
available to the Board during site visits and other Company 
events, and the focus on inviting some of them to attend the 
Board to report on progress on key Company programmes – 
during the year under review, Board meetings were held at  
the Company’s Aberporth and Farnborough sites;
• continued efficiencies in the provision of Board materials,  
by the use of a standardised layout for Board and Committee 
papers, including an executive summary and clear indication  
of the action required or purpose of the materials; and
• identification by the Board of a consolidated set of key objectives 
and responsibilities for the Board – each Director had been asked 
to provide to the Chairman their view on three main objectives 
for the Board. The Chairman had collated these and worked with 
the CEO and CFO to finalise a consolidated set of objectives 
which included:
 – Shareholder perspectives – to commission an external report 
to capture shareholders’ views as to the Company’s strategy 
and investment proposition and their attitudes on growth,  
risk and resource allocation. The report was commissioned 
and details of the results of this review considered at the 
Board’s October strategy meeting;
 – Strategy development – to review progress and future 
development of the Company’s strategy in the context of the 
new portfolio of assets, focusing on means to accelerate value 
creation including through growth, balanced with shareholders’ 
and the Board’s appetite for risk;
 – Board operations – to continue to focus on improving Board 
operations, including disciplined use of time and making 
papers ‘fit for purpose’, recognising that papers for issue 
resolution or decisions might differ from those intended  
to update or inform the Board; and
 – Succession planning – to continue to improve on succession 
planning with the review of comprehensive succession  
plans for the Company’s top 12 to 15 executive positions  
with a focus on improving the talent pipeline and diversity.  
In addition, to continue to focus on the succession plans for 
the NEDs to ensure the alignment of Board skills with the 
needs of the Company’s strategy.
To build upon the continuous improvement programme which had 
begun during the year, the 2015 effectiveness review had covered  
the following main areas:
• The role of the Board and the skills mix;
• The effectiveness of decision-making processes and the quality 
of supporting documentation;
• The level of risk appetite and oversight; and
• Engagement with stakeholders.
The general outcome was that the Board was operating effectively 
and carrying out its duties appropriately. There had been improved 
reporting in the papers for the Board, allowing for a greater 
understanding and support. Following the recent changes in the 
Board membership, and with the arrival of the new CEO, it was 
agreed that steps would be taken to integrate all members of the 
Board and also to facilitate further attendance at Board meetings  
by members of the Operating Committee and senior management  
to enhance the Board–business relationship. 
61
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information I am pleased to report that the Nominations Committee addressed 
succession planning as a priority during the year, with the appointment 
of Ian Mason as a Non-executive Director and the search for a new 
Chief Executive Officer and subsequent appointment of Steve Wadey 
being completed during the year. Going forwards, we have identified 
succession planning as one of the Board’s primary objectives and we 
will continue to focus on this. Diversity is a fundamental element of 
the succession planning process and remains an area of focus.
Membership and attendance during the year
 
Member Attendance
Mark Elliott (Committee Chair) 4/4
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 4/4
Noreen Doyle˜ 1/1
Michael Harper 4/4
Ian Mason
#
3/3
David Mellors
<
2/2
Paul Murray 4/4
Susan Searle 4/4
Leo Quinn
>
1/2
Steve Wadey* N/A
~  Noreen Doyle retired as a Director on 22 July 2014.
#  Ian Mason was appointed as a Director on 3 June 2014.
<  David Mellors was interim CEO during the period from 1 January 2015 to 26 April 2015 
and attended meetings in that capacity.
>  Leo Quinn ceased to be a Director on 31 December 2014.
*  Steve Wadey became a member of the Committee in April 2015 and will attend  
future meetings.
Main responsibilities
The role of the Committee is to ensure that the composition of the 
Board and Committees has the optimum balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience, and to oversee succession planning for the Board  
and senior management. It considers diversity, including skills mix, 
international industry experience and gender, when seeking to 
appoint a new Director to the Board. The Committee meets as 
necessary and when called by its Chair. During the financial year 
ended 31 March 2015, the Committee met on four occasions.
Overview
Key areas of focus during the year were:
a) Succession planning at Non-executive Director level.
b) Succession planning at Executive Director level including the 
review and preparation of a memorandum setting out the role 
and capabilities required for a new CEO to lead the organisation 
through the next phase in its development.
c) Succession planning at senior management level.
a) Appointment of Non-executive Directors
In 2014, to ensure the alignment of Board skills with the needs of the 
Group’s strategy, the Committee had agreed to focus on the search  
in the UK for potential Non-executive Director candidates, which was 
being undertaken by the Zygos Partnership. The firm is a signatory  
to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which 
requires them to ensure that at least 30% of the candidates are women, 
and it has no other connections with the Company. This led to the 
appointment of Susan Searle in March 2014. A further Non-executive 
Director was sought, again with assistance from the Zygos Partnership, 
and we were delighted to appoint Ian Mason as an additional 
Non-executive Director in June 2014. Details of the background  
and experience for both Susan and Ian can be found on page 59. 
Susan brings wide experience of the new technologies sector and  
Ian brings experience of business transformation, eCommerce and 
international development. 
b) Appointment of CEO
In October 2015, we announced the resignation of Leo Quinn as  
CEO and began the search for a new CEO. As part of this process,  
the Chairman and the Investor Relations Director engaged with and 
met top shareholders. JCA Group was appointed to carry out the 
recruitment. The firm is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct 
for Executive Search Firms and it has no other connection with the 
Company. The Chairman worked with investors, the Board, senior 
management and JCA Group to identify the qualities which would  
be required in a new CEO to take the Company forwards. The general 
theme that emerged was that the Company required an accomplished 
leader with the character, drive and skills to lead the business through 
its growth agenda in challenging market conditions. The search resulted 
in the appointment of Steve Wadey, which was announced in January 
2015, and he joined the Company as CEO on 27 April 2015.
Mark Elliott 
Nominations Committee Chairman
62
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Report of the  
Nominations Committee
Corporate governance statement continued c) Senior management succession planning
The Committee continues to maintain oversight of the processes  
for ensuring that succession plans are in place for the top layer of 
management, with a focus on improving the talent pipeline and 
diversity. This process includes ensuring that the Board as a whole 
meets with senior management, that remuneration policy and 
long-term incentives for senior management are reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee and that the Chairman works with the CEO 
to review succession planning and to ensure the right mix of skills  
and experience at OpCo level. At the executive level, the Capability 
Director works with the Governance Committee to ensure that 
succession plans for the top layer of management are in place  
and this is reported to the Risk & CSR Committee by the CEO.
Accountability
Board review of the effectiveness of risk management and 
internal control processes
The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the effectiveness 
of the Company’s risk management and internal control systems in 
operation during the year, as required by the Code. The details of the 
review and its findings can be found on page 64.
Directors’ responsibilities
Statements explaining the Directors’ responsibilities for preparing  
the Group’s Annual Report and financial statements and the auditor’s 
responsibilities for reporting on those statements are on pages 88 
and 89.
Going concern
A statement regarding the business as a going concern can be found 
on page 88.
Board responsibility for risk management and internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding shareholders’ 
interests and the Company’s assets. The system is designed to manage 
and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and, like any appropriate or proportionate 
system of corporate internal control, cannot provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Identification and review of risks
QinetiQ managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation 
of significant risks, both financial and non-financial, applicable to their 
areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable 
internal controls to ensure effective mitigation. These risks, which are 
related to the achievement of business objectives, are assessed on  
a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal and 
external events, including control breakdowns, competition, disruption, 
regulatory requirements, and natural and other catastrophes.  
The Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee 
regularly review significant risks to the business.
QinetiQ’s risk management processes are defined in the Group’s 
Operating Framework and mirror the Institute of Risk Management’s 
guidance as detailed in the figure on page 64.
Risk reporting is embedded in the management of the business 
through the Operating Committee and Quarterly Business Reviews 
and feeds into Group strategy at the executive and Board level.
Risk assurance activity conforms to the three lines of defence model 
detailed on the following page and is performed by the businesses, 
oversight functions and Internal Audit, reporting to the Governance 
Committee and the Board’s Audit Committee in respect of financial 
risks, and Risk & CSR Committee in respect of non-financial risks. 
Details of key risks can be found in the Principal risks and uncertainties 
section of this Annual Report on pages 32 to 37.
Board Diversity Policy
During 2013 the Board approved a Board Diversity Policy. The key 
statement and objectives of that policy (the full text of which is 
available on the Group’s website www.QinetiQ.com/about-us/
corporate-governance) are as follows:
Statement:
The QinetiQ Board recognises the benefits of diversity. Diversity  
of skills, background, knowledge, international and industry 
experience, and gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken 
into consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director to the 
Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Board appointments will 
always be made on merit.
Objectives:
The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and experience 
to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship.
The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are sufficiently 
experienced and independent in character and judgment.
The Board aims to increase the proportion of women on the Board 
to 25% by the end of 2015. Thereafter, subject always to ensuring 
that all Board appointments are made on merit, the Board aspires 
to maintain a minimum Board composition of 25% women, such 
percentage to be reviewed annually.
Progress against the policy:
The appointment of Susan Searle in March 2014 brought the 
proportion of women on the Board to 25%, which was in line with 
our objective. In July 2014, Noreen Doyle retired from the Board 
after over eight years in office, reducing the proportion of women 
Directors to 12.5%. We will aim to ensure that gender diversity  
will be taken into consideration for any future appointments,  
with the proviso that appointments will always be made on merit 
and will continue to take into account diversity, not only in terms 
of gender, but also in terms of the appropriate mix of background 
skills and experience. 
We have issued a Company-wide diversity policy and details can 
be found in the Responsible business section on pages 24 to 29.
63
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Communication and consultation
Establishing the context
Monitor and review
Risk treatment
Risk assessment
Risk identification
Risk analysis 
Risk evaluation
Internal control
Our businesses are responsible for ensuring that a robust risk and 
control environment is in place as part of their day-to-day operations. 
Business assurance managers oversee this process and a clear set of 
delegated authorities is in place, covering financial and non-financial 
activities, and is consistent with effective operational control and risk 
management and the Board’s risk appetite. The business is guided by 
two key documents which are managed by our Safety and 
Operational Assurance team:
• ‘The Way We Work’ is applicable to all staff and covers three key 
pillars of the way we operate: Organisation, Risk Management 
and Assurance, and Key Business Processes. It is underpinned by 
key business policies, the Operating Framework (referred to 
below) and our culture, values and brand; and
• The Operating Framework (Business Management System), 
which contains the policies, procedures and codes of practice 
which  
are expected to be complied with across the business.
The internal audit function, which is independent of the business  
and has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee, provides 
assurance to the Board and its Committees over the effectiveness  
of the internal control environment. The programme of work 
undertaken by the internal audit function is approved in advance  
by the Audit Committee. It is prioritised according to risks identified 
by the Group through its risk management processes. Additionally, 
regular discussions are held between the internal audit function and 
the external auditor regarding internal audit reports, risks, internal 
audit plans and the wider control environment.
The risk management process and the system of internal control 
necessary to manage risks are managed by the Audit Committee 
(financial risks) and the Risk & CSR Committee (non-financial risks). 
The full Board attends these Committee meetings, either as a 
Committee member or a guest so as to receive at first-hand the 
findings of the Committee. Details of the Committee memberships 
are set out on page 55. The internal audit function independently 
reviews the risk identification and control processes implemented  
by management and reports to the respective Committee.
The Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee also review  
the assurance process, ensuring that an appropriate mix of 
techniques is used to obtain the level of assurance required by  
the Board. 
At its meeting in March 2015, the Board reviewed the effectiveness 
of the system of internal control that was in operation during  
the financial year ended 31 March 2015. Details of specific risk 
review activity undertaken during the year by the Audit and Risk  
& CSR Committees, together with the current risk registers, were 
presented by the CEO. The Board confirmed its approval that the 
risk review activities undertaken during the year under review, as 
presented by the CEO, amounted to an effective system being in 
place to ensure that all aspects of risk management and internal 
control had been considered for the year under review.
Risk assurance activity during 2015 covered the following areas:
• Quarterly updates in respect of general risk governance from  
the Safety and Assurance Director.
• Quarterly reviews of divisional risk registers and moderation  
to form the Group Risk Register.
• Quarterly reports from the Internal Audit function in respect  
of the effective management of Group risks and the risk 
management process.
• Challenge to risk identification by business divisions and 
functions.
• Use of the Business Assurance Tool to manage effective internal 
control against regulatory and operational risks.
• Regularly requiring risk owners to report their activity to the  
Risk & CSR Committee (see page 70).
Self-certification process
An annual process of hierarchical self-certification, which provides  
a documented and auditable trail of accountability for the operation  
of the system of internal control, is in operation. This self-certification 
process is informed by a rigorous and structured self-assessment that 
addresses compliance with Group policy. It provides for successive 
assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management 
and, finally, to the Board.
64
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued The Board also routinely challenges management to ensure that  
the systems of internal control are constantly improving to maintain 
their effectiveness. The internal control and risk management systems 
described above, as well as finance policy and codes of practice, 
apply to the Company’s process of financial reporting and the 
preparation of consolidated accounts. A structured approach  
to the review and challenge of financial information is also an 
essential element of the process.
Anti-bribery and the prevention of corruption
QinetiQ has internal procedures in place that are designed to ensure 
compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, and other international 
regulations and best practice relating to the prevention of corruption, 
which are applicable to its business.
Whistleblowing
The Company has in place a whistleblowing process which is detailed 
on the Company’s intranet. If an individual does not feel that they  
can resolve any concerns with the Company directly, either through 
discussions with their line manager, or directly with the Company 
Secretary or Group Internal Audit Manager, they can use the 
whistleblowing hotline – an externally provided confidential internet 
and telephone reporting system. All concerns are passed by the 
external third party to the Group Internal Audit Manager who will 
ensure that they are held in strict confidence and are properly 
investigated. Reports on whistleblowing activity and the outcome  
of investigations are regularly reported to the Audit Committee.  
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
whistleblowing process during the year.
Ethics
The Company provides employees with guidance to assist them in 
making informed ethical decisions on a day-to-day basis, including the 
Company’s Code of Conduct, annual ethics training for all employees 
and links to the country risk table and review panel processes for 
doing business in high risk countries.
Further details regarding activity in respect of corporate responsibility, 
including in respect of business ethics and anti-bribery risk management, 
can be found in the Responsible business section on pages 24 to 29.
Management and control of US subsidiaries
Following the sale of the US Services division in May 2014, the US 
operations retained by QinetiQ (comprising 9% of the turnover of  
the QinetiQ Group as a whole) have been split, with the US Global 
Products business, trading as QinetiQ North America and comprising 
approximately 84% of the total US turnover at 31 March 2015,  
placed under a new Proxy arrangement, as detailed below, and  
with the remainder of the US business operating outside the Proxy 
regime and therefore following the same reporting lines and 
processes as the Group’s other, non-regulated businesses. 
US Global Products business and the Proxy arrangement
The US Global Products business, trading as QinetiQ North America, 
is managed via Foster-Miller, Inc. (FMI), a wholly-owned subsidiary  
of QinetiQ in the US. It has been placed under a Proxy arrangement  
as it is required by the US National Industrial Security Program to 
maintain facility security clearances and to be insulated from foreign 
ownership, control or influence. Under the new Proxy arrangement, 
FMI and the US Department of Defense (DoD) are parties to a Proxy 
agreement that regulates the management and operation of FMI. 
Pursuant to this Proxy agreement, QinetiQ has appointed three US 
citizens who hold the requisite US security clearances (Len Moodispaw, 
David Carey and John Currier) as Proxy holders to exercise the  
voting rights in FMI. The Proxy holders are also directors of FMI and,  
in addition to their powers as directors, have power under the Proxy 
arrangements to exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of FMI. 
The Proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, and agree, to perform their 
role in the best interests of QinetiQ as shareholder (including the 
legitimate economic interest), and in a manner consistent with the 
national security interests of the US. QinetiQ Group plc does not have 
any representation on the Board of FMI. QinetiQ Group plc may not 
remove the Proxy holders other than for acts of gross negligence or 
wilful misconduct or for breach of the Proxy agreement (and always 
only with the consent of the US Defense Security Service). 
In terms of the power to govern, the Proxy agreement vests certain 
powers solely with the Proxy holders and certain powers solely with 
QinetiQ. For example, the Proxy holders cannot carry out any of the 
below without QinetiQ’s express approval:
• sell or dispose of, in any manner, capital assets or the business  
of FMI;
• pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of FMI for purposes other 
than obtaining working capital or funds for capital 
improvements;
• merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve FMI; and
• file or make any petition under the federal bankruptcy laws  
or similar law or statute of any state or any foreign country.
Unlike minority interest holders with protective veto rights,  
QinetiQ can unilaterally require the above to be carried out and  
these are, therefore, considered to be significant participative 
features. In addition, QinetiQ can require the payment of dividends, 
and the pay-down of parent company loans, from FMI.
The Company maintains its involvement in FMI’s activities through 
normal business activity and liaison with the Chair of the Proxy Board. 
FMI commercial and governance activity is included in the business 
update provided in the regular executive report to the Board. This 
activity is subject always to the confines of the Proxy regime to ensure 
that it meets the requirement that FMI must conduct its business 
affairs without external control or influence, and the requirements 
necessary to protect the US national security interest. 
65
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Paul Murray 
Audit Committee Chairman
The Committee focuses specifically on the effectiveness of the 
management of financial risks and the integrity of financial reporting. 
This report describes the work of the Committee in discharging its 
responsibilities, including:
• the significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to 
the preparation and reporting of the full and half-year financial 
statements, and how these issues were addressed;
• assessing external audit effectiveness and the approach taken 
for the reappointment of the external auditor; 
• the review of the provision of non-audit services and 
safeguarding auditor independence; and
• overseeing the work of the Internal Auditor.
In last year’s report, I stated that I aimed to encourage an open but 
challenging dialogue between the Committee, management, and 
internal and external auditors. This way of working continues, with 
reports from the executive and internal and external auditors being 
scrutinised and challenged where appropriate, and I intend to 
continue with this robust approach.
With the disposal of the US Services business, the US Group has been 
re-shaped and a new Proxy Board appointed to oversee the US Global 
Products business. We have been working with the Proxy Board and 
with US colleagues to achieve, where possible, consistency between 
the US and the UK in respect of the assessment and reporting of 
internal controls, risks and governance arrangements generally.  
Membership and attendance during the year
Member Attendance
Paul Murray (Committee Chair) 5/5
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 5/5 
Noreen Doyle
#
2/2
Michael Harper 5/5
Ian Mason* 3/3
Susan Searle 5/5
#   Noreen Doyle retired as a Director on 22 July 2014.
*  Ian Mason was appointed as a Director on 3 June 2014.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Paul Murray. The Board considers him 
to have recent and relevant financial experience. He was formerly Group 
Finance Director of Carlton Communications plc and LASMO plc, and he  
is currently Audit & Risk Committee Chairman at Royal Mail Group plc.  
The Board considers the members of the Committee to be independent. 
They bring extensive experience of corporate management in senior 
executive positions to the Company. Details of their background and 
experience can be found on pages 58 and 59. The CEO, CFO, Group 
Financial Controller, Group Internal Audit Manager and representatives  
of the external auditor normally attend Audit Committee meetings.
Main responsibilities
The Audit Committee monitors the Group’s integrity in financial 
reporting and reviews the effectiveness of the financial risk 
management framework. The Committee has an annual calendar of 
activities, in addition to which it identifies particular areas of focus 
during the year. The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least 
four times a year. During the financial year ended 31 March 2015, the 
Committee met on five occasions. The external auditor has the right to 
request that a meeting of the Audit Committee be convened. During 
the past financial year, and in accordance with its terms of reference, 
the Committee met with each of QinetiQ’s external auditor and the 
Group Internal Audit Manager on two separate occasions, without 
Executive Directors present, to discuss the audit process and assure 
itself regarding resourcing, auditor independence and objectivity.
Overview
Key areas of focus during the year were:
a) the review of the audit process for the full year and half-year 
results, a review of the accounting policies and an assessment  
of the estimates and judgments made by management.
b) a review of the “fair, balanced and understandable”  
assessment of the Annual Report;
c) a regular review of the effectiveness of internal controls 
including working arrangements with the US Proxy regime;
d) a review of Group Tax policies and issues;
e) the effectiveness of external audit, non-audit services, 
contractual arrangements with the external auditor and  
the re-tender of the external audit; and
f) the effectiveness of governance arrangements.
66
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued
Report of the  
Audit Committee Further details are set out below.
a) Financial statements:
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies 
have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate 
estimates and judgments, and also seeks support from the external 
auditors to assess them. The Committee reviewed the following main 
issues for the periods ended 30 September 2014 and 31 March 2015:
• IFRS 10 criteria in respect of the consolidation of the US Global 
Products business (operating under a Proxy Board) into the 
Group’s results;
• the basis for, and judgments made by management in determining, 
the liabilities recorded for litigation, onerous contracts, potential 
claims and other disputes;
• the provisions for income tax and deferred tax, specifically  
the recognition of a deferred tax asset of £25.2m in respect  
of UK tax losses;
• the carrying values of the Group’s cash generating units (CGUs), 
specifically the £67.2m of goodwill associated with the US Global 
Products CGU. The major assumptions impacting on the NPV 
of future expected cash flows were also discussed. Certain 
discount rate assumptions and market growth forecasts are 
advised by external consultants;
• assumptions used to value the net pension liability of £39.4m  
(as advised by the Company’s external actuaries); and
• the disclosures in the Preliminary Announcement and Annual 
Report and Accounts, in particular those relating to risk, goodwill 
and discontinued operations.
The review was carried out by way of papers presented by the CFO,  
the external auditor and the internal auditor, and through discussions 
with management. Based upon the business assurance process  
and discussions with management and the external auditors, the 
Committee was satisfied that the disclosures and assumptions were 
reasonable and appropriate for a business of the Group’s size and 
complexity, that the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities in 
scrutinising the financial statements for any material misstatements 
and that the disclosures were satisfactory.
b) Assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable 
requirement:
Regarding the provision of advice to the Board to meet with  
the requirements of the Code on whether the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s financial position  
and future prospects and provide all information necessary to a 
shareholder to assess the Group’s performance, business model  
and strategy, the CEO and members of management presented to 
the Committee details of the processes followed by management  
in preparing the accounts, and in particular the Committee noted:
• The Group has a clear strategy, which is presented to the Board 
for review each year by business leaders, with interim updates 
during the year.
• Quarterly business reviews are undertaken by senior 
management which include monitoring business progress 
against budget.
• Business performance is monitored by the Board as detailed on 
page 55.
• Key individuals from appropriate business divisions and functions 
contribute to, or are involved in the verification of, the content 
of the Annual Report.
• The Company has an Annual Report working group, comprising 
individuals from the Finance, Investor Relations, Assurance, HR, 
Group Strategy, Company Secretariat and Communications 
functions, which adheres to a timetable of actions for the 
production and review of the Annual Report.
• The Annual Report working group is aware of the fair, balanced 
and understandable requirements and is tasked with ensuring 
that the Annual Report takes account of those requirements.
• A checklist of considerations to ensure the requirements were  
met was completed by the working group and presented to the 
Committee in order to provide assurance to the Committee  
(and to the Board).
c) Review of internal controls:
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the systems of internal 
control to gain assurance that an effective control framework is 
maintained. Reports on the effective operation of the control 
framework are received from management and reviewed by the 
Committee along with key policies and processes.
At four meetings during the year, reports on the operation of internal 
controls and risk management processes are also received from the 
internal audit function, including whistleblowing arrangements as 
detailed on page 65.
Particular attention is given to the timely and effective implementation of 
remedial actions, either identified by the business directly, or by Internal 
Audit. The Internal Audit risk based strategic and annual plan is presented 
to, and scrutinised twice a year by, the Committee to provide assurance 
that resources are adequate and directed towards key risk areas.  
The annual plan is structured to ensure that all significant financial  
and non-financial risks are reviewed within a rolling two-year strategic 
plan. In the last 12 months, the results of 20 completed internal audits 
were reported to the Committee, detailing all significant findings and 
management action taken to address the issues identified. The audits 
included the review of financial systems, programmes and projects, as 
well as the management of specific risks identified through the Group’s 
risk management processes. Internal audit activity in the year continued 
to indicate that overall an effective control environment was in place with 
an open culture of continuous improvement being demonstrated by 
regular management requests for internal audits to be undertaken.
67
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information The Committee also regularly reviews the effectiveness of the 
financial risk management framework, including reviewing key 
financial risks and assessing the effectiveness of management’s 
remedial action plans. The financial risk register is presented  
by management to the Committee at four meetings each year,  
noting (i) risks being actively managed through internal mitigation 
activity, including the timeframe for current mitigation to improve  
the risk position, (ii) risks managed at post-mitigation levels but 
heavily influenced by external factors and/or that require ongoing 
monitoring, and (iii) retired risks. 
The process in respect of the US Global Products business is adjusted 
to take into account the Proxy arrangements referred to on page 65. 
The executive management function have regular contact with the 
Chair of the Proxy Board and with US executive management, and the 
Group’s internal controls have been applied as far as possible within the 
requirements of the Proxy regime. The internal audit function continues 
to work closely with US management to gain assurance that an effective 
control environment is in place. A full external audit in respect of the 
US Global Products business was undertaken during the year.
The Committee confirms its view that it has received sufficient, 
reliable and timely information from management in the last financial 
year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
d) Review of Group Tax priorities and issues:
The CEO presented a paper to update the Committee on the Group’s 
tax priorities and issues. The Committee considered these in the light 
of regulatory requirements and the Group’s profit mix. Among more 
general matters, procurement rules, R&D tax relief, the use of tax 
losses and the effective tax rate were discussed. 
e) External audit: Its effectiveness, the provision of non-audit 
services, QinetiQ provision of services to the external auditor, 
auditor re-appointment and the re-tender of the external audit:
The Committee’s September meeting had considered the approach 
for monitoring the effectiveness and independence of the external 
audit process in the light of the requirements of the Code and FRC 
guidance. At this meeting, it was agreed that an effectiveness 
review would be undertaken by way of questionnaire and would 
include collecting the views of management and employees 
involved in supporting the external audit work, feedback from  
the CFO and Group Financial Controller and an open Committee 
discussion without external auditors being present.
The review covered a range of topics, including:
• the audit partner and the audit team;
• the audit approach – planning and execution;
• communication with the Audit Committee;
• supporting the work of the Audit Committee;
• insights and adding value;
• independence and objectivity; and
• formal reporting.
The outcome of the review was considered at the May 2015 Committee 
meeting and the following were noted and reported to the Board:
• the independence and objectivity of the external auditor were 
strongly reaffirmed;
• the external audit process was considered to be effective  
and robust;
• communication with the Audit Committee was effective; and
• more regular technical and other relevant training would be 
provided to the Board and its Committees.
External auditor independence: non-audit services
At its September meeting the Committee reviewed the Company’s 
Code of Practice relating to the principles for regulating the award of 
non-audit work to the external auditor and for the employment of the 
external auditor’s staff, and considered that it remained appropriate. 
Details of non-audit fees are tabled at three Committee meetings 
each year.
In the last financial year, there have been non-audit services 
conducted by KPMG that exceeded £50,000 in value. These fees 
related predominantly to the investor perception audit referred to  
on pages 52 and 56 carried out by KPMG Makinson Cowell and also to 
the disposal of the US Services business. The Committee concluded, 
prior to engaging KPMG for the provision of these services, that there 
had not been any conflict of interest that might compromise the 
independence of KPMG’s audit work. 
The Company views it as essential that the external auditor is  
both independent of any conflict of interest and perceived to be so. 
To safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Company 
has embedded the Code of Practice which sets out the principles for 
regulating the award of non-audit work to the external auditor within 
its Operating Framework. The policy clearly articulates the non-audit 
services which are prohibited, the non-audit services which can be 
purchased and the key approval requirements for non-audit work.
In line with this policy, the Committee ensures that any other  
advisory and/or consulting services provided by the external auditor  
do not conflict with its statutory audit responsibilities and are 
conducted through entirely separate working teams; such advisory 
and/or consulting services generally only cover regulatory reporting,  
tax, and mergers and acquisitions work. The cost and nature of 
non-audit work undertaken by the auditor is regularly reviewed by 
the Committee during the financial year and is included at regular 
intervals in its annual schedule as a standing item. This process 
enables the Committee to take corrective action if it believes that 
there is a risk of the auditor’s independence being undermined 
through the award of such work.
It is also QinetiQ’s policy that no KPMG employee may be appointed  
to a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without the prior 
approval of the CFO. Any non-audit services conducted by the  
auditor require the consent of the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee before being initiated; any services exceeding £50,000  
in value require the consent of the Audit Committee as a whole.
68
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued Auditor re-appointment
At its May meeting, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness 
and the independence of the external auditor during the year, 
as detailed on the previous page. The members of the Committee 
have declared themselves satisfied with the performance of KPMG 
as the Company’s auditor in the last financial year and therefore 
the Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG be 
reappointed for the financial year ending 31 March 2016. 
At its meeting in March, the Committee considered the timings 
for the tender of the external audit.
The Company notes the provision in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit out 
to tender at least every ten years. KPMG has been the auditor of 
the QinetiQ Group since its formation in 2001 as the result of a 
competitive tender, and the Company’s auditor since its incorporation 
in 2002. During that time, there have been periodic changes in audit 
partners in accordance with professional and regulatory standards 
to protect independence and objectivity.
A rotation of KPMG’s lead audit partner was last undertaken during 
2012, at which time the second audit partner was appointed since  
the Company’s flotation in 2006.
The Company stated in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts  
that it was its intention to align the process for putting the external 
audit contract out to tender with the conclusion in 2017 of the 
five-year tenure of the audit partner.
Following the approval of the EU audit regulation which takes effect 
in member states from June 2016, the Committee will continue to 
monitor developments in the implementation of this regulation in the 
UK and will adjust the timings for the external audit tender process 
where necessary.
The Committee will continue, however, with the annual review  
of the performance of the external auditor and act accordingly.
f) Governance reviews:
The Committee’s September meeting had considered the processes 
to be followed for the various governance reviews.
The process for the external audit review is detailed on the previous 
page. As regards the UK internal audit function, the Committee had 
agreed that there would be a self-assessment on progress being made 
against the internal audit continuous improvement programme which 
had been updated to take account of the recommendations of the 
Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors, following their effectiveness 
review of Internal Audit during 2014, together with feedback from the 
Company’s management on their experience of internal audit. 
At the Committee’s March meeting, it was noted that progress had 
been made through the year in implementing the suggested actions, 
most notably the alignment of internal audit plans to strategy-related 
and other risks. In addition, it was agreed that consideration would be 
given to the secondment of talented individuals into the internal audit 
function as part of their career development.
The Committee also noted that the feedback from customer 
satisfaction questionnaires (which were issued on completion  
of each audit to the auditee) indicated that the service was well 
received within the business.
As reported on page 60, due to the change of CEO during the year,  
it was decided that it would not be appropriate to undertake an 
external review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees 
(including therefore the Audit Committee), but that an evaluation 
would be carried out by way of an externally provided online 
questionnaire tool which was circulated to Board and Committee 
members for completion. The Committee Chairman had evaluated the 
results and reported on them at the Committee’s March 2015 meeting. 
The questionnaire had asked the Directors to give their views on 
progress against the actions from the previous year’s effectiveness 
review, the Committee’s prior year performance, Committee training, 
an assessment of key challenges for the year ahead and the 
identification of future ‘deep dives’.
It was noted that, following completion of the US restructuring, 
oversight of the US governance arrangements had been re-established 
with the Proxy Chair, and direct access gained into the US for the 
internal audit function.
The following key actions were noted from the review:
• the Committee members would seek to undertake routine, 
externally-sourced training to keep up to date with changes  
in regulation and guidance;
• the Committee would review the annual calendar of activities  
to ensure the most efficient and effective way to complete its 
oversight activities; and 
• the Committee would continue to support the Remuneration 
Committee in assessing ‘quality of earnings’ decisions that drove 
long-term incentive and bonus outcomes.
69
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Admiral Sir James  
Burnell-Nugent
Risk & CSR Committee Chairman
I am pleased to report that, during the year, the Committee 
continued to carry out its core functions with the support of the 
executive Governance Committee in respect of risk management and 
oversight. The annual calendar of activity, together with the in-depth 
review of red risks and ‘deep dives’ into key risk areas, has continued 
to provide a firm basis on which the Committee is able to oversee the 
operation of the non-financial risk management processes within the 
Group. Regular updates from management responsible for specific 
areas such as sustainability or international trade, coupled with 
presentations from external specialists, serve to further the 
Committee’s understanding of risks and how they are mitigated.
Main responsibilities
The Committee has three primary functions:
• to oversee the sound operation of the Company’s risk 
management systems;
• to monitor non-financial risk exposures, including security,  
trade controls, ethics, corporate social responsibility and health, 
safety and environment; and
• to monitor adherence to the generic compliance system.
The Committee has an annual calendar of activities and meets  
as necessary, although normally not less than four times a year. 
During the financial year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee  
met on four occasions.
The Governance Committee continued to report to the Risk & CSR 
Committee and covered areas such as the status of non-financial 
risks identified on the Group risk register, assurance around 
regulatory compliance and emerging risks. 
Membership and attendance during the year
Member Attendance
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent  
(Committee Chair)
4/4
Noreen Doyle
#
1/2
Mark Elliott 4/4
Michael Harper 4/4
Ian Mason* 3/3
David Mellors 4/4
Paul Murray 4/4
Leo Quinn
>
2/3
Susan Searle 4/4
Steve Wadey˜ N/A
#   Noreen Doyle retired as a Director on 22 July 2014. She was unable to attend the  
July meeting due to a prior engagement.
* Ian Mason was appointed as a Director on 3 June 2014.
>  Leo Quinn ceased to be a Director on 31 December 2014 and was unable to attend  
one meeting due to a prior engagement.
~  Steve Wadey became a member of the Committee in April 2015 and will attend  
future meetings.
Overview
During the year, the Committee continued to carry out its core functions 
by way of regular reporting in accordance with its annual calendar. 
The Committee continued to oversee health, safety and environment, 
trade controls, corporate responsibility, ethics and security through 
quarterly reports from the heads of those functions in the business. 
A summary of the key focus and activities of the health, safety and 
environment and ethics functions is set out in the Responsible business 
section on pages 24 to 29.
Key areas of focus during the year were:
a) a review of the Group’s risk management processes including 
working arrangements with the US Proxy regime;
b) the operation of the generic MOD compliance system;
c) a review of the Group Risk Register in accordance with FRC 
recommendations; and
d) the effectiveness of the Committee’s performance during the year.
Further details are set out below. Details of the principal risks and 
uncertainties can be found on pages 32 to 37 of the Strategic report.
a) A review of the Group’s risk management processes:
The Committee receives a report at each meeting from the Safety and 
Assurance Director with regard to key areas of risk management activity, 
such as health and safety, international trade controls and Proxy regime 
compliance. Typically a report includes a high level summary of changes 
to non-financial risks, an overview of assurance and audit activity, and 
any other items to bring to the Committee’s attention. Following the 
disposal of the US Services business, work has progressed to establish, 
where possible, a consistency of approach by the US Global Products 
business, as far as it is able to do so having regard to the US Proxy regime, 
in respect of areas such as risk appetite, the risk register and internal 
control, and the internal audit function is able to visit and undertake  
work at the business, both in respect of financial and non-financial risks. 
In addition to the report from the Safety and Assurance Director,  
70
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued
Report of the  
Risk & CSR Committee  a series of ‘deep dives’ are scheduled for the course of each year,  
to facilitate an in-depth review and discussion of key risks. The following 
are examples of deep dive reviews carried out during the year:
• The review of emerging reputational related risks considered  
how these are detected and managed within the Company.  
The review included a presentation from the senior manager 
responsible, on latest thinking around reputational risk, impact  
on other organisations and how emerging reputational risks are 
currently detected and monitored.
• Continuing the focus on cyber risk, an external specialist on how 
boards should address cyber issues gave a presentation to the 
Committee on current threats and set out some of the questions 
which boards are facing. As a result of the presentation, a series  
of actions were agreed, including testing of the Company’s I.T. 
resistance to cyber attack, metrics to measure improvement actions 
and a segmentation of security risks for review by the Governance 
Committee prior to agreeing a risk appetite for each segment.
b) Generic compliance system:
The Committee continues to monitor the generic compliance system, 
which is designed to give the MOD customer confidence that QinetiQ 
is able to provide impartial advice during any competitive evaluation 
of a procurement where the Group wishes to operate on both the 
‘buy’ and the ‘supply’ sides. The aim is to achieve a balance between 
meeting the needs of the procurement customers in the MOD 
(principally Defence Equipment & Support) and the need to allow 
QinetiQ the flexibility to exploit research into the supply chain and 
pursue its planned commercial activities, without compromising the 
defence or security interests of the UK. The Board nominates two 
senior executives to act as Compliance Implementation Director and 
Compliance Audit Director. Oversight of the operation of the system 
is provided by the Committee. The Committee receives a bi-annual 
report on the compliance areas that it monitors from the internal 
audit function. A typical report includes a summary of the scope  
and an executive summary of the findings with an audit opinion.  
The report includes specific findings with agreed associated  
time-bound action plans. 
Recent activity included the adjustment of the financial reporting 
system to ensure that the sales lead is required to make a specific 
notification of the ultimate customer and the setting up and closing 
down of firewalls in response to changes in bid activity. 
The Committee addresses any issues that would arise if QinetiQ were  
to fail to comply with the requirements of the generic compliance 
system. No breaches were noted during the year.
c) A review of the risk register in accordance with FRC 
recommendations:
The review of the Risk Register is a standing item on the Committee’s 
agenda, with amendments being made to reflect changes in the 
Group’s business and strategy. Further details can be found in the  
Risk management section on pages 30 to 31 of the Strategic report. 
‘Red’ risks are made the subject of a report to the Committee or 
become the subject of a ‘deep dive’ review as part of the Company’s 
risk management processes. 
d) Effectiveness review:
As reported on page 60, due to the change of CEO during the year,  
it was decided that it would not be appropriate to undertake an 
external review of the effectiveness of the Committee itself, but  
that an evaluation would be carried out by way of an externally 
provided online questionnaire tool which was circulated to Committee 
members and key executives for completion. The Committee Chairman 
had reviewed the responses and reported on them at the Committee’s 
May 2015 meeting. 
The review noted that there was generally a good level of satisfaction 
with the work and processes of the Committee. Areas noted for 
improvement were:
• improved clarity and brevity in reporting to allow the Committee 
to focus on key issues;
• increased liaison with the US business; and
• considering risk appetite in relation to risk areas, such  
as cyber risk.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent
Security Committee Chairman
Report of the Security Committee
Membership and attendance during the year
The Security Committee is chaired by Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent and the other 
Committee members during the year were Michael Harper, Ian Mason (from 3 June 2014), 
David Mellors, Paul Murray, Leo Quinn (until 31 December 2014) and Susan Searle.  
Steve Wadey became a member of the Committee on 27 April 2015. 
There was no requirement for the Committee to meet during the year.
Main responsibilities
The Committee was established in June 2009 to enable UK nationals on the Board to 
consider matters of a UK national security dimension that have an impact on QinetiQ’s  
UK business.
71
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Michael Harper
Remuneration Committee Chairman
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the Annual Report on Remuneration 
for the year ended 31 March 2015 for which  
we will be seeking approval at the AGM  
on 22 July 2015. 
Remuneration Committee membership and attendance during 
the year ended 31 March 2015
Michael Harper became Chair of the Committee on 22 July 2014 
following the retirement of Noreen Doyle.
Member Attendance
Michael Harper (Committee Chair) 6/6
Noreen Doyle (retired 22 July 2014) 1/2
Mark Elliott (Group Chairman) 6/6
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 6/6
Paul Murray 6/6
Susan Searle 6/6
Ian Mason (appointed 3 June 2014) 5/5
Report of the  
Remuneration Committee
Dear shareholder,
On the following pages you will find information on:
• the key activities and main decisions made by the Remuneration 
Committee (the Committee) during the year;
• the link between the Company strategy and the Remuneration 
Policy; and
• a summary of the Remuneration Policy.
The Annual Report on Remuneration is subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the AGM of the Company on 22 July 2015.
Remuneration policy 
Last year the Committee conducted an extensive review of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy which was approved at the 2014  
AGM (22 July 2014). The full Policy may be found in the Corporate 
Governance section on the Company’s website.
As a Committee we work to ensure that the remuneration  
structure supports the Company strategy and aligns with the 
interests of shareholders so that we are able to attract, retain  
and motivate high calibre executives by rewarding the creation  
of long-term sustainable value. We are proposing no changes to  
the Policy at this year’s AGM and so the Policy will normally next  
be subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM. 
72
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report Activities
The Committee sets remuneration and incentives for Executive 
Directors and approves and monitors remuneration and incentives 
for senior executives of the Group. No Executive Director or employee 
of QinetiQ is permitted to be present or participate in the Committee’s 
discussions about their own remuneration.
The Committee engages with investors as appropriate to ensure  
a meaningful dialogue and is grateful for all the support it has 
received from investors and their representative bodies over the 
course of the year.
The Committee meets as necessary. During the financial year ended 
31 March 2015, it met on six occasions.
Month Main agenda Items
May • Annual Cash Bonus Plan results (y/e 31 March 2014)
• Operating Committee Reward structure 
• Directors’ Remuneration Report 
• Share plan allocations and nominations
• Share plan performance and vesting
July •  Bonus Banking Plan rules prior to shareholder approval
• Executive Directors’ salary review
• Directors’ Remuneration Report 
• Committee programme for the year
October • Executive Director remuneration
November • Trends in Remuneration Policies
• Review of Executive shareholding
• Reward and retention – all employees
January • Executive incentive arrangements
March • Projected share plan vesting 
• Target setting for Annual Bonus (y/e 31 March 2016)
• Directors’ Remuneration Report
• Chairman’s fee
• New CEO remuneration
• Review of Committee effectiveness
Link to Company strategy
Our objective is to grow the business through the Organic-Plus 
Strategy. Progress is measured through a range of financial and 
non-financial KPIs to monitor Group and divisional performance. 
Financial KPIs include measures such as order intake, organic sales 
growth, profitability and cash conversion performance; while 
non-financial KPIs include health and safety, productivity, customer 
satisfaction and employee engagement. More details are provided  
in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 47.
Key decisions made during the year
Summarised below are the key decisions the Committee made during 
the year.
Adjustment to Performance Conditions
Following the sale of the US Services business and resulting share buyback, 
the Committee worked with the Audit Committee to review the EPS 
performance conditions for the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and 
Deferred Annual Bonus (DAB) to assess their continued appropriateness.
In respect of these two events the Remuneration Committee decided 
to exercise its discretion to amend the EPS performance conditions  
as follows:
• in accordance with best practice guidance the number of shares 
bought under the share buyback has been added back in calculating 
the current year’s EPS for the incentive plans, which reduced the 
current year’s as reported EPS from 15.2p to 14.7p; 
• to use only earnings reflecting continuing operations, which 
reduced 2012 EPS from 13.6p to 10.5p; 
• to treat the accelerated interest charge for the Private Placement 
loan redemptions in 2012 consistently with the similar charge in 
2015 which increased 2012 EPS by 2.5p from 10.5p to 13.0p; 
• as a result of these adjustments the impact for the Executive 
Director was that, of the shares subject to the EPS performance 
condition due to vest in 2015, 36.97% under the PSP will vest 
compared with 32.84% before the adjustments, and that in either 
case no Deferred Annual Bonus Matching Shares would vest. 
CEO Remuneration
On Leo Quinn’s resignation all his unvested performance based share 
awards lapsed, and David Mellors was appointed Interim CEO. We decided 
to increase Mr Mellors’ salary to reflect his new duties. Furthermore, 
to ensure that Mr Mellors’ remuneration was aligned to the priorities 
of his new role, as agreed by the Board, his annual bonus targets  
were amended. 
Interim CEO
The details of the Interim CEO package for David Mellors is as follows:
Element Value Rationale
Salary £633,800 The salary was positioned to reflect David 
Mellors’ wide range of responsibilities as  
both Interim CEO and CFO.
Annual  
Bonus
225% salary No change to maximum quantum. However, the 
performance targets were changed so that 50%  
of the maximum bonus opportunity was based  
on role specific targets with a proportionate 
reduction to the financial performance 
conditions. 
Benefits Policy No change from CFO package.
Pension 20% salary No change from CFO package.
PSP 150% salary No additional award on becoming Interim CEO.
73
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information New CEO
On recruitment, the agreed policy on remuneration of new Executive 
Directors is to pay competitively to attract the appropriate high 
calibre candidate to the role, following the same principles as for  
the current Executive Directors. The key elements of the package  
for Steve Wadey are set out in the following table:
Element Value Rationale
Salary £560,000 The base salary will be set taking into account 
the responsibilities of the individual and the  
salaries paid to similar roles in comparable 
companies as per our base salary Policy. 
The CEO will be eligible to receive benefits  
in line with the Policy.
Annual 
Bonus
225% salary The CEO will be eligible to participate in the Bonus 
Banking Plan to the declared maximum potential  
as set out in the Policy.
PSP 150% salary The CEO will be eligible to participate in  
the PSP to the declared maximum potential  
(200% of salary) as set out in the Policy.
Pension 20% salary The CEO will be eligible to receive pension 
benefits as set out in the Policy (maximum  
25% of salary).
Effectiveness review
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and evaluated  
the effectiveness of its performance during the year by way of an 
effectiveness questionnaire which was completed by Committee 
members. The questionnaire covered areas including culture  
and behaviour, oversight and key contributors.
It was noted that the Committee continued to be effective in carrying 
out its duties and that good progress had been made against the 
objectives arising from the prior year review. Key areas from the 2015 
review where improvements could be made were noted as follows: 
• the Committee would anticipate and consider more broadly  
the issues likely to impact remuneration judgments. This would 
involve the Committee, both its internal and external advisors, 
and the Executives increasing their level of engagement;
• remuneration arrangements would be refined to ensure the 
most advantageous use of reward as a means to drive the 
Company’s Organic-Plus growth strategy; and
• the Committee would continue to work closely with the  
Audit Committee on ‘quality of earnings’ evaluations when 
deciding upon the outcomes of incentive plans.
Conclusion
We have provided an ‘At a glance’ summary immediately after  
this letter which summarises the Policy, how it was implemented  
in the year and how it is proposed to operate it for the year ending  
31 March 2016.
I hope that we can rely on your vote in favour of the Annual Report  
on Remuneration at the AGM on 22 July 2015.
Michael Harper
Remuneration Committee Chairman
21 May 2015 
74
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Minimum
851
CEO (£’000)
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
851
563
407
851 674
1,409
1,521
Fixed Linked to Annual Performance Linked to performance over more than 1 year
Target Stretch Actual Minimum
503
CFO/Interim CEO (£’000)
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
503
358
245
503
626
999
135
896
912
Fixed Linked to Annual Performance Linked to performance over more than 1 year
Target Stretch Actual
Shareholding requirement
Value of beneficially owned shares
& deferred shares
Value of conditional shares subject
to performance conditions
100%
224%
637%
Shareholding as a percentage of CFO salary
How have we performed against our corporate performance objectives?
In this section we highlight the performance and remuneration outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2015. More detail can be found in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
Bonus Banking Plan Target performance Stretch performance Actual performance
% of maximum  
reward achieved
Underlying profit after tax
(a)
 £86.9m £104.3m £96.0m 71.38%
Underlying operating profit
(a)
 £105.0m £126.0m £111.3m 58.00%
Underlying operating cash flow
(a)(b) 
£72.40m £86.9m £134.0m 100.00%
Interim CEO Personal Objectives:
•  underlying operating profit in line with the  
Board’s expectations;
Meet  
Expectations
Exceed 
Expectations
Exceeded 
Expectations
100.00%
•  ‘Best Companies’ Employee Engagement  
Survey outcome;
600 610 613.5
• Customer Satisfaction Survey – Top 3 ranking; and 80% 85% 85%
•  overall stability maintained within the Group during  
the period up to the new CEO’s commencement date.
Meet  
Expectations
Exceed 
Expectations
Exceeded 
Expectations
(a)
 Definition of underlying measures and performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
(b)
 Adjusted to exclude LTPA and MSCA capital expenditure. An explanation of the underlying cash flow performance is given under Bonus Banking Plan on page 79.
Long-Term Incentives
Threshold  
performance
Stretch  
performance
(a)
Actual  
performance
% of maximum  
reward achieved
2012 Performance Share Plan (EPS)
(b)
14.2p 17.3p 14.7p 36.97%
2012 Performance Share Plan (TSR) Median Upper Quartile Below Median 0.00%
2012 Deferred Annual Bonus Matching (EPS)
(b)
15.9p 19.8p 14.7p 0.00% 
(a)
 Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Matching use different Compound Annual Growth Rates (CAGR). Details provided on page 80.
(b) 
Adjusted EPS. Details provided on page 73.
How have we performed against our corporate performance objectives? 
The following tables set out:
• the single figure for 2015 calculated in accordance with the regulations showing how much the Executive Directors earned in respect of 2015; and
• the single figure for 2015 compared to the Policy remuneration scenarios for 2014.
What did our executives earn during the year?
 
All figures  
in £
2015 
Salary/Fee
2015 
Benefits
2015 Bonus 
Banking Plan
 2015 Long-Term 
Incentive 2015 Pension 2015 Total 2014 Total
CEO(a) 469,776 87,290 0 0 116,913 673,979 £2,177,742
CFO(b) 501,227 27,447 998,603 134,881 97,522 1,759,680 £1,236,601
(a)
 Resigned 31 December 2014. 
(b)
 Appointed Interim CEO 20 October 2014.
At a glance
The following chart shows the shareholding for the CFO:
75
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Element Y/E 31 March 2015 Y/E 31 March 2016 Notes
Salary
We aim to pay base salaries in line with the market median against defined comparator groups. 
Typically, the base salaries of Executive Directors in post at the start of the policy period and who 
remain in the same role throughout the policy period will be increased by a similar percentage  
to the average annual percentage increase in salaries of all other employees in the Group. 
The exceptions to this rule may be where:
•  an individual is below market level and a decision is taken to increase base pay to reflect  
proven competence in role; or
•  there is a material increase in scope or responsibility in the Executive Director’s role.
Leo Quinn (CEO) £615,325 per annum to  
31 August 2014; £633,800 per annum thereafter 
until leaving date 31 December 2014.
David Mellors (CFO) £391,400 per annum  
to 31 August 2014; £403,150 per annum to  
20 October 2014.
David Mellors (Interim CEO)  
£633,800 per annum from 20 October 2014.
Stephen Wadey (New CEO)  
£560,000 per annum appointed on 27 April 2015.
David Mellors (Interim CEO)  
to 30 April 2015 £633,800 per annum.
David Mellors (CFO)  
from 1 May 2015 £440,000 per annum.
Leo Quinn, the CEO at the beginning of the financial year, resigned on 31 December 
2014. David Mellors was Interim CEO from 1 January 2015 until 26 April 2015. 
However, to reflect the increasing assumption of responsibilities up until his formal 
appointment as Interim CEO on 1 January 2015, his salary was increased from  
20 October 2014.
On 27 April 2015 a new CEO, Steve Wadey, was appointed. 
David Mellors returned to an enlarged role as CFO on 1 May 2015, taking on  
the operational management of Group procurement and an increased remit  
for Group strategy.
Benefits
Benefits include car allowance, health insurance, life assurance, income protection and 
membership of the Group’s employee Share Incentive Plan which is open to all UK employees.
Policy benefits provided during financial year. No change.
Pension
The Group’s policy is to offer all UK employees participation in the QinetiQ Defined Contribution 
Group Personal Pension (GPP). 
Executives whose benefits are likely to exceed the Lifetime Allowance may opt out of the GPP.  
In such cases, or if the Annual Allowance would be exceeded, the individual will be paid an 
allowance in lieu of pension contributions. This supplement will be a non-consolidated  
allowance and will not impact any incentive calculations.
Payment in lieu of pensions.
Leo Quinn (CEO) 25% of salary.
David Mellors (CFO & Interim CEO) 20% of salary.
Stephen Wadey (CEO) 20% of salary.
David Mellors (CFO) 20% of salary.
No change for year ending 31 March 2016.
Bonus Banking Plan
As well as determining the performance conditions, targets and relative weighting, the Committee 
will also determine, within the approved range of 90%-135% of salary, the level of target bonus at 
the beginning of the plan year. 
Upon assessment of performance by the Committee, a contribution will be made by the Company 
into the participant’s plan account and 50% of the cumulative balance will be paid in cash or 
shares. Any remaining balance will be converted into shares.
100% of the balance in year 4 will be paid in shares to the participant. During the four-year  
plan period, 50% of the retained balance is at risk of forfeiture based on a minimum level  
of performance determined annually by the Committee. 
The Committee has discretion to adjust targets in exceptional circumstances. However, where such 
targets are altered, the Committee will adjust the performance targets so that the revised target is 
not materially less challenging than the target as originally set.
Maximum Annual Opportunity 225% of salary.
Target = 90% of salary. 
Threshold = 0% of salary.
Details of the performance conditions and their 
level of satisfaction are set out on page 79.
Maximum Annual Opportunity 225% of salary.
Target = 112.5% of salary. 
Threshold = 0% of salary.
Performance conditions (weighting):
•  Group underlying operating profit (30%).
•  Group underlying operating cash flow (30%).
•  Group underlying profit after tax (20%).
•  Qualitative measures based on Company KPIs (20%).
Details of specific performance targets have not been provided as they are deemed 
commercially sensitive.
They will be disclosed retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
In line with best practice malus and clawback provisions are applicable.
Performance Share Plan
Awards are earned based on an equal weighting of absolute underlying EPS growth and relative 
TSR performance. The performance period runs for three years from the start of the financial year 
in which the award is granted. 
The Committee has discretion to vary the weighting of performance metrics over the life of this 
Remuneration Policy to ensure alignment with business strategy. If events occur which cause the 
Committee to consider that the performance targets are no longer an appropriate measure of 
Group performance, the Committee may alter the terms of performance targets as it considers 
appropriate, but so that the revised target is not materially less challenging than the target as 
originally set. 
Normal grant level = 150% of salary.
Maximum grant level = 200% of salary.
The percentages of the award which vest at 
threshold performance are 25% for EPS growth 
and 30% for relative TSR rising on a linear basis  
to 100% vesting at stretch performance.
See page 80 of the Annual Report on 
Remuneration for the grants made in  
the year reported on.
CEO 150% of salary.
CFO 150% of salary.
Performance conditions:
50% of the PSP award is based on EPS growth:
•  EPS growth of 3% p.a. 25% vesting.
•  EPS growth of 10% p.a. 100% vesting.
50% of the PSP award is based on relative  
TSR compared to the FTSE 250:
• 30% vesting for median.
•  100% vesting for upper quartile.
Straight line vesting between points.
No change in operation of the PSP for year ending 31 March 2016.
NED Fees 
Non-executive Director fee policy aims to pay at median level, when considering the  
same comparator group used for Executive Directors, and increases will generally be  
in line with those of employees.
See page 81 of the Annual Report on 
Remuneration for the fees and allowances  
paid in the year reported on.
Basic Non-executive Director fee 
From 1 July 2015 £46,000.
Last reviewed in 2013, increase is equivalent to 3% per annum in line with increases to 
employees generally.
Policy summary
76
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Element Y/E 31 March 2015 Y/E 31 March 2016 Notes
Salary
We aim to pay base salaries in line with the market median against defined comparator groups. 
Typically, the base salaries of Executive Directors in post at the start of the policy period and who 
remain in the same role throughout the policy period will be increased by a similar percentage  
to the average annual percentage increase in salaries of all other employees in the Group. 
The exceptions to this rule may be where:
•  an individual is below market level and a decision is taken to increase base pay to reflect  
proven competence in role; or
•  there is a material increase in scope or responsibility in the Executive Director’s role.
Leo Quinn (CEO) £615,325 per annum to  
31 August 2014; £633,800 per annum thereafter 
until leaving date 31 December 2014.
David Mellors (CFO) £391,400 per annum  
to 31 August 2014; £403,150 per annum to  
20 October 2014.
David Mellors (Interim CEO)  
£633,800 per annum from 20 October 2014.
Stephen Wadey (New CEO)  
£560,000 per annum appointed on 27 April 2015.
David Mellors (Interim CEO)  
to 30 April 2015 £633,800 per annum.
David Mellors (CFO)  
from 1 May 2015 £440,000 per annum.
Leo Quinn, the CEO at the beginning of the financial year, resigned on 31 December 
2014. David Mellors was Interim CEO from 1 January 2015 until 26 April 2015. 
However, to reflect the increasing assumption of responsibilities up until his formal 
appointment as Interim CEO on 1 January 2015, his salary was increased from  
20 October 2014.
On 27 April 2015 a new CEO, Steve Wadey, was appointed. 
David Mellors returned to an enlarged role as CFO on 1 May 2015, taking on  
the operational management of Group procurement and an increased remit  
for Group strategy.
Benefits
Benefits include car allowance, health insurance, life assurance, income protection and 
membership of the Group’s employee Share Incentive Plan which is open to all UK employees.
Policy benefits provided during financial year. No change.
Pension
The Group’s policy is to offer all UK employees participation in the QinetiQ Defined Contribution 
Group Personal Pension (GPP). 
Executives whose benefits are likely to exceed the Lifetime Allowance may opt out of the GPP.  
In such cases, or if the Annual Allowance would be exceeded, the individual will be paid an 
allowance in lieu of pension contributions. This supplement will be a non-consolidated  
allowance and will not impact any incentive calculations.
Payment in lieu of pensions.
Leo Quinn (CEO) 25% of salary.
David Mellors (CFO & Interim CEO) 20% of salary.
Stephen Wadey (CEO) 20% of salary.
David Mellors (CFO) 20% of salary.
No change for year ending 31 March 2016.
Bonus Banking Plan
As well as determining the performance conditions, targets and relative weighting, the Committee 
will also determine, within the approved range of 90%-135% of salary, the level of target bonus at 
the beginning of the plan year. 
Upon assessment of performance by the Committee, a contribution will be made by the Company 
into the participant’s plan account and 50% of the cumulative balance will be paid in cash or 
shares. Any remaining balance will be converted into shares.
100% of the balance in year 4 will be paid in shares to the participant. During the four-year  
plan period, 50% of the retained balance is at risk of forfeiture based on a minimum level  
of performance determined annually by the Committee. 
The Committee has discretion to adjust targets in exceptional circumstances. However, where such 
targets are altered, the Committee will adjust the performance targets so that the revised target is 
not materially less challenging than the target as originally set.
Maximum Annual Opportunity 225% of salary.
Target = 90% of salary. 
Threshold = 0% of salary.
Details of the performance conditions and their 
level of satisfaction are set out on page 79.
Maximum Annual Opportunity 225% of salary.
Target = 112.5% of salary. 
Threshold = 0% of salary.
Performance conditions (weighting):
•  Group underlying operating profit (30%).
•  Group underlying operating cash flow (30%).
•  Group underlying profit after tax (20%).
•  Qualitative measures based on Company KPIs (20%).
Details of specific performance targets have not been provided as they are deemed 
commercially sensitive.
They will be disclosed retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
In line with best practice malus and clawback provisions are applicable.
Performance Share Plan
Awards are earned based on an equal weighting of absolute underlying EPS growth and relative 
TSR performance. The performance period runs for three years from the start of the financial year 
in which the award is granted. 
The Committee has discretion to vary the weighting of performance metrics over the life of this 
Remuneration Policy to ensure alignment with business strategy. If events occur which cause the 
Committee to consider that the performance targets are no longer an appropriate measure of 
Group performance, the Committee may alter the terms of performance targets as it considers 
appropriate, but so that the revised target is not materially less challenging than the target as 
originally set. 
Normal grant level = 150% of salary.
Maximum grant level = 200% of salary.
The percentages of the award which vest at 
threshold performance are 25% for EPS growth 
and 30% for relative TSR rising on a linear basis  
to 100% vesting at stretch performance.
See page 80 of the Annual Report on 
Remuneration for the grants made in  
the year reported on.
CEO 150% of salary.
CFO 150% of salary.
Performance conditions:
50% of the PSP award is based on EPS growth:
•  EPS growth of 3% p.a. 25% vesting.
•  EPS growth of 10% p.a. 100% vesting.
50% of the PSP award is based on relative  
TSR compared to the FTSE 250:
• 30% vesting for median.
•  100% vesting for upper quartile.
Straight line vesting between points.
No change in operation of the PSP for year ending 31 March 2016.
NED Fees 
Non-executive Director fee policy aims to pay at median level, when considering the  
same comparator group used for Executive Directors, and increases will generally be  
in line with those of employees.
See page 81 of the Annual Report on 
Remuneration for the fees and allowances  
paid in the year reported on.
Basic Non-executive Director fee 
From 1 July 2015 £46,000.
Last reviewed in 2013, increase is equivalent to 3% per annum in line with increases to 
employees generally.
77
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Annual Report on 
Remuneration
Introduction
The following section of this report details how the Remuneration Policy has been implemented for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Performance measures and targets 
The performance targets are determined annually. The Committee selected the performance conditions, as detailed on the next page,  
for the Bonus Banking Plan because these are central to the Group’s overall strategy and are the key metrics used by the Executive Directors  
to oversee the operation of the business. 
The Committee is of the opinion that the specific performance targets for the Bonus Banking Plan are commercially sensitive in respect  
of the Company and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them. The targets will be disclosed after  
the end of the relevant financial year in that year’s Remuneration Report.
The Performance Share Plan performance conditions, as defined on page 80, complement the performance conditions described  
in the Bonus Banking Plan, supporting sustainable performance.
Executive Director single figure remuneration
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table. Executive Director remuneration is shown as a single figure to provide  
an annual comparison between the actual remuneration for the performance year ended 31 March 2015 and the preceding year. The CFO 
figure for 2015 includes the period as Interim CEO.  
Executive 
Director
Salary/fees
(a)
Benefits
(b)
Bonus Banking Plan
(c)
 Long-Term Incentive
(d)
Pension
(e)
Single figure
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
CEO
(a)
£469,776 £610,844 £87,290 £59,524 £0 £710,393 £0 £644,270 £116,913 £152,711 £673,979 £2,177,742
CFO
(b)
£501,227 £388,550 £27,447 £23,188 £998,603 £451,871 £134,881 £295,282 £97,522 £77,710 £1,759,680 £1,236,601
(a)
 Base salary is presented prior to adjustments for salary sacrifice pensions. For further details please refer to Additional supporting information for each Executive Director below.
(b)
  Benefits comprise car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and income protection. For 2015 the CEO figure includes a payment of £36,565 in lieu of untaken holiday.
(c)
  The Bonus Banking Plan was introduced in 2015 replacing the previous Annual Bonus scheme and Deferred Bonus arrangements. The figure provided comprises the value of both 
cash and deferred award. Performance measures are Group Underlying Profit After Tax, Group Underlying Operating Profit, Group Underlying Cash Flow and Personal Objectives 
for year ended 31 March 2015. For the year ended 31 March 2014 the Annual Bonus scheme performance measures were Group Underlying Operating Profit, Group Underlying 
Cash Flow, and Underlying EPS. For the performance year ended 31 March 2015 all measures exceeded target performance resulting in a payout of 88.55% of maximum bonus 
opportunity. Additional supporting information for each Executive Director below provides a detailed breakdown of calculations. For the performance year ended 31 March 2014 
all performance measures exceeded target resulting in a payout of 76.97%.
(d) 
 Long-Term Incentive figures for the year ending 31 March 2015 comprise the 2012 PSP and the 2012 DAB Matching Plan. For the 2012 PSP the EPS exceeded threshold 
performance and the TSR did not meet threshold performance resulting in a payout equivalent to 18.49% of maximum. For the 2012 DAB Matching Plan the EPS failed to  
meet threshold performance resulting in nil payout. Long-Term Incentives for the year ending 31 March 2014 comprise the 2011 Value Sharing Plan and the 2011 DAB Matching 
Plan. For the 2011 VSP only TSR exceeded target performance resulting in an overall payout equivalent to 13.80% of maximum. The EPS performance measure in the 2011  
DAB Matching Plan exceeded threshold resulting in a payout equivalent to 26.47% of maximum. Additional supporting information for each Executive Director below provides  
a breakdown of calculations. Long-Term Incentive figures include dividend equivalent payments for both 2015 and 2014.
(e)
   CEO pension figure represents cash in lieu of pension equating to 25% of base salary for both performance years. For the year ending 31 March 2015 the CFO pension figure 
represents cash in lieu of pension equating to 20% of base salary. For year ending 31 March 2014 the CFO pension figure represents £38,344 paid into GPP and £39,366  
cash in lieu of pension equating to 20% of base salary.
Additional supporting information for each Executive Director
To support the single figure, this section documents each element of remuneration and how the figure was calculated for the performance 
year ended 31 March 2015.
Base salary
 
Executive Director
From 20 October
2014
(a)
From 1 September
2014
(b)
From 1 July 2013
Pro-rated
single figure
(c)
CEO – 633,800 615,325 469,776
CFO/Interim CEO 633,800 403,150 391,400 501,227
(a)
  The CEO’s and CFO’s salaries increased by 3% (£18,475 per annum and £11,750 per annum respectively) effective from 1 September 2014, in line with salary increases generally 
awarded to UK employees at that date.
(b)
 The CFO’s salary was increased on 20 October 2014 on becoming Interim CEO.
(c)
 2015 pro-ration calculated on a daily basis. 2014 pro-ration calculated on a monthly basis. 
Total pension entitlements
No Directors participate in the QinetiQ Pension Scheme.
78
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued  
 
 
Group underlying profit after tax 12.50%
Group underlying operating profit 18.75%
Group underlying operating cash flow 18.75%
Personal objectives 50.00%
The Annual Bonus potential for the CFO changed from year ending 
31 March 2014 with the introduction of the Bonus Banking Plan. 
Achievement of on-target performance provides a payment equal 
to 90% of base salary, rising on a linear scale to 225% of base 
salary for achievement of stretch performance. The scheme 
begins to pay out once threshold performance measures have 
been achieved.
Bonus Banking Plan
The CFO/Interim CEO was measured against the targets as shown below: 
The following table details how the Remuneration Policy has been implemented and collates the Bonus Banking Plan results for the year ended 
31 March 2015.
Performance measure Threshold Target Stretch Actual 
% of maximum 
reward achieved
CFO/Interim CEO  
payment
Underlying profit after tax
(a)
 £78.2m £86.9m £104.3m £96.0m 71.38% £100,624
Underlying operating profit
(a)
 £94.5m £105.0m £126.0m £111.3m 58.00% £122,644
Underlying operating cash flow
(a)(b) 
£65.2m £72.40m £86.9m £134.0m 100.00% £211,455
Interim CEO Personal Objectives:
•  underlying operating profit in line with  
the Board’s expectations;
N/A
Meet 
Expectations
Exceed 
Expectations
Exceeded 
Expectations
100.00% £563,880
•  'Best Companies' Employee Engagement  
Survey outcome;
593.5 600 610 613.5
•  Customer Satisfaction Survey  
– Top 3 ranking; and
77% 80% 85% 85%
•  overall stability maintained within the Group 
during the period up to the new CEO’s 
commencement date.
N/A
Meet 
Expectations
Exceed 
Expectations
Exceeded 
Expectations
Overall Results 88.55% £998,603
50% paid in cash 44.28% £499,302
50% banked
(c)
44.28% £499,301
(a)
 Definition of underlying measurements of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
(b)
  Adjusted to exclude LTPA and MSCA capital expenditure. Operating cash flow was significantly higher than budgeted. This was partially a result of the higher operating profit but 
was largely due to the predicted unwind of working capital not materialising as originally expected. The latter results from favourable contract milestones and customers paying 
within terms ahead of the year end cut-off.
(c)
 Banked portion of Bonus Banking Plan held in share units.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, no discretion was applied to the calculated results; therefore, £998,603 has been reported in the single 
figure calculation. For the year ended 31 March 2014, financial targets were exceeded providing a payment of 76.97% of base salary for both 
the CEO and CFO as detailed in the single figure table (50% of which was deferred into shares, which will vest, subject to the rules, in June 
2017). No discretion was applied to these payments.
Deferred Annual Bonus 
As reported in the 2012 Annual Report, the CEO and CFO deferred 50% (£362,000) and 40% (£185,000) respectively of their annual cash bonus 
into the DAB Plan, allocating 229,596 and 117,173 shares respectively. These shares were held in trust prior to transfer to the outgoing CEO  
on 5 January 2015, and will be released to the CFO on 29 June 2015. These figures are not reported in the single figure as they have been 
previously reported under the regulations.
79
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Long-Term Incentive summary
The following table details how the Remuneration Policy has been implemented and collates the Long-Term Incentive Plan results for the 
performance period ended 31 March 2015. Plan details are provided in the paragraphs immediately following this table. As a result of his 
resignation the CEO forfeited all outstanding awards, totalling 2,140,929 shares.
Plan
Conditional  
shares maturing Shares vesting
Percentage  
shares vesting Share value
(a)
Accrued
dividends
(b)
Reported single 
figure value
CFO 2012 Performance Share Plan 
(C)
356,250 65,860 18.49% 126,846 8,035 134,881
2012 Deferred Annual  
Bonus Matching
117,173 0 0.00% 0 0 0
Total 473,423 65,860 13.91% 126,846 8,035 134,881
(a) 
Share price used in calculation equals £1.926. Three-month average 1 January 2015 – 31 March 2015.
(b)
 Cash equivalent dividends are earned during the performance period and any period when shares are held in trust. 
(c)
 50% of PSP shares granted are subject to the EPS performance measure, 50% are subject to the TSR performance measure.
 
Following the sale of the US Services business and the £150m share buyback programme the Committee reviewed the EPS performance 
conditions to assess their continued appropriateness. In respect of these two events the Remuneration Committee decided to exercise its 
discretion to amend the EPS performance conditions as follows:
• in accordance with best practice guidance the number of shares bought under the share buyback have been added back in calculating 
the current year’s EPS for the incentive plans, which reduced the current year’s as reported EPS from 15.2p to 14.7p;
• to use only earnings reflecting continuing operations, which reduced 2012 EPS from 13.6p to 10.5p; and
• to treat the accelerated interest charge for the Private Placement loan redemptions in 2012 consistently with the similar charge in 2015 
which increased 2012 EPS by 2.5p from 10.5p to 13.0p.
As a result, 65,860 conditional shares will vest with a value of £126,846 using a share price of £1.926 (three-month average to 31 March 2015). 
Long-Term Incentive Plan Results
Performance measure and level Performance Share Plan DAB Matching
EPS Growth: 
Threshold Performance 3% (CAGR) 7% (CAGR)
Vesting at Threshold 25% 25%
Maximum Performance 10% (CAGR) 15% (CAGR)
Vesting at Maximum 100% 100%
EPS at Start of Performance Period (Adjusted) 13.0p 13.0p
EPS at Threshold Performance 14.2p 15.9p
EPS at Maximum Performance 17.3p 19.8p
Actual Performance (Adjusted) 14.7p 14.7p
Actual Vesting 36.97% 0.00%
TSR Performance:
Threshold Performance Median
Vesting at Threshold 30%
Maximum Performance Upper Quartile
Vesting at Maximum 100%
Actual Performance Below Median
Actual Vesting 0.00%
Total PSP Vesting 18.49%
Value Sharing Plan
As reported in the 2014 Annual Report, the CEO and CFO single figure value relating to the VSP was £502,682 and £251,341 respectively.  
The CEO forfeited all shares outstanding under this plan. For the CFO, as per scheme rules, 50% of the vested shares were deferred until  
26 May 2015. These figures are not reported in the 2015 single figure as they were included in the single figure for 2014 in accordance with  
the regulations.
80
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Scheme interests awarded during the financial year ended 31 March 2015
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table. The following awards were made to Executive Directors.
Plan name
Performance 
measure Grant date
Award as 
percentage  
of salary
Face value  
of award 
Share price at 
date of grant
No. of  
shares  
granted
Performance 
period  
from – to
Percentage of 
award vesting  
at threshold
CFO PSP 2014 EPS 28 May 14 75.0% £293,550 200p 146,775 1 Apr 14  
to 31 Mar 17
25%
CFO PSP 2014 TSR 28 May 14 75.0% £293,550 200p 146,775 1 Apr 14  
to 31 Mar 17
30%
CFO DAB Matching 
2014
 (a)
EPS 1 July 14 57.7% £225,936 207.7p 108,779 1 Apr 14  
to 31 Mar 17
25%
(a) 
DAB Matching 2014 is 50% of the deferred annual bonus earned in respect of year ended 31 March 2014. 
Payments to past Directors
No payments were made to past Directors.
Payments for loss of office
No payments were made for loss of office. Leo Quinn on his resignation from the Company was paid until his date of cessation on 31 December 
2014. He received no bonus for the year ended 31 March 2015 and no payment in lieu of notice of salary or benefits other than £36,565 in lieu 
of untaken holiday. All matching deferred shares and performance share awards lapsed in their entirety on his cessation of employment.
Single figure remuneration for each Non-executive Director
Non-executive Director remuneration is shown as a single figure to provide an annual comparison between the actual remuneration awarded 
during the performance year ended 31 March 2015 and the preceding year.
Non-executive Director
Salary/fees Benefits Committee Chair fees US attendance fee Single figure
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Mark Elliott £236,250 £228,750 £75,000 £75,000 – – – – £311,250 £303,750
Michael Harper £43,000 £43,000 – – £16,549 £10,000 £2,500 £5,000 £62,049 £58,000
Paul Murray £43,000 £43,000 – – £9,000 £9,000 £2,500 £5,000 £54,500 £57,000
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent £43,000 £43,000 – – £9,000 £1,500 – £5,000 £52,000 £49,500
Susan Searle £44,985 – – – – – £2,500 – £47,485 –
Ian Mason £35,392 – – – – – – – £35,392 –
Noreen Doyle £13,320 £43,000 – – £2,880 £9,000 – £5,000 £16,200 £57,000
Colin Balmer – £35,833 – – – £7,500 – £2,500 – £45,833
Mark Elliot receives an accommodation allowance of £75,000 as he is US resident.
Susan Searle received an additional fee in April 2014 – payment for service provided in the previous financial year.
Ian Mason appointed 4 June 2014.
Noreen Doyle retired 22 July 2014. Colin Balmer retired 31 January 2014.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests
Set out below are the Directors’ shareholdings as at 31 March 2015. As stated in the Remuneration Policy, the Company requires Executive 
Directors to hold shares equivalent to 100% of base salary.
The CFO exceeds the minimum shareholding requirement with a current holding equivalent to 224% of base salary using a share price of 
£1.926 (three-month average to 31 March 2015). 
Shares  
beneficially
owned
(a)
Shares subject  
to performance
conditions
(b)
Shares not subject  
to performance
conditions
(c)
Total  
shares held at  
21 May 2015
David Mellors 33,035 1,332,948 435,996 1,801,979
Mark Elliott 125,000 – – 125,000
Michael Harper 30,000 – – 30,000
Paul Murray 56,077 – – 56,077
Admiral Sir James Burnell–Nugent 11,419 – – 11,419
Susan Searle 10,000 – – 10,000
Ian Mason 10,000 – – 10,000
(a)
  Shares beneficially owned comprise shares held under the Share Incentive Plan (including matched shares) and shares owned by the Executive Director and any connected persons.
(b)
  Shares subject to performance conditions comprise awards made under the DAB (matching) for 2014, 2013 and 2012, and PSP for 2014, 2013 and 2012.
(c) 
Shares not subject to performance conditions comprise deferred shares under the DAB plan for 2014, 2013 and 2012, and VSP 2011.
81
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 350
300
250
200
150
100
50
QinetiQ
31 Mar 09 31 Mar 10 31 Mar 11 31 Mar 12 31 Mar 13 31 Mar 15 31 Mar 14
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
170
160
150
140
130
120
110
100
90
QinetiQ
31 Mar 12 31 Mar 13 31 Mar 14 31 Mar 15
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
Total scheme interests summary
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table. Total scheme interests, including those awarded during the financial  
year ended 31 March 2015, are as follows. 
David Mellors
Plan name Date of grant
Number  
at 1 April  
2014
Granted in 
year 
(maximum 
potential  
of awards)
Exercised/ 
vested  
in year 
Lapsed  
in year
Number at  
31 March  
2015
Market price 
on date of 
grant
Earliest vest 
date
Latest vest 
date
VSP 2010 29 Jul 10 154,551 – 154,551 – – 124.9 29 Jul 13 29 Jul 13
VSP 2011 26 May 11 765,900 – 52,847 660,206 52,847 112.3 26 May 14 26 May 14
DAB Match 2011 01 Jul 11 70,379 – 18,627 51,752 – 129.1 01 Jul 14 01 Jul 14
DAB Match 2012 29 Jun 12 117,173 – – – 117,173 157.1 29 Jun 15 29 Jun 15
PSP 2012 09 Aug 12 356,250 – – – 356,250 166.0 09 Aug 15 09 Aug 15
PSP 2013 28 Jun 13 300,000 – – – 300,000 180.4 28 Jun 16 28 Jun 16
DAB Match 2013 28 Jun 13 157,196 – – – 157,196 180.4 28 Jun 16 28 Jun 16
PSP 2014 28 May 14 – 293,550 – – 293,550 200.0 28 May 17 28 May 17
DAB Match 2014 1 Jul 14 – 108,779 – – 108,779 207.7 28 May 17 28 May 17
1,921,449 402,329 226,025 711,958 1,385,795
The awards in the table above are subject to the performance conditions described on pages 76 to 77. The price of a QinetiQ share at 31 March 2015 was 190.9p. The highest and 
lowest prices of a QinetiQ share during the year ended 31 March 2015 were 229.4p and 182.1p. There have been no changes to the interests shown above between 31 March 2015 
and 21 May 2015.
Performance review
The graph shows the Company’s TSR over the period from 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2012 to 31 March 2015 compared 
with the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) over the same period based on spot values. The Committee has chosen to demonstrate  
the Company’s performance against this index as it is an appropriate sector comparison within the index in which the Company is listed.  
This comparator group is also used to measure TSR performance in the PSP .
Six-year Comparator Chart Three-year Comparator Chart
82
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Total employee
remune rati on
(£m)
2015
(a)
 For 2015 this ﬁgure relates to the share buyback resu lti n g from sale 
 of the US Services business.
2014
Share-based pro ﬁt
distribu ti on
(£m)
Other sign iﬁcant pro ﬁt
distribu ti on
(a)
(£m)
350.3
533.9
107.0
0.0
32.3 29.8
Incentive plans
Performance table
The table below shows the CEO’s remuneration over the same performance period (1 April 2010 to 31 March 2015):
Year ended 31 March Salary/fees Single figure
Annual Bonus 
(% of maximum)
Long-Term Incentives  
(% of maximum vesting)
2015
(a)
469,776 673,979 0.00% 0.00%
2015
(b)
501,227 1,725,960 88.55% 13.91%
2014 610,844 2,177,742 76.97% 15.43%
2013 593,050 3,992,001 100.00% 40.27%
2012 580,000 1,495,284 100.00% 0.00%
2011 580,000 1,327,156 100.00% 0.00%
2010
(c)
217,872 886,564 0.00% 0.00%
2010
(d)
266,667 1,246,320 0.00% 0.00%
(a) 
Leo Quinn left the Company on 31 December 2014.
(b)
 David Mellors was Interim CEO from 20 October 2014. 
(c)
 Leo Quinn joined the Company on 16 November 2009. He was awarded £600,000 in lieu of compensation for monies earned from a third party.
(d)
  Graham Love left the Company on 30 November 2009. His single figure comprises earnings up to and including his leaving date and incorporates compensation for loss of office 
and accelerated share vestings. 
Percentage change in CEO remuneration
The following table compares change in CEO remuneration with an employee comparator group (averaged per capita). For comparison 
purposes, Leo Quinn’s figures to 31 December 2014 and David Mellor’s figures for three months to 31 March 2015 have been used.
Comparison group
(a)
2015 2014 % change 2015 2014 % change
Base salary 627,792 610,344 2.9 38,073 36,684 3.8
Benefits 57,587 59,524 -3.3 1,193 1,036 15.2
Annual bonus 998,603 710,393 40.6 870 838 3.8
(a)
 The comparison group (4,000 employees) represents the UK principal businesses in service between 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015.
Remuneration Policy for all employees
All employees of QinetiQ are entitled to base salary, benefits and pension. UK and Australia based employees are entitled to participate in the 
QinetiQ Share Incentive Plan. The maximum opportunity available is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role. Participation in the 
PSP is available to Executive Directors; senior managers and selected employees throughout the organisation are also invited to participate. 
The Committee is advised of the general reward policy for other employees and of any significant changes proposed.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The graph below shows actual spend on all employee remuneration, shareholder dividends and buybacks and any other significant use  
of profit and cash within the previous two financial years: 
83
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 30%
Median Upper quartile
Percentile performance
100%
25%
3% 10%
CAGR EPS%
100%
Implementation of Policy for the year ending 31 March 2016
Salary/fees
Non-executive Director fees were last increased on 1 August 2013,  
and the Chairman’s fees were increased on 1 December 2013.  
Salaries and fees are reviewed in line with policy, although the 
Chairman requested no review of his fees on this occasion.  
The review of Non-executive Directors’ fees resulted in an increase  
in base fees from £43,000 to £46,000 per annum, equivalent to an 
increase of 3% per annum since the last review. In March 2014,  
the Committee changed the Executive Directors’ salary review date  
to 1 September in line with the rest of the employee population.
Steve Wadey, the new CEO, commenced his role on 27 April 2015.  
The agreed package is:
Base Salary £560,000
Maximum Annual Bonus 225% of base salary
PSP 150%
Pension 20% allowance
Car Allowance £19,000
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one external non- executive 
director position with the Board’s approval. Any fees received in respect 
of these appointments may be retained by the Executive Director. 
The former CEO was a Non-executive Director of Betfair Group plc 
and Chairman of their Remuneration Committee. Non-executive 
Director fees, as reported in the Betfair Group plc Annual Report 
dated 30 April 2014, were £50,000 per annum plus £10,000 per 
annum for chairing a committee.
Neither the new CEO nor the CFO hold non-executive directorships in 
other companies.
Fees effective  
as at 1 April 2015
Non-executive Chairman £236,250
Accommodation allowance for Group Chairman £75,000
Basic fee for UK Non-executive Director* £43,000
Additional fee for chairing a Committee £9,000
Additional fee to Deputy Chairman/Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director
£10,000
Additional fee for attendance at a Board meeting 
held in US by UK resident Non-executive Director
£2,500
* From 1 July 2015 £46,000, being an equivalent to an increase of 3% per annum.
Incentives for Executives
Below shows the measures and relative weighting for the 2016 Bonus 
Banking Plan for the CEO and CFO.
Performance  
Measure
Relative  
Weighting (%)
Bonus Banking Plan
(target performance  
112.5% of base salary, 
stretch performance  
225% of base salary)
Group Underlying 
Operating Profit
30%
Group Underlying
Operating Cash Flow
(a)
(pre-customer capex)
30%
Group Underlying 
Profit After Tax
20%
Qualitative measures 
based on Company 
KPIs
20%
(a) 
Adjusted to exclude LTPA and MSCA capital expenditure.
Details of specific performance targets for the Bonus Banking Plan 
have not been provided as they are deemed commercially sensitive. 
They will be disclosed retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
In 2015 PSP awards to Executive Directors are equal to 150%  
of base salary. The graphs below show the targets against which  
the performance will be measured and the vesting mechanics: 
TSR performance vs FTSE 250 (excl. investment trusts) –  
50% of award
EPS performance – 50% of award
84
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board. The Committee comprises at least three members (not counting the Group Chairman 
of the Board), all of whom are independent Non-executive Directors. The Group Chairman of the Board also serves on the Committee as an 
additional member as he was considered independent on appointment as Chairman.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings. However, other individuals such as the Chief Executive  
Officer, the Director of Capability, Group Reward Director and external advisors are invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and  
when appropriate.
The Board appoints the Committee Chairman who is an independent, Non-executive Director. In the absence of the Committee Chairman  
and/or an appointed deputy, the remaining members present shall elect one of themselves to chair the meeting who would qualify under these 
terms of reference to be appointed to that position by the Board. The Chairman of the Board is not permitted to be Chairman of the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the QinetiQ website (www.QinetiQ.com). 
The Committee has appointed PwC, an independent firm of remuneration consultants, to provide advice on market practice, corporate 
governance and institutional stakeholder views. Fees paid during the year for these services were £108,500 which included advice relating  
to the Bonus Banking Plan.
PwC provided the following additional services during the year:
• implementation support for the Company on executive reward plans;
• consultancy and advice to Group Tax, including tax support for the strategic review of the US Services division; and
• consultancy and advice in relation to Group Pensions.
The Committee is satisfied the scale and nature of this work does not impact on the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives 
from PwC.
The Group Chief Executive, Director of Capability and Group Reward Director also provided information and advice to the Committee.
The Chair of the Committee and the Chairman of the Board consult, from time to time, with key shareholders on significant remuneration 
matters. The shareholders’ views are shared with the Committee to aid the Committee’s decision making.
Service contracts
Copies of Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office and at the 
AGM. Executive Directors’ service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 months’ prior notice.
Under each of the Executive Directors’ service agreements, QinetiQ has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, being 
base salary and benefits that would have accrued to the Executive Director during the contractual notice period. In addition, the Committee 
reserves the right to allow continued participation in the annual bonus plan during the notice period provided that the individual is being 
required to work their notice period. It should be noted that the Company expects Executive Directors to mitigate.
Non-executives Directors’ letters of appointment are renewed on a rolling 12-month basis subject to reappointment at the AGM. There are no 
provisions for compensation on early termination. 
Statement of voting
Date  
of vote For % Against % Abstained
%  
of issued share 
capital voted
Remuneration Policy 22 Jul 2014 422,740,088 84.66% 76,602,719 15.34% 4,877,598 76.68%
Remuneration Report from previous financial year 22 Jul 2014 498,994,031 99.42% 2,927,802 0.58% 2,298,572 77.08%
The Remuneration Report detailed on pages 72 to 85 was approved by the Board on 21 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Michael Harper
Remuneration Committee Chairman
21 May 2015 
85
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Statutory information contained elsewhere in the Annual Report
Information required to be part of this Directors’ report can be found 
elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is 
incorporated into this report by reference:
Information 
Location in  
Annual Report 
Corporate Governance Statement page 48
Directors’ details page 55
Directors’ interests in shares page 81
Employees page 26
Financial instruments: Information on the Group’s 
financial risk management objectives and policies, 
and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest 
rate risk and foreign currency risk
page 120
Greenhouse gas emissions page 29
Likely future developments in the business  
of the Company or its subsidiaries
pages 2 to 47
Results and dividends page 45
Management report
The Strategic report on pages 2 to 47 and the Directors’ report,  
as detailed on pages 86 to 89, including information which has  
been incorporated into those sections by reference, comprise the 
management report specified by rules 4.1.5R (2) and 4.1.8R of the 
FCA’s Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
Research and development
One of the Group’s principal business streams is the provision of 
funded research and development (R&D) for customers. The Group 
also invests in the commercialisation of promising technologies across 
all areas of business.
The majority of R&D-related expenditure is incurred in respect of 
specific research contracts placed by customers. R&D costs are 
included within operating costs in the income statement and R&D 
income is reflected within revenue. In the financial year, the Group 
recorded £306.6m (2014: £314.6m) of total R&D-related expenditure, 
of which £285.8m (2014: £288.7m) was customer-funded work and 
£20.8m (2014: £25.9m) was internally funded (all comparative figures 
exclude discontinued operations). Additionally, £0.4m (2014: £2.1m)  
of late-stage development costs was capitalised and £0.6m (2014: £0.3m) 
of capitalised development costs was amortised in the year.
Political donations
QinetiQ does not make political donations to parties as that term 
would be commonly recognised. The legal definition of that term is, 
however, quite broad and may have the effect of covering a number 
of normal business activities that would not commonly be perceived 
to be political donations, such as sponsorship of events.
These may include legitimate interactions in making MPs and others 
in the political world aware of key industry issues and matters that 
affect QinetiQ, and that make an important contribution to their 
understanding of QinetiQ, the markets in which it operates and  
the work of their constituents.
Branches
The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in a 
number of different countries in which they operate; their results  
are, however, not material to the Group’s financial results.
Share capital
As at 31 March 2015, the Company had allotted and fully paid up 
share capital of 608,610,004 ordinary shares of 1p each with an 
aggregate nominal value of £6m (including shares held by employee 
share trusts) and one Special Share with a nominal value of £1.
Details of the shares in issue during the financial year are shown  
in note 28 on page 127.
Share buyback
At the general meeting of the Company held on 13 May 2014 relating 
to the sale of the US Services business, shareholder approval was 
given for the Directors to purchase ordinary shares up to 14.99% of 
the issued ordinary share capital. The Company resolved to use this 
authority to effect a £150 million return of capital to shareholders  
by way of an on-market share buyback, subject to prevailing equity 
market conditions, as this was considered to be a flexible distribution 
method which was simple to execute, easily understood by the market 
and provided shareholders with a choice as to whether to participate. 
During the financial year, the Company purchased 52,384,634 ordinary 
shares in the capital of the Company (representing 8.6% of the issued 
ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2015) at an average price of  
203 pence per share. Since the year end, the buyback programme has 
continued and, as at 15 May 2015, a further 10,483,111 ordinary shares 
have been purchased (representing 1.72% of the issued share capital), 
at an average price of 202 pence per share. All of these shares have 
been cancelled. Subject to prevailing market conditions, it is intended 
that the buyback will remain ongoing until the £150 million return of 
capital has been achieved.
In the financial year, the impact of the share buyback has been to 
increase basic underlying earnings per share from 14.7p to 15.2p,  
for total shareholder return to remain unchanged and for net asset 
value to reduce by £107.1 million. In accordance with the Investment 
Association’s guidelines, the effect of the share buyback has been 
neutralised in incentive schemes, such that for calculation purposes 
the number of shares in issue is regarded as the same at the end  
of the three-year performance period as at the beginning. 
Accordingly, no benefit has accrued under the incentive schemes  
as a consequence of the share buyback.
Rights of ordinary shareholders
The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the Articles of 
Association. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive  
the Company’s Reports and Accounts, to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights in person or by 
appointing a proxy, and to receive a dividend where declared or paid 
out of profits available for that purpose.
Rights of special shareholder
The Special Share is held by HM Government through the Secretary  
of State for Defence (the Special Shareholder) and it may only be held 
by and transferred to HM Government. It confers certain rights which 
86
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ report are set out in the Articles of Association to protect UK defence and 
security interests. These include:
• the promotion and reinforcement of the MOD compliance 
principles which require QinetiQ to be an impartial, ethical and 
responsible contractor by avoiding conflicts of interest in its 
dealings with the MOD; 
• the protection of defined strategic assets of the Group, such  
as certain testing facilities, by providing the Special Shareholder 
with an option to purchase those assets in certain circumstances; 
• the right to require certain persons with a material interest in 
QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on the 
grounds of national security or conflict of interest; and
• nationality of directors provisions whereby at least the Chairman 
or Chief Executive must be a British citizen.
The Special Share carries no financial and economic value and the 
Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at a general meeting of the 
Company. At any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ  
to redeem the share at par and, if wound up, the Special Shareholder 
would be entitled to be repaid at its nominal value before other 
shareholders. Any variation of the rights attaching to the Special 
Share requires the written approval of the MOD. Further details  
can be found in note 28 on page 127. 
Restrictions on the transfer of shares
As detailed above, the Special Share confers certain rights under the 
Company’s Articles of Association to require certain persons with an 
interest in QinetiQ’s shares that exceed certain prescribed thresholds 
to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on the grounds of 
national security or conflict of interest.
Employee share schemes
The QinetiQ Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) holds shares 
in connection with QinetiQ’s employee share schemes, excluding the 
Share Incentive Plan. As at 31 March 2015, the Trust held 5,139,557 
ordinary shares of 1p each (the Trust Shares). The Trustees of the  
Trust have agreed to waive their entitlement to dividends payable  
on the Trust Shares. The Trust holds further ordinary shares in respect  
of deferred shares held on behalf of participants in the Company’s 
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan. Dividends received by the Trust in respect 
of the deferred shares are paid direct to the plan participants on 
receipt and are not retained in the Trust.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as Trustee in respect of all 
ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share 
Incentive Plan (the Plan). As at 31 March 2015, 304,324 ordinary 
shares of 1p each were held in trust under the Plan. Equiniti Share 
Plan Trustees Limited will vote on all resolutions proposed at general 
meetings in accordance with voting instructions received from 
participants in the Plan.
Corporate sponsored nominee
In circumstances where ordinary shares are held by the corporate 
sponsored nominee service, Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited will 
vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance 
with voting instructions received from shareholders using such 
corporate nominee service.
Major shareholdings
The Company has been notified of the following interests of 3%  
or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company (being 
voting rights over such share capital) pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the 
Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules:
Name of shareholder
At 31 March 2015
% of issued share
 capital*
At 15 May 2015
#
% of issued share
 capital*
Schroders 10.00% 11.08%
Ruane Cunniff & Goldfarb 9.71% 9.71%
Investec 5.02% 5.02%
Artisan Partners 5.01% 5.01%
Norges Bank 4.24% 3.93%
 
* as notified by the shareholder. 
#
 being the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this report.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Company requires Directors to disclose proposed outside 
business interests before they are entered into. This enables prior 
assessment of any conflict, or potential conflict, of interest and any 
impact on time commitment. An annual review of all external 
interests is carried out by the Board.
Directors’ interests in contracts
At the date of this report, there is no contract or arrangement with 
the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is significant in relation  
to the business of the Group as a whole in which a Director of the 
Company is materially interested.
Indemnities
The Articles of Association of the Company entitle the Directors  
of the Company, to the extent permitted by law, to be indemnified 
out of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any 
expenses in connection with certain proceedings relating to the 
execution of their duties as Directors of the Company. 
In addition, the Company purchases directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance. Where it is not possible for directors and officers to be 
indemnified by the Company, such directors and officers of the 
Company benefit from the directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
cover in respect of legal actions brought against them. This insurance 
protection is also provided to the Company and its subsidiaries where 
they have provided an indemnity.
The directors of QinetiQ Pension Scheme Trustee Limited, a Group 
company and the Trustee of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme (the 
Scheme), benefit from an indemnity contained in the rules of the 
Scheme. The indemnity would be provided out of the Scheme assets.
Articles of Association
Changes to the Articles must be submitted to shareholders for approval. 
Save in respect of the rights attaching to the Special Share, the Company 
has not adopted any special rules relating to the appointment and 
replacement of Directors or the amendment of the Company’s Articles 
of Association, other than as provided under UK corporate law.
87
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Appointment and replacement of Directors
According to the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to 
election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following 
their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no 
more than three years. In line with best practice reflected in the 
Code, however, the Company requires each serving member of the 
Board to be put forward for election or re-election on an annual basis 
at each annual general meeting.
Powers of the Directors: allotment/purchase of own shares
As noted on page 86, at the general meeting of the Company held  
on 13 May 2014, shareholder approval was given for the Directors  
to purchase ordinary shares up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary  
share capital. The Company has used this authority to effect a 
£150m return of capital to shareholders by way of an on-market 
share buyback, subject to prevailing equity market conditions.
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held in July 2014, the 
shareholders passed resolutions which authorised the Directors to 
allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal value of £4,403,174 
(£2,197 ,537 pursuant only to a rights issue) and to disapply pre-emption 
rights (up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital).
Resolutions in respect of the allotment of relevant securities, the 
disapplication of pre-exemption rights and the purchase of own 
shares will be laid before the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Change of control – significant agreements
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling  
the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, 
alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of control  
of the Company, or if the Company ceases to be a UK company:
• The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year contract 
awarded to QinetiQ by the MOD on 14 December 2006. The terms 
of this contract require QinetiQ Limited to remain a UK company 
which is incorporated under the laws of any part of the UK, or an 
overseas company registered in the UK, and that at least 50% of 
the Board of Directors are UK nationals. The terms also contain 
change of control conditions and restricted share transfer conditions 
which require prior approval from HM Government if there is  
a material change in the ownership of QinetiQ Limited’s share 
capital, unless the change relates to shares listed on a regulated 
market – ‘material’ is defined as being 10% or more of the share 
capital. In addition, there are restrictions on transfers of shares to 
persons from countries appearing on the restricted list as issued 
by HM Government.
• The Long Term Partnering Agreement (LTPA) is a 25-year 
contract, which QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February 2003,  
to provide test, evaluation and training services to the MOD.  
This contract contains conditions under which the prior approval 
of HM Government is required if the contractor, QinetiQ Limited, 
ceases to be a subsidiary of the QinetiQ Group, except where 
such change in control is permitted under the shareholders 
Agreement to which the MOD is a party.
During the year under review, the Company re-financed its multi-
currency revolving credit facility and entered into a new five-year 
facility, with a US$100m tranche and a £166m tranche, provided  
by a consortium of banks, that expires on 29 August 2019. Under  
the terms of the facility, in the event of a change of control of the 
Company, any lender may give notice to cancel its commitment  
under the facility and require all outstanding amounts to be repaid.
The Directors’ contracts contain no provisions for compensation  
for loss of office on a change of control of the Company.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 
22 July 2015 at 11.00am, at Pennyhill Park Hotel, London Road, Bagshot, 
Surrey, GU19 5EU. Details of the business to be proposed and voted on 
at the meeting are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, 
which is sent to all shareholders and is also published on the Company’s 
website, www.QinetiQ.com in the ‘Investors’ section.
Auditor
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as 
auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Going concern
The Group’s activities, combined with the factors that are likely to 
affect its future development and performance, are set out on pages 
2 to 47. The Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 44 to 47 sets  
out details of the financial position of the Group, the cash flows, 
committed borrowing facilities, liquidity, and the Group’s policies  
and processes for managing its capital and financial risks.
Note 26 on page 120 to the financial statements also provides  
details of the Group’s hedging activities, financial instruments, and  
its exposure to liquidity and credit risk. The market conditions in 
which the Group operates have been, and are expected to continue 
to be, challenging as spending from the Group’s key customers in  
its primary markets in the UK and the US remains under pressure. 
Despite these challenges, the Directors believe that the Group is well 
positioned to manage its overall business risks successfully. After 
making the appropriate enquiries, including a review of the latest 
two-year budget, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Consequently, the Annual Report and 
Accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report  
and financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements  
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
88
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ report continued Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
report have confirmed that, so far as the Directors are aware, there  
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware; and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably 
should have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the  
Annual Report
The Directors in office as at the date of this report confirm that  
to the best of their knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of  
the Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
• the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business, and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, all Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken  
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. In this context, the 
coordination and review of the Group-wide input into the Annual 
Report is a vital part of the control process upon which the Directors 
rely and is an exercise which spans a period wider than the timetable 
for compiling the Annual Report itself. Critically these processes 
include the controls the business operates throughout the year to 
identify key financial and operational issues. Further details can be 
found in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 66 to 69 of the 
Corporate Governance Statement. 
By order of the Board 
Jon Messent 
Company Secretary
Cody Technology Park  
Ively Road  
Farnborough  
Hampshire  
GU14 0LX
21 May 2015
89
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information Opinions and conclusions arising from  
our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc for the 
year ended 31 March 2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the 
parent company Balance Sheet and the related notes. In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 
2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU); 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements,  
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on  
our audit were as follows:
• Carrying value of US Global Products goodwill – £67.2 million
Refer to page 67 (Report of the Audit Committee), page 99 
(accounting policy note) and page 112 (financial disclosures).
The risk: The carrying value of goodwill associated with the US Global 
Products business was written down to its recoverable amount in the 
year ended 31 March 2014 based on its discounted projected cash 
flows. As a result, any deterioration in these projections or an increase 
in the discount rate applied will result in a further write down being 
required. The carrying value of the US Global Products goodwill has 
been re-assessed in 2015 also based on the discounted projected cash 
flows of this business, which are inherently uncertain due to its lumpy 
revenue profile. In addition, there has been a reduction in demand  
for certain of this business’ conflict related products and, whilst the 
projections anticipate that this will be offset partially by new revenue 
streams, the latter may not be realised in full or in the timeframe 
envisaged. This continues therefore to be an area of audit focus.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, testing 
the principles and mathematical integrity of the Group’s discounted 
cash flow model, comparing the Group’s assumptions to externally 
derived data such as projected economic growth and discount 
rates, involving our own specialists as we considered appropriate 
and challenging the cash flow projections. We tested the sensitivity 
of the impairment calculation to changes in the judgments and 
assumptions used by the Directors. We also assessed whether the 
Group’s disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the 
impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly 
reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill. 
• Recognition of revenues and profits on long-term contracts  
– £685.1 million
Refer to page 67 (Report of the Audit Committee), page 97 
(accounting policy note) and page 103 (financial disclosures).
The risk: A significant proportion of the Group’s revenues and profits 
are derived from long-term contracts. These contracts can include 
complex technological and commercial risks and often specify 
performance milestones to be achieved throughout the contract 
period. This results in estimates and assumptions having to be made 
to forecast the margin on each contract after making appropriate 
allowances for these technical and commercial risks related to 
performance milestones yet to be achieved. The risk of misstatement 
is that the accounting for the Group’s significant contracts does not 
accurately reflect the status and the associated cost to complete of 
the relevant contract.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, amongst others, 
testing the design and operating effectiveness of controls in place to 
manage the commercial, technical and financial aspects of the 
Group’s long-term contracts. For a sample of significant contracts, 
determined on the basis of technical and commercial complexity and 
profitability of the contract, we also obtained an understanding of 
the status of the contract through discussions with contract project 
teams and Directors at a Group and divisional level, attendance at 
project teams’ contract review meetings, and examining externally 
available evidence, such as customer correspondence. We examined 
the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete, challenging the 
reasonableness of these in light of supporting evidence including past 
experience of the contracts and the extent of technical or commercial 
risk identified. We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures (see 
notes 2 and 32) in respect of the analysis of revenue and material 
contingent liabilities properly reflected the evidence obtained. 
• Provisions and contingent liabilities – £25.4 million
Refer to page 67 (Report of the Audit Committee), page 100 
(accounting policy note) and pages 117 and 135 (financial disclosures).
The risk: The Group operates in regulated environments and a failure 
to comply with particular regulations could result in fines and/or 
penalties. There is judgment required in determining the significance 
of any instances of potential non-compliance and, where appropriate, 
the extent of any potential liability. The Group holds provisions in 
respect of warranty claims and indemnities and environmental issues. 
The financial statements also disclose contingent liabilities in respect 
of legal claims and environmental issues which have not been 
provided for on the basis that they are not considered to qualify for 
recognition as provisions. This is one of our key areas of audit focus. 
Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, a critical 
assessment of the extent to which the Directors’ estimates take into 
account a balanced assessment of the latest available information 
and the accuracy and reliability of the sources of that information.  
We corroborated the appropriateness of the assumptions by reference 
to third party confirmations and legal advice, where available, and 
considered whether our understanding of the business gained 
throughout the audit process corroborated the provisions recorded. 
90
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of QinetiQ Group plc only We considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of 
provisions and contingent liabilities. 
• Tax liabilities – current tax payable £15.3 million, deferred tax 
asset £12.9 million
Refer to page 67 (Report of the Audit Committee), page 98 
(accounting policy note) and pages 109 and 115 (financial disclosures).
The risk: The Group is subject to income taxes in UK, USA and a 
number of other overseas jurisdictions. The level of current tax and 
deferred tax recognised requires judgments as to the likely outcome 
of decisions to be made by the tax authorities, including those related 
to specific tax allowances such as the UK Research and Development 
tax credit. There is a risk that the judgments on which the provisions 
are based do not take into account or do not properly reflect the 
latest available, reliable information or an appropriate application of 
relevant tax legislation, and are either under or overstated as a result. 
In addition, a deferred tax asset of £25 million in respect of brought 
forward un-utilised losses has been recognised in 2015. The timing  
of recognition of brought forward tax losses requires judgment in 
determining whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits 
against which they will be recoverable and there is a risk that the 
anticipated taxable profit will not be realised.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, 
challenging the appropriateness of the Directors’ assumptions and 
estimates in relation to tax assets and liabilities, by critically assessing 
the range of possible amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, 
likely settlements based on the latest correspondence with the 
relevant tax authorities and the complexity of the relevant tax 
legislation. We involved our tax specialist in analysing and 
challenging the assumptions used to determine tax provisions  
and the recoverability of tax assets based on our knowledge and 
experience of the application of the legislation by the relevant 
authorities and courts. We also assessed whether the Group’s tax 
disclosures (see note 18) are appropriate and in accordance with 
relevant accounting standards.
• Consolidation of US subsidiaries
Refer to page 67 (Report of the Audit Committee) and page 97 
(accounting policy note).
The risk: As detailed on page 65 concerning ‘Management and 
control of US subsidiaries’ , the Group’s holding of its US Global Products 
business (FMI) assets is regulated by a Proxy agreement, whose 
purpose is to insulate FMI from undue foreign ownership control or 
influence, the effects of which have to be considered when assessing 
whether it should be consolidated in accordance with the requirements 
of the relevant accounting standard. Judgment is required in assessing 
whether the Proxy agreement restricts the Group’s ability to control 
FMI’s operating and financial policies to an extent that it would be 
inappropriate to consolidate it and, if so, what the alternative 
accounting treatment should be.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, 
challenging the appropriateness of the Directors’ judgment, by 
critically assessing the available evidence as to the operation of the 
proxy agreement in the context of the relevant accounting standard. 
We reviewed the relevant documentation including the Proxy 
agreement to assess the respective rights of the QinetiQ and the 
Proxy Board’s practical ability to direct the relevant activities of FMI’s 
financial and operating policies. We also assessed whether the 
Group’s disclosures are appropriate and in accordance with relevant 
accounting standards.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope  
of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was  
set at £5.3 million, determined with reference to a benchmark  
of Group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude this year’s 
specific adjusting items as disclosed in note 4, of £107.8 million,  
of which it represents 4.9%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected 
misstatements exceeding £0.3 million, in addition to other identified 
misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
For Group reporting purposes, we have performed an audit of  
QinetiQ Limited, the main UK trading company, and audits of  
account balances in respect of the US Global Products business 
including covering revenue, current assets and current liabilities.  
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 
following percentages of the Group’s results: 87% of total Group 
revenue; 93% of the total profits and losses that made up the Group’s 
underlying profit before taxation; and 87% of total Group assets, of 
which the coverage attributable to QinetiQ Limited was 81%, 92%  
and 70% respectively. For the remaining components, we performed 
analysis at an aggregate Group level to re-examine our assessment that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. The Group audit 
team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 
£0.7 million to £4.3 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk 
profile of the Group across the components. The work on the US 
Global Products business was performed by component auditors 
and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the US Global Products business, 
including to assess the audit risk and strategy. Telephone conference 
meetings were also held with the component auditor at this location. 
At this visit and in these meetings, the findings reported to the Group 
audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work 
required by the Group audit team was then performed by the 
component auditor.
91
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited  
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic report and Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which 
we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the Annual Report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.  
 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by  
law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 88, in relation to going 
concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages  
48 to 71 relating to the Company’s compliance with the ten 
provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on pages 88 to 89, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit  
of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website  
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely  
to the Company’s members as a body and subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published 
on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which 
are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Anthony Sykes (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor  
Chartered Accountants  
15 Canada Square 
London, E14 5GL 
21 May 2015
92
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of QinetiQ Group plc only continued Consolidated income statement 93 
for the year ended 31 March  
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
2015 2014^ 
all figures in £ million Note Underlying  
Specific 
adjusting  
items*  Total Underlying  
Specific 
adjusting  
items*  Total 
Revenue 2, 3 763.8 – 763.8 782.6 – 782.6
Operating costs excluding depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment (636.9) 1.0 (635.9) (653.4) 27.3 (626.1) 
Other income 2 7.6 – 7.6 7.0 – 7.0
EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation) 134.5 1.0 135.5 136.2 27.3 163.5 
Depreciation and impairment  
of property, plant and equipment 3, 16 (21.7) – (21.7) (21.8) 1.4 (20.4) 
Impairment of goodwill – – –  – (41.9) (41.9) 
Amortisation of intangible assets  3, 15 (1.5) (2.8) (4.3) (0.7) (3.4) (4.1) 
Operating profit/(loss)  3 111.3 (1.8) 109.5 113.7 (16.6) 97.1 
Gain on business divestments 7 – – –  – 1.1 1.1 
Finance income 8 1.3 – 1.3 1.9 – 1.9
Finance expense 8 (4.8) (0.6) (5.4) (14.4) (1.7) (16.1) 
Profit/(loss) before tax 4 107.8 (2.4) 105.4 101.2 (17.2) 84.0 
Taxation (expense)/income 9 (11.8) 23.8 12.0 (11.4) (4.6) (16.0) 
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations 96.0 21.4 117.4 89.8 (21.8) 68.0 
Discontinued operations 
Profit/(loss) before tax – discontinued 
operations 1.2 (13.7) (12.5) 18.2 (98.1) (79.9) 
Tax in respect of discontinued 
operations (0.5) 0.3 (0.2) (4.0) 3.2 (0.8) 
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
discontinued operations 0.7 (13.4) (12.7) 14.2 (94.9) (80.7) 
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to 
equity shareholders 96.7 8.0 104.7 104.0 (116.7) (12.7) 
Earnings per share 
Basic – continuing operations 13 15.2p  18.6p 13.8p 10.4p 
Basic – total Group 13 15.3p  16.6p 16.0p (1.9)p 
Diluted – continuing operations 13 18.5p 10.4p 
Diluted – total Group 13 16.5p (1.9)p 
*For details of ‘specific adjusting items’ refer to note 4 to the financial statements.
^ Restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1).
93
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information
Consolidated income statement  
for the year ended 31 March 9 4 	   C ons olidate d	   s tate m e nt	   of 	   c om pr e he ns iv e 	   inc om e 	   fo r	  t h e	  y ea r	  en d ed 	  3 1 	  Ma rch 	   	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   P r of it / ( los s ) 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e ar 	   	   	   104. 7 	   	   ( 12. 7) 	   It e m s 	  t h a t 	  w ill	  n o t 	   be 	  r e c las s if ie d	  t o	  pr of it 	  or 	  los s : 	   	   	   	   Ac t ua r ia l	  los s 	  r e c og nis e d	  in	  de f ine d	  be ne f it 	  pe ns ion	  s c he m e s 	   	   ( 2 4 . 5 ) 	   (5 .6 ) 	   T a x 	  o n 	  i t e m s 	  t h a t 	  w i l l 	  n o t 	  b e 	  r e c l a s s i f i e d 	  t o 	  p r o f i t 	  a n d 	  l o s s 	   	   5 . 1 	   	   1 . 3 	   	   T o t a l	  it e m s 	  t h a t 	  w ill	  n o t 	  b e 	  r e c la s s if ie d 	  t o 	  p r o f it 	  o r 	  lo s s 	   	   ( 19. 4) 	   (4 .3 ) 	   I te m s 	   th a t 	   m a y 	  b e	  r ecl a ssi f i ed 	   t o 	   p r o f i t 	   o r 	   l o ss : 	   	   	   	   Fo r ei g n 	  c u r r en c y 	  t r an s l at i o n 	  d i f f er en c es 	  f o r 	  f o r ei g n 	  o p er at i o n s 	   	   11. 0 	   	   ( 2 1 . 2 ) 	   Re c y c ling 	  of 	  c ur r e nc y 	  t r a ns la t ion	  dif f e r e nc e s 	  t o	  t he 	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	  on	  dis pos a l	  of 	  f or e ig n	  
su b si d i a r y 	   	   ( 4 0 . 9 ) 	   – 	   ( D e cr e a se ) /i n cr e a se 	   i n 	  f ai r 	  v al ue	  o f 	  h ed gi n g	  der i v at i v es 	   	   (0 .1 ) 	   0 . 4 	   	   Re c la s s if ic a t ion	  of 	  he dg ing 	  de r iv a t iv e s 	  t o	  t he 	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	   	   	   0 . 1 	   	   (0 .2 ) 	   Fai r 	  v al u e	  g ai n s 	  o n 	  av ai l ab l e -­‐ f or -­‐ s a le 	  inv e s t m e nt s 	   	   0 . 2 	   	   0 . 9 	   	   T a x 	  o n 	  i t e m s 	  t h a t 	  m a y 	  b e 	  r e c l a s s i f i e d 	  t o 	   p r o f it 	  o r 	  lo s s 	   	   – 	   	   (0 .1 ) 	   T o ta l 	   i te m s	   th a t	   m a y 	  b e	  r ec la s s if ied 	   t o 	  p r o f i t 	  o r 	  l o s s 	   	   ( 29. 7) 	   ( 20. 2) 	   O t her 	  c om pr ehens iv e	  ex pens e	  f or 	  t he	  y ea r ,	  net 	  of 	  t a x 	   	   ( 49. 1) 	   ( 24. 5) 	   	   	   	   	   Tot a l	  c om pr ehens ive	  inc om e/ ( expens e) 	   f o r 	  t he	  y ea r 	   	   	   55. 6 	   	   ( 37. 2) 	   Co n so l i d a t ed 	   state m e nt	  of 	  c hange s	  in	  e quity 	   fo r	  t h e	  y ea r	  en d ed 	  3 1 	  Ma rch 	   	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   I ssu ed 	   	   sh ar e	   	   cap i tal 	   Ca pi t a l 	  
r e de m pt i on	  
r eser ve 	   Shar e 	  
p r em i u m 	   H ed ge	  
r eser ve 	   Tr ans l at i on	  
r eser ve 	   Re t ai ne d 	   e a rn in g s 	   Tot al 	   Non -­‐ co n tr o l l i n g 	   i nt e r e s t 	   Tot al 	   e qui t y 	   A t 	  1 	  A p r il 	   2014 	   6 . 6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   0 . 1 	   23. 1 	   160. 7 	   378. 0 	   0 . 1 	   378. 1 	   Pr o f i t 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e a r 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   104. 7 	   	   104. 7 	   	   – 	   	   104. 7 	   	   O t he r 	   c o m p r eh ens i v e	  ex p en s e	  f o r 	  
t he 	  y e a r ,	  n e t 	  o f 	  t a x 	   	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   (2 9 .9 ) 	   (1 9 .2 ) 	   (4 9 .1 ) 	   – 	   	   (4 9 .1 ) 	   Pu r c h as e	  o f 	  o w n 	  s h ar es 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   (0 .6 ) 	   (0 .6 ) 	   – 	   	   (0 .6 ) 	   Pu r c h as e	  an d	  c an c el l at i o n 	  o f 	  
sh a r e s 	   (0 .5 ) 	   0 . 5 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   ( 1 0 7 . 1 ) 	   ( 107. 1) 	   – 	   	   	   ( 107. 1) 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	  s et t l e m e nt 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   0 . 6 	   	   0 .6 	   	   – 	   	   0 .6 	   	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   3 . 2 	   	   3 .2 	   	   – 	   	   3 .2 	   	   D iv ide nds 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   ( 3 1 . 7 ) 	   ( 31. 7) 	   – 	   	   ( 31. 7) 	   A t 	  31	  M a r c h	  2015 	   6 .1 	   40. 4 	   147. 6 	   0 .1 	   (6 .8 ) 	   110. 6 	   298. 0 	   0 .1 	   298. 1 	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   A t 	  1 	  A p r il	  2 0 1 3 	   6 . 6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   – 	   44. 3 	   	   200. 0 	   438. 4 	   0 . 1 	   438. 5 	   L os s 	  f or 	  t he 	  y e a r 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   ( 1 2 . 7 ) 	   (1 2 .7 )	   	   – 	   ( 12. 7) 	   O t he r 	   c o m p r eh ens i v e	   i n c o m e/ 	  
( e x pe ns e ) 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e a r ,	  n e t 	  o f 	  t a x 	   	   – 	   – 	   – 	   0 . 1 	   ( 2 1 . 2 ) 	   (3 .4 ) 	   ( 24. 5) 	   – 	   ( 24. 5) 	   Pu r c h as e	  o f 	  o w n 	  s h ar es 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   (0 .5 ) 	   (0 .5 ) 	   – 	   (0 .5 ) 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	  s et t l e m e nt 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   0 . 9 	   0 .9 	   – 	   0 .9 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   3 . 2 	   3 .2 	   – 	   3 .2 	   	   D iv ide nds 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   ( 2 6 . 8 ) 	   ( 26. 8) 	   – 	   ( 26. 8) 	   A t 	  31	  M a r c h	  2014 	   6 .6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   0 .1 	   23. 1 	   160. 7 	   3 78. 0 	   0 .1 	   378. 1 	   9 4 	   C ons olidate d	   s tate m e nt	   of 	   c om pr e he ns iv e 	   inc om e 	   fo r	  t h e	  y ea r	  en d ed 	  3 1 	  Ma rch 	   	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   P r of it / ( los s ) 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e ar 	   	   	   104. 7 	   	   ( 12. 7) 	   It e m s 	  t h a t 	  w ill	  n o t 	   be 	  r e c las s if ie d	  t o	  pr of it 	  or 	  los s : 	   	   	   	   Ac t ua r ia l	  los s 	  r e c og nis e d	  in	  de f ine d	  be ne f it 	  pe ns ion	  s c he m e s 	   	   ( 2 4 . 5 ) 	   (5 .6 ) 	   T a x 	  o n 	  i t e m s 	  t h a t 	  w i l l 	  n o t 	  b e 	  r e c l a s s i f i e d 	  t o 	  p r o f i t 	  a n d 	  l o s s 	   	   5 . 1 	   	   1 . 3 	   	   T o t a l	  it e m s 	  t h a t 	  w ill	  n o t 	  b e 	  r e c la s s if ie d 	  t o 	  p r o f it 	  o r 	  lo s s 	   	   ( 19. 4) 	   (4 .3 ) 	   I te m s 	   th a t 	   m a y 	  b e	  r ecl a ssi f i ed 	   t o 	   p r o f i t 	   o r 	   l o ss : 	   	   	   	   Fo r ei g n 	  c u r r en c y 	  t r an s l at i o n 	  d i f f er en c es 	  f o r 	  f o r ei g n 	  o p er at i o n s 	   	   11. 0 	   	   ( 2 1 . 2 ) 	   Re c y c ling 	  of 	  c ur r e nc y 	  t r a ns la t ion	  dif f e r e nc e s 	  t o	  t he 	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	  on	  dis pos a l	  of 	  f or e ig n	  
su b si d i a r y 	   	   ( 4 0 . 9 ) 	   – 	   ( D e cr e a se ) /i n cr e a se 	   i n 	  f ai r 	  v al ue	  o f 	  h ed gi n g	  der i v at i v es 	   	   (0 .1 ) 	   0 . 4 	   	   Re c la s s if ic a t ion	  of 	  he dg ing 	  de r iv a t iv e s 	  t o	  t he 	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	   	   	   0 . 1 	   	   (0 .2 ) 	   Fai r 	  v al u e	  g ai n s 	  o n 	  av ai l ab l e -­‐ f or -­‐ s a le 	  inv e s t m e nt s 	   	   0 . 2 	   	   0 . 9 	   	   T a x 	  o n 	  i t e m s 	  t h a t 	  m a y 	  b e 	  r e c l a s s i f i e d 	  t o 	   p r o f it 	  o r 	  lo s s 	   	   – 	   	   (0 .1 ) 	   T o ta l 	   i te m s	   th a t	   m a y 	  b e	  r ec la s s if ied 	   t o 	  p r o f i t 	  o r 	  l o s s 	   	   ( 29. 7) 	   ( 20. 2) 	   O t her 	  c om pr ehens iv e	  ex pens e	  f or 	  t he	  y ea r ,	  net 	  of 	  t a x 	   	   ( 49. 1) 	   ( 24. 5) 	   	   	   	   	   Tot a l	  c om pr ehens ive	  inc om e/ ( expens e) 	   f o r 	  t he	  y ea r 	   	   	   55. 6 	   	   ( 37. 2) 	   Co n so l i d a t ed 	   state m e nt	  of 	  c hange s	  in	  e quity 	   fo r	  t h e	  y ea r	  en d ed 	  3 1 	  Ma rch 	   	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   I ssu ed 	   	   sh ar e	   	   cap i tal 	   Ca pi t a l 	  
r e de m pt i on	  
r eser ve 	   Shar e 	  
p r em i u m 	   H ed ge	  
r eser ve 	   Tr ans l at i on	  
r eser ve 	   Re t ai ne d 	   e a rn in g s 	   Tot al 	   Non -­‐ co n tr o l l i n g 	   i nt e r e s t 	   Tot al 	   e qui t y 	   A t 	  1 	  A p r il 	   2014 	   6 . 6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   0 . 1 	   23. 1 	   160. 7 	   378. 0 	   0 . 1 	   378. 1 	   Pr o f i t 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e a r 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   104. 7 	   	   104. 7 	   	   – 	   	   104. 7 	   	   O t he r 	   c o m p r eh ens i v e	  ex p en s e	  f o r 	  
t he 	  y e a r ,	  n e t 	  o f 	  t a x 	   	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   (2 9 .9 ) 	   (1 9 .2 ) 	   (4 9 .1 ) 	   – 	   	   (4 9 .1 ) 	   Pu r c h as e	  o f 	  o w n 	  s h ar es 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   (0 .6 ) 	   (0 .6 ) 	   – 	   	   (0 .6 ) 	   Pu r c h as e	  an d	  c an c el l at i o n 	  o f 	  
sh a r e s 	   (0 .5 ) 	   0 . 5 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   ( 1 0 7 . 1 ) 	   ( 107. 1) 	   – 	   	   	   ( 107. 1) 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	  s et t l e m e nt 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   0 . 6 	   	   0 .6 	   	   – 	   	   0 .6 	   	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   3 . 2 	   	   3 .2 	   	   – 	   	   3 .2 	   	   D iv ide nds 	   – 	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   – 	   	   ( 3 1 . 7 ) 	   ( 31. 7) 	   – 	   	   ( 31. 7) 	   A t 	  31	  M a r c h	  2015 	   6 .1 	   40. 4 	   147. 6 	   0 .1 	   (6 .8 ) 	   110. 6 	   298. 0 	   0 .1 	   298. 1 	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   A t 	  1 	  A p r il	  2 0 1 3 	   6 . 6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   – 	   44. 3 	   	   200. 0 	   438. 4 	   0 . 1 	   438. 5 	   L os s 	  f or 	  t he 	  y e a r 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   ( 1 2 . 7 ) 	   (1 2 .7 )	   	   – 	   ( 12. 7) 	   O t he r 	   c o m p r eh en s i v e	   i n c o m e/ 	  
( e x pe ns e ) 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e a r ,	  n e t 	  o f 	  t a x 	   	   – 	   – 	   – 	   0 . 1 	   ( 2 1 . 2 ) 	   (3 .4 ) 	   ( 24. 5) 	   – 	   ( 24. 5) 	   Pu r c h as e	  o f 	  o w n 	  s h ar es 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   (0 .5 ) 	   (0 .5 ) 	   – 	   (0 .5 ) 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	  s et t l e m e nt 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   0 . 9 	   0 .9 	   – 	   0 .9 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   3 . 2 	   3 .2 	   – 	   3 .2 	   	   D iv ide nds 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   – 	   	   ( 2 6 . 8 ) 	   ( 26. 8) 	   – 	   ( 26. 8) 	   A t 	  31	  M a r c h	  2014 	   6 .6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   0 .1 	   23. 1 	   160. 7 	   3 78. 0 	   0 .1 	   378. 1 	   94
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March Consolidated balance sheet 95 
as at 31 March  
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 14 107.2 141.3 
Intangible assets 15 15.3 44.2 
Property, plant and equipment 16 229.6 233.8 
Other financial assets 24 0.9 1.5 
Investments  17 0.4 0.5 
Deferred tax  18 12.9 18.1 
366.3 439.4 
Current assets 
Inventories 19 18.5 19.8 
Other financial assets 24 12.3 3.1 
Trade and other receivables 21 159.2 250.5 
Investments 20 2.3 2.1 
Cash and cash equivalents 24 184.3 322.2 
376.6 597.7 
Total assets 742.9 1,037.1 
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 22 (352.3) (425.6) 
Current tax (15.3) (4.6) 
Provisions  23 (3.0) (4.8) 
Other financial liabilities 24 (1.9) (2.2) 
(372.5) (437.2) 
Non-current liabilities 
Retirement benefit obligation 30 (39.4) (22.2) 
Deferred tax 18 - (15.0) 
Provisions  23 (22.4) (19.3) 
Other financial liabilities 24 (0.1) (154.1) 
Other payables 22 (10.4) (11.2) 
(72.3) (221.8) 
Total liabilities (444.8) (659.0) 
Net assets 298.1 378.1 
Capital and reserves  
Ordinary shares 28 6.1 6.6 
Capital redemption reserve 40.4 39.9 
Share premium account 147.6 147.6 
Hedging and translation reserve (6.7) 23.2 
Retained earnings 110.6 160.7 
Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the parent company 298.0 378.0 
Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 
Total shareholders’ funds 298.1 378.1 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 21 May 2015 and were signed 
on its behalf by: 
Mark Elliott 
Chairman 
Steve Wadey  
Chief Executive Officer 
David Mellors 
Chief Financial Officer 
95
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 March 96 Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 March 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
Net cash inflow from continuing operations before cash flows in respect of specific 
adjusting items^ 27 143.9 127.0 
Net cash outflow relating to restructuring  (0.6) (10.3) 
Disposal-related pension contribution  (6.0) –  
Cash generated from discontinued operations  1.8 30.3  
Net cash outflow relating to pension scheme closure costs  – (4.0) 
Cash inflow from operations  139.1 143.0 
Tax received  8.8 2.1 
Interest received  1.0 1.0 
Interest paid  (36.4) (12.3) 
Net cash inflow from operating activities  112.5 133.8 
Purchases of intangible assets   (4.2) (2.6) 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (24.8) (24.2) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  – 6.0 
Acquisition of business 6 (3.7) – 
Sale of investment in subsidiary  79.6 – 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities  46.9 (20.8) 
Repayment of bank borrowings  (147.1) –  
Investment in available for sale investments  (10.0) –  
Payment of bank loan arrangement fee  (1.3) –  
Purchase of own shares  (106.8) (0.5) 
Dividends paid to shareholders  (31.7) (26.8) 
Capital element of finance lease rental payments  (2.8) (2.8) 
Capital element of finance lease rental receipts  3.0 3.0 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (296.7) (27.1) 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (137.3) 85.9 
Effect of foreign exchange changes on cash and cash equivalents  0.4 (4.1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  322.2  240.4 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0) – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 24 184.3 322.2 
 
^ 2014 restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1) 
 
Reconciliation of movement in net cash 
for the year ended 31 March 
 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year  (137.3) 85.9 
Add back net cash flows not impacting net cash  158.2   (0.2) 
Change in net cash resulting from cash flows 24 20.9  85.7 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0) – 
Other movements including foreign exchange  24 5.1  10.8 
Movement in net cash in the year 24 25.0  96.5 
Net cash at beginning of year 24 170.5   74.0  
Net cash at end of year 24 195.5  170.5 
96 Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 March 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
Net cash inflow from continuing operations before cash flows in respect of specific 
adjusting items^ 27 143.9 127.0 
Net cash outflow relating to restructuring  (0.6) (10.3) 
Disposal-related pension contribution  (6.0) –  
Cash generated from discontinued operations  1.8 30.3  
Net cash outflow relating to pension scheme closure costs  – (4.0) 
Cash inflow from operations  139.1 143.0 
Tax received  8.8 2.1 
Interest received  1.0 1.0 
Interest paid  (36.4) (12.3) 
Net cash inflow from operating activities  112.5 133.8 
Purchases of intangible assets   (4.2) (2.6) 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (24.8) (24.2) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  – 6.0 
Acquisition of business 6 (3.7) – 
Sale of investment in subsidiary  79.6 – 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities  46.9 (20.8) 
Repayment of bank borrowings  (147.1) –  
Investment in available for sale investments  (10.0) –  
Payment of bank loan arrangement fee  (1.3) –  
Purchase of own shares  (106.8) (0.5) 
Dividends paid to shareholders  (31.7) (26.8) 
Capital element of finance lease rental payments  (2.8) (2.8) 
Capital element of finance lease rental receipts  3.0 3.0 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (296.7) (27.1) 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (137.3) 85.9 
Effect of foreign exchange changes on cash and cash equivalents  0.4 (4.1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  322.2  240.4 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0) – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 24 184.3 322.2 
 
^ 2014 restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1) 
 
Reconciliation of movement in net cash 
for the year ended 31 March 
 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year  (137.3) 85.9 
Add back net cash flows not impacting net cash  158.2   (0.2) 
Change in net cash resulting from cash flows 24 20.9  85.7 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0) – 
Other movements including foreign exchange  24 5.1  10.8 
Movement in net cash in the year 24 25.0  96.5 
Net cash at beginning of year 24 170.5   74.0  
Net cash at end of year 24 195.5  170.5 
96
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 March
Reconciliation of movement in net cash
for the year ended 31 March 96 Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 March 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
Net cash inflow from continuing operations before cash flows in respect of specific 
adjusting items^ 27 143.9 127.0 
Net cash outflow relating to restructuring  (0.6) (10.3) 
Disposal-related pension contribution  (6.0) –  
Cash generated from discontinued operations  1.8 30.3  
Net cash outflow relating to pension scheme closure costs  – (4.0) 
Cash inflow from operations  139.1 143.0 
Tax received  8.8 2.1 
Interest received  1.0 1.0 
Interest paid  (36.4) (12.3) 
Net cash inflow from operating activities  112.5 133.8 
Purchases of intangible assets   (4.2) (2.6) 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (24.8) (24.2) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  – 6.0 
Acquisition of business 6 (3.7) – 
Sale of investment in subsidiary  79.6 – 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities  46.9 (20.8) 
Repayment of bank borrowings  (147.1) –  
Investment in available for sale investments  (10.0) –  
Payment of bank loan arrangement fee  (1.3) –  
Purchase of own shares  (106.8) (0.5) 
Dividends paid to shareholders  (31.7) (26.8) 
Capital element of finance lease rental payments  (2.8) (2.8) 
Capital element of finance lease rental receipts  3.0 3.0 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (296.7) (27.1) 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (137.3) 85.9 
Effect of foreign exchange changes on cash and cash equivalents  0.4 (4.1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  322.2  240.4 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0) – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 24 184.3 322.2 
 
^ 2014 restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1) 
 
Reconciliation of movement in net cash 
for the year ended 31 March 
 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year  (137.3) 85.9 
Add back net cash flows not impacting net cash  158.2   (0.2) 
Change in net cash resulting from cash flows 24 20.9  85.7 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0) – 
Other movements including foreign exchange  24 5.1  10.8 
Movement in net cash in the year 24 25.0  96.5 
Net cash at beginning of year 24 170.5   74.0  
Net cash at end of year 24 195.5  170.5 
96 Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 March 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
Net cash inflow from continuing operations before cash flows in respect of specific 
adjusting items^ 27 143.9 127.0 
Net cash outflow relating to restructuring  (0.6) (10.3) 
Disposal-related pension contribution  (6.0) –  
Cash generated from discontinued operations  1.8 30.3  
Net cash outflow relating to pension scheme closure costs  – (4.0) 
Cash inflow from operations  139.1 143.0 
Tax received  8.8 2.1 
Interest received  1.0 1.0 
Interest paid  (36.4) (12.3) 
Net cash inflow from operating activities  112.5 133.8 
Purchases of intangible assets   (4.2) (2.6) 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (24.8) (24.2) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  – 6.0 
Acquisition of business 6 (3.7) – 
Sale of investment in subsidiary  79.6 – 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities  46.9 (20.8) 
Repayment of bank borrowings  (147.1) –  
Investment in available for sale investments  (10.0) –  
Payment of bank loan arrangement fee  (1.3) –  
Purchase of own shares  (106.8) (0.5) 
Dividends paid to shareholders  (31.7) (26.8) 
Capital element of finance lease rental payments  (2.8) (2.8) 
Capital element of finance lease rental receipts  3.0 3.0 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (296.7) (27.1) 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (137.3) 85.9 
Effect of foreign exchange changes on cash and cash equivalents  0.4 (4.1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  322.2  240.4 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0) – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 24 184.3 322.2 
 
^ 2014 restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1) 
 
Reconciliation of movement in net cash 
for the year ended 31 March 
 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year  (137.3) 85.9 
Add back net cash flows not impacting net cash  158.2   (0.2) 
Change in net cash resulting from cash flows 24 20.9  85.7 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0) – 
Other movements including foreign exchange  24 5.1  10.8 
Movement in net cash in the year 24 25.0  96.5 
Net cash at beginning of year 24 170.5   74.0  
Net cash at end of year 24 195.5  170.5 
N o t es 	   t o 	   t h e	   fi n a n ci a l 	   s t a t emen t s 	   9 7 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5
1. S i gn i f i ca n t 	   a cco u n t i n g	   p o l i ci es
A cco u n tin g	   polic ie s 	   T he 	  f ollow ing 	  a c c ount ing 	  pol ic ie s 	   ha v e 	  be e n	  a pplie d	  c ons is t e nt ly 	  t o	  a ll	  pe r iods 	  p r e s e nt e d	  in	  de a ling 	  w it h	  it e m s 	   t ha t 	   a r e 	  c ons ide r ed	   	   m at er i al 	  i n 	  r el at i o n	  t o 	  t h e	  G r o u p ’ s 	  f in a n c ia l	  s t a t e m e n t s .	   In	  t he 	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt ,	  t he 	  G r oup	   pr e s e n t s 	  s p e c if ic 	  a d j u st i n g 	  i t e m s 	   s ep ar at el y . 	   In	  t he 	   judg m e nt 	   o f 	   t h e 	   D i r e cto r s, 	   f or 	  t he 	  r e a de r 	  t o	  obt a in	  a 	  pr ope r 	  unde r s t a nding 	  of 	  t he 	  f ina nc ia l	  inf or m a t io n , 	  s p e c if ic 	  a d ju s t i n g 	  i t e m s 	   ne e d	  
t o 	  b e 	  dis c los e d	  s e pa r a t e ly 	  be c a us e 	   o f 	  t h e i r 	  s iz e 	  a n d	   na t ur e .	   	   S p e c i f i c 	  a d j u s t i n g 	  i t e m s 	   i n c l u d e : 	    a m or t is a t ion	  of 	  int a ng ible s 	  a r is ing 	  f r om 	  a c quis it ions ;
 pe ns ion	   g a in	  on	  c los ur e 	  t o	  f ut ur e 	  a c c r ua l	  a nd	  a s s oc ia t e d	  Sc he m e -­‐ c l o s u r e	  m i t i ga t i on 	  c o s t s ;
 pe ns ion	  ne t 	  f ina nc e 	  e x pe ns e ;
 g a ins / los s e s 	  on	  bus ine s s 	  div e s t m e nt s 	  a nd	  dis pos a l	  of 	  inv e s t m e nt s ;
 r e st r u ct u r i n g 	   co st s;
 i m p ai r m en t 	  of 	  p r o p er t y ;
 i m p ai r m en t 	  of 	   g oodw ill	  a nd	  ot he r 	   i n t an gi b l e 	  a sse t s;
 t a x 	  on	  t he 	  a bov e 	  it e m s ;	  a n d
 t a x 	  c r e dit s 	  on	  one -­‐ of f 	  r e c og nit ion	  of 	  def e r r e d	  t a x 	  a s s e t 	  in	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	  U K 	  t r a de 	  los s e s . 	   Bas i s 	  of 	  pr e par at i on 	   T he 	  Group’s 	  fina nc ia l	   s t a t e m e nt s ,	  a ppr ov e d	  by 	  t he 	  D ir e c t or s ,	  ha v e 	  be e n	  pr e pa r e d	  on	  a 	  g oing 	  c onc e r n	  ba s is 	  a s 	  dis c us s e d	  in	   t h e 	   D i r e ct o r s’	  
Re por t 	  on	  pa g e 	   88 	   a nd	  in	  ac c or da nc e 	  w it h	  Int e r na t iona l 	  F ina nc ia l	  Re por t ing 	  S t a n da r ds 	  a s 	  a dopt e d	  by 	  t he 	  E U 	  ( ‘IF RS ’) 	  a nd	  t he 	  C om pa nie s 	  Ac t 	  
2006	   a pplic a ble 	  t o	  c om pa nie s 	  r e por t ing 	  unde r 	  IF RS .	  T he 	  Com pa ny 	  ha s 	  e le c t e d	  t o	  pr e pa r e 	  it s 	  pa r e nt 	  c om pa ny 	  f ina nc i a l	  s t a t e m e nt s 	  in	  
a c c or da nc e 	  w i t h	  U K 	  G A AP ;	  t he s e 	  a r e 	  pr e s e nt e d	  on	  pa g e 	   137 . 	   T h e 	  f i n a n c i a l 	  s t a t em en t s 	  h av e	  b een 	  pr ep ar ed 	  u n d er 	   t he 	  his t or ic a l	   	   co st 	  co n v en t i o n ,	  as 	  m o d i f i ed 	  b y 	  t h e	  r ev al u at i o n 	  o f 	  av ai l ab l e -­‐ f or -­‐ s a le 	  f in a n c ia l	  a s s e t s 	  a n d 	  o t h e r 	  r e le v a n t 	  f in a n c ia l	  a s s e t s 	  a n d 	  lia b ilit ie s .	   	   N on -­‐ c u r r en t 	  as s et s 	  h el d	  f o r 	  s al e	  ar e	  h el d 	  a t 	  t h e 	  l o w er 	  o f 	  c ar r y i n g 	  am o u n t 	  an d 	  f ai r 	  v a l ue	  l es s 	  c o s t s 	  t o 	  s el l . 	  Th e	  G r o up ’s 	  r e por t ing 	   	   c u r r en c y 	  i s 	  s t er l i ng	  an d 	  u n l es s 	  o t h er w is e	  s t at e d 	  t h e	  f i n an c i al 	  s t at em en t s 	  ar e	  r ou n d ed 	  t o 	  t h e 	  near es t 	  £100,000. 	   T h e 	  c o m p a r a t i v e 	  i n com e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	  f or 	  t he 	  y e a r 	  e nde d	  3 1 	  M a r c h 	   201 4 	   ha s 	  be e n	  r e -­‐ pr e s e nt e d	  f or 	  t he 	  s a le 	  of 	  t he 	  U S 	  S e r v ic e s 	  bus ine s s ,	  
e x c lud i n g	  C y v ei l l anc e ® ,	  w h i c h 	  c o m p l e t e d 	  i n 	  M a y 	  2 0 1 4 . 	  T h i s 	  d i s p o s a l 	  q u a l i f i e s 	  a s 	   a 	   dis c ont inued	  ope r a t ion	  dur ing 	  t he 	  c ur r e nt 	  y e a r .	  Re v e nue 	  
a s 	  pr e v ious ly 	  r e por t e d	   ha s 	  be e n	  r educ e d	  by 	  £ 4 0 8 .8 m 	   a nd	  now 	  r e f le c t s 	  c ont inu i n g 	   ope r a t ions 	  only .	  P r of it 	  be f or e 	  t a x ,	  pr e v ious ly 	  r e por t e d	   a s 	  
a 	  s ing le 	  f i g ur e 	  of 	  £ 4 .1 m , 	   ha s 	   be e n	  s plit 	  in t o	  it s 	  c om pone nt 	  pa r t s 	  f or 	  c ont inuing 	  ope r a t ions 	  a nd	  dis c ont inue d	  ope r a t ions . 	  	  F u r t h e r 	  d e t a i l s 	  o f 	  
dis c ont inued	  ope r a t i o n s 	  ar e	  pr e s en t ed 	  w i t h i n 	  n o t e	  5 . 	   B a sis	   o f	   co n so lid a tio n 	   T he 	  c ons olida t e d 	   f ina nc ia l	  s t a t e m e nt s 	  c om pr is e 	  t he 	  f ina nc ia l	  s t a t e m e nt s 	  of 	  t he 	  Com pa ny 	  a nd	  it s 	  s ubs idia r y 	   unde r t a k ings 	   t o	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   201 5 .	  
T he 	  purc ha s e 	  m e t hod	  of	  a c c ount ing 	  ha s 	  be e n	  a dopt e d.	   T hos e 	  s ubs id iar y 	  unde r t a k ing s 	  a c quir e d	  or 	  dis pos e d	   of 	   i n 	  t h e	  p er i od 	  ar e	  i n c l u d ed 	  i n 	   t he 	  c ons olidat e d	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	  f r om 	  t he 	  da t e 	  c ont r ol	  is 	  obt a ine d	  t o	  t he 	  da t e 	  t ha t 	  c ont r ol	  is 	  los t 	  ( us ua lly 	  on	  a c quis it ion	   a nd	  di s pos al 	  
r e s pe c t iv e ly ) . 	   An	  inv e s t or 	  c ont r ols 	  a n	  inv e s t e e 	  w he n	  it 	  is 	  e x pos e d,	  or 	  ha s 	  r ig ht s ,	  t o	  v a r ia ble 	  r e t ur ns 	  f r om 	  it s 	  inv ol v em en t 	  w i t h 	  t h e	  i n v es t ee	  
a nd	  ha s 	  t he	  abilit y 	  t o	  a f f e c t 	  t hos e 	  r e t ur ns 	  t hr oug h	  it s 	  pow e r 	  ov e r 	  t he 	  inv e s t e e . 	   T h i s 	  i s 	  t h e 	  IF R S 	  1 0 	  d e f i n i t i o n 	  o f 	  “ c o n t r o l ” . 	   T he 	  Group	  c om pris e s 	  c e rt a in	  e nt it ie s 	  t ha t 	  a re 	  ope ra t e d	  unde r	  t he 	  m a na g e m e nt 	  of	  a 	  P rox y 	  B oa rd.	  D e t a ils 	  of	   t he 	  P r ox y 	  Boa r d	  a r r a ng e m e nt s 	  
a nd	  t he 	  pow e r s 	  of 	  t he 	  pr ox y 	  holde r s 	  a nd	  Q ine t iQ 	  m a na g e m e nt 	  a r e 	  s e t 	  out 	  in	  t he 	  Cor por a t e 	  G ov e r na nc e 	  s e c t ion	  of 	  t his 	  Annua l	  Re p o r t . 	   	   I FR S	   10 	   i s 	  t h e	  ac c o un t i ng	  s t an d ar d 	   now 	   a pplic a ble 	   i n 	  r es p ec t 	  of 	  c o n s o l i d at i o n 	  o f 	  en t i t i es . 	   T h i s 	  doe s 	   not 	  s pe c if ic a lly 	  de a l	  w it h	  pr ox y 	  
s it ua t ions . 	  H o w e v e r ,	  h a v ing 	  c on s i de r e d	  t he 	  t e r m s 	  of 	  t he 	   P r ox y 	  a g r e e m e nt ,	  t he 	  D ir e c t or s 	  c ons ide r 	  t ha t 	  t he 	  G r oup	   m eet s 	  t h e	  r equ i r em en t s 	  
of 	  IF RS 	   1 0 	  in	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	   c o n t r o l 	  o v er 	   s uc h	  a f f e c t e d	  e nt it ie s 	   a nd,	  t he r e f or e ,	  c ons oli da t e s 	  t he se 	   e nt it ie s 	   i n 	  t h e	  c o n s ol i d at ed 	  ac c o u n t s . 	   An	  a s s oc ia t e 	  is 	  a n	  unde r t a k ing 	  ov e r 	  w hic h	  t he 	  G r oup	  e x e r c is e s 	  s ig nif ic a nt 	   i n f l u en c e,	  u s u al l y 	  f r o m 	  20% – 50% 	  o f 	  t h e	  eq u i t y 	  v o t i n g 	  r i g h t s ,	   i n 	  
r e s pe c t 	  of 	   f ina nc ia l	  a nd	  ope r a t ing 	  polic y . 	  A	  joint 	  v e nt ur e 	  is 	  a n	  unde r t a k ing 	  ov e r 	  w hic h	  t he 	  G r oup	  e x e r c is e s 	  joint 	  c ont r ol. 	  As s oc ia t e s 	  a n d	  
joint 	  v e nt ur e s 	  a r e 	  a c c ount e d	  f or 	  us ing 	  t he 	  e quit y 	  m e t hod	   f r om 	  t he 	  da t e 	  of 	  a c quis it ion	   t o	  t he 	  da t e 	  of 	  dis pos a l.	  T he 	  G r ou p ’ s 	  in v e s t m e n t s	   i n 	  
a s s oc ia t e s 	  a nd	  joint 	  v e nt ur e s 	  a r e 	  he ld	  a t 	  c os t 	  inc luding 	  g oodw ill	  on	  a c quis it ion	  a nd	  a ny 	  pos t -­‐ a c quis it ion	  c ha ng e s 	  in	  t he 	  G r oup ’ s	   sh a r e 	   o f 	   	   t he 	  ne t 	  a s s e t s 	  of 	  t he 	  a s s oc ia t e 	  le s s 	  a ny 	  im pa ir m e nt 	  t o 	  t he 	  r e c ov e r a ble 	  a m ou nt .	  W he r e 	  a n	  a s s oc ia t e 	  or 	  joi nt 	   v e n t u r e 	  h a s 	  n e t 	  l i a b i l i t i e s ,	  f u l l 	  
pr ov is ion	  is 	  m a de 	  f or 	  t he 	  G r oup ’s 	  s ha r e 	  of 	  lia bilit ie s 	  w he r e 	  t he r e 	  is 	  a 	  c ons t r uc t iv e 	  or 	  le g a l	  oblig a t ion	  t o	  pr ov ide 	  a ddit iona l	  f unding 	  t o	  t he 	  
a s s oc ia t e 	  or 	  joi nt 	  v e nt ur e .	   	   T h e 	  f i n a n c i a l 	  s t a t e m e n t s 	  o f 	  s u b s i d i a r i e s ,	  j o i n t 	  v e n t ur e s 	  a nd	  as s oc i a t es 	   a r e 	  a djus t e d	  w he r e 	  ne c e s s a r y 	  t o	  e ns ur e 	  c om plia nc e 	  w it h	  G r oup	  
a c c ount ing 	  polic ie s . 	   O n 	  c o n s o lid a t io n ,	  a ll	  in t r a -­‐ G r oup	  inc om e ,	  e x pe ns e s 	  a nd	  ba la nc e s 	  a r e 	  e lim ina t e d. 	  
Re v e nue 	   Re v e nue 	  r e pr e s e nt s 	  t he 	  v a lue 	  of 	  w or k 	  pe r f or m e d	  f or 	  c us t om e r s ,	  a n d	  is 	  m e a s ur e d	   ne t 	  of 	  v a lue 	  a dde d 	   t a x e s	   a nd	  ot her 	  s a les 	  t a x e s 	  on	   t he 	  
f ollow ing 	  ba s e s : 	   S e r vi ce 	   c o n tr a c ts 	   T he 	  Group ’ s	   se r vi ce 	   c o n t r ac t 	  ar r angem en t s 	  ar e	  ac c o u n t ed 	  f o r 	  u n d er 	  I A S	  1 8 	   ‘Re v e nue ’ .	   Re v e nue 	  is 	   r e c og nis e d	  onc e 	  t he 	  G r oup	  ha s 	  obt a ine d	  
t he 	  r ig ht 	  t o	  c ons i de r a t ion	  in 	  e x c ha ng e 	  f or 	  it s 	  pe r f or m a nc e .	   N o	   pr of it 	  is 	  r e c og nis e d	  on	  c ont r ac t s 	  unt il	  t he 	  out c om e 	  of 	  t he 	  c ont r a c t 	  c a n	  be 	  
r e lia bly 	  e s t im a t e d. 	   W h en 	  t h e	  o u t c o m e	  o f 	  a	  c o n t r ac t 	  c an 	  b e 	   r e lia b ly 	  e s t im a t e d ,	  r even u e	  a n d 	  co st s	  a r e	  r eco gn i sed 	  b y	  r ef er en ce	  t o 	  t h e	  st a ge 	   of 	  c om ple t ion	  of 	  t he 	  c ont r a c t 	  a c t iv it y 	  a t 	  t he 	  ba la nc e 	  s he e t 	  da t e .	  T his 	  is 	  nor m a lly 	  m e a s ur e d	  by 	  t he 	  pr opor t ion	  of 	  c ont r a c t 	  c os t s	   i n cu r r e d 	   f o r 	  
w o r k 	  pe r f or m e d	  t o	  da t e 	  c om pa r e d	  w it h 	   t h e 	   e st i m a t e d 	   t o t a l 	   co n t r a ct 	   co st s	   a f t e r 	  m a k ing 	  s uit a ble 	  a llow a nc e s 	  f or 	  t e c hn i c al 	  an d 	  o t her 	  r i s k s 	   	   97
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information
Notes to the financial statements 98 Notes to the financial statements continued 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
related to performance milestones yet to be achieved. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue,  
the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense. The Group generally does not undertake construction contracts. 
Goods sold 
Sales of goods are recognised in the income statement on delivery of the product or when the significant risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the customer and revenue and costs can be reliably measured.  
Royalties and intellectual property  
Royalty revenue is recognised over the period to which the royalty relates. Intellectual property revenue can be attributed either to 
perpetual licences or to limited licences. Limited licences are granted for a specified period and revenue is recognised over the period of 
the licence. Perpetual licences are granted for unlimited time frames and revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership 
are transferred to the customer. 
Segmental information 
Segmental information is presented according to the Group’s internal management reporting structure and the markets in which it 
operates. Segmental results represent the contribution of the different segments to the profit of the Group. Corporate expenses are 
allocated to the corresponding segments. Unallocated items mainly comprise specific adjusting items. Specific adjusting items are referred 
to in note 4. Eliminations represent inter-company trading between the different segments. 
Segmental assets and liabilities information is not regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker. 
Research and development expenditure 
R&D costs incurred in respect of specific contracts placed by customers are recognised within operating costs and revenue is recognised in 
respect of the R&D services performed. Internally funded development expenditure is capitalised in the balance sheet where there is a 
clearly defined project, the expenditures are separately identifiable, the project is technically and commercially feasible, all costs are 
recoverable by future revenue and the resources are committed to complete the project. Such capitalised costs are amortised over the 
forecast period of sales resulting from the development. All other R&D costs are expensed to the income statement in the period in which 
they are incurred. If the research phase cannot be clearly distinguished from the development phase, the respective project-related costs 
are treated as if they were incurred in the research phase only and expensed. 
Financing 
Financing represents the financial expense on borrowings accounted for using the effective rate method and the financial income earned 
on funds invested. Exchange differences on financial assets and liabilities and the income or expense from interest hedging instruments 
that are recognised in the income statement are included within finance income and finance expense. Financing also includes the net 
finance expense in respect of defined benefit pension schemes. 
Taxation 
The taxation charge is based on the taxable profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Current tax and deferred tax are charged or credited to the 
income statement, except where they relate to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the relevant tax is charged or credited to 
equity. Deferred taxation is the tax attributable to the temporary differences that appear when taxation authorities recognise and measure 
assets and liabilities with rules that differ from those of the consolidated financial statements. The amount of deferred tax provided is 
based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Any changes in the tax rates are recognised in the income statement unless related to items directly recognised in equity. Deferred tax 
liabilities are recognised on all taxable temporary differences excluding non-deductible goodwill. Deferred tax assets are recognised on  
all deductible temporary differences provided that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which the asset can  
be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only where there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention 
to settle balances on a net basis. 
Discontinued operation 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business, the operations and cash flows of which can be clearly distinguished  
from the rest of the Group and which: 
 represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations; 
 is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations; or 
 is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale. 
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs at the earlier of disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified  
as held for sale. When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative statement of profit and loss and other 
comprehensive income is re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative year.  
  
98
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 99 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Goodwill 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included 
in the carrying value of equity accounted investments. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill related to the entity sold. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets arising from business combinations are recognised at fair value and are amortised over their expected useful lives, 
typically between one and nine years. Internally generated intangible assets are recorded at cost, including labour, directly attributable 
costs and any third-party expenses. Purchased intangible assets are recognised at cost less amortisation. Intangible assets are amortised 
over their respective useful lives on a straight-line basis as follows: 
Intellectual property rights 2–8 years 
Development costs 1–4 years 
Other  1–9 years 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. Other tangible non-current assets 
are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives to their estimated residual value as follows: 
Freehold buildings 20–25 years 
Leasehold land and buildings Shorter of useful economic life and the period of the lease 
Plant and machinery 3–10 years 
Fixtures and fittings 5–10 years 
Computers  3–5 years 
Motor vehicles  3–5 years 
Assets under construction are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date. 
In the case of assets constructed by the Group, the value includes the cost of own work completed, including directly attributable costs  
and interest. 
The useful lives, depreciation methods and residual values applied to property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually and, if 
appropriate, adjusted accordingly. 
Impairment of tangible, goodwill, intangible and held for sale assets 
At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If the carrying amount of any 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. In addition, goodwill is  
tested for impairment annually irrespective of any indication of impairment. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the 
respective asset or the assets in the cash-generating unit (CGU) are written down to their recoverable amounts. The recoverable amount  
of an asset or CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The value in use is the present value of the future cash 
flows expected to be derived from an asset or CGU calculated using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. Impairment losses are expensed 
to the income statement. 
Investments in debt and equity securities 
Investments held by the Group are classified as either a current asset or as a non-current asset and those classified as available for sale  
are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss, other than impairment losses, being recognised directly in equity. When these 
investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement. 
The fair value of quoted financial instruments is their bid price at the balance sheet date. The fair value of unquoted equity investments is 
based on the price of the most recent investment by the Group or a third party, if available, or derived from the present value of forecast 
future cash flows. 
Inventories 
Inventory and work-in-progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Work-in-progress and manufactured finished goods 
are valued at production cost. Production cost includes direct production costs and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.  
A provision is established when the net realisable value of any inventory item is lower than its cost. 
Bid costs 
Costs incurred in bidding for work are normally expensed as incurred. In the case of large multi-year government contracts the bidding 
process typically involves a competitive bid process to determine a preferred bidder and then a further period to reach financial close with 
the customer. In these cases, the costs incurred after announcement of the Group achieving preferred bidder status are deferred to the 
balance sheet within work-in-progress. From the point financial close is reached, the costs are amortised over the life of the contract. If an 
opportunity for which the Group was awarded preferred bidder status fails to reach financial close, the costs deferred to that point will be 
expensed in the income statement immediately, when it becomes likely that financial close will not be achieved. 
99
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 100 Notes to the financial statements continued 
1. Significant accounting policies continued  
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts. Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade and 
other receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of amounts invoiced. Payments received on account are included in trade 
and other payables and represent amounts invoiced in excess of revenue recognised. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and short-term deposits that are readily convertible into cash. In the cash flow statement 
overdraft balances are included in cash and equivalents. 
Current and non-current liabilities 
Current liabilities include amounts due within the normal operating cycle of the Group. Interest-bearing current and non-current liabilities 
are initially recognised at fair value and then stated at amortised cost with any difference between the cost and redemption value being 
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis. Costs associated with the 
arrangement of bank facilities or the issue of loans are held net of the associated liability presented in the balance sheet. Capitalised issue 
costs are released over the estimated life of the facility or instrument to which they relate using the effective interest rate method. If it 
becomes clear that the facility or instrument will be redeemed early, the amortisation of the issue costs will be accelerated. 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event 
which can be reliably estimated, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Where 
appropriate, provisions are determined by discounting the expected cash flows at an appropriate discount rate reflecting the level of risk 
and the time value of money. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. The de-recognition of a financial instrument takes place when the Group no longer controls the contractual 
rights that comprise the financial instrument, when the instrument expires, or when the instrument is sold, terminated or exercised. 
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and thereafter held at fair value, being the market value for quoted instruments  
or valuation based on models and discounted cash flow calculations for unlisted instruments. 
Fair value hedging 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges of currency risk or interest rate risk are recognised in the income 
statement. The hedged item is held at fair value with respect to the hedged risk with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement. 
Cash flow hedging 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.  
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Where a hedged item results in an asset or a liability, gains  
and losses previously recognised in equity are included in the cost of the asset or liability. Gains and losses previously recognised in equity 
are removed and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction. 
Leased assets 
Leases are classified as finance leases when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are held by the lessee. Assets held under 
finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of minimum lease payments 
and fair value at the inception of the lease. Assets are then depreciated over the shorter of their useful economic lives or the lease term. 
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges arising in future periods, are included under financial liabilities.  
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at period-end rates. Any resulting exchange differences are taken to the income statement. 
Gains and losses on designated forward foreign exchange hedging contracts are matched against the foreign exchange movements on the 
underlying transaction. 
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in its functional currency. On consolidation, assets and liabilities 
of overseas subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures, including any related goodwill, are translated to sterling at the rate of 
exchange at the balance sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures are 
translated to sterling using the average rates of exchange during the period. Exchange adjustments arising from the re-translation of the 
opening net investment and the results for the period to the period-end rate are taken directly to equity and reported in the statement  
of comprehensive income. 
Post-retirement benefits 
The Group provides both defined contribution and defined benefit pension arrangements. The liabilities of the Group arising from  
defined benefit obligations, and the related current service cost, are determined using the projected unit credit method. Valuations  
for accounting purposes are carried out bi-annually. Actuarial advice is provided by external consultants. For the funded defined benefit 
100
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 1 0 1 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	   A cco u n ts	  2 0 1 5 	   pla ns ,	  t he 	  e x c e s s 	  or 	  de f ic it 	  of 	  t he 	  f a ir 	  v a lue 	  of 	  pla n	  as s e t s 	  le s s 	  t he 	  pr e s e nt 	  v a lue 	  of 	  t he 	  de f ine d	  be ne f it 	  oblig a t io n	  a r e 	  r e c o gn i s ed 	  a s 	  
a n 	  a s s e t 	  o r 	  a 	  lia b ilit y 	  r e s p e c t iv e ly . 	   F or 	  de f ine d	  be ne f it 	  pla ns ,	  t he	  c os t 	  c ha r g e d	  t o	  t he 	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	  c ons is t s 	  of 	   a dm inis t r a t iv e 	  e x pe ns e s 	  a nd 	   t he 	   ne t 	   i n te re s t	   c o st. 	   T h e r e 	  i s 	  
no	  s e r v ic e 	  c os t 	  due 	  t o	  t he 	  f a c t 	  t he 	  p la ns 	  a r e 	  c los e d	  t o	  f ut ur e 	  a c c r ua l.	   T h e 	  f i n a n c e 	  e l e m e n t 	  o f 	  t h e 	  p e n s i o n 	  c h a r g e 	  i s 	   s how n 	   i n 	  f i n an c e	  
e x pe ns e 	  a nd 	   t he 	   a dm inis t r a t ion 	   c o s t 	  el em en t 	  i s 	  c har ged 	  as 	  a	  c o m p o n e n t 	  o f 	   ope r a t ing 	  c os t s 	   i n 	  t h e	  i n c om e	  s t at em en t . 	  A c t u ar i al 	  gai n s 	  an d	  
l o sse s	   a nd	  r e -­‐ m eas u r em en t 	  g ai n s 	  an d 	  l o s s es 	   a r e 	  r e c og ni s e d	   i m m e d i a t e l y 	  in 	  f u l l 	  t hr oug h	  t he 	  s t a t e m e nt 	  of 	  c o m p r eh en s i v e	  i nc om e . 	  
Cont r ibut ions 	  t o	  de f ine d	  c ont r ib ut ion	  pla ns 	  a r e 	  c ha r g e d	  t o	  t he 	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	  a s 	  inc ur r ed. 	   Shar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m e nts 	   T he 	  Group	  ope ra t e s 	  s ha re -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent 	  a r r a ng e m e nt s 	  w it h	  e m ploy e e s .	  T he 	  f a ir 	  v a lue 	  of 	  e quit y -­‐ se t t l e d 	   a w a r d s	   f o r 	   sh a r e -­‐ ba s e d	  
pa y m e nt s 	  is 	  det er m ine d	  on	  g r a nt 	  a nd	  e x pe ns e d	  s t r a ig ht 	  line 	   ov e r 	  t he 	  pe r iod	  f r om 	  g r a nt 	  t o	  t he 	  da t e 	  of 	  e a r lie s t 	  unc ondit iona l	  e xer ci s e. 	  
T h e 	  f a i r 	  v a l u e 	  o f 	  c a s h -­‐ se t t l e d 	   a w a r d s	   f o r 	   sh a r e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	  is 	  de t e r m ine d	  e a c h	  pe r iod	  e nd	  unt il	  t he y 	  a r e 	  e x e r c is e d	  o r 	  la p s e . 	   	   T h e 	  v a l u e 	  i s 	  e x p e n s e d 	  s t r a i g h t 	  l i n e 	  o v e r 	  t h e 	  p e r i o d 	  f r o m 	  g r a n t 	  t o 	  t h e 	  d a t e 	  o f 	  e a r l i e s t 	  u n c o n d i t i o n a l 	  e x e r c i s e . 	  T h e 	  c h a r g e s 	  f o r 	   	   bot h	  e quit y 	  a nd	  c a s h -­‐ s e t t le d	  s ha r e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	  a r e 	  upda t e d	  a nnua lly 	  f or 	  non -­‐ m ar k et -­‐ ba s e d	  v e s t ing	  c ondit ions . 	   Shar e 	   c apit al 	   O r dina r y 	  s ha r e 	  c a pit a l	  of 	  t he 	  Com pa ny 	  is 	  r e c or de d	  a s 	  t he 	  pr oc e e ds 	  r e c e iv e d , 	   l es s 	  i s s u e	  c o s t s . 	  C o m pan y 	  s h ar es 	  h el d 	  b y 	  t h e 	  em p l o y ee	  b en ef i t 	  
t r us t s 	  a r e 	  he ld	   a t 	   t he 	  c ons ide r a t ion	  pa id.	  T he y 	  a r e 	  c la s s if ie d	  a s 	  ow n	  s ha r e s 	  w it hin	  e quit y .	  Any 	  g a in	  or 	  los s 	  o n	  t he 	  pur c ha s e ,	  s a le 	  or 	  i s s ue 	   of 	  
Com pa ny 	  s ha r e s 	  is 	  r e c or de d	  in	  e quit y . 	   Re c e nt 	  ac c ount i ng 	  de v e l opm e nt s 	   D evelopm ent s 	  a dopt ed	  by 	  t he	  G r oup	  in	  2015 	   T h e 	  f o l l o w i n g 	  E U -­‐ e ndor s e d	   a c c ount ing 	  s t a nda r d	  w a s 	  a dopt e d	  f or 	  t he 	  f ir s t 	  t im e 	  in	   20 15 : 	   I FR S	   10	   ‘Co n s o lid a t ed 	  F in a nc ia l	  S t a t em ent s ’ 	   – 	   pa r t 	  of 	  a 	  ne w 	  s uit e 	  of 	  s t a nda r ds 	  on	  c ons olida t ion	  a nd	  r e la t e d	   a r e a s ,	  r e p l a c i n g 	  t h e 	  e x i s t i n g 	  
a c c ount ing 	   st a n d a r d s	   f or 	  s ubs idia r ie s 	  a nd	  joint 	  v e nt ur e s 	  ( now 	  joint 	  a r r a ng e m e nt s ) 	  a nd	  m a k ing 	  lim it e d	  a m e ndm e nt s 	  in	  r e la t ion	  t o	  
a sso ci a t e s. 	   Re f e r 	   t o 	   t h e 	   ‘ C r it ic a l 	   a c c ount ing 	  e s t i m at e s ’	  s e c t i o n 	  o n 	  p a g e 	  1 02 . 	   D evelopm ent s 	  a dopt ed	  by 	  t he	  G r oup	  in	   2015 	   w it h	  no	  m a t er ia l	  im pa c t 	  on	  t he	  f ina nc ia l	  s t a t em ent s 	   T h e 	  f o l l o w i n g 	  E U -­‐ e ndor s e d	  a m e ndm e nt s ,	  im pr ov e m e nt s 	  a nd	  int e r pr e t a t ions 	  of 	  publis he d	  s t a nda r d s 	  a r e 	  e f f e c t iv e 	  f or 	  a c c ount ing 	   pe r i ods 	  
be g inning 	  on	  or 	  a f t e r 	  1 	  Apr il	   2014 	   a nd	  ha v e 	  be e n	  a dopt e d	  w it h	  no	  m a t e r ia l	  im pa c t 	  on	  t he 	  G r oup ’ s 	  f in a n c ia l	  s t a t e m e n t s : 	   	   I FR S	   11 	   ‘J o in t 	  A r r a ng em en t s ’ 	   – 	   pa r t 	  of 	  t he	  s am e 	  s uit e 	  a s 	  IF RS 	  1 0 ; 	   IF RS 	  12 	   ‘ D i sc l o su re 	   o f	   I n te re sts 	   in	  O t her 	  Ent it ies ’ 	   – 	   a s 	  a bov e ,	  c ont a ins 	  t he 	  dis c los ur e 	  r e quir e m e nt s 	  f or 	  e nt it ie s 	  t ha t 	  ha v e 	  int e r e s t 	  in	  
s ubs idia r ie s ,	  joint 	  a r r a ng e m e nt s ,	  a s s oc ia t e s 	  a nd/ or 	  unc ons olida t e d	  s t r uc t ur e 	  e nt it ie s ; 	   IA S 	  2 7 	  ‘S epa r a t e	  F ina nc ia l	  S t a t e m e n t s’ 	   – 	   a m e nde d	  a s 	  pa r t 	  of 	  t he 	  n e w 	  s u it e 	  o f 	  IF R S s 	  a s 	  a b o v e ; 	   IA S 	  2 8 	   ‘ I n v e st m e n t s	   i n 	   A sso c i a t e s ’ 	   – 	   r e i s s u ed 	  as 	  I AS	  2 8	   ‘Inv e s t m e nt s 	  in	  As s oc ia t e s 	  a nd	  J oint 	  V e nt ur e s ’ ;	  it 	  a ls o 	  f o r m s 	  p a r t 	  o f 	  t h e 	  n e w 	  s u it e 	  o f 	  
I FR Ss 	   10 -­‐ 1 2; 	   I FR S	   10, 	   11, 	   a nd	  1 2 	   – 	   a m e ndm e nt s 	  on	  t r a ns it ion	  g uida nc e 	  a nd	  on	   c o n s o l i d at i o n 	   f or 	  inv e s t m e nt 	  e nt it ie s ; 	   IA S 	  3 2 	  ‘F in a n c ia l	  I ns t r um ent s ’	   – 	   a m e ndm e nt 	  r e la t ing 	  t o	  a s s e t 	  a nd	  lia bilit y 	  of f s e t t ing ; 	   IAS 	  3 9 	  ‘F in a n c ia l	  In s t r u m e n t s :	  R e c o g n it io n 	  a n d 	  m e a s u r e m e n t ’	   – 	   a m e ndm e nt 	  r e la t ing 	  t o	  t he 	  nov a t ion	  of 	  de r iv a t iv e s 	  a nd	  hedg e 	  a c c ount i ng ; 	  
I FR I C 	   21	   ‘ L e vi e s ’ . 	   D evelopm ent s 	  expec t ed	  in	  f ut ur e	  per iods 	  of 	  w hic h	  t he	  im pa c t 	  is 	  being	  a s s es s ed 	   R e ve nu e 	   f ro m 	   C o n t ra c t s	   w i t h 	   C u st o m e rs : 	   T h e 	  f i n a l 	   s t a nda r d ,	  I F R S 	  1 5 , 	   w a s 	  publis he d	   i n 	  M ay 	  2014. 	  Th e	  I A SB 	  h as 	  t en t at i v el y 	  d ec i d e d 	   t o 	  
de f e r 	  t he 	  e f f e c t iv e 	  da t e 	  by 	  one 	   y e a r 	  a nd	  it 	  is 	  now 	  e x pe c t ed	  t ha t 	  t he 	  s t a nda r d	  w ill	  be c om e 	  e f f e c t iv e ,	  s ubje c t 	  t o	  E U 	  e ndor s e m e n t ,	   f or 	  annua l 	  
r e por t ing 	  pe r iods 	  be g inning 	  on	  or 	  a f t e r 	  1 	  J a nua r y 	  2 0 1 8 ,	  w it h	  e a r lie r 	  a pplic a t ion	  pe r m it t e d. 	   T h e	  n ew 	   s t a nda r d	  int r o duc e s 	  a 	  f iv e -­‐ s t e p	  m ode l	  
t o	  t he 	  pr in c i ple 	  of 	  r e v e nue 	  r e c og nit ion.	  Br ie f ly ,	  t he 	  f r a m e w or k 	  inc lude s 	  i de nt if y ing 	  t he 	  c ont r a c t 	  w it h	  t he 	  c us t om e r ,	  ide nt if y i n g	  t h e	  
pe r f or m a nc e 	  oblig a t ions 	  in	  t he	  c ont r a c t ,	  de t e r m ining 	  t he 	  t r a ns a c t ion	  pr ic e ,	  a lloc a t ing 	   t he 	  t r a ns a c t i o n 	  p r i c e	  t o	  t h e	  p er f o r m an c e	  o b l i gat i o n s 	  
i n 	  t h e	  c o n t r ac t 	  an d 	  r ec o gn i s i n g	  r e v en u e	  w h en 	  ( o r 	  as ) 	  t h e	  en t i t y 	  s at i s f ie s 	   a 	  pe r f or m a nc e 	  oblig a t ion.	  Q ine t iQ 	  is 	  c ur r e nt ly 	  unde r t a k ing 	   a n	  
a s s e s s m e nt 	  of 	  t he	  im pa c t 	   of 	   t he 	  ne w 	  s t a ndar d.	  T y pic a l	  is s ue s 	  t o	  be 	  a na ly s e d	  on	   a 	  c ont r a c t -­‐ by -­‐ c o n t r ac t 	  b as i s 	  i n c l ud e	  w h et h er 	  t h e	  c u r r e n t 	  
m et h o d o l og y 	  f o r 	  r ec o g ni s i ng 	  r ev en u e	  o v e r 	  t im e	  r em ai n s 	  ap p r o p r i at e ,	  t h e	  t r eat m en t 	   of 	  c ont r a c t 	  m odif ic a t ions ,	  v a r ia ble	  c ons ide r a t i on,	  
de t e r m ina t ion 	  a nd	  dis t inc t ion	  of 	  pe r f or m a nc e 	  oblig a t ions ,	  c olle c t a b i l i t y 	  an d 	  l i c en c es 	  ( l i s t 	  n o t 	  ex h au s t i v e) . 	  Q i n e t i Q 	  is 	  al s o 	  u n d er t ak i n g	  an 	  
a na ly s is 	  of 	  t he 	  t r ans it iona l	  g uida nc e 	  w hic h	  a llow s 	  f or 	  t w o	  dif f e r e nt 	  a ppr oa c he s ,	  t he 	  r e t r os pe c t iv e 	  m e t hod	  ( w it h	  opt iona l	  pr a c t ic a l	  
e x pe die nt s ) 	   or 	  t he 	  c um ula t iv e 	  e f f e c t 	  m e t hod. 	  	   	   F RS 	  1 00, 	  101	  and	  102: 	   FR S	  100,	  101	  an d 	  102	  al l 	  f al l 	  u n d er 	  t h e	  n ew 	  U K	  G A A P	  r eg i m e. 	   FR S	  100	  s et s 	  o u t 	  t h e	  ap p l i c at i o n 	  o f 	  f i n an c i al 	  
r e por t ing 	  r e quir e m e nt s 	  in	  t he 	  U K 	  a nd	  Re public 	  of 	  Ir e la nd	  a nd	  F RS 	  1 0 1 ,	  k now n	  a s 	  ‘IF RS 	  w it h	  r e duc e d	  dis c los ur e s ’ , 	   out line s 	  t he 	   r e duc e d	  
dis c los ur e 	  f r a m e w or k 	  a v a ila ble 	  f or 	  us e 	  by 	  qua lif y ing 	  e nt it ie s 	  c hoos ing 	  t o	  f ollow 	  t he 	  pr inc iple s 	  of 	  IF RS 	  but 	  unde r 	  t he 	  um br e ll a 	  of 	  U K 	   G AAP . 	   FR S	  102	  i s 	  ap p l i c ab l e	  i n 	  t h e	  U K	  an d 	  R ep u b l i c 	  o f 	  I r el an d 	  an d 	  i s 	  k n o w n 	  as 	  t h e	  ‘n ew 	  U K	  G A A P’. 	   F R S 	   102	  f o l l o w s 	  m o r e	  c l o s el y 	  t h e	  p r i n c i p l es 	   of 	  
e x is t ing 	  U K 	  G AAP 	  w it h	  s om e 	  e x c e pt ions . 	   T he 	  m a nda t ory 	  e ffe c t iv e 	  da t e 	  for	  t he 	  ne w 	  fra m e w ork 	  of	  re port ing 	  is 	  for	  a c c ount ing 	  pe ri ods 	  
be g inning 	  on	  or 	  a f t e r 	  1 	  J a n ua r y 	  2 0 1 5 . 	   T he 	  Group	  c a n 	   c h o o s e	  t o 	  app l y 	  ei t h er 	  f u l l 	  I FR S ,	  o r 	  a 	  c h o i c e 	  o f 	  e i t he r 	  F RS 	  10 1 	   or 	  F RS 	  1 0 2 	  t o 	   t he 	  
Com pa ny 	  a nd	  t o	   i t s 	  s u b s i d i a r y 	  e n t i t i e s . 	   T he 	  t w o	  la t t e r	  opt ions 	  bot h	  fa ll	  unde r	  UK 	  GAAP 	  a nd	  e it he r	  m a y 	  t he re fore 	  be 	  a pplie d	  t o	   G r oup	  
c o m p an i es 	   on	  a n	  e nt it y 	  by 	  e nt it y 	  ba s is . 	   If 	  f u ll	  IF R S 	  is 	  s e le c t e d , 	  t h is 	  m u s t 	  be 	  a pplie d	  t o	  a ll	   G r oup	  c om pa nie s 	   co n si st e n t l y. 	   T he 	  Group 	   w ill	  
a dopt 	  t he 	  U K 	  G AAP 	  opt ion	  w it h	  e f f e c t 	  f r om 	  1 	  Apr il	  2 0 1 5 .	   	   101
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 102 Notes to the financial statements continued 
1. Significant accounting policies continued  
Leases: A revised exposure draft was issued in May 2013 and following subsequent deliberations the IASB has decided upon the tentative 
adoption of a single right-of-use (“ROU”) model. This approach eliminates off balance sheet accounting for lessees who will instead account 
for most leases on balance sheet as financing the purchase of an ROU asset. The ROU asset is a non-financial asset which would be 
accounted for consistently with other non-financial assets i.e. amortised. A corresponding liability would be recognised separately and 
accounted for at amortised cost, yielding an overall front-loaded expense profile, similar to existing finance leases. The IASB has tentatively 
agreed that no significant changes are needed to the current lessor model. The standard is expected to be published in 2015; the effective 
date is not yet known. 
Developments expected in future periods with no material impact on the Group’s financial statements 
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following new, revised, amended and improved published standards and interpretations,  
which were in issue at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, will have no material impact on the financial statements  
of the Group when they become applicable in future periods: 
 IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’; IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’; IFRS 14 ‘Regulatory Deferral Accounts’; 
 IAS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements’; IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates’;  
 Amendments to new standards IFRS 10, 11, 12 and 27; and 
 Amendments to IAS 36 and 39. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgments in applying accounting policies 
The following commentary is intended to highlight those policies that are critical to the business based on the level of management 
judgment required in their application, their complexity and their potential impact on the results and financial position reported for  
the Group. The level of management judgment required includes assumptions and estimates about future events that are uncertain  
and the actual outcome of which may result in a materially different outcome from that anticipated. 
Revenue and profit recognition 
The estimation process required to evaluate the potential outcome of contracts and projects requires skill, knowledge and experience  
from a variety of sources within the business to assess the status of the contract, costs to complete, internal and external labour  
resources required and other factors. This process is carried out continuously throughout the business to ensure that project and contract 
assessments reflect the latest status of such work. No profit is recognised on a contract until the outcome can be reliably estimated. 
Business combinations and related goodwill 
Intangible assets recognised on business combinations have been valued using established methods and models to determine estimated 
value and useful economic life, with input, where appropriate, from external valuation consultants. Such methods require the use of 
estimates which may produce results that are different from actual future outcomes.  
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. This process relies on the use of estimates of the future 
profitability and cash flows of its CGUs which may differ from the actual results delivered. In addition, the Group reviews whether 
identified intangible assets have suffered any impairment. Further details on the sensitivity of the carrying value of goodwill to  
changes in the key assumptions are set out in note 14. 
Consolidation of US subsidiaries 
As described on page 65, the Group and the US Department of Defense (DoD) have entered into a Proxy agreement that regulates the 
ownership, management and operation of certain Group subsidiaries. IFRS 10 is the accounting standard now applicable in respect of 
consolidation of entities. This does not specifically deal with proxy situations but the key principle of this new standard, effective for the 
year ended 31 March 2015, is that control exists, and consolidation is required, only if the investor (i) possesses power over the investee, 
(ii) has exposure to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and (iii) has the ability to use its power over the investee to 
affect its returns. Having considered the terms of the Proxy agreement, the Directors consider that the Group meets the requirements of 
IFRS 10 in respect of control over such affected entities and, therefore, consolidates the subsidiaries in the consolidated accounts.  
Tax 
In determining the Group’s provisions for income tax and deferred tax, it is necessary to assess the likelihood and timing of recovery  
of tax losses created, and to consider transactions in a small number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination  
is uncertain. To the extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax  
and deferred tax provisions held in the period the determination is made. A key judgment made in the year to 31 March 2015 is that the 
utilisation of certain UK trade losses is now sufficiently probable in the foreseeable future that a deferred tax asset should be recognised in 
respect of those losses. As such, a deferred tax asset of £25.2m has been recognised at 31 March 2015. 
Post-retirement benefits 
The Group’s defined benefit pension obligations and net income statement costs are based on key assumptions, including discount rates, 
mortality and inflation. Management exercises its best judgment, in consultation with actuarial advisors, in selecting the values for these 
assumptions that are the most appropriate to the Group. Small changes in these assumptions at the balance sheet date, individually or 
collectively, may result in significant changes in the size of the deficit or the net income statement costs. Any change in these assumptions 
would have an impact on the retirement benefit obligation recognised. Further details of these assumptions are set out in note 30. 
102
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 103 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
2. Revenue and other income
Revenue and other income is analysed as follows:
Revenue by category – continuing operations 
For the year ended 31 March  
all figures in £ million 2015  2014^ 
Sales of goods 71.8 110.4 
Services 685.1 665.8 
Royalties and licences 6.9 6.4 
Revenue 763.8 782.6 
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ (loss)/profit after tax (0.1) 0.1 
Other income 7.7 6.9 
Total other income 7.6 7.0 
Revenue and loss after tax of joint ventures and associates was £7.7m and £0.1m respectively (2014: revenue of £6.5m and profit before 
tax of £0.3m). The figures in the table above represent the Group share of this loss/profit after tax. 
Other income is in respect of property rentals and the recovery of other related property costs. 
Revenue by customer geographic location – continuing operations 
For the year ended 31 March 
all figures in £ million 2015  2014^ 
United Kingdom 610.7 578.4 
US 69.4 98.4 
Other 83.7 105.8 
Total 763.8 782.6 
Revenue by major customer type – continuing operations 
For the year ended 31 March 
all figures in £ million 2015  2014^ 
UK Government 537.6 503.9 
US Government 51.2 72.9 
Other 175.0 205.8 
Total 763.8 782.6 
Revenue from the UK Government was generated by the EMEA Services and Global Products operating segments. Revenue from the 
US Government was generated by the Global Products operating segment. 
^ Restated for the reclassification of the US Services segment as a discontinued operation. 
103
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 104 Notes to the financial statements continued 
3. Segmental analysis 
Operating segments 
For the year ended 31 March  
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014^  
 
 
Revenue 
Operating 
profit Revenue 
Operating 
profit 
EMEA Services 
 
625.6 93.0 607.0 86.7 
Global Products 
 
138.2 18.3 175.6 27.0 
Total operating segments 
 
763.8 111.3 782.6 113.7 
 
 
    
Operating profit before specific adjusting items
1
 – 
underlying operating profit 
 
 111.3  113.7 
Specific adjusting items:      
  Restructuring   1.0   0.2  
  Pension scheme closure costs   –   27.1  
  Property impairment reversal 
 
 –   1.4  
  Impairment of goodwill 
 
 –   (41.9) 
  Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions  
 
 (2.8)  (3.4) 
Operating profit 
 
 109.5   97.1  
Gain on business divestments  7  –   1.1  
Net finance expense 
8 
 (4.1)  (14.2) 
Profit before tax 
 
 105.4   84.0  
Taxation income/(expense) 
9 
 12.0   (16.0) 
Profit for the year from continuing operations 
 
 117.4   68.0  
 
 
    
Discontinued operations 
 
    
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
5 
 (12.7)  (80.7) 
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable to equity 
shareholders 
 
 104.7   (12.7) 
 1 
The measure of profit presented to the chief operating decision maker is underlying operating profit (as defined in glossary on page 141).  
No measure of segmental assets and liabilities has been disclosed as this information is not regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker. 
^ Restated for the reclassification of the US Services segment as a discontinued operation. 
 
Depreciation and amortisation by business segment – excluding specific adjusting items 
For the year ended 31 March 2015 
all figures in £ million 
 
 EMEA Services  
Global 
 Products 
Total continuing 
operations 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and 
equipment   19.7 2.0 21.7 
Amortisation of purchased or internally developed  
intangible assets   0.8 0.7 1.5 
   20.5 2.7 23.2 
      
For the year ended 31 March 2014      
all figures in £ million 
 
 EMEA Services  Global Products 
Total continuing 
operations 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   19.7 2.1 21.8 
Amortisation of purchased or internally developed  
intangible assets   0.6 0.1 0.7 
   20.3 2.2 22.5 
Excludes specific adjusting items not included within the measure of operating profit reported to the chief operating decision maker. 
Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax) by geographic location 
  
all figures in £ million   UK Rest of World Total 
Year ended 31 March 2015   262.0 91.4 353.4 
      
   UK Rest of World Total 
Year ended 31 March 2014   258.4 162.9 421.3 
104
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 105 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
4. Profit/loss before tax
The following auditor’s remuneration has been charged in arriving at profit/loss before tax:
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Fees payable to the auditor and its associates: 
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 0.4 0.6 
Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries of the Company and its associated pension scheme 0.2 0.5 
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 
Other assurance services – 0.2
Corporate finance services – due diligence support – 1.3
All other non-audit services 0.1 – 
Total auditor’s remuneration 0.8 2.7 
The fees payable to auditors were significantly lower in 2015 than 2014 due to the fact that in the prior year KPMG were engaged to 
perform work in connection with the strategic review and preparation for the proposed sale of the US Services division.  
The following items have also been charged in arriving at profit/loss before tax for continuing operations: 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014^  
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment: 
Owned assets: depreciation (20.7) (21.8) 
Owned assets: impairment (charge)/reversal  (1.0) 1.4 
Foreign exchange loss (0.3) (1.1) 
Research and development expenditure – customer funded contracts (285.8) (288.7) 
Research and development expenditure – Group funded (20.8) (25.9) 
In the income statement, the Group presents specific adjusting items separately. In the judgment of the Directors, for the reader to obtain 
a proper understanding of the financial information, specific adjusting items need to be disclosed separately because of their size and 
nature. The following specific adjusting items have been (charged)/credited in arriving at profit/loss before tax: 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014^  
Reversal of unutilised restructuring provisions 1.0 0.2 
Reduction in pension liabilities on closure to future accrual – 31.1
Pension scheme closure mitigation costs – (4.0) 
Specific adjusting items before amortisation, depreciation and impairment 1.0 27.3 
Impairment of goodwill – (41.9) 
Property impairment reversal 16 – 1.4
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisition 15 (2.8) (3.4) 
Specific adjusting items operating loss (1.8) (16.6) 
Gain on business divestments  7 – 1.1
Defined benefit pension scheme net finance expense (0.6) (1.7) 
Specific adjusting items loss before tax – continuing operations (2.4) (17.2) 
Profit on disposal of subsidiary – before accelerated interest expense 5 15.9 –  
Loss on disposal of subsidiary – accelerated interest expense 5 (28.8) –  
Loss on disposal of subsidiary  5 (12.9) –  
US Services pre-sale transaction costs – (6.0) 
Impairment of goodwill – (84.0) 
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisition (0.8) (7.6) 
Restructuring costs – (0.5) 
Specific adjusting items loss before tax – discontinued operations (13.7) (98.1) 
Total specific adjusting items loss before tax (16.1) (115.3) 
^ Restated for the reclassification of the US Services segment as a discontinued operation. 
105
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 106 Notes to the financial statements continued 
5. Discontinued operations 
On 23 May 2014 the Group completed its sale of the US Services division, comprising QinetiQ North America Inc. and its subsidiaries. The 
Circular seeking shareholder approval for the sale of the US Services division specified that the proceeds would be applied in settling the 
remaining private placement (‘PP’) debt of $248m which was put in place to finance the acquisitions of the US Services 
business.  Accordingly, the penalty of £28.8m incurred on the early redemption of the PP is considered to be inextricably linked to the sale 
of that business and has, therefore, been disclosed as an adjustment to the loss on its sale rather than as a finance expense.  
 
The initial cash consideration was $165m prior to the standard working capital adjustments at completion. The mid-month completion of 
the deal resulted in the May month end payroll and creditor payments falling outside QinetiQ’s period of ownership. This caused the 
closing balance sheet to have higher cash (to be retained by QinetiQ) and lower working capital than would have been the case at the 
month end. The working capital mechanism was designed to make such timing issues neutral. Hence working capital adjustments (and 
closing net-debt adjustments) of $10.6m were required. Additional deferred consideration remains receivable. The earn-out is scheduled 
to be payable in the first half of the Group’s next financial year on a sliding scale between zero and $50m based on gross profit generated 
by the disposed business in the financial year to 31 March 2015. Actual gross profit delivered by the disposed business (still subject to 
audit) indicates that the deferred consideration receivable will be approximately $9m in cash. The full impact of the disposal is given below: 
 
a) Results of discontinued operations 
 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
Revenue  55.7 408.8 
Operating costs excluding depreciation, amortisation and impairment  (54.2) (387.3) 
EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation)  1.5 21.5 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets  (0.3) (2.5) 
Underlying operating profit  1.2 19.0 
Impairment of goodwill  –  (84.0) 
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions  (0.8) (7.6) 
Other specific adjusting items 4 –  (6.5) 
Operating profit/(loss)  0.4   (79.1) 
Finance expense  –  (0.8) 
Profit/(loss) before tax  0.4   (79.9) 
Taxation expense  (0.2) (0.8) 
Results from operating activities, net of tax  0.2  (80.7) 
Profit on sale of discontinued operations – before accelerated interest costs   15.9 – 
Loss on sale of discontinued operations – accelerated interest costs  (28.8) – 
Loss for the period  (12.7) (80.7) 
Basic loss per share   (2.0)p (12.4)p  
Diluted loss per share  (2.0)p (12.4)p  
Underlying basic earnings per share  0.1p  2.2p  
 
b) Cash flows from discontinued operations 
 
all figures in £ million  2015 2014 
Net cash from operating activities  1.8 30.3 
Net cash from investing activities  – – 
Net cash inflow for the year  1.8 30.3 
 
c) Effect of disposal on the financial position of the Group 
 
all figures in £ million  2015  
Goodwill  41.2  
Intangible assets  32.6  
Property, plant and equipment  5.9  
Inventories  0.8  
Trade and other receivables  71.7  
Cash and cash equivalents  1.0  
Deferred tax asset  9.6  
Trade and other payables  (54.7)  
Net assets and liabilities  108.1  
Consideration received (net of transaction costs), satisfied in cash  79.6  
Cash and cash equivalents disposed  (1.0)  
Net cash inflow in the year to 31 March 2015  78.6  
106
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 1 0 7 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   6 . B u s i n es s 	   c o mb i n a t i o n s
T he 	  Group	  m a de 	  t w o	  a c quis it io ns 	  in	  t he 	  y e a r 	  t o	  3 1 	  M a r c h	  2 0 1 5 . 	  O n	  7 	  Aug us t 	  2 0 1 4 	  t he 	  G r oup	  a c quir e d	  t he 	  t r a de 	  a nd	  a s s e t s 	  of 	  Re df e r n
Int e g r a t e d	  O pt ic s 	  Inc . 	  f r om 	  it s 	  f ounde r 	  m a na g e m e nt 	  t e a m 	   a nd	  on	  1 9 	  N ov e m be r 	  2 0 1 4 	  t he 	  G r oup	  a c quir e d	  t he 	  t r a de 	  a nd	  a s s e t s 	  of 	  S R2 020.
Fu r t h er 	  i n f o r m at i o n 	  o n 	  eac h 	  ac q u i s i t i o n 	  i s 	  g i v en 	  b el o w . 	   Re df e r n	  Int e g r at e d	  O pt i c s 	  Inc . 	   ( “RIO ”) 	   R IO 	  is 	  a 	  U S -­‐ ba s e d	  bus ine s s 	  t ha t 	  de s ig ns 	  a nd	  m a nuf a c t ur e s 	  hig hly 	  c ohe r e n t 	  s e m ic onduc t or 	  la s e r s .	  Q ine t iQ ’s 	  O pt a Se ns e ® 	   bus ine s s 	   us e s 	   t he 	  
l a s e r s 	  w i t h in 	  i t s 	  c o r e 	   pr oduc t 	  r ang e 	  in	  t he 	  D is t r ibut e d	  Ac ous t ic 	  S e ns ing 	  m a r k e t .	  RIO 	  is 	  t he 	  s ole 	  s our c e 	  s upplie r 	  f or 	  t his 	  t y pe 	  of 	  pr oduc t 	  a nd	  
t he 	  a c quis it ion	  w a s 	  m a de 	  t o	  pr ot e c t 	  t he 	  s upply 	  t o	  O pt a S e ns e ® 	   of 	  t he 	  R IO 	  la s e r 	  pr oduc t .	  	   	   If 	  t he 	  a c quis it ion	  ha d	  be e n	  c om ple t e d	  on	  t he 	  f i r s t 	  da y 	  of 	  t he 	  f ina nc ia l	  y e a r ,	  G r oup 	   r e v e nue 	  f or 	  t he 	  pe r iod	  e nde d	  3 1 	  M a r c h	  2 0 1 5 	   w oul d	   ha v e 	  
be e n	   £764. 7 m 	   a nd	  t he 	  G r oup	  pr of it 	  be f or e 	  t a x 	  w ould	  ha v e 	  be e n	   £105 . 4 m . 	  	   	   Cont r i but i on	   pos t -­‐ a cq u is itio n 	   A cq u isiti o n 	   A cq u isiti o n 	   d a te 	   E xp ected 	   ca sh 	   	   c ons i de r at i on	   	   £ m illio n 	   R even u e 	   £ m illio n 	   O pe r at i ng 	   pr of i t 	   	   £ m illio n 	   T r a d e 	   a n d 	   a sse ts	   o f 	  
Re df e r n	  Int e g r a t e d	  
O p t ic s 	  In c . 	   7	  A u g u s t 	  2014 	   3 . 8 	   1 . 8 	   –	  
Set 	  o u t 	  b el o w 	  ar e	  t h e	  al l o c at i o n s 	  o f 	  p u r c h as e	  c o n s i d er at i o n ,	  as s et s 	  an d 	  l i ab i l i t i es 	  o f 	  t h e	  ac q u i s i t i o n 	  m ad e	   i n 	  t h e	  y ear 	  and 	  t h e	  ad j u s t m en t s 	  
r e quir e d	  t o	  t he 	  book 	  v a lue s 	  of 	  t he 	  a s s e t s 	  a nd	  lia bilit ie s 	  in	  or de r 	  t o	  pr e s e nt 	  t he 	  ne t 	  a s s e t s 	  of 	  t h i s 	   bus ine s s 	  a t 	  f a ir 	  v a lue 	  a nd	  in	   a c c or da nc e 	   w it h	  t he 	  G r oup	  a c c ount ing 	  polic ie s . 	   a ll	   f i g ur e s 	   in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   B o o k 	   	  v a lu e 	   F a ir	   va l u e	  
a dj us t m e nt 	   F a ir	   va lu e	   a t	  
a cq u is itio n 	   N e t 	   a sse t s	   a cq u i r e d 	   1 . 8 	   (0 .9 ) 	   0 . 9 	   G oodw ill	  a nd	   i nt a ng ible s 	   – 2 . 9 2 .9 	   1 .8 	   2 .0 	  	   3 .8 	   Cons ide r a t ion	  s a t is f ie d	  by : 	   C a sh 	   3 .3 	   D e f e r r e d	  c ons ide r a t ion	   pa y a ble 	   0 .5 	   Tot a l	  c ons ider a t ion 	   3 .8 	   SR2020 	   Inc . 	   SR 2020	   In c . 	  is 	  a 	  U S -­‐ ba s e d	  le a ding 	  pr ov ide r 	  of 	  bor e hole 	  s e is m ic 	  s e r v ic e s 	   w ho	  de v e l op	  a nd	  us e 	  pur pos e 	  w r it t e n,	  pr opr ie t a r y 	  s of t w a r e 	   f or 	  
bor e hole	  s e is m ic 	  im a g ing ,	  m ic r o -­‐ s e is m ic 	  m onit or ing 	  a nd	  pa s s iv e 	  s e is m ic 	  m onit or ing . 	   T he 	  bus ine s s 	   ha s 	   e x t e ns iv e 	   o il	  a n d	  g a s 	  indus t r y 	  
e x pe r ie nc e 	   a nd 	   i t s 	   e x pe r t is e 	  in 	   pr oc e s s ing 	  a nd	  int e r pr e t a t ion	  s e r v ic e s 	   w ill	  f ur t her 	  e nha nc e 	  t he 	   G r oup’s 	   O pt a s e ns e ® 	   pr oduc t 	   a nd	  s e r v i c e s 	  
por t f oli o . 	  	   	   If 	  t he 	  a c quis it ion	  ha d	  be e n	  c om ple t e d	  on	  t he 	  f ir s t 	  da y 	  of 	  t he 	  f ina nc ia l	  y e a r ,	  G r oup 	   r e v e nue 	  f or 	  t he 	  pe r iod	  e nde d	  3 1 	  M a r c h	  2 0 1 5 	   w oul d	   ha v e 	  
be e n	   £763. 9 m 	   a nd	  t he 	  G r oup	  pr of it 	  be f or e 	  t a x 	  w ould	  ha v e 	  be e n	  £ 10 4 . 6 m . 	  	   	   Cont r i but i on	   pos t -­‐ a cq u is itio n 	   A cq u isiti o n 	   A cq u isiti o n 	   d a te 	   E xp ected 	   ca sh 	   	   c ons i de r at i on	   	   £ m illio n 	  	  
R even u e 	   £ m illio n 	   O pe r at i ng 	   pr of i t 	   	   £ m illio n 	   T r a d e 	   a n d 	   a sse ts	   o f 	  
SR 2020	  I n c .	   19 	   N ov e m be r 	   2014 	   0. 4	   0 . 1 	   (0 .4 ) 	   Set 	  o u t 	  b el o w 	  ar e	  t h e	  al l o c at i o n s 	  o f 	  p u r c h as e	  c o n s i d er at i o n ,	  	  as s et s 	   a nd	  lia bilit ie s 	  of 	  t he 	  a c quis it ion	  m a de 	  in	  t he 	  y e a r 	  a nd	  t he 	  a dju s t m e nt s 	  
r e quir e d	  t o	  t he 	  book 	  v a lue s 	  of 	  t he 	  a s s e t s 	  a nd	  lia bilit ie s 	  in	  or de r 	  t o	  pr e s e nt 	  t he 	  ne t 	  a s s e t s 	  of 	  t h i s	   bus ine s s 	  a t 	  f a ir 	  v a lue 	  a nd	  in	   a c c or da nc e 	   w it h	  t he 	  G r oup	  a c c ount ing 	  polic ie s . 	   a ll 	   fig u re s 	   in 	   £ 	   m illio n 	   B o o k 	   	  v a lu e 	   F a ir	   va lu e	  
a dj us t m e nt 	   F a ir	   va lu e	   a t	  
a cq u is itio n 	   N e t 	   a sse t s	   a cq u i r e d 	   0 . 3 	   ( 0 . 3 )	   – 	   G oodw ill	  a nd	   i nt a ng ible s 	   – 0 .4 	   0 .4 	   0 .3 	   0 .1 	  	   0 .4 	   Cons ide r a t ion	  s a t is f ie d	  by : 	   C a sh 	   0 .4 	   D e f e r r e d	  c ons ide r a t ion	   pa y a ble 	   –	  
Tot a l	  c ons ider a t ion 	   0 .4 	   107
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 108 Notes to the financial statements continued 
7. Gain on business divestments – continuing operations 
For the year ended 31 March 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Gain on business divestments –  1.1  
The gain on business divestments relates to deferred consideration received in respect of the disposal of the Calibration business in 2009.  
 
8. Finance income and expense – continuing operations 
For the year ended 31 March 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014^ 
Receivable on bank deposits 1.1 1.4 
Finance lease income  0.2 0.5 
Finance income 1.3 1.9 
   
Amortisation of recapitalisation fee (0.7) (0.6) 
Payable on bank loans and overdrafts (0.9) (1.4) 
Payable on US dollar private placement debt (2.6) (11.3) 
Finance lease expense (0.2) (0.4) 
Unwinding of discount on financial liabilities (0.4) (0.7) 
Finance expense before specific adjusting items (4.8) (14.4) 
 
Specific adjusting items:   
Defined benefit pension scheme net finance expense (0.6) (1.7) 
Total finance expense (5.4) (16.1) 
   
Net finance expense (4.1) (14.2) 
 
^ Restated for the reclassification of the US Services segment as a discontinued operation. 
 
The Circular seeking shareholder approval for the sale of the US Services division specified that the proceeds would be applied in settling 
the remaining private placement (‘PP’) debt of $248m which was put in place to finance the acquisitions of the US Services business. 
Accordingly, the penalty of £28.8m incurred on the early redemption of the PP is considered to be inextricably linked to the sale of that 
business and has, therefore, been disclosed as an adjustment to the loss on its sale rather than as a finance expense. See note 5. 
108
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 109 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
9. Taxation – continuing operations
2015 2014^ 
all figures in £ million 
Before specific 
 adjusting items* 
Specific adjusting 
 items* Total 
Before specific 
 adjusting items* 
Specific adjusting 
 items* Total 
Analysis of charge 
Current UK tax expense/(income) 0.5 – 0.5 (4.2) (0.9) (5.1) 
Overseas corporation tax 
Current year 1.4 (0.5) 0.9 (10.3) (1.1) (11.4) 
Adjustment for prior year (1.0) 0.6 (0.4) – – – 
Current tax expense/(income) 0.9 0.1 1.0 (14.5) (2.0) (16.5) 
Deferred tax expense/(income) 11.3 (22.9) (11.6) 25.0 7.8 32.8 
Deferred tax impact of change in rates (0.4) – (0.4) 0.9 – 0.9
Deferred tax in respect of prior years – (1.0) (1.0) – (1.2) (1.2) 
Deferred tax expense/(income) 10.9 (23.9) (13.0) 25.9 6.6 32.5 
Taxation expense/(income) – continuing 
operations 11.8 (23.8) (12.0) 11.4 4.6 16.0 
Factors affecting tax charge/(credit) in year 
Principal factors reducing the Group’s current 
year tax charge below the UK statutory rate 
are explained below: 
Profit/(loss) before tax  107.8 (2.4) 105.4 101.2 (23.2) 78.0 
Tax on profit/(loss) before tax at 21%  
(2014: 23%)  22.6 (0.5) 22.1 23.3 (5.3) 18.0 
Effect of: 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes, 
research and development relief and  
non-taxable items (18.6) 1.7 (16.9) (9.9) 10.4 0.5 
Recognition of deferred tax asset in respect of 
UK trading losses – (25.2) (25.2) – – – 
Current tax losses for which no deferred tax 
asset was recognised 6.9 – 6.9 (1.0) – (1.0) 
Deferred tax impact of change in rates (0.4) – (0.4) 0.9 – 0.9
Deferred tax in respect of prior years 0.9 – 0.9 0.2 – 0.2
Effect of different rates in overseas 
jurisdictions  0.4 0.2 0.6 (2.1) (0.5) (2.6) 
Taxation expense/(income) – continuing 
operations 11.8 (23.8) (12.0) 11.4 4.6 16.0 
Effective tax rate 10.9% (11.4%) 11.3% 20.5% 
*Details of specific adjusting items can be found in note 4.
^Restated for the reclassification of the US Services segment as a discontinued operation. 
Tax expense on continuing operations excludes the tax expense of the discontinued operation of £0.2m. This is included in ‘profit/(loss) 
from discontinued operation, net of tax’ (see note 5). 
Factors affecting future tax charges 
The effective tax rate continues to be below the statutory rate in the UK, primarily as a result of the benefit of research and development 
tax relief in the UK. The effective tax rate is expected to remain below the UK statutory rate in the medium term, subject to the impact of 
any tax legislation changes and the geographic mix of profits and the assumption that the benefit of R&D tax relief remains in the tax line. 
The Finance Act 2013 allows the continued treatment of R&D tax relief as a super deduction until 1 April 2016, when R&D Expenditure 
Credit treatment becomes mandatory.  
Deferred tax has been calculated at 20% being the enacted future statutory tax rate. 
At 31 March 2015 the Group had unused tax losses of £291.6m (2014: £213.9m) which are available for offset against future profits. An 
asset of £25.2m has been recognised in respect of an element of these unused tax losses, relating to certain UK trading losses which are 
expected to be utilised in the foreseeable future. No deferred tax asset is recognised in respect of the other losses due to uncertainty over 
the timing and extent of their utilisation. 
109
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 110 Notes to the financial statements continued 
10. Dividends 
An analysis of the dividends paid and proposed in respect of the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2014 is provided below: 
 
Pence  
per share £m  
Date paid/ 
payable 
Interim 2015 1.8 11.1 Feb 2015 
Final 2015 (proposed) 3.6 21.2 Sept 2015 
Total for the year ended 31 March 2015 5.4 32.3  
    
Interim 2014 1.4 9.2 Feb 2014 
Final 2014 3.2 20.6 Sept 2014 
Total for the year ended 31 March 2014 4.6 29.8  
The Directors propose a final dividend of 3.6p (2014: 3.2p) per share. The dividend, which is subject to shareholder approval, will be paid  
on 4 September 2015. The ex-dividend date is 6 August 2015 and the record date is 7 August 2015. 
11. Analysis of employee costs and numbers 
The largest component of operating expenses is employee costs. The year-end and average monthly number of persons employed  
by the Group, including Executive Directors, analysed by business segment, were: 
 As at 31 March Monthly average 
 
2015  
Number 
2014  
Number 
2015  
Number 
2014  
Number 
EMEA Services 5,576 5,399 5,521 5,292 
Global Products  674 834 706 828 
Continuing operations 6,250 6,233 6,227 6,120 
US Services - 2,704 227 3,014 
Total 6,250 8,937 6,454 9,134 
 
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 
all figures in £ million Note 2015 2014 
Wages and salaries   284.0 450.3 
Social security costs   27.6 38.3 
Pension costs   35.1 40.8 
Share-based payments costs 29 3.6 4.5 
Employee costs before UK pension closure mitigation costs  350.3 533.9 
UK pension scheme closure mitigation costs  – 4.0 
Total employee costs  350.3 537.9 
On closure of the UK defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual, affected employees were transferred to a defined contribution 
pension scheme. Additional one-off employer contribution payments were made by the Company into the new schemes during the prior 
year. 
12. Directors and other senior management personnel 
The Directors and other senior management personnel of the Group during the year to 31 March 2015 comprise the Board of  
Directors and the Operations Committee. The remuneration and benefits provided to Directors and the Operations Committee  
are summarised below: 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Short-term employee remuneration including benefits 6.1 6.7  
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2  
Share-based payments costs 1.4 1.9  
Termination benefits 0.1 0.8  
Total 7.7 9.6  
Short-term employee remuneration and benefits include salary, bonus and benefits. Post-employment benefits relate to pension amounts. 
110
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 1 1 1 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	   A cco u n ts	  2 0 1 5 	   1 3 . E a r n i n g s 	   p er 	   s h a r e
Ba s ic 	  e a r ning s 	  pe r 	  s ha r e 	  is 	   c al c u l at ed 	  b y 	  di v i d i n g	  t h e	  p r o f i t 	  at t r i b ut ab l e	  t o 	  eq u i t y 	  s h ar eh ol d er s 	  b y 	  t h e	  w ei gh t ed	  av er age	  n u m b er 	  of 	  o r d i n ar y
s ha r e s 	  in	  is s ue 	  dur ing 	  t he 	  y e a r .	  The 	  w e ig ht e d	  a v e r a g e 	  num be r 	  of 	  s ha r e s 	  us e d	  e x c lude s 	  t hos e 	  s ha r e s 	  boug ht 	  by 	  t he 	  G r oup	  a nd	  he l d	   a s 	   ow n
sh a r e s	   ( s e e 	  not e 	   2 8 ) . 	  F or 	  dilut e d	  e a r ning s 	  pe r 	  s ha r e 	  t he 	  w e ig ht e d	  a v e r a g e 	  num be r 	  of 	  s ha r e s 	  in	  is s ue 	  is 	  a djus t e d	  t o	  a s s um e 	  c onv e r s ion	  of 	  a ll
pot e nt ia lly 	  dilut i v e 	  or dina r y 	  s ha r e s 	  a r is ing 	  f r om 	  unv e s t e d	  s ha r e -­‐ ba s e d	  a w a r ds 	   inc luding 	  s ha r e 	  opt ions .	  U nde r ly ing 	  ba s ic 	   e a r ning s 	  pe r 	  s ha r e
f ig ur e s 	  a r e 	  pr e s e nt e d	  be low , 	   i n 	  ad d i t i o n 	  t o 	  t h e	  b as i c 	  a nd	  dilut e d	  e a r ning s 	  pe r 	  s ha r e , 	   be c a us e 	   t he 	   D i r ec t o r s 	  c o ns i der 	  t h i s 	  gi v es 	  a	  m o r e
r e le v a nt 	  indic a t ion	  of 	  unde r ly ing 	  bus ine s s 	  pe r f or m a nc e 	  a nd	  r e f le c t s 	  t he 	  a djus t m e nt s 	  t o	  ba s ic 	  e a r ning s 	   pe r 	  s ha r e 	  f or 	  t he 	  im pa c t 	  of 	  s pe c i f i c
a djus t i n g 	  i t e m s 	   ( s e e 	  not e 	  4 ) 	   a nd	  t a x 	  t he r eon.
F o r	   th e	   yea r	   en d ed 	   3 1 	   M a rch 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   U nder ly ing	  bas ic 	  EP S 	   –	   c o n t in u in g 	  o p e r a t io n s 	   Pr o f i t 	   a t t r ibut a ble 	  t o	  e quit y 	  s ha r e holde r s 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   117. 4 	   68. 0 	   Re m ov e 	   (p r o f i t ) /l o ss 	   a f t e r 	  t a x 	  in	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	  s pe c if ic 	  a djus t ing 	  it e m s * 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   ( 2 1 . 4 ) 	   21. 8 	   U nde r ly ing 	  pr of it 	  a f t e r 	  t a x a t ion 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   96. 0 	   89. 8 	   W ei g h t ed 	  av er ag e	  n u m b er 	  o f 	  s h ar es 	   M illio n 	   630. 9 	   651. 7 	   U nder ly ing	  bas ic 	  EP S 	   –	   c o n t in u in g 	  o p e r a t io n s 	   P e nc e 	   15. 2 	   13. 8 	   U nder ly ing	  bas ic 	  EP S 	   –	   t o t a l	  Gr o u p 	   P ro fi t/ ( l o s s ) 	   a t t r ibut a ble 	  t o	  e quit y 	  s ha r e holde r s 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   104. 7 	   ( 1 2 . 7 ) 	   Re m ov e (p r o f it ) /l o ss 	   a f t e r 	  t a x 	  in	  r es pe c t 	  of 	  s pe c if ic 	  a djus t ing 	  it e m s * 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   (8 .0 ) 	   116. 7 	   U nde r ly ing 	  pr of it 	  a f t e r 	  t a x a t ion 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   96. 7 	   104. 0 	   W ei g h t ed 	  av er ag e	  n u m b er 	  o f 	  s h ar es 	   M illio n 	   630. 9 	   651. 7 	   U nder ly ing	  bas ic 	  EP S 	   –	   t o t a l	  Gr o u p 	   P e nc e 	   15. 3 	   16. 0 	   F o r	   th e	   yea r	   en d ed 	   3 1 	   M a rch 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   B as i c	   EP S 	  – 	  c o n t in u in g 	  o p e r a t io n s 	   Pr o f i t 	   a t t r ibut a ble 	  t o	  e quit y 	  s ha r e holde r s 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   117. 4 	   68. 0 	   W ei g h t ed 	  av er ag e	  n u m b er 	  o f 	  s h ar es 	   M illio n 	   630. 9 	   651. 7 	   B as i c	   EP S 	  – 	  c o n t in u in g 	  o p e r a t io n s 	   P e nc e 	   18. 6 	   10. 4 	   D ilut ed	  EP S 	  – 	  c o n t in u in g 	  o p e r a t io n s 	   Pr o f i t 	   a t t r ibut a ble 	  t o	  e quit y 	  s ha r e holde r s 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   117 .4 	   68. 0 	   W ei g h t ed 	  av er ag e	  n u m b er 	  o f 	  s h ar es 	   M illio n 	   630. 9 	   651. 7 	   E f f e c t 	  o f 	  d i l u t i v e 	  s e c u r i t i e s 	   M illio n 	   3 . 7 	   5 . 1 	   D ilut e d	  num be r 	  of 	  s ha r e s 	   M illio n 	   634. 6 	   656. 8 	   D ilut ed	  EP S 	  – 	  c o n t in u in g 	  o p e r a t io n s 	   P e nc e 	   18. 5 	   10. 4 	   F o r	   th e	   yea r	   en d ed 	   3 1 	   M a rch 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   B as i c	   EP S 	  – 	  t o t a l	  Gr o u p 	   P ro fi t/ ( l o s s ) 	   a t t r ibut a ble 	  t o	  e quit y 	  s ha r e holde r s 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   104. 7 	   ( 1 2 . 7 ) 	   W ei g h t ed 	  av er ag e	  n u m b er 	  o f 	  s h ar es 	   M illio n 	   630. 9 	   651. 7 	   B as i c	   EP S 	  – 	  t o t a l	  Gr o u p 	   P e nc e 	   16. 6 	   (1 .9 ) 	   D ilut ed	  EP S 	  – 	  t o t a l	  Gr o u p 	   P ro fi t/ ( l o s s ) 	   a t t r ibut a ble 	  t o	  e quit y 	  s ha r e holde r s 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   104. 7 	   ( 1 2 . 7 ) 	   W ei g h t ed 	  av er ag e	  n u m b er 	  o f 	  s h ar es 	   M illio n 	   630. 9 	   651. 7 	   E f f e c t 	  o f 	  d i l u t i v e 	  s e c u r i t i e s
1
	   M illio n 	   3 . 7 	   –	  
D ilut e d	  num be r 	  of 	  s ha r e s 	   M illio n 	   634. 6 	   651. 7 	   D ilut ed	  EP S 	  – 	  t o t a l	  Gr o u p 	   P e nc e 	   16 .5 	   (1 .9 ) 	   1 	   The 	  l os s 	   at t r i b u t ab l e 	   t o 	  eq u i t y 	  sh ar eh o l d er s	  r esu l t s	  i n 	  t h e	  ef f ec t 	  o f 	  d i l u t i v e	  sec u r i t i es	  o n 	  t h e	  w ei gh t ed 	  av er age	  n u m b er 	  o f 	  sh ar es	  b ei n g	  n i l 	   in 	  th e 	  p rio r	  ye a r . 	   *D e t a i l s 	  o f 	   s pe c ific 	  a djus ting 	  ite m s 	  c a n	  be 	  found	  i n	   note 	  4 .
111
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 112 Notes to the financial statements continued 
14. Goodwill 
all figures in £ million  2015 2014 
Cost    
At 1 April   541.4  593.0 
Acquisitions  0.1  –  
Disposals  (370.1) –  
Foreign exchange  11.9  (51.6) 
At 31 March   183.3  541.4 
    
Impairment    
At 1 April   (400.1) (302.6) 
Disposals  328.9  –  
Impairment  –  (125.9) 
Foreign exchange  (4.9) 28.4 
At 31 March  (76.1) (400.1) 
    
Net book value at 31 March  107.2  141.3 
 
Goodwill as at 31 March 2015 was allocated across various cash generating units (CGUs) in the following segments: EMEA Services (three) 
and Global Products (two). Goodwill previously allocated to the US Services CGU was written off in the year on disposal of that CGU. 
Goodwill is attributable to the excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired and includes expected synergies, future 
growth prospects and employee knowledge, expertise and security clearances. The Group tests each CGU for impairment annually, or more 
frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.  
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgments, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash 
flows, the discount rates selected and expected long-term growth rates. Significant headroom exists in all CGUs with the exception of US 
Global Products, discussed below, and management considers that there are no likely variations in the key assumptions which would lead 
to an impairment being recognised in any of the other CGUs. 
Key assumptions 
Cash flows  
The value-in-use calculations generally use discounted future cash flows based on financial plans approved by the Board covering a two-
year period. Discounted cash flows for the US Global Products CGU were based on a Board-approved three-year plan, reflecting increases 
in revenue from new product lines. Cash flows for periods beyond these periods are extrapolated based on the last year of the plans, with 
a terminal growth-rate assumption applied.  
Terminal growth rates  
The specific plans for each of the CGUs have been extrapolated using a terminal growth rate of 2.0% – 3.0% (2014: 2.0% – 3.0%). Growth 
rates are based on management’s estimates which take into consideration the long-term nature of the industry in which the CGUs operate 
and external forecasts as to the likely growth of the industry in the longer term. 
Discount rates 
The Group’s weighted average cost of capital was used as a basis in determining the discount rate to be applied adjusted for risks specific 
to the market characteristics of CGUs as appropriate on a pre-tax basis. This is considered to appropriately estimate a market participant 
discount rate. The pre-tax discount rates applied for the three EMEA Services CGUs were 10.6%, 13.2% and 17.0% and for the Global 
Products CGUs 10.0% and 10.5%.  
Sensitivity analysis shows that the value of the terminal year cash flow, the discount rate and the terminal growth rates have a significant 
impact on the value of the discounted cash flow. 
Significant CGUs 
The carrying value of the net operating assets of the US Global Products CGU was written down in the prior year. This brought the carrying 
value in line with the calculated value in use as at 31 March 2014. The carrying value of the goodwill for this CGU as at 31 March 2015 was 
£67.2m (2014: £60.0m). The value in use of this CGU as at 31 March 2015, calculated using the assumptions noted above, is marginally 
higher than the carrying value of net operating assets (of £78.0m) and no further impairment is required in the year to 31 March 2015. The 
key sensitivity impacting on the value in use calculations is the terminal year cash flows. These cash flows include certain assumptions 
about revenue and profit in respect of new product lines still to be launched. Applying a sensitivity to remove the new product contribution 
from the terminal year results in an impairment of £9.9m. An additional sensitivity to remove all expected growth in the terminal year (i.e. 
growth in existing products as well as new products) results in an impairment of £34.8m. Sensitivity analysis also shows that an increase of 
1% in the discount rate assumption would result in an impairment of £9.5m. Sensitivity analysis also shows that a decrease of 1% in the 
terminal growth rate would result in an impairment of £8.2m.  
The UK Global Products CGU and the three individual CGUs within EMEA Services all have significant headroom. An increase in the discount 
rate or a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 1% would not cause the net operating assets to exceed their recoverable amount. The 
carrying value of goodwill for the UK Global Products CGU as at 31 March 2015 was £5.2m (2014: £5.5m). The carrying values of goodwill 
for the three EMEA Services CGUs as at 31 March 2015 were £27.5m, £5.2m and £2.1m (2014: £27.5m, £4.6m and £2.3m). The Directors 
have not identified any other likely changes in other significant assumptions between 31 March 2015 and the signing of the financial 
statements that would cause the carrying value of the recognised goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount. 
112
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 113 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
15. Intangible assets
Year ended 31 March 2015
Acquired intangible assets 
Development 
costs 
Other intangible 
assets Total all figures in £ million 
Customer 
relationships 
Intellectual 
property 
Brand  
names 
Cost 
At 1 April 2014 141.4 53.5 9.2 17.0 35.8 256.9 
Additions – internally developed – – – 0.4 1.3 1.7 
Additions – purchased – – – – 2.5 2.5 
Additions – recognised on acquisition – 3.3 – – – 3.3 
Divestments (108.9) (2.0) (6.0) (0.3) (1.7) (118.9) 
Transfers – – – (0.1) 0.7 0.6 
Foreign exchange 6.5 4.1 0.9 – 3.7 15.2 – 
At 31 March 2015 39.0 58.9 4.1 17.0 42.3 161.3 
Amortisation and impairment 
At 1 April 2014 105.5 49.9 8.1 14.5 34.7 212.7 
Amortisation charge for year 1.4 2.1 0.1 0.6 0.9 5.1 
Divestments (79.0) (1.0) (5.9) (0.1) (0.3) (86.3) 
Transfers – – – – (0.2) (0.2) 
Foreign exchange 5.1 6.8 0.3 – 2.5 14.7 
At 31 March 2015 33.0 57.8 2.6 15.0 37.6 146.0 
Net book value at 31 March 2015 6.0 1.1 1.5 2.0 4.7 15.3 
The amortisation charge for the year of £5.1m includes £0.8m in respect of discontinued operations. Divestments are in respect of the 
disposal of the US Services division (see note 5). 
Year ended 31 March 2014 
Acquired intangible assets 
Development 
costs 
Other intangible 
assets Total all figures in £ million 
Customer 
relationships 
Intellectual 
property 
Brand  
names 
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 155.2 57.3 10.1 14.8 36.5 273.9 
Additions – internally developed – – – 2.1 – 2.1
Additions – purchased – – – – 0.5 0.5
Disposals – – – – (1.0) (1.0) 
Transfers – – – 0.1 0.2 0.3
Foreign exchange  (13.8) (3.8) (0.9) – (0.4) (18.9) 
At 31 March 2014 141.4 53.5 9.2 17.0 35.8 256.9 
Amortisation and impairment 
At 1 April 2013 107.8 51.0 7.8 14.2 35.3 216.1 
Amortisation charge for year 7.5 2.4 1.1 0.3 0.7 12.0 
Disposals – – – – (0.9) (0.9) 
Foreign exchange (9.8) (3.5) (0.8) – (0.4) (14.5) 
At 31 March 2014 105.5 49.9 8.1 14.5 34.7 212.7 
Net book value at 31 March 2014 35.9 3.6 1.1 2.5 1.1 44.2 
113
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 114 Notes to the financial statements continued 
16. Property, plant and equipment  
Year ended 31 March 2015 
 
all figures in £ million 
Land and 
buildings 
Plant, machinery  
and vehicles 
Computers  
and office 
equipment 
Assets under 
construction Total  
Cost       
At 1 April 2014 317.6 164.5 50.0 24.9 557.0 
Additions – purchased 0.3 1.2 1.0 22.3 24.8 
Additions – acquisition – 0.3 0.1 – 0.4 
Disposals (0.8) (0.5) (0.2) (1.2) (2.7) 
Divestments (3.4) (1.4) (11.5) –  (16.3) 
Transfers (1.9) 8.9 1.3 (8.9) (0.6) 
Foreign exchange  0.8 1.3 0.8 – 2.9 
At 31 March 2015 312.6 174.3 41.5 37.1 565.5 
      
Depreciation      
At 1 April 2014 145.9 137.5 39.8 – 323.2 
Charge for year 9.7 8.5 2.8 – 21.0 
Impairment – 0.5 0.1 0.4 1.0 
Disposals (0.8) (0.5) (0.1) – (1.4) 
Divestments (1.9) (1.0) (7.5) – (10.4) 
Transfers (1.1) 1.1 0.2 – 0.2 
Foreign exchange  0.5 0.9 0.9 – 2.3 
At 31 March 2015 152.3 147.0 36.2 0.4 335.9 
      
Net book value at 31 March 2015 160.3 27.3 5.3 36.7 229.6 
Impairment of £1.0m (2014: reversal of £1.4m) expensed in the consolidated income statement relates to equipment which is no longer 
being utilised. The depreciation charge for the year of £21.0m includes £0.3m in respect of discontinued operations. Divestments are in 
respect of the disposal of the US Services division (see note 5). 
Year ended 31 March 2014 
all figures in £ million 
Land and 
buildings 
Plant, machinery  
and vehicles 
Computers  
and office 
equipment 
Assets under 
construction Total 
Cost       
At 1 April 2013 320.0 163.1 53.1 17.8 554.0 
Additions 0.1 1.4 1.1 21.6 24.2 
Disposals (2.7) (1.8) (4.9) (6.4) (15.8) 
Transfers 1.5 3.5 2.9 (8.1) (0.2) 
Foreign exchange  (1.3) (1.7) (2.2) – (5.2) 
At 31 March 2014 317.6 164.5 50.0 24.9 557.0 
      
Depreciation      
At 1 April 2013 140.5 130.8 41.3 – 312.6 
Charge for year 9.8 9.8 4.4 – 24.0 
Impairment reversal (1.4) – – – (1.4) 
Disposals (2.2) (1.7) (4.5) – (8.4) 
Foreign exchange  (0.8) (1.4) (1.4) – (3.6) 
At 31 March 2014 145.9 137.5 39.8 – 323.2 
      
Net book value at 31 March 2014 171.7 27.0 10.2 24.9 233.8 
Under the terms of the Business Transfer Agreement with the MOD, certain restrictions have been placed on freehold land and buildings, 
and certain plant and machinery related to them. These restrictions are detailed in note 31. 
  
114
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 1 1 5 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   1 7 . No n -­‐ c u r r e n t	   i nve s t me nt s
A s	   a t 	   31	  M ar c h
2 0 1 5 	   2 0 1 4 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   	   J o i n t 	   v e n t u r e 	   a n d 	  
associ at e s	  
fi n an c i al	   re su l t s 	   	   Gr o u p 	   n e t 	   	   sh are 	   o f	   jo i n t 	  
v en t u r es 	   a n d 	  
associ at e s 	   J oi nt 	   v e nt ur e 	   a nd	  
asso c i at es	  
f i na nc i a l 	   re s u lts 	   Gr oup	   ne t 	   	   s h a re 	  o f	  jo in t	  
ven tu r es	   a n d 	  
asso c i at es 	   N on -­‐ c u r r en t 	  as s et s 	   0 . 3 	   0 . 1 	   0 . 3 	   0 . 1 	   Cur r e nt 	  a s s e t s 	   8 . 0 	   3 . 9 	   4 . 2 	   2 . 0 	   8 . 3 	   4 . 0 	   4 . 5 	   2 . 1 	   C u r r e n t 	  lia b ilit ie s 	   (7 .6 ) 	   (3 .7 ) 	   (3 .4 ) 	   (1 .6 ) 	   N on -­‐ c u r r e n t 	  l ia b i l i t i e s 	   –	   –	   (0 .3 ) 	   (0 .1 ) 	   (7 .6 ) 	   (3 .7 ) 	   (3 .7 ) 	   (1 .7 ) 	   N e t 	  as s e t s 	   of 	  j oint 	  vent ur es 	  a nd	  a s s oc ia t es 	   0 .7 	   0 .3 	   0 .8 	   0 .4 	   O t he r 	  non -­‐ c u r r en t 	  i n v e s t m en t s 	   0 . 1 	   0 . 1 	   Tot a l 	   0 .7 	   0 .4 	   0 .8 	   0 .5 	   D ur i n g	  t h e	  y ear 	  en d ed 	  31	  M ar c h 	  2015 	   t he r e 	   w e r e 	  s a le s 	  t o	   a s s oc ia t e s 	  of 	  £ 3 . 0 m 	  ( 2014 : 	   £3. 3 m ). 	   At 	  t he 	  y e a r 	  e nd	  t he r e 	  w e r e 	   out s t a ndi ng 	  
r e c e iv a ble s 	  f r om 	  a s s oc ia t e s 	  of 	  £ 0 . 3 m 	   ( 2 0 1 4 : 	   £ 0 . 1 m ) . 	   	   1 8 . Def er r ed 	   t a x
D e f e r r e d	  t a x 	  a s s e t s 	  a nd	  lia bilit ie s 	  a r e 	  of f s e t 	  only 	  w he r e 	  t he r e 	  is 	  a 	  le g a l ly 	  e nf or c e a ble 	  r ig ht 	  t o	  do	  s o	  a nd	  t he r e 	  is 	  a n	  int e n t i o n 	   t o 	   se t t l e
t he 	  ba la nc e s 	  ne t .
M ov e m e nt s 	  in	   t he 	  de f e r r ed	  t a x 	  a s s e t s 	  a nd	  lia bilit ie s 	  a r e 	  s how n	  be low : 	   Ye ar 	  e n d e d 	  31	  M ar c h 	   2015 	   D ef er r ed	  t a x	  a s s et 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   P e nsi on	   	   l i a b i l i ty	   	   T r a d i n g 	   l o sse s 	   Short -­‐ te r m 	  ti m i n g 	  
di f f e re nce s 	   Tot al 	  	  
A t 	  1 	  A p r il	  2 0 1 4 	   1 . 3 	   –	   27. 5 	   28. 8 	   ( Cha r g e d) / c r e dit e d 	  t o 	  i n c o m e	  s t at em en t 	   (4 .8 )	   25. 2 	   (7 .4 ) 	   13 . 0 	  
C r e dit e d	  t o	  ot he r 	  c om pr e he ns iv e 	  inc om e 	   5 . 1 	   –	   –	   5 . 1 	   Fo r ei g n 	  ex c h an g e 	   –	   –	   1 . 9 	   1 . 9 	   E lim ina t e d	  on	  dis pos a l 	   –	   –	   ( 1 4 . 4 ) 	   ( 1 4 . 4 ) 	   G ro ss	   d e f e rre d 	   t a x 	   a sse t 	   a t 	   3 1 	   M a rc h 	   2 0 1 5 	   1 .6 	   25. 2 	   7 .6 	   34. 4 	   L e s s :	  lia b ilit y 	  a v a ila b le 	  f o r 	  o f f s e t 	   	   ( 2 1 . 5 ) 	   N e t 	  de f e rre d 	   t a x 	   a sse t 	   a t 	   3 1 	   M a rc h 	   2 0 1 5 	   12. 9 	   D e f e r r e d 	  t a x 	  lia b ilit y 	  
a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   A c c e le r a te d 	  
c a p i t a l 	   a l l o w a n c es 	   A m o r tis a tio n 	   Tot al 	   A t 	  1 	  A p r il	  2014 	   ( 1 7 . 5 ) 	   (8 .2 ) 	   ( 2 5 . 7 ) 	   (C ha r g e d) / c r e dit e d	  t o	  inc om e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	   (1 .3 )	   0 . 9 	   (0 .4 ) 	   E lim ina t e d	  on	  dis pos a l 	   0 . 7 	   4 . 1 	   4 . 8 	   Fo r ei g n 	  ex c h an g e 	   –	   (0 .6 ) 	   (0 .6 ) 	   D e f e r r e d	  t a x 	  im pa c t 	  of 	  c ha ng e 	  in	  r a t e s 	   0 . 4 	   –	   0 . 4 	   G r o s s 	  d e f e r r e d 	  t a x 	  lia b ilit y 	   a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   ( 17. 7) 	   (3 .8 ) 	   ( 21. 5) 	   L e s s :	  a s s e t 	  a v a ila b le 	  f o r 	  o f f s e t 	   	   21. 5 	   N e t 	  de f e r r e d	  t a x	  liabilit y 	   a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   – 	   At 	  t he 	  ba la nc e 	  s he e t 	  da t e 	   t he 	  G r oup	  ha d	  unus e d	  t a x 	   l o sse s	   of 	   £ 291. 6 m 	   ( 2014: 	  £213. 9 m ) 	  p o t ent ial l y 	   a v a ila ble 	  f or 	  of f s e t 	  a g a ins t 	  f ut ur e 	  
p r o f i t s. 	   A n 	   a sse t 	   of 	  £ 2 5 .2 m 	   ha s 	  be e n	  r ec og nis e d	  in	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	   a n	  e le m e nt 	  of 	  t he s e 	  unus e d	  los s e s ,	  r ela t ing 	  t o	   c er t ai n 	  U K	  t r ad i n g 	  l o s s es 	   w h ic h 	  	  
a r e 	  e x pe c t e d	   t o	  be 	  ut ilis e d	  in	  t he 	  f or e s e e a ble 	   f ut ur e . 	  N o	  de f e r r e d	  t a x 	  a s s e t 	  is 	  r e c og nis e d	  in	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	  t he 	  ot he r 	  los s e s 	  due 	  t o	  unc e r t a int y 	  
ov e r 	  t he 	  t i m i ng 	  of 	  t he ir 	  ut ilis a t ion. 	   T h e s e 	  l o s s e s 	  c a n 	  b e 	  c a r r i e d 	  f o r w a r d 	  i n d e f i n i t e l y . 	   Ba la nc e s 	  e lim ina t e d	  on	  dis pos a l	  a r e 	  in	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	  t he 	  
dis pos a l	  of 	  t he 	  U S 	  S e r v ic e s 	  div is ion	  ( s e e 	  not e 	  5 ) . 	   115
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 116 Notes to the financial statements continued 
18. Deferred tax continued 
Year ended 31 March 2014 
Deferred tax asset 
all figures in £ million  
 Accelerated 
capital allowances Amortisation Total 
At 1 April 2013   0.6  (11.8) (11.2) 
(Charged)/credited to income statement   (17.7) 2.6 (15.1) 
Prior year adjustment   (0.3) – (0.3) 
Foreign exchange   0.1  1.0  1.1  
Deferred tax impact of change in rates   (0.2) – (0.2) 
Gross deferred tax liability at 31 March 2014   (17.5) (8.2) (25.7) 
Less: asset available for offset      10.7 
Net deferred tax liability at 31 March 2014     (15.0) 
 
19. Inventories 
As at 31 March  
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Raw materials 9.6 11.4 
Work in progress 3.3 4.8 
Finished goods 5.6 3.6 
 18.5 19.8 
 
20. Current asset investments 
As at 31 March  
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Available-for-sale investment  2.3 2.1 
At 31 March 2015 the Group held a 4.9% shareholding in pSivida Limited (31 March 2014: 4.9%), a company listed on NASDAQ and the 
Australian and Frankfurt Stock Exchanges. The investment is held at fair value of £2.3m (2014: £2.1m) using the closing share price at  
31 March 2015 of AUS$5.08 per share (31 March 2014: AUS$4.32 per share).  
 
21. Trade and other receivables 
As at 31 March  
all figures in £ million 2015 2014  
Trade receivables 82.0 136.3 
Amounts recoverable under contracts 51.6 90.0 
Other receivables 15.8 12.5 
Prepayments 9.8 11.7 
 159.2 250.5 
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the 
date credit was granted to the reporting date. Credit risk is limited as a result of the high percentage of revenue derived from UK and US 
government agencies. Accordingly, the Directors believe that no credit provision in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts is required. 
As at 31 March 2015 the Group carried a provision for doubtful debts of £3.3m (2014: £2.9m).  
  
all figures in £ million 
 
 
Pension  
liability  
Short-term timing 
differences Total 
At 1 April 2013   13.7  29.9 43.6 
(Charged)/credited to income statement   (13.0) (4.7) (17.7) 
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income   1.2  (0.1) 1.1 
Prior-year adjustment    0.1  1.4  1.5 
Foreign exchange   –  (2.8) (2.8) 
Transfer to current tax   –  3.8 3.8 
Deferred tax impact of change in rates   (0.7) – (0.7) 
Gross deferred tax asset at 31 March 2014   1.3 27.5 28.8 
Less: liability available for offset      (10.7) 
Net deferred tax asset at 31 March 2014     18.1 
 
Deferred tax liability  
 
    
116
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 117 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables 
Movements in the doubtful debt provision 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
At 1 April 2.9 1.9 
Created 1.8 1.9 
Released (0.5) (0.9) 
Divestments (0.3) –  
Utilised (0.6) –  
At 31 March 3.3 2.9 
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the reporting date is the fair value of trade receivables.  
The Group does not hold any collateral as security. Divestments are in respect of the disposal of the US Services division (see note 5). 
22. Trade and other payables
As at 31 March 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Trade payables 29.5 42.6 
Other tax and social security 31.9 30.1 
Other payables 5.6 11.8 
Accruals and deferred income 285.3 341.1 
Total current trade and other payables 352.3 425.6 
Payments received on account 9.6 8.3 
Other payables 0.8 2.9 
Total non-current trade and other payables 10.4 11.2 
Total trade and other payables 362.7 436.8 
23. Provisions
Year ended 31 March 2015
all figures in £ million Restructuring Property  
Warranty and 
indemnities  Other
 
 Total  
At 1 April 2014 5.0 12.6 – 6.5 24.1 
Created in year – 2.9 5.9 0.9 9.7 
Released in year (1.4) (0.3) – (1.5) (3.2) 
Unwind of discount – 0.4 – – 0.4 
Utilised in year (0.6) (2.1) – (0.4) (3.1) 
Divestments (3.0) –  –  –  (3.0) 
Foreign exchange –  –  0.5 – 0.5
At 31 March 2015 – 13.5 6.4 5.5 25.4 
Current liability – 2.3 – 0.7 3.0 
Non-current liability – 11.2 6.4 4.8 22.4 
At 31 March 2015 – 13.5 6.4 5.5 25.4 
Restructuring provisions related to historic cost reduction initiatives in the US and included redundancy and vacant property provisions. 
Property provisions, other than those relating to restructuring discussed above, relate to under-utilised properties in the UK. The extent of 
the provision is affected by the timing of when properties can be sub-let and the proportion of space that can be sub-let. Based on current 
assessment the provision will be utilised within 11 years. 
Other provisions relate to environmental and other liabilities, the magnitude and timing of utilisation of which are determined by a variety 
of factors. 
Divestments are in respect of the disposal of the US Services division (see note 5). 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014  
Up to three months 13.0 43.7 
Over three months 0.7 3.7 
13.7 47.4 
117
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 1 8 	   N o t es 	   t o 	   t h e	   fi n a n ci a l 	   s t a t emen t s 	   c ontinue d 	   2 4 . N e t 	   c a sh
A s 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h
2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   A sse t s 	   L ia b ilitie s 	   N e t 	   A ssets 	   L ia b ilitie s 	   N et 	   Cu r r en t 	  f in a n c ia l	  a s s et s / (lia b ilit ies ) 	   D e f e r r e d	  f i na nc ing 	  c os t s 	   0 . 3 	   –	   0 . 3 	   – 0 . 5 0 . 5 	   Bor r ow ing s 	   0 . 3 	   –	   0 . 3 	   – 0 . 5 0 . 5 	   A v a ila b le -­‐ f or -­‐ s a le 	  inv e s t m e nt 	   10. 0 	   –	   10. 0 	   – – –	  
D e r iv a t iv e 	  f ina nc ia l	  ins t r um e nt s 	   0 . 5 	   (0 .5 ) 	   –	   0 . 3 	   (0 .1 ) 	   0 . 2 	   Fi n an c e	  l eas e	  d eb t o r / ( c r ed i t o r ) 	   	   1 . 5 	   (1 .4 ) 	   0 . 1 	   2 . 8 	   (2 .6 ) 	   0 . 2 	   T o t a l	  c u r r e n t 	  f in a n c ia l	  a s s e t s / ( lia b ilit ie s ) 	   12. 3 	   (1 .9 ) 	   10. 4 	   3 .1 	   (2 .2 ) 	   0 .9 	   N on -­‐ c u r r e n t	   a s s e ts / (l i a b i l i ti e s ) 	   U S $ 	  pr iv a t e 	  pla c e m e nt 	  not e s 	   –	   7. 13% 	   –	   –	   –	   –	   ( 2 6 . 6 ) 	   ( 2 6 . 6 ) 	   U S $ 	  pr iv a t e 	  pla c e m e nt 	  not e s 	   –	   5. 50% 	   –	   –	   –	   –	   ( 2 9 . 2 ) 	   ( 2 9 . 2 ) 	   U S $ 	  pr iv a t e 	  pla c e m e nt 	  not e s 	   –	   7. 62% 	   –	   –	   –	   –	   ( 9 6 . 9 ) 	   ( 9 6 . 9 ) 	   D e f e r r e d	  f i na nc ing 	   co st s 	   0 . 8 	   –	   0 . 8 	   –	   –	   –	  
Bor r ow ing s 	   0 . 8 	   –	   0 . 8 	   – ( 1 5 2 . 7 ) ( 1 5 2 . 7 ) 	   D e r iv a t iv e 	  f ina nc ia l	  ins t r um e nt s 	   0 . 1 	   (0 .1 ) 	   –	   0 . 1 	   – 0 . 1
Fi n an c e	  l eas e	  d eb t o r / ( c r ed i t o r ) 	   –	   –	   –	   1 . 4 	   (1 .4 ) –	  
Tot a l	  non -­‐ c u r r e n t	   f i n a n c i a l 	   a s s e ts / (l i a b i l i ti e s ) 	   0 .9 	   (0 .1 ) 	   0 .8 	   1 .5 	   ( 154. 1) 	   ( 152. 6) 	   Ca s h	   	   41. 6 	   –	   41. 6 	   53. 7 	   – 53. 7
Ca s h	  e quiv a le nt s 	   142. 7 	   –	   142. 7 	   268. 5 	   – 268. 5
Tot a l	  c a s h	  a nd	  c a s h	  equiva lent s 	   184. 3 	   –	   184. 3 	   322. 2 	   – 322. 2
Tot a l	  net 	   c a sh 	   a s 	  def ined	  by 	   t h e 	   G r oup 	   195. 5 	   170. 5 	   At 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   £ 1 . 3 m 	  ( 2014 : 	   £ 2 .2 m ) 	  o f 	  c as h	  w as 	   he ld	  by 	  t he	  G r oup ’ s 	  c a p t iv e 	  in s ur a nc e 	  s ubs i di a r y , 	   i n c l u d i n g 	  £ 0 . 1 m 	   ( 2014 : 	   £ 0 .1 m ) 	   t h a t 	  
w a s	   r e st r i ct e d 	   i n 	   i t s	   u se . 	   A ll	  U S $ 	   pr iv a t e 	  pla c e m e nt 	   not e s	   w e r e 	   r e pa id	  in	  t he 	  y e a r . 	   T h e 	  C i r c u l a r 	  s e e k i n g 	  s h a r e h o l d e r 	  a p p r o v a l 	  f o r 	  t h e 	  s a l e 	  o f 	  t h e 	  U S 	  S e r v i c e s 	  d i v i s i o n 	  
s pe c if ie d	  t ha t 	  t he 	  pr oc e e ds 	  w ould	  be 	  a pplie d	  in	  s e t t ling 	  t he 	  r e m a ining 	  pr iv a t e 	  pla c e m e nt 	  de bt 	  of 	  $ 2 4 8 m 	  w hic h	  w a s 	  put 	  in	  pla c e 	   t o	   f i na n c e 	  
t he 	  a c quis it ion s 	  of 	  t he 	  U S 	  S e r v ic e s 	  bus ine s s . 	   	   R eco n cilia tio n 	   of	  ne t	  c a s h	   f l o w 	   to	  m ove m e nt	  in	  ne t	   ca sh 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	   £ 	  m illio n 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   ( De cr e a se )/ i n c r eas e	   i n 	  c as h 	   a nd	  c a s h	  e quiv a le nt s 	   i n 	  t h e	  y ear 	   ( 1 3 7 . 3 ) 	   85. 9 	   Re pa y m e nt 	  of 	  U S $ 	  pr iv a t e 	  pla c e m e nt 	  not e s 	   147. 1 	   –	  
O ut f low 	  in	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	  a v a ila ble 	  f or 	  s a le 	  inv e s t m e nt 	   10. 0 	   –	  
Pay m en t 	  o f 	  b an k 	  l o an 	  ar r an g e m ent 	  f ee 	   1 . 3 	   –	  
Ca pit a l	  e le m e nt 	  of 	  f ina nc e 	  le a s e 	  pa y m e nt s 	   	   2 . 8 	   2 . 8 	   Ca pit a l	  e le m e nt 	  of 	  f ina nc e 	  le a s e 	  r e c e ipt s 	   (3 .0 ) 	   (3 .0 ) 	   Ch a n g e	  in 	  n et 	   c a sh 	   r e s u l ti n g 	   fr o m 	   c a s h 	   fl o w s 	   20. 9 	   85. 7 	   Ca s h	  a nd	  c a s h	  e quiv a le nt s 	  dis pos e d 	   (1 .0 ) 	   –	  
Am or t is a t ion	  of 	  de f e r r e d	  f ina nc ing 	  c os t s 	   (0 .7 ) 	   (0 .6 ) 	   Fi n an c e	  l eas e	  r ec ei v ab l es 	   0 . 3 	   0 . 4 	   Fi n an c e	  l eas e	  p ay ab l es 	   (0 .2 ) 	   (0 .4 ) 	   Fo r ei g n 	  ex c h an g e	  an d 	  o t h er 	  n o n -­‐ c as h 	  m o v em en t s 	   5 . 7 	   11. 4 	   M ovem ent 	  in	  net 	  c a s h 	   in 	   ye ar 	   25. 0 	   96. 5 	   N e t 	   ca sh 	   a t 	  be g innin g 	  of 	  y e a r 	   170. 5 	   74. 0 	   N e t 	  c as h	  at 	  31	  M ar c h	   195. 5 	   170. 5 	   118
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 119 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Finance leases 
Group as a lessor 
The minimum lease receivables under finance leases fall as follows: 
Minimum lease payments 
Present value of minimum  
lease payments 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 2015 2014 
Amounts receivable under finance leases 
Within one year 1.5 3.0 1.5 2.8 
In the second to fifth years inclusive – 1.5 – 1.4
1.5 4.5 1.5 4.2 
Less: unearned finance income – (0.3) – – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 1.5 4.2 1.5 4.2 
The Group leases out certain buildings under finance leases that expire in the year to 31 March 2016. 
Group as a lessee 
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 
Minimum lease payments 
Present value of minimum  
lease payments 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 2015 2014 
Amounts payable under finance leases 
Within one year 1.4 2.8 1.4 2.6 
In the second to fifth years inclusive – 1.4 – 1.4
1.4 4.2 1.4 4.0 
Less future finance charges – (0.2) – – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 1.4 4.0 1.4 4.0 
Classified as follows: 
Financial liability – current 1.4 2.6 
Financial liability – non-current – 1.4
1.4 4.0 
The Group utilises certain buildings under finance leases that expire in the year to 31 March 2016. 
25. Operating leases
Group as a lessor 
The Group receives rental income on certain properties. Primarily these are properties partially occupied by Group companies, with vacant 
space sub-let to third-party tenants. The Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments: 
Group as a lessee 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Lease and sub-lease income statement expense – minimum lease payments 6.1 18.9 
The Group had the following total future minimum lease payment commitments: 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Within one year 5.0 17.8 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 6.8 44.1 
Greater than five years 1.2 18.2 
13.0 80.1 
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group on certain property, plant and equipment. Principal operating leases are 
negotiated for a term of approximately ten years. The majority of the Group’s operating lease expense in 2014 was in respect of leases held 
by the US Services division. This division was divested in the year resulting in a significant reduction in operating lease expense in the 
continuing operations. 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Within one year 7.3 8.3 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 19.1 22.0 
Greater than five years 10.9 6.6 
37.3 36.9 
119
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 120 Notes to the financial statements continued 
26. Financial risk management 
The Group’s international operations expose it to financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, 
credit risks and liquidity risks.  
Treasury and risk management policies, which are set by the Board, specify guidelines on financial risks and the use of financial instruments 
to manage risk. The instruments and techniques used to manage exposures include foreign currency derivatives and interest rate 
derivatives. Group treasury monitors financial risks and compliance with risk management policies. There have been no changes in any  
risk management policies since the year end.  
A) Fair values of financial instruments  
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:  
Level 1 – measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
Level 2 – measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Level 2 derivatives comprise forward foreign exchange contracts which  
have been fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market; and  
Level 3 – measured using inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs).  
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as at 31 March 2015:  
all figures in £ million Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
Assets      
Available for sale investments 24 10.0 – – 10.0 
Current other investments 20 2.3 – – 2.3 
Current derivative financial instruments 24 – 0.5 – 0.5 
Non-current other investments  – – 0.1 0.1 
Non-current derivative financial instruments 24 – 0.1 – 0.1 
      
Liabilities      
Current derivative financial instruments 24 – (0.5) – (0.5) 
Non-current derivative financial instruments 24 – (0.1) – (0.1) 
Total  12.3 – 0.1 12.4 
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as at 31 March 2014:  
all figures in £ million Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
Assets      
Current other investments 20 2.1 – – 2.1 
Current derivative financial instruments 24 – 0.3 – 0.3 
Non-current other investments  – – 0.1 0.1 
Non-current derivative financial instruments  – 0.1 – 0.1 
      
Liabilities      
Non-current derivative financial instruments 24 – (0.1) – (0.1) 
Total  2.1 0.3 0.1 2.5 
For cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and bank and current borrowings, the fair value of the financial instruments 
approximate to their carrying value as a result of the short maturity periods of these financial instruments. For trade and other receivables, 
allowances are made within the carrying value for credit risk. For other financial instruments, the fair value is based on market value, 
where available. Where market values are not available, the fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows to net present value 
using prevailing market-based interest rates translated at the year end rates, except for unlisted fixed asset investments where fair value 
equals carrying value. There have been no transfers between levels. 
  
120
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 121 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
All financial assets and liabilities have a fair value that is identical to book value at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 except where 
noted below: 
As at 31 March 2015 
all figures in £ million Note 
Available for 
sale 
Loans and 
receivables 
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost 
Derivatives 
used as hedges 
Total 
carrying 
value 
Total 
 fair 
 value 
Financial assets 
Non-current 
Derivative financial instruments 24 – – – 0.1 0.1 0.1 
Other investments 17 0.1 – – – 0.1 0.1 
Current 
Finance leases 24 – 1.5 – – 1.5 1.5 
Trade and other receivables 21 – 159.2 – – 159.2 159.2 
Derivative financial instruments 24 – – – 0.5 0.5 0.5 
Current asset investments 20 2.3 – – – 2.3 2.3 
Available for sale investment 10.0 – – – 10.0 10.0 
Cash and cash equivalents 24 – 184.3 – – 184.3 184.3 
Total financial assets 12.4 345.0 – 0.6 358.0 358.0 
Financial liabilities 
Non-current 
Trade and other payables  22 – – (10.4) – (10.4) (10.4) 
Deferred financing costs 24 – – 0.8 – 0.8 0.8 
Derivative financial instruments 24 – – –  (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 
Current 
Trade and other payables 22 – – (352.3) – (352.3) (352.3) 
Derivative financial instruments 24 – – –  (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) 
Finance leases 24 – – (1.4) – (1.4) (1.4) 
Deferred financing costs 24 – – 0.3 – 0.3 0.3 
Total financial liabilities – – (363.0) (0.6) (363.6) (363.6) 
Total 12.4 345.0 (363.0) – (5.6) (5.6) 
As at 31 March 2014 
all figures in £ million Note 
Available for 
sale 
Loans and 
receivables 
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost 
Derivatives used 
as hedges 
Total 
carrying 
value 
Total  
fair 
 value 
Financial assets 
Finance leases  24 – 1.4 – – 1.4 1.5 
Derivative financial instruments 24 – – – 0.1 0.1 0.1 
Other investments 17 0.1 – – – 0.1 0.1 
Current 
Finance leases 24 – 2.8 – – 2.8 2.9 
Trade and other receivables 21 – 250.5 – – 250.5 250.5 
Derivative financial instruments 24 – – – 0.3 0.3 0.3 
Current asset investments 20 2.1 – – – 2.1 2.1 
Cash and cash equivalents 24 – 322.2 – – 322.2 322.2 
Total financial assets 2.2 576.9 – 0.4 579.5 579.7 
Financial liabilities 
Non-current 
Trade and other payables  22 – – (11.2) – (11.2) (11.2) 
Bank and other borrowings 24 – – (152.7) – (152.7) (175.5) 
Finance leases 24 – – (1.4) – (1.4) (1.4) 
Current 
Trade and other payables 22 – – (425.6) – (425.6) (425.6) 
Derivative financial instruments 24 – – – (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 
Finance leases 24 – – (2.6) – (2.6) (2.8) 
Deferred financing costs 24 – – 0.5 – 0.5 0.5 
Total financial liabilities – – (593.0) (0.1) (593.1) (616.1) 
Total 2.2 576.9 (593.0) 0.3 (13.6) (36.4) 
121
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 2 2 	   N o t es 	   t o 	   t h e	   fi n a n ci a l 	   s t a t emen t s 	   c ontinue d 	   26 . F i n a n c i a l 	   r i s k 	   ma n a g emen t 	   c ont i nue d
A s 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h 	  2 0 1 5 	  t h e r e 	  a r e 	  n o 	  f in a n c ia l	  a s s e t s 	  o r 	  lia b ilit ie s 	  t h a t 	  h a v e 	  a 	  f a ir 	  v a lu e 	  t h a t 	  is 	  d if f e r e n t 	  f r o m 	  t h e 	  c a r r y in g 	  v a lue .
T h e 	  f o l l o w i n g 	  t a b l e 	  p r e s e n t s 	  t h e 	  f a i r 	  v a l u e 	  o f 	  t h e 	  G r o u p ’s 	  a s s e t s 	  a n d 	  l i a b i l i t i e s 	  t h a t 	  h a v e 	  a 	  f a i r 	  v a l u e 	  t h a t 	  i s 	  d i f f er en t 	  f r o m 	  t h e	  c ar r y i n g	  v al u e 	  
a s	   a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	  2 0 1 4 :	   	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   L e ve l	  1 	   L e ve l	  2 	   L e ve l	  3 	   T o ta l 	   A sse t s 	   Fi n an c e	  l eas es 	   –	   4 . 4 	   –	   4 . 4 	   L ia b ilit ie s 	   Fi n an c e	  l eas es 	   –	   (4 .2 ) 	   –	   (4 .2 ) 	   N on -­‐ c u r r en t 	  b ank 	  an d 	  o t h er 	  b o r r ow i n gs 	   –	   ( 1 7 5 . 5 ) 	   –	   ( 1 7 5 . 5 ) 	   Tot a l 	   – ( 175. 3) – ( 175. 3)
B) Int e r e s t 	  r at e 	  r i s k
T he 	  Group	  ope ra t e s 	  a n	  int e re s t 	  ra t e 	  polic y 	  de s ig ne d	  t o	  opt im is e 	  int e re s t 	  c os t s 	   a nd 	   t o 	   r e duc e 	  v ola t ilit y 	  in	  r e por t e d	  e a r ning s . 	  The 	  G r oup ’ s
c u r r e n t 	  p o l i c y 	  i s 	  t o 	  r e quir e 	  r a t e s 	  t o	  be 	  f ix e d	   f or 	  3 0 % – 80% 	  o f 	  t h e	  l ev el 	  o f 	  b o r r o w i n g s ,	   w h ic h 	  is 	  a c hie v e d	  pr im a r ily 	  t hr oug h	  f ix e d -­‐ ra te
bor r ow ing s . 	   W h er e	  t h er e	  ar e	  s i g n i f i c an t 	  c h an g es 	  i n 	   t he 	   l ev el 	  an d / or 	  s t r uc t ur e 	   of 	  de bt ,	  polic y 	  pe r m it s 	  bor r ow ing s 	  t o	  be 	   100% 	  f i x ed ,
w it h	  r e g ula r 	  Boa r d	  r e v ie w s 	   of 	  t he 	  a p pr opr ia t e ne s s 	  of 	  t his 	  f i x e d	  pe r c e nt a g e . 	   At 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   100 % 	   ( 2014 : 	   100 % ) 	  of 	  t he 	  G r oup ’ s
bor r ow ing s 	  w e r e 	   a t 	  f ix e d	  r a t e s 	  w i t h	  no	  a djus t m e nt 	  f or 	  int e r e s t 	  r a t e 	  s w a ps . 	   F i n a n c i a l 	   a s s e ts / (l i a b i l i ti e s ) 	   A s 	  a t 	  3 1	  M ar c h 	   2015 	   F i n a n c i a l 	   a s s et 	   F i n a n c i a l 	  l i a b i l i ty 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   Fi x e d	   or	   	   c a p p ed 	   Fl oat i ng 	   N on -­‐ i nt eres t 	  
be ari ng 	   Fi x e d	   or 	  	  
c a p p ed 	   Fl oat i ng 	   N on -­‐ i nt eres t 	  
be ari ng 	   S t e r l i n g 	   1 . 5 	   163. 9 	   10. 6 	   (1 .4 ) 	   –	   (0 .6 ) 	   U S	   d o lla r 	   –	   14. 7 	   0 . 1 	   –	   –	   –	  
E u ro 	   –	   1 . 9 	   –	   –	   –	   –	  
A u s t r a lia n 	   d o lla r 	   –	   3 . 0 	   2 . 3 	   –	   –	   –	  
O t he r 	   –	   0 . 8 	   –	   –	   –	   –	  
1 .5 	   184. 3 	   13. 0 	   (1 .4 ) 	   – (0 .6 )
A s 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h 	  2014 	   F in a n cia l	   a sset 	   F i n a n c i a l 	  l i a b i l i t y 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   F ixed 	   o r	   	   c appe d 	   F lo a tin g 	   N o n -­‐ in te re s t	  
b e a rin g 	   F ixed 	   o r	   	   c appe d 	   F lo a tin g 	   N o n -­‐ in te re s t	  
b e a rin g 	   S t e r l i n g 	   4 . 2 	   280. 1 	   0 . 4 	   (4 .0 ) 	   – (0 .1 )
U S	   d o lla r 	   – 30. 5 0 . 1 	   ( 1 5 2 . 7 ) 	   – –
E u ro 	   – 2 . 3 –	   –	   – –
A u s t r a lia n 	   d o lla r 	   – 8 . 4 2 . 1 	   –	   –	   –	  
O t he r 	   – 0 . 9 –	   –	   –	   –	  
4 .2 	   322. 2 	   2 .6 	   ( 156. 7) 	   – (0 .1 )
Fl o at i n g -­‐ r a t e 	  f ina nc ia l	  a s s e t s 	  a t t r a c t 	  int e r e s t 	  ba s e d	  on	  t he 	  r e le v a nt 	  na t iona l	  L IBID 	  e quiv a le nt . 	   Fl o at i n g -­‐ r a t e 	  f in a n c ia l	  lia b ilit ie s 	  b e a r 	  in t e r e s t 	  
a t 	  t he 	  r e le v a nt 	   na t iona l	  L IBO R	  e quiv a le n t .	  T r a de 	  a nd	  ot he r 	  r e c e iv a ble s / p a y a ble s 	   a nd	  de f er r e d	  f ina nc e 	  c os t s 	   a r e 	  e x c lude d	  f r om 	  t his 	  a na l y s i s . 	  
Fo r 	  t h e	  f i x ed 	   or 	  c a ppe d -­‐ r a t e 	  f in a n c ia l	  a s s e t s 	  a n d 	  lia b ilit ie s ,	  t h e 	  a v e r a g e 	   i n t er es t 	  r at es 	  ( i nc l ud i n g	  t h e	  r el ev an t 	  m a r gi n al 	  c o s t 	  o f 	  b o r r ow i n g) 	  
a nd	  t he 	  a v e r a g e 	  pe r iod	  f or 	  w hic h	  t he 	  r a t e s 	  a r e 	  f ix e d	  a r e : 	   2 0 1 5 	   2 0 1 4 	   Fi x e d	   or	   	   c a p p ed 	   	   £m 	   W e i ght e d	   ave rage 	   	   i nt eres t 	   rat e	   	   %	  
W e i ght e d	   ave rage 	  
ye ars	   	   to 	  m a tu r i ty 	   F ixed 	   o r 	   	   c appe d	   	   £ m 	   W e i g ht e d	   a v e r a g e 	  
in te re s t	  ra te 	   	   %	  
W e i g ht e d	   a v e r a g e 	  
yea r s	   to 	   m a tu r i ty 	   Fi n an c i al 	  as s et s : 	   S t e r l i n g 	   1 . 5 	   13. 4 	   0 . 5 	   4 . 2 	   13. 4 	   1 . 5 	   F i n a n c i a l 	  l i a b i l i t i e s : 	   S t e r l i n g 	   (1 .4 ) 	   12. 1 	   0 . 5 	   (4 .0 ) 	   12. 1 	   1 . 5 	   U S	   d o lla r 	   –	   –	   –	   ( 1 5 2 . 7 ) 	   7 . 1 	   3 . 9 	   T o t a l	  f in a n c ia l	   lia b ilit ie s 	   (1 .4 ) 	   12. 1 	   0 .5 	   ( 156. 7) 	   7 .3 	   3 .8 	   St er l i n g 	  as s et s 	  an d 	  l i ab i l i t i es 	  c o n s i s t 	  p r i m ar i l y 	  o f 	  f i n an c e	  l eas es 	  w i t h 	  t h e	  w ei g h t ed 	  av er ag e	  i n t er es t 	  r at e	  r ef l ec t i n g 	  t h e	  i n t e r na l	  r a t e 	  
of 	  r e t ur n 	  of 	  t hos e 	  le a s e s . 	   122
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 123 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Interest rate risk management 
The Group private placement borrowings were repaid during the year and were fixed-rate, while the revolving credit facility is floating-rate 
and undrawn as at 31 March 2015.  
C) Currency risk
Transactional currency exposure
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risks arising from sales or purchases by businesses in currencies other than their functional
currency. It is Group policy that when such a sale or purchase is certain, the net foreign exchange exposure is hedged using forward 
foreign exchange contracts. Hedge accounting documentation and effectiveness testing are undertaken for all the Group’s transactional
hedge contracts.
The table below shows the Group’s currency exposures, being exposures on currency transactions that give rise to net currency gains  
and losses recognised in the income statement. Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not 
denominated in the functional currency of the operating company involved. 
Functional currency of the operating company 
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) 
all figures in £ millions US$ Euro AUS$ Other Total 
31 March 2015 – sterling (5.9) 2.0 (0.1) 0.8 (3.2) 
31 March 2014 – sterling (18.1) (2.2) 2.1 0.6 (17.6) 
The amounts shown in the table take into account the effect of the forward contracts entered into to manage these currency exposures. 
The Group enters into forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the currency exposures that arise on sales and purchases denominated 
in foreign currencies, as the transaction occurs. The principal contract amounts of the outstanding forward currency contracts as at  
31 March 2015 against sterling are net US dollars sold £24.3m (US$36.0m) and net euros sold £1.1m (€1.5m). 
Translational currency exposure 
The Group has significant investments in overseas operations, particularly in the US. As a result, the sterling value of the Group’s balance 
sheet can be significantly affected by movement in exchange rates. The Group does not hedge against translational currency exposure to 
overseas net assets. 
D) Financial credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but does not
currently expect any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations. Credit risk is mitigated by a Board-approved policy of only selecting 
counterparties with a strong investment grade long-term credit rating for cash deposits. In the normal course of business the Group
operates notional cash pooling systems, where a legal right of set-off applies.
The maximum credit-risk exposure in the event of other parties failing to perform their obligations under financial assets, excluding  
trade and other receivables, totals £198.8m (2014: £329.0m). The Group held cash and cash equivalents of £184.3m at 31 March 2015 
(2014: £322.2m), which represents the maximum credit exposure on these assets. The cash and cash equivalents were held with different 
financial institutions which were rated single A or better, although £142.7m (2014: £218.5m) was invested in AAA-rated money funds at 
the year end and £50m was invested in deposits collateralised by security, where the security was gilts. 
123
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 124 Notes to the financial statements continued 
26. Financial risk management continued  
E) Liquidity risk 
Borrowing facilities 
As at 31 March 2015 the Group had a revolving credit facility (RCF) of US$100m and £166m (2014: US$250m and £118m).  
The RCF is contracted until 2019 and is un-utilised as shown in the table below: 
 
Gross contractual cash flows for borrowings and other financial liabilities 
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments. The cash flows associated with derivatives 
that are cash flow hedges are expected to have an impact on profit or loss in the periods shown. 
As at 31 March 2015 
all figures in £ million Book value  
Contractual cash 
flows 1 year or less 1–2 years 2–5 years 
More than  
5 years 
Non-derivative financial liabilities       
Trade and other payables (362.7) (362.7) (352.3) (10.4) – – 
Recapitalisation fee 1.1 – – – – – 
Finance leases (1.4) (1.4) (1.4) – – – 
Derivative financial liabilities       
Forward foreign currency contracts –  
cash flow hedges (0.6) (0.6) (0.5) (0.1) – – 
 (363.6) (364.7) (354.2) (10.5) –  –  
As at 31 March 2014 
all figures in £ million Book value 
Contractual cash 
flows 1 year or less 1–2 years 2–5 years 
More than  
5 years 
Non-derivative financial liabilities       
Trade and other payables (436.8) (436.8) (425.6) (11.2) – – 
US private placement debt (152.7) (195.8) (10.6) (37.0) (148.2) –  
Recapitalisation fee 0.5 – – – – – 
Finance leases (4.0) (4.2) (2.8) (1.4) – – 
Derivative financial liabilities       
Forward foreign currency contracts –  
cash flow hedges (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – – – 
 (593.1) (636.9) (439.1) (49.6) (148.2) –  
 
  
 
Interest rate: 
LIBOR plus 
Total  
£m 
Drawn  
£m 
Undrawn  
£m 
Committed facilities 31 March 2015 0.65% 233.3 – 233.3 
Freely available cash and cash equivalents    184.2 
Available funds 31 March 2015    417.5 
     
Committed facilities 31 March 2014 1.20% 267.9 – 267.9 
Freely available cash and cash equivalents    322.1 
Available funds 31 March 2014    590.0 
124
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 1 2 5 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   F) D e r i v at i v e 	  f i nanc i al 	  i ns t r um e nt s
A s 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h
2 0 1 5 	   2 0 1 4 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	   m illio n 	   A sse t 	   gai ns 	   Li abi l i t y	   l osse s 	   N e t 	  	   A sset	   ga ins 	   L ia b ility	  lo s s e s 	   N et 	   Fo r w ar d 	  f o r ei g n 	  c u r r en c y 	  c o n t r ac t s 	   –	  
c as h 	  f l o w 	  h ed ges 	   0 . 6 	   (0 .6 ) 	   –	   0 . 4 	   (0 .1 ) 	   0 . 3 	   D e r iv a t iv e 	  a s s e t s / ( lia b ilit ie s ) 	  a t 	  t h e 	  e n d 	  
of 	  t he	  y ea r 	   0 .6 	   (0 .6 ) 	   – 0 .4 (0 .1 ) 	   0 .3 	   A s 	  a t 	  3 1 	   M a r ch 	   G ) M a tu rity 	  o f	  fin a n c ia l	  lia b ilitie s
A s 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h 	  2015
a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   T r a d e 	   a n d 	   	   ot he r	   	   payabl e s 	   Bank 	  	  
	   borrow i ngs 	  	  
and	   l oan	   not e s 	  	  
	   Fi nance 	   l e ase s	  
and	   de ri vat i ve 	  
fi n an c i al	  
i ns t rum ent s 	   Tot al 	   D ue 	  in	  one 	  y e a r 	  or 	  le s s 	   352. 3 	   (0 .3 ) 	   1 . 9 	   353. 9 	   D ue 	  in	  m or e 	  t ha n	  one 	  y e a r 	  but 	   not 	  m or e 	  t ha n	  t w o	  y e a r s 	   10. 4 	   (0 .3 ) 	   0 . 1 	   10. 2 	   D ue 	  in	  m or e 	  t ha n	  t w o	  y e a r s 	  but 	  n ot 	  m or e 	  t ha n	  f iv e 	   y e a r s 	   –	   (0 .5 ) 	   –	   (0 .5 ) 	   D ue 	  in	  m or e 	  t ha n	  f iv e 	  y e a r s 	   –	   –	   –	   –	  
362. 7 	   (1 .1 ) 	   2 .0 	   363. 6 	   A s 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r ch 	   2014 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   T ra d e	   a n d 	   	   o th e r	   	   p ayab l es 	   Bank 	   bor r ow i ng s 	   	   a nd	   l oa n	   not e s 	   	   	   F in a n ce	   lea ses	  
an d 	   d er i v at i v e	  
f i na nc i a l 	  
i ns t r um e nt s 	   T o ta l 	   D ue 	  in	  one 	  y e a r 	  or 	   l e s s 	   425. 6 	   (0 .5 ) 	   2 . 7 	   427. 8 	   D ue 	  in	  m or e 	  t ha n	  one 	  y e a r 	  but 	   not 	  m or e 	  t ha n	  t w o	  y e a r s 	   11. 2 	   26. 6 	   1 . 4 	   39. 2 	   D ue 	  in	  m or e 	  t ha n	  t w o	  y e a r s 	  but 	  n ot 	  m or e 	  t ha n	  f iv e 	   y e a r s 	   – 126. 1 – 126. 1
D ue 	  in	  m or e 	  t ha n	  f iv e 	  y e a r s 	   – – – –
436. 8 	   152. 2 	   4 .1 	   593. 1 	   H ) Sen si t i vit y 	   an al y si s
T he 	  Group ’ s 	  s e n s it iv it y 	  t o 	  c h a n g e s 	  in 	   f or e ig n	  e x c ha ng e 	  r a t e s 	  a nd	  int e r e s t 	   r a t e s 	  o n 	  f in a n c ia l	  a s s e t s 	  a n d 	  lia b ilit ie s 	  a s 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h 	   2015 	   i s 	  s e t
out 	  in	  t he 	   f o llo w in g 	  t a b le . 	  T h e 	  i m p a c t 	  o f 	  a 	  w e a k e n i n g 	  i n 	  s t e r l i n g 	  o n 	  t h e 	  G r o u p ’ s 	  f in a n c ia l	  a s s e t s 	  a n d 	  li a bilit ie s 	  w ould	  be 	  m or e 	  t ha n	  of f s e t
i n 	   e quit y 	  a nd	  inc om e 	  by 	  it s 	  im pa c t 	  on	  t he 	  G r oup ’s 	  ov e r s e a s 	  ne t 	  a s s e t s 	  a nd	  e a r ning s 	  r e s pe c t iv e ly .	  S e ns it iv it y 	  on	  G r oup ’s 	   a sse t s	   o t h e r 	   t h a n
f in a n c ia l	  a s s e t s 	  a n d 	  lia b ilit ie s 	  is 	  n o t 	  in c lu d e d 	  in 	  t h is 	  a n a ly s is .
T he 	  a m ount s 	  g e n e r a t e d 	  f r o m 	  t h e 	  s e n s it iv it y 	  a n a ly s is 	  a r e 	  f o r w a r d -­‐ l o o k i n g	  es t i m at es 	  o f 	  m ar k et 	  r i s k 	  as s u m i n g 	   t h a t 	   c er t ai n 	  m ar k et 	  c o nd i t i o n s 	  
oc c ur .	  Ac t ua l 	  r e s ult s 	  in	  t he 	  f ut ur e 	  m a y 	  dif f e r 	  m a t e r ia lly 	  f r o m 	  t h o s e	  p r o j ec t ed 	  as 	  a	  r es u l t 	  o f 	   de v e lopm e nt s 	  in	  t he 	   g lo b a l	  f in a n c ia l	  m a r ke t s	  
t h a t 	   m ay 	  c au s e	  f l uc t u at i on s 	  i n 	  i n t er es t 	  an d 	  ex c h an g e	  r at es 	  t o 	  v ar y 	  f r o m 	  t h e	  h y p o t h et i c al 	  am o un t s 	  d i s c l o s ed 	  i n 	  t he 	   f o llo w in g 	   t a bl e ,	  w h i c h 	  
s hould 	   not , 	   t he r e f or e , 	   be 	  c ons ide r e d	   t o	  be 	   a 	  pr oje c t ion	  of 	  lik e ly 	  f ut ur e 	  e v e nt s 	  a nd	  los s e s . 	   T h e	  es t i m a t ed 	  ch a n ges 	   f or 	  int e r e s t 	  r a t e 	  m ov e m e nt s 	  a r e 	  ba s e d	  on	  a n	  ins t a nt a ne ous 	  dec r e a s e	  or 	  inc r e a s e 	  of 	  1 % 	   ( 1 0 0 	  ba s is 	  point s ) 	  in	   	   t he 	  s pe c if ic 	  r a t e 	  of 	  int e r e s t 	  a pplic a ble 	  t o	  e a c h	  c la s s 	  of 	  f ina nc ia l	  ins t r um e nt s 	  f r om 	  t he 	  le v e ls 	  e f f e c t i v e 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 ,	  w i t h 	  a l l 	  o t h e r 	  
v ar i ab l es 	   r e m a ining 	  c ons t a nt . 	  The 	  e s t im a t e d	  c ha ng e s 	  f or 	  f or e ig n	  e x c ha ng e 	  r a t e s 	  a r e 	  ba s e d	  on	  a n	  ins t a nt a ne ous 	  1 0 % 	   w e a k e ning 	  or 	  
s t r e ng t he ning 	  in	  s t e r ling 	  a g a ins t 	  a ll	  ot he r 	  c ur r e nc ie s 	  f r om 	  t he 	  le v e ls 	  a pplic a ble 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 ,	  w i t h 	  a l l 	  o t h e r 	  v a r i a b l e s 	  r e m a i n i n g 	  
c o n s t a nt .	  S uc h	  a na ly s is 	  is 	  f or 	  illus t r a t iv e 	  pur pos e s 	  only 	   – 	   i n 	  p r ac t i c e	  m ar k et 	  r at e s 	  r ar el y 	  c h an ge	  i n 	  i s o l a t io n. 	  	   	   T he 	  im pa c t 	  of	  t ra ns a c t iona l	  ris k 	  on	  t he 	  Group ’s 	  m one t a r y 	  a s s e t s / lia bilit ie s 	  t ha t 	  a r e 	  not 	  he ld	  in	  t he 	  f unc t iona l	  c ur r e nc y 	  of 	  t he 	  e nt it y 	  holding 	  
t h o s e 	  a s s e t s / lia b il it ie s 	  is 	  m in im a l.	  A 	  1 0 % 	  w e a k e n in g 	  in 	   s t e r lin g 	  w o u ld 	  r e s u lt 	  in 	  a 	  £ 0 .4 m 	   de c r eas e	  i n 	  p r o f i t 	  b ef o r e	  t ax . 	   2 0 1 5 	   2 0 1 4 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   A sse t 	   gai ns 	   Li abi l i t y	   l osse s 	   N e t 	  	   A sset	   ga ins 	   L ia b ility	  lo s s e s 	   N et 	   E xp ect ed 	  t o 	  b e	  r eco gn i s ed : 	  
In	  one 	  y e a r 	  or 	  le s s 	   0 . 5 	   (0 .5 ) 	   – 	  	   0 . 3 	   (0 .1 ) 	   0 . 2 	   Be t w e e n	  one 	  a nd	  t w o	  y e a r s 	   –	   (0 .1 ) 	   (0 .1 ) 	   0 . 1 	   – 0 . 1
M or e 	   t ha n	  t w o	  y e a r s 	   0 . 1 	   –	   0 . 1 	   –	   –	   –	  
D e r iv a t iv e 	  a s s e t s / ( lia b ilit ie s ) 	  a t 	  t h e 	  e n d 	  
of 	  t he	  y ea r 	   0 .6 	   (0 .6 ) 	   – 0 .4 (0 .1 ) 	   0 .3 	   125
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 126 Notes to the financial statements continued 
26. Financial risk management continued  
As at 31 March 2015 
 1% decrease in interest rates 10% weakening in sterling 
all figures in £ million Equity
1
 
Profit  
before tax Equity 
Profit  
before tax 
Sterling – (1.6) –  –  
US dollar – (0.1) 1.6   –   
Other – (0.1) 0.9  –  
 
 1% increase in interest rates 10% strengthening in sterling 
all figures in £ million Equity
1
 
Profit  
before tax Equity 
Profit  
before tax 
Sterling – 1.6 –  –  
US dollar – 0.1 (1.3) –  
Other – 0.1 (0.7)  –  
As at 31 March 2014 
 1% decrease in interest rates 10% weakening in sterling 
all figures in £ million Equity
1
 
Profit  
before tax Equity 
Profit  
before tax 
Sterling – (2.8) – – 
US dollar – (0.3) (13.6) (1.2) 
Other – (0.1) 1.5 – 
 
 1% increase in interest rates 10% strengthening in sterling 
all figures in £ million Equity
1
 
Profit  
before tax Equity 
Profit  
before tax 
Sterling – 2.8 – – 
US dollar – 0.3 11.1 1.0 
Other – 0.1 (1.3) – 
1
 This relates to the impact on items charged directly to equity and excludes the impact on profit/loss for the year flowing into equity. 
 
27. Cash flows from operations 
For the year ended 31 March  
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year 104.7 (12.7) 
Adjustments for:   
Taxation (income)/expense (11.8) 16.8  
Net finance costs 4.1 15.0 
Loss on business divestments and disposal of investments 12.9 4.9  
Reversal of unutilised restructuring provisions (1.0) – 
Amortisation of purchased or internally developed intangible assets 1.5 1.0 
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 3.6 11.0 
Impairment of goodwill – 125.9 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 22.0 22.6 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.4 
Share of post-tax (loss)/profit of equity accounted entities 0.1  (0.1) 
Share-based payments charge 3.6  4.5  
Changes in retirement benefit obligations (7.9) (8.1) 
Pension curtailment gain –  (31.1) 
Net movement in provisions (1.6) (10.5) 
 131.4 140.6 
Decrease in inventories 2.6 4.4 
Decrease in receivables 27.3 21.7 
Decrease in payables (22.2) (23.7) 
Changes in working capital 7.7 2.4 
Cash generated from operations  139.1 143.0 
Add back: cash outflow relating to restructuring 0.6 10.3 
Add back: disposal-related pension contribution 6.0 – 
Less: cash generated from discontinued operations (1.8) (30.3) 
Add back: cash outflow relating to pension scheme closure costs – 4.0 
Net cash flow from operations before restructuring costs 143.9 127.0 
126
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 127 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
28. Share capital and other reserves
Shares allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 1p each (equity) Special Share of £1 (non-equity) Total 
£ Number £ Number £ Number 
At 1 April 2013 6,604,764 660,476,373 1 1 6,604,765 660,476,374 
Issued in the year – – – – – – 
At 31 March 2014 6,604,764 660,476,373 1 1 6,604,765 660,476,374 
Issued in the year – – – – – – 
Cancelled in the year (518,664) (51,866,369) – – (518,664) (51,866,369) 
At 31 March 2015 6,086,100 608,610,004 1 1 6,086,101 608,610,005 
Except as noted below all shares in issue at 31 March 2015 rank pari-passu in all respects. 
In May 2014 the Company initiated a £150m capital return to shareholders by way of a share buyback. At 31 March 2015 £107m of this 
programme was complete.  
Rights attaching to the Special Share 
QinetiQ carries out activities which are important to UK defence and security interests. To protect these interests in the context of the 
ongoing commercial relationship between the MOD and QinetiQ, and to promote and reinforce the Compliance Principles, the MOD  
holds a Special Share in QinetiQ. QinetiQ obtained MOD consent to changes in its Special Shareholder rights, which were approved by 
shareholders at the 2012 AGM. The changes to the Special Share were disclosed in the 2012 Annual Report. Subsequent to the changes 
approved at the 2012 AGM the Special Share confers certain rights on the holder: 
a) to require the Group to implement and maintain the Compliance System (as defined in the Articles of Association) so as to make 
at all times effective its and each member of QinetiQ Controlled Group’s application of the Compliance Principles, in a manner
acceptable to the Special Shareholder;
b) to refer matters to the Board for its consideration in relation to the application of the Compliance Principles;
c) to require the Board to obtain Special Shareholder’s consent:
i) if at any time when the chairman is not a British Citizen, it is proposed to appoint any person to the office of chief executive,
who is not a British Citizen; and
ii) if at any time when the chief executive is not a British Citizen, it is proposed to appoint any person to the office of chairman,
who is not a British Citizen;
d) to require the Board to take action to rectify any omission in the application of the Compliance Principles, if the Special Shareholder
is of the opinion that such steps are necessary to protect the defence or security interests of the United Kingdom; and
e) to demand a poll at any of QinetiQ’s meetings (even though it may have no voting rights except those specifically set out
in the Articles).
The Special Shareholder has an option to purchase defined Strategic Assets of the Group in certain circumstances. The Special Shareholder 
has, inter alia, the right to purchase any Strategic Assets which the Group wishes to sell. Strategic Assets are normally testing and research 
facilities (see note 31 for further details). 
The Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred to HM Government (or as it directs). At any time the Special Shareholder 
may require QinetiQ to redeem the Special Share at par. If QinetiQ is wound up the Special Shareholder will be entitled to be repaid the 
capital paid up on the Special Share before other shareholders receive any payment. The Special Shareholder has no other right to share  
in the capital or profits of QinetiQ. 
The Special Shareholder must give consent to a general meeting held on short notice. 
The Special Share entitles the Special Shareholder to require certain persons who hold (together with any person acting in concert with 
them) a material interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares in certain prescribed circumstances on the grounds 
of national security or conflict of interest. 
The Directors must register any transfer of the Special Share within seven days. 
Other reserves 
The translation reserve includes the cumulative foreign exchange difference arising on translation since the Group transitioned to IFRS. 
Movements on hedge instruments, where the hedge is effective, are recorded in the hedge reserve until the hedge ceases. 
The capital redemption reserve, which was created following the redemption of preference share capital and the bonus issue of shares, 
cannot be distributed. 
Own shares 
Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by independent trusts and include treasury shares and shares held by the 
employee share ownership plan. Included in retained earnings at 31 March 2015 are 5,443,881 shares (2014: 7,811,861 shares). 
127
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 2 8 	   N o t es 	   t o 	   t h e	   fi n a n ci a l 	   s t a t emen t s 	   c ontinue d 	   2 9 .	   S h a r e -­‐ b a s ed 	   p a y men t s 	   T he 	  Group	  ope ra t e s 	  a 	  num be r	  of	  s ha re -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent 	  pla ns 	  f or 	  e m ploy e e s .	  T he 	  t ot a l	   sh a r e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent 	  e x pe ns e 	  in	  t he 	  y e a r 	  w a s 	  
£ 3 . 6 m , 	   of 	  w hi c h	   £3. 4 m 	  r el at ed 	  t o	  equ i t y -­‐ s e t t le d	  s c he m e s 	  a nd	   £0. 2 m 	  r el at ed 	  t o 	  c as h -­‐ s e t t le d	  s c he m e s 	   ( y e a r 	  t o	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2014 :	  £ 4 .5 m ,	   	   of 	  w hi c h	  £ 3 .4 m 	  r el at ed 	  t o 	   e quit y -­‐ s e t t le d	  s c he m e s 	  a nd	  £ 1 .1 m 	  t o 	  c a s h -­‐ s e t t le d	  s c he m e s ). 	   	   2003	   Em p l o y ee	   sh ar e	   o p t i o n 	   sch em e	   ( 2003	   ESO S) 	   U nde r 	  t he 	  e m ploy e e 	  s ha r e 	  opt ion	  s c he m e 	  a ll	  e m ploy e e s 	  a s 	  a t 	  2 5 	  J uly 	  2 0 0 3 	  r e c e iv e d	  s ha r e 	  opt ions 	  w hic h	  v e s t e d	  w he n	  t he 	  G r oup	  
c o m p l et ed 	  i t s 	  IPO 	  an d 	  w h i c h 	  m u s t 	  b e 	  ex er c i s ed 	  w i t h i n 	  t en 	  y ear s 	  of 	  gr an t . 	  Th e	  o pt io n s 	  a r e 	  s e t t le d	  by 	  s ha r e s .	   	   	   2 0 1 5 	   2 0 1 4 	   	   N um be r	   	   W e i ght e d	   ave rage 	  
e x e r c is e 	   p ric e 	  	   N u m b er 	   	   W e i g ht e d	   a v e r a g e 	  
exer ci se	   p r i ce 	   O ut s t a nding 	  a t 	  s t a r t 	  of 	  y e a r 	   –	   –	   352,314 	   2. 3p 	   E xer ci s ed 	  d u r i n g	   y ear 	   	   – 	  	   – 	  	   ( 3 3 5 ,2 9 4 ) 	   2. 3p 	   Fo r f ei t ed 	  d u r i n g 	   y ear 	   	   – 	  	   – 	  	   ( 1 7 ,0 2 0 ) 	   2. 3p 	   O u t s t a n d in g 	  a t 	   end	  of 	  y ea r 	   –	   –	   – 	   –	  
Th e 	  2003	  E SO S	  ar e	  eq u i t y -­‐ s e t t le d	  a w a r ds .	   In	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	  t he 	  s ha r e 	  opt ions 	  e x e r c is e d	  dur ing 	  t he 	   pr ior 	   y ear ,	  t h e	  av er ag e	  s h ar e	  p r i c e	  o n 	  t h e	  
da t e 	  of 	  e x e r c is e 	  w a s 	   189. 7 p .	   	   Per f o r m an ce	   S h ar e	   Pl an	   ( PS P) 	   	   In	  t he 	  y e a r ,	  t he 	  G r oup	  m a de 	  a w a r ds 	  of 	  c ondit iona l	  s ha r e s 	  t o	  c e r t a in	  U K 	  s e nior 	  e m ploy e e s 	  unde r 	  t he 	   P S P . 	  T h e	  a w a r d s	  vest 	  a f t er 	   	   t hr e e 	  y e a r s 	  w it h	   5 0% 	  of 	  t he 	  a w a r ds 	  s ubje c t 	  t o	   T S R 	   c o n d i t i o n s 	  a n d 	  50% 	  s u b j ec t 	  t o 	  EPS	  c on d i t i o n s 	   a s 	  de t a ile d	  in	  t he 	  Re por t 	   of 	   	   t he 	  R e m une r a t ion	  Com m it t e e . 	   	   2015 	   N um be r	   	   of 	   s hare s 	   2 0 1 4 	   N u m b er 	   	   o f 	   sh ar es 	   O u ts ta n d i n g 	   a t	   s ta rt	   o f	   y ear 	   8,090,260 	   7,351,207 	   G r a nt e d	  dur ing 	   y ear 	   4,310,206 	   3,489,504 	   E xer ci s ed 	  d u r i n g	   t h e	  yea r 	   ( 4 6 1 ,1 9 6 ) 	   ( 9 0 7 ,3 1 2 ) 	   Fo r f ei t ed / l ap s ed 	  d u r i n g 	   y ear 	   ( 2 ,4 8 1 ,8 6 2 ) 	   ( 1 ,8 4 3 ,1 3 9 ) 	   O u t s t a n d in g 	  a t 	   e n d 	  o f 	   ye ar 	   9, 457, 408 	   8, 090, 260 	   PSP	  aw ar d s 	  a r e	  eq u i t y -­‐ s e t t le d	  a w a r ds 	  a nd	  t hos e 	  out s t a nding 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   ha d	  a n	  a v e r a g e 	  r e m a ining 	  lif e 	   o f 	  1 .3 	   ye a r s	  ( 2014: 	  1. 5 	   y e a rs ).	  
T h e r e 	  i s 	  n o 	  e x e r c i s e 	  p r i c e 	  f o r 	  t h e s e 	  P S P 	  a w a r d s . 	  M o n t e 	  C a r l o 	  m o d e l l i n g 	  w a s 	  u s e d 	  t o 	  f a i r 	  v a l u e 	  t h e 	  T S R 	  e l e m e n t 	  o f 	  t h e 	  a w a r d s 	  a t 	  g r a nt 	   da t e . 	  
As s um pt ions 	  us e d	  in	  t he 	  m ode ls 	  inc lude d	   24 % 	  ( 2014: 	  28 % ) 	  f o r 	  t h e 	  a v er ag e	  s h ar e	  p r i c e	  v o l at i l i t y 	  o f 	   t h e	   FTSE	   c om pa r a t or 	  g r oup	  and	   51 % 	  
( 2014: 	  52 % ) 	  f or 	  t he 	  a v e r a g e 	  c or r e la t ion	  t o	  t he 	  c om pa r a t or 	  g r oup.	  T he 	  w e ig ht e d	  a v e r a g e 	  f a ir 	  v a lue 	  of 	  g r a nt s 	  m a de 	  dur ing 	  t he 	  y e a r 	  w a s 	  
£1. 57 	   ( 2014: 	  £1. 88 ).	   T h e	  w ei gh t ed 	  a ver a ge	  s h a r e	  p r i ce	  a t 	  d a t e	  o f 	  exer ci s e	  w a s 	  £ 1 . 97	  ( 2014: 	  £1. 84) .	   O f 	  t he 	  opt ions 	  out s t a nding 	  a t 	  t he 	  e nd	  of 	  
t he 	  y e a r 	  nil	  w e r e 	  e x e r c is a ble 	  ( 2014 :	  n il) . 	   R estricted 	   S to ck	   U n its	   (R S U )	   	   In	  pr ior 	   y ear s 	   t he 	  G r oup	  g r a nt e d	  RS U 	  a w a r ds 	  t o	  c e r t a in	  s e nior 	  U S 	  e m ploy e e s 	  unde r 	  t he 	  RS U 	   p l a n . 	   T h e 	  a w a r d s 	  v e s t 	  o v e r 	  o n e ,	  t w o ,	  t h r e e 	   a nd	  
f our 	   ye a r s. 	   O f 	  t he 	  2014	  a w a r ds ,	  a nd	   t he 	  a w a r ds 	  g r ant e d	  be f or e 	   2012 , 	   ha lf 	   a r e 	  de pe nde nt 	  on	  a c hie v ing 	  Q N A	  or g a nic 	  pr of it 	  g r ow t h	  t a r g e t s 	  
a nd	  ha lf 	  on	  a 	  t im e -­‐ ba s e d	  c r it e r ion.	  T he 	  t im e -­‐ ba s e d	  c r it e r ion 	   r e quir e s 	  t he 	  e m ploy e e 	   t o	  ha v e 	  bee n	  in	  c ont inua l 	   s e r v ic e 	  up	  t o	  t he 	  da t e 	   of 	  
v es t i n g . 	  Q N A 	  o r g an i c 	  p r o f i t 	  g r o w t h 	  i s 	  m eas u r ed 	  o v er 	  t h e	  m o s t 	  r e c e nt 	  f ina nc ia l	  y e a r 	  c om pa r e d	  w it h 	   t he 	  pr e v ious 	  f ina nc ia l	  y e a r ,	  w it h	   1 2 5% 	  
of 	  t his 	  e le m e nt 	  a w a r de d	  a t 	   a 	  Q N A	  or g anic 	  pr of it 	   g r ow t h	  r a t e 	  a bov e 	  15% ,	  100% 	  a w a r de d	  a t 	  12. 5% ,	  75% 	  a w a r de d	  a t 	  10% 	  a nd	  2 5 % 	  a w a r de d	  
a t 	  5 % .	   T h e	   2012 	   g r a nt s 	  a r e 	  e nt ir e ly 	  de pe nde nt 	   on	  a c hie v ing 	  Q N A	  or g a nic 	  pr of it 	   g ro w th 	   ta rg e ts . 	   67. 5% 	  o f 	  t h e	   2013 	   g r a nt s 	  a r e 	  de pe nde nt 	  on	  
a c hie v ing 	  Q N A	  or g a nic 	  pr of it 	  g r ow t h	  t a r g e t s 	  a nd	  3 2 .5 % 	   a r e 	  de pe nde nt 	  on	  a 	  t im e -­‐ ba s e d	  c r it e r ion. 	   	   2015 	   N um be r 	  	  
of 	  s ha r e s 	   2 0 1 4 	   N u m b er 	   o f 	   sh ar es 	   O ut s t a nding 	  a t 	  s t a r t 	  of 	  y e a r 	   3,819,001 	   5,249,861 	   G r a nt e d	  dur ing 	  y e a r 	   –	   2,500,000 	   E xer ci s ed 	  d u r i n g	   yea r 	   ( 1 9 6 ,1 5 4 ) 	   ( 3 5 4 ,3 6 2 ) 	   Fo r f ei t ed /l a p se d 	   dur ing 	  y e a r 	   ( 3 ,4 4 7 ,6 6 0 ) 	   ( 3 ,5 7 6 ,4 9 8 ) 	   O u t s t a n d in g 	  a t 	  e n d 	  o f 	  y e a r 	   175, 187 	   3, 819, 001 	   R SU s 	   a r e 	  e quit y -­‐ s e t t le d	  a w a r ds ;	   t h os e 	  out s t a nding 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   ha d	  a n	  a v er a g e 	  r e m a ining 	  lif e 	  of 	   1 . 1 	   ye a r s	  ( 2014: 	  1. 1 	   y ear s ) . 	  Th er e	   	   i s 	  n o 	  ex er c i s e	  p r i c e	  f o r 	  t h es e	  R SU 	  aw ar d s . 	   T h e	  w ei gh t ed 	  a ver a ge	  s h a r e	  p r i ce	  a t 	  d a t e	  o f 	  exer ci s e	  w a s 	   £2. 09 	   ( 2014: 	  £1. 91 ).	   T h e	  w ei gh t ed 	  
a v e r a g e 	  f a i r 	  v a lue 	  of 	  g r a nt s 	  m a de 	  dur ing 	  t he 	   p r i o r 	   y ear 	  w as 	   £1. 88 . 	   O f 	  t he 	  a w a r ds 	  out s t a nding 	  a t 	  t he 	  e nd	  of 	  t he 	  y e a r 	   none 	   w e r e 	  e x e r c i s a bl e 	  
( 2014: 	  n i l ). 	   	   	   128
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 	   1 2 9 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   V al u e	   Shar i n g	   Pl an 	   ( V SP ) 	   	   I n 	   2012 	   a nd	   201 1 , 	   t he 	  G r oup	  g r a nt e d	  V S P 	  a w a r ds 	  t o	   c er t ai n 	  s en i o r 	  U K	  em p l o y ees 	  u n d er 	  t he	  V SP . 	  T h e	  a w a r d s	  vest 	  o ver 	  a 	  t h r ee -­‐ y ear 	  
pe r f or m a nc e 	  pe r iod: 	   5 0% 	   of 	  t he 	   2012 	   a w a r ds 	  a nd	  7 0 % 	  of 	  t he 	  2 0 1 1 	   a w a r ds 	   ( w hic h	  v e s t e d	  in	  2 0 1 4 ) 	   a r e /w e r e 	   de pe nde nt 	  on	  c r e a t ing 	  
a ddit iona l	  s har e holde r 	  v a lue ,	  m e a s ur e d	  a s 	  ne t 	  c a s h	  r e t ur ns 	  t o	  inv e s t or s 	  a nd	  t he 	  inc r e a s e 	  in	  P BT	  ov e r 	  a n	  8 .5 % 	  hur dle ; 	   5 0% 	   of 	  t he 	   	   2012 	   a w a r ds 	  a nd	  3 0 % 	  of 	  t he 	  2 0 1 1 	  a w a r ds 	   a r e /w e r e 	   de pe nde n t 	  o n 	  T S R 	   a g a ins t 	  a 	   c o m p ar at o r 	  gr o u p 	   o f 	   FTSE	   250	   l i s t ed 	  c o m p ani es 	   	   ( l e ss	   i n v es t m en t 	   t r u sts) 	   o ve r 	   a 	   t h r e e -­‐ y e a r 	  pe r f or m a nc e 	  pe r iod. 	  H a lf 	   t he 	  a w a r ds 	  v e s t 	  t hr e e 	  y e a r s 	  f r om 	  t he 	  da t e 	  of 	  g r a nt ; 	   t he 	  r e m a i ni ng 	   	   ha lf 	  of 	  t he 	  a w a r ds 	  v e s t 	  f our 	  y e a r s 	  f r om 	  t he 	  da t e 	  of 	  g r a nt .	   	   	   2015 	   N um be r	   of 	   s ha r e s 	   2 0 1 4 	   N u m b er 	   o f	   sh a r e s	  
O ut s t a nding 	  a t 	   s t ar t 	   o f 	   y ear 	   5,018,288 	   10,850,040 	   E xer ci s ed 	  d u r i n g	   yea r 	   ( 1 ,2 1 0 ,6 5 0 ) 	   ( 9 7 9 ,8 5 3 ) 	   Fo r f ei t ed / l ap s ed 	  d u r i n g 	  y ear 	   ( 3 ,6 5 3 ,7 9 0 ) 	   ( 4 ,8 5 1 ,8 9 9 ) 	   O u t s t a n d in g 	  a t 	   e n d 	  o f 	   ye ar 	   153, 848 	   5, 018, 288 	   V SP 	  a w a r ds 	  a r e 	  e quit y -­‐ s e t t le d	  a w a r ds ;	   t h os e 	  out s t a ndin g 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   ha d	  a n	  a v e r a g e 	   r e m a in in g 	  lif e 	  o f 	   0 .2 	   y ear s 	   ( 2014 :	  0 .6 	   y ear s ).	  
T h er e	  i s 	  n o 	  exer ci s e	  p r i ce	  f o r 	  t h es e	  V S P 	  a w a r d s . 	   T h e	  w ei gh t ed 	  a ver a ge	  s h a r e	  p r i ce	  a t 	  d a t e	  o f 	  exer ci s e	  w a s 	   £2. 04	  ( 2014: 	   £1.92 ) .	   O f 	  t he 	  
a w a r ds 	  out s t a nding 	  a t 	  t he	  e nd	   of 	  t he 	  y e a r 	  n i l 	  w e r e 	   e x e r c i s a b l e 	   ( 201 4 :	  n il) . 	   Group	  Sha r e 	   I nc e nt i v e 	  P l a n	  (SI P ) 	   U nde r 	  t he 	  Q ine t iQ 	   S IP 	   t he 	  G r oup	  of f e r s 	  U K 	  e m ploy ee s 	  t he 	  oppor t unit y 	  of 	  pur c ha s ing 	  up	  t o	  £ 1 50 	   w or t h	  of 	  s ha r e s 	  a 	  m ont h	  a t 	  t he 	  pr e v a i l i ng 	  
m ar k et 	  r at e. 	  The	  G r o u p 	  w i l l 	  m ak e	  a	  m at c h in g 	  s h ar e	  aw ar d 	  o f 	  a	  t h i r d 	  o f 	  t h e	  em p lo y ee ’ s 	  pa y m e nt .	  The 	  G r oup ’ s 	  m a t c hing 	  s ha r e s 	  m a y 	  be 	  
f or f e it e d	  if 	  t he 	  e m ploy e e 	  c e a s e s 	  t o	  be 	  e m ploy e d	  by 	  Q ine t iQ 	  w it hin	  t hr e e 	  y e a r s 	  of 	  t he 	   a w a r d	  of 	  t he 	  s ha r e s .	  T he r e 	  is 	  no	  e x e r c is e 	  pr ic e 	   f or 	  
t he s e 	  S IP 	  a w ar ds . 	   	   2015 	   N um be r	   of 	   m at chi ng 	   s ha r es 	   2 0 1 4 	   N u m b er 	   o f	  
m a tc h in g 	   sh ar es 	   O ut s t a nding 	  a t 	   s t ar t 	   o f 	   y ear 	   725,904 	   1,009,663 	   Aw a r de d	  dur ing 	   y ear 	   280,267 	   228,066 	   E xer ci s ed 	  d u r i n g	   y ear 	   ( 3 0 9 ,3 5 0 ) 	   ( 4 6 7 ,2 2 8 ) 	   Fo r f ei t ed 	  d u r i n g 	   y ear 	   ( 4 9 ,0 0 0 ) 	   ( 4 4 ,5 9 7 ) 	   O u t s t a n d in g 	  a t 	  e n d 	  o f 	  y e a r 	   647, 821 	   725, 904 	   SI P	  m at c h i n g 	  s h ar es 	  ar e	  eq u i t y -­‐ s e t t le d	  a w a r ds ; 	   t h os e 	  out s t a ndin g 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   ha d	  a n	  a v er a g e 	   r e m a ining 	  lif e 	  of 	  1 . 5 	  y e a r s 	   	   ( 201 4 :	  1 . 5 	  y e a r s ) . 	  The r e 	  is 	  no	  e x e r c is e 	  pr ic e 	  f or 	  t he s e 	  S IP 	  a w a r ds . 	   O f 	  t he 	  s ha r e s 	  out s t a nding 	  a t 	  t he	  e nd	  of 	  t he 	   y e a r 	  n i l 	  w e r e 	   e x e r c is a ble 	  
( 201 4 :	  n i l ) . 	   Group	  De f e r r e d	  A nnua l 	   Bonus 	   P l a n 	  (DA B) 	   U nde r 	  t he 	  Q ine t iQ 	  D AB	  P la n	  t he 	  G r oup	  r e quir e s 	  c e r t a in	  s e nior 	  e x e c ut iv e s 	   t o	  de f e r 	  pa r t 	  of 	  t he ir 	  a nnua l 	  bonus 	  a s 	  s ha r e s 	  a nd	  be 	  e nt it le d	   t o	  
m at c h i n g 	  aw ar ds 	  t o 	  a	  m ax i m u m 	  o f 	  1:1	  b as ed 	  o n 	  EPS	  p er f o r m an c e. 	  Th e	  n um b e r 	  t h at 	  w i l l 	  v es t 	  i s 	  d ep en den t 	  o n 	  t h e	  g r o w t h 	  of 	  EPS	  o v e r 	  t he 	  
m eas u r em ent 	  per i o d 	  o f 	  t h r ee	  y ear s 	  as 	  d et ai l ed 	  i n 	  t h e	  R ep o r t 	   of 	   t he 	  Re m uner a t i on	  Com m it t e e .	   	   	   2015 	   N um be r	   of 	   	  m at chi ng 	   	   s ha r es 	   2 0 1 4 	   N u m b er 	   o f	  
m a tc h in g 	   sh ar es 	   O u ts ta n d i n g 	   a t	   s ta rt	   o f	   y ear 	   1,162,896 	  	   914,621 	   G r a nt e d	  dur ing 	   y ear 	   	   303,639 	  	   502,060 	   E xer ci s ed 	  d u r i n g	   t h e	  yea r 	   ( 8 5 ,1 2 6 ) 	   –	  
Fo r f ei t ed 	  d u r i n g 	   y ear 	   ( 9 1 7 ,2 9 4 ) 	   ( 2 5 3 ,7 8 5 ) 	   O u t s t a n d in g 	  a t 	   e n d 	  o f 	   ye ar 	   464, 115 	   1, 162, 896 	   D AB	  m a t c hing 	   s ha r e s 	  a r e 	  e quit y -­‐ s e t t le d	  a w a r ds ;	  t hos e 	  out s t a nding 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   2015 	   ha d	  a n	  a v e r a g e 	   r e m a in in g 	  lif e 	  o f 	   1 . 2 	   ye a r s	  ( 2014 : 	   	   1 . 4 	   y ear s ) . 	  Th e	  w ei g h t ed 	  av er ag e	  f ai r 	  v al u e	  o f 	  g r an t s 	  m ad e	  d u r i n g 	  t h e	  y ear 	  w as 	   £2. 08 	   ( 2014: 	  £1. 80) . 	   T h e	  w ei gh t ed 	  a ver a ge	  s h a r e	  p r ic e 	  a t 	  
da t e 	  of 	  e x e r c is e 	  w a s 	  £ 2 .0 8 	  ( 2 0 1 4 :	  n/ a ) .	   T h e r e 	  i s 	  n o 	  e x e r c i s e 	  p r i c e 	  f o r 	  t h e s e 	  D A B 	  a w a r d s . 	   O f 	  t he 	  s ha r e s 	  out s t a nding 	  a t 	  t he 	  e nd	  of 	   t he 	   y e a r 	   ni l 	  
w e r e 	  e x e r c is a ble 	   ( 2014 :	  n il) . 	   	   	   129
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 130 Notes to the financial statements continued 
29. Share-based payments continued  
Cash Alternative Units (CAUs)  
During the year, the Group granted CAU awards to certain employees in the UK and US. 
 
2015 
Number of 
 awards 
2014 
Number of 
 awards 
Outstanding at start of year 1,229,541 2,246,979 
Awarded during year 94,894 – 
Exercised during the year (364,362) (274,188) 
Forfeited during year (670,051) (743,250) 
Outstanding at end of year 290,022 1,229,541 
CAUs are cash-settled awards which vest over one, two, three and four years from the date of grant. The CAUs have no performance 
criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group. Those awards outstanding at  
31 March 2015 had an average remaining life of 0.8 years (2014: 1.8 years). There is no exercise price for these awards. The fair value of 
the grants at 31 March 2015 was £1.91 (2014: £2.26) being the Group’s closing share price on that day. The weighted average share price 
on the date of exercise was £2.08 (2014: £1.90). The carrying amount of the liability of the grants at the balance sheet date was £0.3m 
(2014: £1.1m). Of the awards outstanding at the end of the year nil were exercisable.  
 
Bonus Banking Plan (BBP)  
During the year, the Group granted BBP awards to certain senior executives in the UK.  
   
2015 
Number of 
awards 
Outstanding at start of year   – 
Awarded during year   330,725 
Outstanding at end of year   330,725 
The BBP is a remuneration scheme that runs for four years with effect from 1 April 2014. Refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 
further details. Under the BBP a contribution will be made by the Company into the participant’s plan account at the start of each plan 
year. 50% of the plan account balance for Executive Directors and 75% for all other participants will be paid in cash or shares (at the 
Company’s discretion) at the end of each plan year. 100% of the balance in year 4 will be paid in shares to the participant. During the four-
year plan period, 50% of the retained balance is at risk of forfeiture based on a minimum level of performance determined annually by the 
Audit Committee.  
At 31 March 2015, the awards had an average remaining life of 1.7 years. There is no exercise price for these awards. The fair value of the 
awards at 31 March 2015 was £1.91 being the Group’s closing share price on that day. Of the awards outstanding at the end of the year nil 
were exercisable.  
 
Share-based award pricing – other 
Share-based awards that vest based on non-market performance conditions, including certain PSP, RSUs and DAB awards, have been 
valued at the share price at grant, less attrition.  
  
130
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 131 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
30. Post-retirement benefits
Defined contribution plans 
In the UK the Group operates two defined contribution plans for the majority of its UK employees: a Group Personal Pension Plan (GPP) 
and a defined contribution section of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme. These are both defined contribution schemes managed by Zurich. A 
defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group and employees pay fixed contributions to a third-party financial 
provider. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay 
all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. The contributions are recognised as an employee 
benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the 
future payments is available.  
Defined benefit pension plans 
In the UK the Group operates the QinetiQ Pension Scheme (the ‘Scheme’) for a significant proportion of its UK employees. The Scheme 
closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013. After this date, defined benefit members transferred to a defined contribution scheme.  
On closure, the Group realised a reduction in scheme liabilities of £31.1m and a one-off cost of £4.0m arising from associated contributions 
to affected members’ defined contribution plans following the closure of the scheme. The Scheme is a final salary plan, which provides 
benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on the members’ 
length of service and their final pensionable earnings at closure to future accrual. In the Scheme, pensions in payment are generally 
updated in line with the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The benefit payments are made from Trustee-administered funds. Plan assets held in 
trusts are governed by UK regulations as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the Trustees and their composition. 
Responsibility for the governance of the Scheme – including investment decisions and contribution schedules – lies jointly with the 
Company and the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees must be composed of representatives of the Company and plan participants in 
accordance with the Scheme’s regulations.  
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated bi-annually 
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined 
by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension  
obligation. In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity 
in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.  
The expected employer cash contribution to the Scheme for the year ending 31 March 2016 is £13.0m. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. Following the closure to future accrual, the income statement no longer includes an 
expense in respect of defined benefit pension service costs.  
Triennial funding valuation 
The most recent completed full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was undertaken as at 30 June 2011 and resulted in an actuarially 
assessed deficit of £74.7m.  
The latest triennial valuation of the Scheme is being completed as at 30 June 2014. It is expected that the agreed recovery plan will require 
£13m contributions per annum until 31 March 2018, the same annual funding level as previously. This includes £2.5m p.a. distributions to 
the Scheme, indexed by reference to CPI, from the Group’s Pension Funding Partnership (see page 132). 
131
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 132 Notes to the financial statements continued 
30. Post-retirement benefits continued  
QinetiQ’s Pension Funding Partnership structure 
Following the 30 June 2011 valuation, a package of pension changes has been agreed with the Trustees to provide stability to the Scheme. 
As part of the package of proposals, on 26 March 2012 QinetiQ established the QinetiQ PFP Limited Partnership (the ‘Partnership’) with the 
Scheme. Under this arrangement, properties to the capitalised value of £32.3m were transferred to the Partnership. The transfers were 
affected through a 20-year sale and leaseback agreement. The Scheme’s interest in the Partnership entitles it to an annual distribution 
of approximately £2.5m for 20 years, indexed with reference to CPI. These contributions replaced part of the regular contributions made 
under the past deficit recovery payments plan. The Scheme’s interest in the Partnership will revert back to QinetiQ Limited in 2032. 
The Partnership is controlled by QinetiQ and its results are consolidated by the Group. Under IAS 19, the interest held by the Scheme  
in the Partnership does not qualify as a plan asset for the purposes of the Group’s consolidated financial statements and is, therefore, not 
included within the fair value of plan assets. As a result, the Group’s consolidated financial statements are unchanged by the Partnership. 
In addition, the value of the property transferred to the Partnership and leased back to QinetiQ remains on the balance sheet. QinetiQ 
retains the operational flexibility to substitute properties of equivalent value within the Partnership and has the option to settle 
outstanding amounts due under the interest before 2032 if it so chooses. 
Other UK schemes  
In the UK the Group has a small number of employees for whom benefits are secured through the Prudential Platinum Scheme. The net 
pension deficits of this scheme at 31 March 2015 amounted to £nil (2014: £nil). QinetiQ also offers employees access to a Group Self 
Invested Personal Pension Plan, but no Company contributions are paid to this arrangement.  
QinetiQ Pension Scheme net pension liability 
The fair value of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to 
significant change before they are realised, and the present value of the Scheme’s liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections 
over long periods, and thus inherently uncertain, were: 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
Equities 517.2 434.4 487.3 583.2 564.1 
LDI investment* 323.4 273.6 205.9 – – 
Corporate bonds 311.4 279.9 276.8 194.6 158.7 
Alternative bonds** 176.3 183.0 174.8 – – 
Government bonds – – – 183.5 165.3 
Property 113.4 94.0 81.3 82.4 78.0 
Other 12.9 39.7 30.4 64.2 15.0 
Total market value of assets 1,454.6 1,304.6 1,256.5 1,107.9 981.1 
Present value of Scheme liabilities (1,494.0) (1,326.8) (1,310.6) (1,139.4) (1,105.7) 
Net pension liability before deferred tax (39.4) (22.2) (54.1) (31.5) (124.6) 
Deferred tax asset 1.6 1.3 13.7 13.3 32.4 
Net pension liability after deferred tax (37.8) (20.9) (40.4) (18.2) (92.2) 
* The Scheme has assets invested in a Liability Driven Investment portfolio. As at 31 March 2015 this hedges against approximately 20% of the interest rate and 45% of the 
inflation rate risk, as measured on the Trustees’ gilt-funding basis. 
** Includes allocations to high-yield bonds, secured loans and emerging market debt. 
 
  
132
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 	   1 3 3 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   Cha ng e s 	  t o	  t he 	  f a ir	  v a lue 	  of 	   Sc he m e 	   asset s 	   Cha ng e s 	  t o	  t he 	  pre s e nt 	  v a lue 	  of 	  t he 	  de f ine d	  be ne f it 	  oblig a t ion 	   Cha ng e s 	  t o	  t he 	  ne t 	  pe ns ion	  lia bilit y 	   Tot al 	   i n co m e/e x pe ns e 	   r eco gni s ed 	   i n 	   t h e	   i n c o m e	   st at em en t 	   	   	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m i llio n 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   O pe ning 	  f a ir 	  v a lue 	  of 	   S ch e m e 	   a sse t s 	   1,304. 6 	   1,256. 5 	   Int e r e s t 	  inc om e 	  on	  S c he m e 	  a s s e t s 	   53. 9 	   54. 9 	   Re -­‐ m eas u r em ent 	   gai n 	   on	   S ch e m e 	   a sse t s 	   116. 3 	   2 . 6 	   Cont r ibut ions 	  by 	  t he 	  e m ploy e r 	   9 . 2 	   20. 6 	   N e t 	  be ne f it s 	  pa id	  out 	  a nd	  t r a ns f e r s 	   ( 2 8 . 1 ) 	   ( 2 8 . 8 ) 	   Adm inis t r a t iv e 	  e x pe ns e s 	   (1 .3 ) 	   (1 .2 ) 	   Clo s in g 	  f a ir 	  v a lu e	  o f 	   Sch e m e 	   a sse t s 	   1, 454. 6 	   1, 304. 6 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   O pe ning 	  de f ine d	  be ne f it 	  oblig a t ion 	   ( 1,326. 8 )	   ( 1,310. 6 )	  
Cur r e nt 	   se r vi ce 	   co st 	   –	   	   ( 11. 3 )	  
Int e r e s t 	  c os t 	   ( 54. 5 )	   ( 56. 6 )	  
Ac t uar ial	   ( l o s s ) / gain 	   on	  S c he m e 	  liabilit ie s 	  bas e d	  on: 	   	   	   	  	  	  Cha ng e 	  in	  f ina nc ia l	  a s s um pt ions 	   ( 128. 3 )	   ( 39. 2 )	  
	  	  	   E xp er i en ce	  ga i n s 	  	   7 . 8 	  	   31. 0 	   	  	  	  Cha ng e 	  in	  de m og r a phic 	  a s s um pt ions 	   ( 20. 3 ) 	  	   –	  
Cur t a ilm e nt 	   gai n 	   – 	  	   	   31. 1 	   N e t 	  be ne f it s 	  pa id	  out 	  a nd	  t r a ns f e r s 	   28. 1 	  	   28. 8 	   Clo s in g 	  d ef in ed 	  b en ef it 	  o b lig a t io n 	   ( 1, 494. 0 ) 	   ( 1, 326. 8 ) 	  
a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   Op e ning 	  ne t 	  pe ns ion	  lia bilit y 	   ( 2 2 . 2 ) 	   ( 5 4 . 1 ) 	   Cur r e nt 	  s e r v ic e 	   co st 	   –	   	   ( 11. 3 )	  
N e t 	  f ina nc e 	   co st 	   (0 .6 ) 	   (1 .7 ) 	   Adm inis t r a t iv e 	  e x pe ns e s 	   (1 .3 ) 	   (1 .2 )	  
Cur t a ilm e nt 	  g a in 	   – 	  	   	   31. 1 	   N e t	   a c t ua r ia l	  los s 	   ( 2 4 . 5 ) 	   (5 .6 ) 	   Cont r ibut ions 	  by 	  t he 	  e m ploy e r 	   9 . 2 	  	   20. 6 	   Clo s in g 	  n et 	  p en s io n 	  lia b ilit y 	   ( 39. 4) 	   (2 2 .2 ) 	  
a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   Cur r e nt 	  s e r v ic e 	  c os t 	   –	   11. 3 	   P a st 	  se r vi ce 	   g a in 	  ( in c lu d in g 	  c u r t a ilm e n t s ) 	   –	   ( 3 1 . 1 ) 	   N e t 	  int e r e s t 	  on	  t he 	  ne t 	  de f ine d	  be ne f it 	  lia bilit y 	   0 . 6 	   1 . 7 	   Adm inis t r a t iv e 	  e x pe ns e s 	   1 . 3 	   1 . 2 	   Tot a l	   ex pens e/ ( inc om e) 	   re c o g n i se d 	   i n 	   t h e 	   i n c o m e 	   st a t e m e n t 	   ( g ro ss	   o f 	   d e f e rre d 	   t a x ) 	   1 .9 	   ( 16. 9) 	   133
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 134 Notes to the financial statements continued 
30. Post-retirement benefits continued  
Assumptions 
The major assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation of the Scheme were: 
 2015 2014 
Discount rate applied to Scheme liabilities 3.2% 4.2% 
CPI inflation assumption 2.1% 2.6% 
Assumed life expectancies in years:   
Future male pensioners (currently aged 60) 88 88 
Future female pensioners (currently aged 60) 91 90 
Future male pensioners (currently aged 40) 91 90 
Future female pensioners (currently aged 40) 93 92 
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, because of  
the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. It is important to note that these assumptions are long term and,  
in the case of the discount rate and the inflation rate, are measured by external market indicators. The mortality assumptions as at  
31 March 2015 were 90% of S2PMA for males and 90% of S2PFA for females, based on year of birth making allowance for improvements in 
mortality in line with CMI_2013 Core Projections and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum. These assumptions adopted at 
the previous year end were 90% of S1PMA for males and 90% of S1PFA for females, based on year of birth making allowance for 
improvements in mortality in line with CMI_2011 Core Projections and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum. 
The balance sheet net pension liability is a snapshot view which can be significantly influenced by short-term market factors. The 
calculation of the surplus or deficit depends, therefore, on factors which are beyond the control of the Group – principally the value  
at the balance sheet date of equity shares (and other assets)  in which the Scheme has invested and long-term interest rates which are 
used to discount future liabilities. The funding of the Scheme is based on long-term trends and assumptions relating to market growth, as 
advised by qualified actuaries and investment advisors. 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is approximately 20 years. 
Sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure Scheme liabilities 
 
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this 
is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit 
obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (projected unit credit method) has been applied as when calculating 
the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position. The methods and types of assumption did not change.  
Risks 
Through its defined benefit pension plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: 
 
The accounting assumptions noted above are used to calculate the year end net pension liability in accordance with the relevant 
accounting standard, IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee benefits’. Changes in these assumptions have no impact on the Group’s cash payments 
into the Scheme. The payments into the Scheme are reassessed after every triennial valuation. 
Assumption Change in assumption 
Indicative impact on Scheme liabilities 
(before deferred tax) 
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by £28m 
Rate of inflation Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by £28m 
Rate of mortality Increase by one year Increase by £37m 
Volatility in market 
conditions 
Results under IAS 19 can change dramatically depending on market conditions. The defined benefit 
obligation is linked to yields on AA-rated corporate bonds, while many of the assets of the Scheme  
are invested in other assets. Changing markets in conjunction with discount rate volatility will lead  
to volatility in the net pension liability on the Group’s balance sheet and in other comprehensive  
income. To a lesser extent this will also lead to volatility in the IAS 19 pension finance expense in the  
Group’s income statement. 
Choice of accounting 
assumptions 
The calculation of the defined benefit obligation (DBO) involves projecting future cash flows from the 
Scheme many years into the future. This means that the assumptions used can have a material impact  
on the balance sheet position and profit and loss charge. In practice future experience within the Scheme 
may not be in line with the assumptions adopted. For example, members could live longer than foreseen or 
inflation could be higher or lower than allowed for in the DBO calculation. 
Inflation rate risk The majority of the Scheme’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to 
higher liabilities. 
134
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued 1 3 5 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	   A cco u n ts	  2 0 1 5 	   T h e 	  t r i e n n i a l 	   v al u at i o n s 	  ar e	  c al c u l at ed 	  o n 	  a	  f u n d i n g 	  b as i s 	   a nd	  us e 	   a 	  dif f e r e nt 	  s e t 	  of 	  a s s um pt io ns ,	  a s 	  a g r ee d	  w it h	  t he 	  pe ns ion	  T r u st e e s. 	  
G iv e n	  t he 	  c ur r e nt 	  e x t r e m e ly 	  low 	  g ilt 	  y ie lds ,	  pe r ha ps 	  e x a c e r ba t e d	  by 	  qua nt it a t iv e 	  e a s i ng ,	  a 	  f unding 	  v a lua t ion	  of 	  t he 	  S c h em e	  w o ul d 	  p r o b ab l y 	  
ha v e 	  r e s ult e d	   in	  a 	  big g e r 	  de f ic it 	  t ha n	  t he 	  IAS 	  1 9 	   m et h o d ol o g y 	  i f 	  i t 	  h ad 	  b een 	  per f o r m ed 	  at 	  t h e	  y e ar 	  en d . 	   31 . T r a n s a c t i o n s 	   w i t h 	   t h e	   M OD
T h e 	  M O D 	  c o n t i n u e s 	  t o 	  o w n 	  i t s 	  S p e c i a l 	  S h a r e 	  i n 	  Q i n e t i Q 	  w h i c h 	  c o n v e y s 	  c e r t a i n 	  r i g h t s 	  a s 	  s e t 	  o u t 	  i n 	   not e 	  2 8 . 	   T ra ns a c t ions 	  be t w e e n	  t he 	  Group
a nd	  t he 	  M O D 	  a r e 	  dis c los e d	  a s 	  f ollo w s:
Fr e e hol d	  l and	  and	  bui l di ng s 	  and	  s ur pl us 	  pr ope r t i e s 	   U nde r 	  t he 	  t e r m s 	  of 	  t he 	  G r oup ’s 	  a c quis it ion	  of 	  pa r t 	  of 	  t he 	  bus ine s s 	  a nd	  c e r t a in	  a s s e t s 	  of 	  D ERA	  f r om 	  t he 	  M O D 	  on	  1 	  J uly 	  2 0 0 1 ,	  t he 	  M O D 	  
r e t a ine d	  c e r t a in	  r ig ht s 	  in	  r e s pe c t 	  of 	  t he 	  f r e e hold	  la nd	  a nd	  b uilding s 	   t r a n sf e r r e d . 	   	   R e s tr i c ti o n s 	   o n 	   tr a n s fe r 	   o f	   t i tl e 	   T h e 	  t i t l e 	  d e e d s 	  o f 	  t h o s e 	  p r o p e r t i e s 	  w i t h 	  s t r a t e g i c 	  a s s e t s 	  ( s e e 	  b e l o w ) 	  i n c l u d e 	  a 	  c l a u s e 	  t h a t 	  p r e v e n t s 	  t h e i r 	  t r a n s f e r 	  w i t h o u t 	  t he 	  a ppr ov a l 	  
of 	   t he 	   M O D .	  T he 	  M O D 	  als o	  ha s 	  t he 	  r ig ht 	  t o	  pur c ha s e 	  a ny 	  s t r a t e g ic 	   a sse t s	   i n 	   ce r t a i n 	   c i r cu m st a n ce s. 	   M O D ’s	  gen eric	  co m p lia n ce 	   r e g im e 	   Adhe r e nc e 	  t o	  t he 	  g e ne r ic 	  c om plia nc e 	  s y s t e m 	  is 	  m onit or e d	  by 	  t he 	  Ris k 	  & 	  CS R	  Com m it t e e .	  Re f e r 	  t o	  t he 	   Com m it t e e ’s 	  r e por t 	  w it hin	  t he 	  
Cor por a t e 	  g ov e r na nc e 	  s t a t e m e nt 	   on	  pa g e 	   7 1 . 	   S tra tegic	   a ssets 	   U nd e r 	  t he 	  P r inc ipa l	  Ag r e e m e nt 	  w it h	  t he 	  M O D ,	  t he 	  Q ine t iQ 	  c ont r olle d	  G r oup	  is 	  not 	  pe r m it t e d	  w it hout 	  t he 	  w r it t e n	  c ons e nt 	  of 	  t he 	  M O D ,	  t o : 	   i ) dis pos e 	  of 	  or 	  de s t r oy 	  a ll	  or 	  a ny 	  pa r t 	  of 	  a 	  s t r a t e g ic 	  a s s e t ;	  or 	   i i ) v o l u n t ar i l y 	  u n d er t ak e	  an y 	  c l o s u r e	  o f ,	  o r 	  c eas e	  t o 	  p r o v i d e	  a	  s t r at eg i c 	  c ap ab i l i t y 	  b y 	  m ean s 	  o f ,	  al l 	  o r 	  an y 	  p ar t 	  o f 	  a	  s t r at eg i c 	  as s et . 	   T h e 	  n e t 	  b o o k 	  v a l u e 	  o f 	  a s s e t s 	  i d e n t i f i e d 	  a s 	  b e i n g 	  s t r a t e g i c 	  a s s e t s 	  a s 	  a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h 	   201 5 	   w a s	   £ 7 . 5 m 	   ( 201 4 : 	   £1. 3 m ) . 	   Lo n g 	   Te r m 	  P ar t ne r i ng 	  Ag r e e m e nt 	   O n	  27	  Fe br ua r y 	  2003	  Q ine t iQ 	  L im it e d 	   e nt e r e d	  int o	  a 	  L ong 	   T e rm 	   P a rt n e rin g 	  Ag r e e m e nt 	  t o	  pr ov ide 	   T e s t 	  a n d 	  E v a l u a t i o n 	  ( T & E ) 	  f a c i l i t i e s 	   	   a nd	  t r a ining 	  s uppor t 	  s e r v ic e s 	  t o	  t he 	  M O D .	  T his 	  is 	  a 	  2 5 -­‐ y ear 	  c o n t r ac t 	  w i t h 	  a	  t o t al 	  r ev en u e	  v al u e	  o f 	  u p 	  t o 	  £5. 6b n ,	  d ep en d en t 	  o n 	  t h e	  l ev el 	   	   of 	  us a g e	  by 	   t he 	   M O D , 	  u n d e r 	  w h i c h 	  Q in e t iQ 	  L im it e d 	  i s 	  c o m m i t t ed 	  t o 	  p r ov i d i n g 	   T & E 	  s er vi ces 	  w i t h 	  i n cr ea s i n g	  ef f i ci en ci es 	  t h r o u gh 	  co s t 	  s a vi n g	  
a nd	   i n n o v at i v e 	   s e r v ic e 	  de liv e r y . 	   3 2 . Co n t i n g en t 	   l i a b i l i t i es 	   a n d 	   a s s et s
Su b s i d i ar y 	  u n d er t ak i n g s 	  w i t h i n 	  t h e	  G r o u p 	  h av e	  g i v en 	  u n s ec u r ed 	  g u ar an t ee s 	  o f 	   £ 36. 2 m 	   a t 	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   201 5 	   ( 201 4 :	  £ 40. 3 m ) 	   i n 	  t h e	  o r d i n ar y
c o u r s e	  o f 	  b u s i n es s .
T h e 	  C om pa ny 	  h a s 	  on	  oc c a s ion	  be e n	  r e quir e d	  t o	  t a k e 	  le g a l	  a c t ion	  t o	  pr ot e c t 	  it s 	  int e lle c t ua l	  pr ope r t y 	  r ig ht s ,	  t o	  e nf or c e 	  c om m e r c ia l	   c o n tra c ts 	  
or 	  ot he r w is e 	  a nd	  s im ila r ly 	  t o	  de f e n d	  it s e lf 	  a g a ins t 	  pr oc e e ding s 	  br oug ht 	  by 	  ot he r 	  pa r t ie s .	  P r ov is ions 	  a r e 	  m a de 	  f or 	  t he 	  e x pe c t e d	  c os t s 	  
a s s oc ia t e d	  w it h	  s uc h	  m a t t e r s ,	  ba s e d	  on	  pa s t 	  e x pe r ie nc e 	  of 	  s im ila r 	  it e m s 	  a nd	  ot he r 	  k now n	  f a c t or s ,	  t a k ing 	  int o	  a c c ount 	  pr of e s s i ona l 	   a dv i c e 	  
r e c e iv e d,	  a nd	  r e pr e s e nt 	  m a na g e m e nt ’s 	  be s t 	  e s t im a t e 	  of 	  t he 	  li k e ly 	  out c om e .	  T he 	  t im ing 	  of 	  ut ilis a t ion	  of 	  t he s e 	  pr ov is ions 	  is 	  unc e r t a in	  
pe nding 	  t he 	  out c om e 	  of 	  v a r ious 	  c our t 	  pr oc e e ding s 	  a nd	  ne g ot ia t ions .	  H ow e v e r ,	  no	  pr ov is ion	  is 	  m a de 	  f or 	  pr oc e e ding s 	  w hic h	  ha v e 	  b e e n	  or 	  
m i g h t 	  b e	  br o ug ht 	  by 	  ot he r 	  pa r t ie s 	  unle s s 	  m a na g e m e nt ,	  t a k ing 	  int o	  a c c ount 	  pr of e s s iona l	  a dv ic e 	  r e c e i v e d,	  a s s e s s e s 	  t ha t 	  it 	  is 	  m or e 	  lik e ly 	  t h a n	  
not 	  t ha t 	  s uc h	   pr oc e e ding s 	  m a y 	  be 	  s uc c e s s f ul. 	   Cont ing e nt 	  lia bilit ie s 	  a s s oc ia t e d	  w it h	  s uc h	  pr oc e e ding s 	  ha v e 	  be e n	  ide nt if ie d	  but 	  t h e 	   D i r e ct o r s	  
a r e 	  of 	  t he 	  opini on	  t ha t 	  a ny 	  a s s oc ia t e d	  c la im s 	   t ha t 	  m ig ht 	  be 	  br oug ht 	   c an 	  b e	  r es i s t ed	  s uc c es s f u l l y 	  an d 	  t h er ef o r e	  t h e	  p o s s i b i l i t y 	  o f 	  an y 	  ou t f l o w 	  
i n 	  s et t l em en t 	   i s 	   a sse sse d 	   a s	   not 	  pr oba ble . 	   T he 	  Group	  ha s 	  not 	  re c og nis e d	  c ont ing e nt 	  a m ount s 	  re c e iv a ble 	  re la t ing 	  t o	  t he 	  Che rt s e y 	  prope rt y 	  w hi c h	  w a s 	  dis pos e d	  of	  during 	  2 0 0 4	   	   or 	  t he 	  F or t 	  H a ls t e a d	  pr ope r t y 	  dis pos e d	  of 	  in	  S e pt e m be r 	  2 0 0 5 .	  Addit iona l	  c ons ide r a t i on 	   i s 	  p o t en t i al l y 	  du e	   on	  t he 	  pur c ha s e r s 	  obt a i ni ng 	  
a ddit iona l	  pl a nning 	  c ons e nt s ,	  w i t h	  t he 	  qua nt um 	  de pe nde nt 	  on	  t he 	  s c ope	  of 	  t he 	  c ons e nt 	  a c hie v e d. 	   T he 	  Group	  ha s 	  a ls o	  not 	  re c og nis e d	  c ont ing e nt 	  a m ount s 	   r e c e iv a ble 	   r e la t ing 	  t o	  pr ope r t y 	  im pa ir m e nt s 	  in	  pr ior 	  y e a r s 	  t ha t 	  m a y 	  pot e nt ia lly 	  
be 	  r e c ov e r ed	  f r om 	  t he 	   M O D .	  Re c ov e r y 	  is 	  s ubje c t 	  t o	  f ut ur e 	  ne g ot ia t ions . 	   It 	  is 	  not 	  c ons ide r e d	  pr a c t ic a ble 	  t o	  c a lc ula t e 	  t he 	  v a lue 	  of 	  t his 	  
c o n t i n gent 	  as s et . 	   135
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 136 Notes to the financial statements continued 
33. Capital commitments 
The Group had the following capital commitments for which no provision has been made: 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Contracted 30.8 38.7 
Capital commitments at 31 March 2015 include £30.5m (2014: £37.8m) in relation to property, plant and equipment that will be wholly 
funded by a third-party customer under long-term contract arrangements. 
34. Subsidiaries 
The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 March 2015 and which, in the opinion of the Directors, 
significantly affected the Group’s results and net assets during the year. The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not 
significant in relation to the Group as a whole. A comprehensive list of all subsidiaries will be disclosed as an appendix to the Group’s 
annual return. 
Name of company Principal area of operation Country of incorporation 
Subsidiaries
1,2
   
QinetiQ Group Holdings Limited UK England & Wales 
QinetiQ Holdings Limited UK England & Wales 
QinetiQ Limited UK England & Wales 
QinetiQ Overseas Holdings Limited UK England & Wales 
QinetiQ US Holdings, Inc. US US 
Foster-Miller, Inc. US US 
1
  Accounting reference date is 31 March. All principal subsidiary undertakings listed above have financial year ends of 31 March and 100% of the ordinary shares are owned by the 
Group.  
2
  QinetiQ Group Holdings Limited is a direct subsidiary of QinetiQ Group plc. All other subsidiaries are held indirectly by other subsidiaries of QinetiQ Group plc. 
 
 
136
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued Company balance sheet 137 
as at 31 March 
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
all figures in £ million Note 2015  2014  
Fixed assets 
Investments in subsidiary undertaking 2 458.2 454.8 
458.2 454.8 
Current assets 
Debtors 3 81.6 79.5 
81.6 79.5 
Current liabilities 
Creditors amounts falling due within one year 4 (205.5) (64.6) 
Net current (liabilities)/assets (123.9) 14.9 
Total assets less current liabilities 334.3 469.7 
Net assets 334.3 469.7 
Capital and reserves  
Equity share capital 6 6.6 6.6 
Capital redemption reserve 6 39.9 39.9 
Share premium account 6 147.6 147.6 
Profit and loss account 6 140.2 275.6 
Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders 334.3 469.7 
There are no other recognised gains and losses. 
The financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc (company number 4586941) were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised 
for issue on 21 May 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Mark Elliott 
Chairman 
Steve Wadey  
Chief Executive Officer 
David Mellors 
Chief Financial Officer 
137
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information
Company balance sheet
as at 31 March 138 Notes to the Company financial statements  
 
1. Accounting policies 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK Accounting 
Standards. As permitted by section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006, a separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of  
the Company has not been presented. 
Investments 
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any impairment in value. 
Share-based payments 
The fair value of equity-settled awards for share-based payments is determined on grant and expensed straight line over the period  
from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise. The fair value of cash-settled awards for share-based payments is determined  
at each period end until they are exercised or lapse. The value is expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest 
unconditional exercise. The charges for both equity and cash-settled share-based payments are updated annually for non-market-based 
vesting conditions. Further details of the Group’s share-based payment charge are disclosed in note 29 to the Group financial statements. 
The cost of share-based payments is charged to subsidiary undertakings. 
2. Investment in subsidiary undertaking 
As at 31 March 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Subsidiary undertaking – 100% of ordinary share capital of QinetiQ Group Holdings Limited 424.3 424.3 
Capital contributions arising from share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries 33.9 30.5 
 458.2 454.8 
A list of all principal subsidiary undertakings of QinetiQ Group plc is disclosed in note 34 to the Group financial statements. 
3. Debtors  
As at 31 March 
4. Creditors 
As at 31 March 
5. Share capital 
The Company’s share capital is disclosed in note 28 to the Group financial statements. 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 81.6 79.5 
all figures in £ million 2015 2014 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 205.5 64.6 
138
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the Company financial statements 	   1 3 9 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   6. 	   Re s e rve s 	   a ll	  fig u re s 	  in 	  £ 	  m illio n 	   I s s ued	   s ha r e	  
c a p i t a l 	   C api t al 	  
re de m pt i on	  
re se rve 	   Share 	   	   pre m i um 	   P r o f i t	   	   and	   l oss 	   Tot al 	   	   e qui t y 	   A t 	  1 	  A p r il	  2 0 1 4 	   6 . 6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   275. 6 	   469. 7 	   Pr o f i t 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e a r 	   –	   –	   –	   0 . 2 	   0 . 2 	   Pu r c h as e 	   of 	  ow n 	  s ha r e s 	   –	   –	   –	   (0 .6 ) 	   (0 .6 ) 	   Pu r c h as e	  an d	  c an c el l at i o n 	  o f 	  s h ar es 	   (0 .5 ) 	   0 . 5 	   –	   ( 1 0 7 . 1 ) 	   ( 1 0 7 . 1 ) 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	   –	   s e t t le m e nt 	   –	   –	   –	   0 . 6 	   0 . 6 	   D iv ide nd	  pa id 	   –	   –	   –	   ( 3 1 . 7 ) 	   ( 3 1 . 7 ) 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	   –	   –	   –	   3 . 2 	   3 . 2 	   A t 	  31	  M a r c h	  2015 	   6 .1 	   40. 4 	   147. 6 	   140. 2 	   334. 3 	   	   	   	   	   	   	   A t 	  1 	  A p r il	  2 0 1 3 	   6 . 6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   194. 9 	   389. 0 	   Pr o f i t 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e a r 	   –	   –	   –	   103. 7 	   103. 7 	   Pu r c h as e	  o f 	  o w n 	  s h ar es 	   –	   –	   –	   (0 .5 ) 	   (0 .5 ) 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	   –	   s e t t le m e nt 	   –	   –	   –	   0 . 9 	   0 . 9 	   D iv ide nd	  pa id 	   –	   –	   –	   ( 2 6 . 8 ) 	   ( 2 6 . 8 ) 	   Sh ar e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent s 	   –	   –	   –	   3 . 4 	   3 . 4 	   A t 	  31	  M a r c h	   2014 	   6 .6 	   39. 9 	   147. 6 	   275. 6 	   469. 7 	   T h e 	  c a p i t a l 	  r e d e m p t i o n 	  r e s e r v e 	  i s 	  n o t 	  d i s t r i b u t a b l e 	  a n d 	  w a s 	  c r e a t e d	  f ollow ing 	  r e de m pt ion	  of 	  pr e f e r e nc e 	  s ha r e 	  c a pit a l. 	   7. 	   S h a r e -­‐ b a s ed 	   p a y men t s 	   T he 	  Com pa ny ’ s	   sh a r e -­‐ ba s e d	  pa y m ent 	  a r r a ng e m e nt s 	  a r e 	  s e t 	  out 	  in	  not e 	   2 9 	   t o	  t he 	  G r oup	  f ina nc ia l	  s t a t e m e nt s .	   	   8. 	   O t he r	   i nformat i on 	   D i r e ct o r s ’ 	   e m olum e nt s ,	  e x c luding 	  Com pa ny 	   pe ns ion	  c ont r ibut ions ,	   w e r e 	   £ 2 . 9 m 	   ( 2014 :	  £ 3 . 1 m ) . 	  Th es e	  em o l u m en t s 	  w er e	  al l 	  i n 	   	   r e la t ion	  t o	  s e r v ic e s 	   pr ov ide d	  on	  be ha lf 	  of 	   t he 	  Q ine t iQ 	  G r oup	  w i t h	  no	  a m ount 	  s pe c if ic ally 	  r e la t ing 	  t o	  t he ir 	  w or k 	  f or 	  t he 	  Com pa ny .	   	   D e t a ils 	  of 	  t he 	  D ir ec t or s ’ 	   e m olum e nt s ,	  s ha r e 	  s c he m e s 	  a nd	  e nt it le m e nt s 	  unde r 	  m one y 	  pur c ha s e 	  pe ns io n	  s c he m e s 	  a r e 	  dis c l os e d	   	   i n 	  t h e	   Re m une r a t ion	   Re por t . 	   T he 	  re m une ra t ion	  of	  t he 	  Com pa ny ’s 	  a udit or 	   f or 	  t he 	  y e a r 	  t o	  3 1 	  M a r c h	   201 5 	   w a s 	  £ 178,000 	   ( 2014 :	  £ 1 46 ,000) ,	   w hic h	  w a s 	   f or 	  a udit 	   	   of 	  t he 	  G r oup’s 	  a nnua l	  a c c ount s 	  a nd	  a udit 	  r e la t e d	  a s s ur a nc e 	  s e r v ic e s .	  No	  ot he r	  s e rv ic e s 	  w e re 	  prov ide d	  by 	  t he 	  a udit or	  t o	  t he 	   Com pa ny . 	   139
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 4 0 	   F i v e -­‐ y ea r	   reco rd 	   fo r	   t h e	   y ea rs 	   en d ed 	   3 1 	   M a rch 	   ( u n a u d i t ed ) 	   Q inet iQ 	  G r oup	  plc 	   A nnua l	  R eport	  a nd	  A ccounts	  2 0 1 5 	   2015 	   2 0 1 4 	   2 0 1 3
4
	   2 0 1 2
3
	   2 0 1 1
2,3
	   EM EA 	   S e r vi ce s 	   ( f or m e r ly 	  U K	  Se r v ic e s ) 	   £ m 	   625. 6 	   607. 0 	   594. 6 	   620. 9 	   663 .7 	   G loba l	  P r oduc t s 	   £ m 	   138. 2 	   175. 6 	   269. 4 	   325. 0 	   442. 6 	   R e ve nue 	   –	   c o n t in u in g 	  o p e r a t io n s 	   £ m 	   763. 8 	   782. 6 	   864. 0 	   945. 9 	   1,106. 3 	   D is c ont inue d	   ope r a t ions 	  ( U S	   Ser v i c es )	  
£ m 	   55. 7 	   408. 8 	   463. 8 	   523. 7 	   596 .3 	   R e ve nue 	  – 	   t o t a l	  G r o u p 	   £ m 	   819. 5 	   1, 191. 4 	   1, 327. 8 	   1, 469. 6 	   1, 702. 6 	   EM EA 	   S e r vi ce s 	   ( f or m e r ly 	  U K	  Se r v ic e s ) 	   £ m 	   93. 0 	   86. 7 	   84. 8 	   56 .3 	   45. 8 	   G loba l	  P r oduc t s 	   £ m 	   18. 3 	   27. 0 	   60. 2 	   66. 2 	   52 .1 	   U nder ly ing	  oper at ing	  pr of it
1
	  – 	  c o n t in u in g 	  o p e r a t io n s 	   £ m 	   111. 3 	   113. 7 	   145. 0 	   127. 5 	   97. 9 	   D is c ont inue d	   ope r a t ions 	  ( U S 	  S e r v ic e s ) 	   £ m 	   1 . 2 	   19. 0 	   23. 7 	   37 .1 	   45. 8 	   U n d e r ly in g 	  o per a t ing	  pr of it
1
	  – 	  t o t a l	  Gr o u p 	   £ m 	   112. 5 	   132. 7 	   168. 7 	   159. 6 	   143. 7 	   Pr o f i t / ( l o s s ) 	  b ef o r e	  t ax 	   	   £ m 	   105. 4 	   4 .1 	  	   ( 1 3 7 . 0 ) 	   316. 3 	   7. 9	  
P r o f it /( l o ss) 	   a t t r ibut a ble 	  t o	   e quit y 	  s ha r e holde r s 	   £ m 	   104. 7 	   ( 12. 7) 	   ( 1 3 3 . 2 ) 	   246. 3 	   (8 . 8) 	   U nde r ly ing 	  ba s ic 	  EP S
1
	   P en ce 	   15. 3 	   16. 0 	   18. 9 	   13. 6 	   13. 0	  
B a s ic 	   EPS 	   P en ce 	   16. 6 	   (1 .9 ) 	   ( 2 0 . 5 ) 	   37 . 9 	   (1 . 3) 	   D ilu t e d 	   EPS 	   P en ce 	   16. 5 	   (1 .9 ) 	   ( 2 0 . 5 ) 	   37. 6 	   (1 . 3) 	   D iv ide nd	  pe r 	  s ha r e 	   	   P en ce 	   5 . 4 	   4 . 6 	   3 . 8 	   2 . 9 	   1 . 6 	   U nde r ly ing 	  ne t 	  c a s h	  f r om 	  ope r a t ions 	   	   ( pos t 	  c a pe x )
1
	   £ m 	   116. 7 	   136. 5 	   175. 9 	   235. 4 	   265. 8 	   N e t	   ca sh /(de bt )	  
£ m 	   195. 5 	   170. 5 	   74. 0 	   ( 1 2 2 . 2 ) 	   ( 260. 9 )	  
Av e r a g e 	  num be r 	  of 	  e m ploy e e s 	   6,454 	   9,134 	   9,772 	   10,637 	   12,033 	   Co n t in u in g 	  o p er a t io n s : 	   O r d e r s 	   £ m 	   613. 6 	   596. 9 	   626. 1 	   706 .8 	   1,417 .2 	  
U nde r ly ing 	  ope r a t ing 	  m a r g in
1
	   %	  
14. 6 	   14. 5 	   16. 8 	   13. 0 	   8 . 8 	   U nde r ly ing 	  pr of it 	  be f or e 	  t a x
1
	   £ m 	   107. 8 	   101 .2 	   128. 4 	   7 3 . 1 	   58. 0 	   Pr o f i t / ( l o s s ) 	  b ef o r e	  t ax 	   £ m 	   105. 4 	   84 .0 	   103. 7 	   2 8 8 . 3 	   ( 29. 9) 	   P r o f it /( l o ss) 	   a f t e r 	   t a x 	  	  
£ m 	   117. 4 	   68. 0 	   89. 9 	   233. 9 	   ( 29. 6) 	   U nde r ly ing 	  ba s ic 	  EP S
1
	   P e nc e 	   15. 2 	   13. 8 	   16. 6 	   10. 5 	   7 . 9 	   Ba s ic 	  EP S 	   P e nc e 	   18. 6 	   10. 4 	   13. 9 	   36. 0 	   (4 .5 ) 	   U nde r ly ing 	  ne t 	  c a s h	  f r om 	  ope r a t ions 	  
( pos t 	  c a pe x )
1
	   £ m 	   114. 9 	   106. 2 	   137. 7 	   217. 3 	   214. 5 	   1 	   	   Unde rly ing 	  m e a s ure s 	  a re 	  s t a t e d	  be f ore 	   s pe c ific 	   ad j u sti n g	   i t em s. 	   D ef i n i t i o n s	   o f 	   u n d er l y i n g	   m easu r es	   o f 	   p er f o r m an c e 	   ar e	   i n 	   t h e	   gl o ssar y 	   o n 	   p age	   141 . 	  U n d e r l y i n g 	  f i n an c i al 	  
m e a s ure s 	  a re 	  pre s e nte d	  be c a us e 	   t h e	  Bo ar d 	  b el i ev es	  t h ese	  p r o v i d e	  a	   be tte r	  re pre s e nta tion	  of	  the 	  Group ’ s 	  lo n g -­‐ te rm 	  p e rfo rm a n ce 	  tre n d . 	   F o r	   d eta ils	   o f	   sp ecific	   a d ju stin g	   item s	  
re fe r	  to 	  N o te 	  4 	   of	  the 	   f i n an c i al 	  st at em en t s . 	   2 	   	   The 	   2011	   f i gu r es	   h ave	   b een 	   r est at ed 	   t o 	   r ef l ect 	   t h e	   t r an sf er 	   o f 	   b u si n esses	   f r o m 	   G l o b al 	   Pr o d u c t s 	   t o 	  UK	   S e rv ic e s 	   a n d 	  U S 	  S e rvice s 	   at 	   t h e	   b egi n n i n g	   o f 	   t h e	   2012 	   f i n a n c i a l 	  y e a r . 	   3 	   	   IAS	  1 9 	   (revised )	   ‘E m p lo yee	  B en efits’ 	   w as 	   ad o p t ed 	   f o r 	   201 3 	   an d 	   t h e	   201 2 	   an d 	   2011 	   c om parat iv e s 	  hav e 	  be e n	  re s t at e d 	   ac c o r d i n gl y . 	   4 	   	   The 	   2013	   f i gu r es	   h ave	   b een 	   r est at ed 	   t o 	  r ef l ect 	   t h e	   r ecl assi fi cat i o n 	   o f 	   p ro d u ct 	   sal es	   f r o m 	   U K	   Ser vi ces	   t o 	   Gl o b al 	   Pr o d u c t s	  an d 	   t h e	   r ecl assi f i c at i o n 	   o f 	   C yv e illa n c e ® 	   fro m 	  U S 	  S e rvice s 	   to 	  E M E A 	  S e rvice s . 	   2012	   an d 	   2011	   h ave	   al so 	   b een 	   r est at ed 	   t o 	   r ef l ect 	   t h e	   r ecl assi f i cat i on 	   o f 	   C yvei l l an c e ® 	   fro m 	  U S 	  S e rvice s 	   to 	  E M E A 	  S e rvice s . 	   140
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Five-year record 
for the years ended 31 March (unaudited) AGM Annual General Meeting
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate
C4ISR Command, control, communications, computers, 
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
CPI Consumer Price Index
CR Corporate Responsibility
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DAB Deferred Annual Bonus
DE&S MOD’s Defence, Equipment and Support 
organisation
DHS US Department of Homeland Security
DoD US Department of Defense
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation  
and amortisation
EMEA Europe, Middle East and Australasia
EPS Earnings per share
FMI Foster-Miller, Inc. – the legal entity through  
which the US Products division operates
Funded backlog The expected future value of revenue from 
contractually committed and funded customer 
orders (excluding the £998m third-term re-pricing  
of the LTPA contract)
Gearing ratio This is the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA  
in accordance with the Group’s credit-facility  
ratios. EBITDA is adjusted to exclude charges  
for share-based payments. Net debt is adjusted  
to reflect the same exchange rates as used for 
EBITDA and to reflect other requirements of  
the debt-holders’ covenant calculations
IAS International Accounting Standards
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LIBID London inter-bank bid rate
LIBOR London inter-bank offered rate
LTPA Long Term Partnering Agreement – 25-year  
contract established in 2003 to manage the  
MOD’s test and evaluation ranges
MOD UK Ministry of Defence
MSCA Maritime Strategic Capability Agreement
OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services
Orange book Single-source pricing regulations used by UK 
Government from 1 April 2015. Replaces the  
Yellow Book regulations
Organic growth The level of year-on-year growth, expressed as a 
percentage, calculated at constant foreign exchange 
rates, adjusting comparatives to incorporate the 
results of acquired entities but excluding the results 
for any disposals or discontinued operations for the 
same duration of ownership as the current period
PBT Profit before tax
PSP Performance Share Plan
QNA QinetiQ North America
QSOS QinetiQ Share Option Scheme
R&D Research and development
RSU Restricted Stock Unit
Specific  
adjusting items
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from 
acquisitions; net restructuring charges/recoveries; 
net pension finance expense; net pension gain on 
closure to future accrual; impairment of property; 
impairment of goodwill and intangible assets;  
gain/loss on business combinations and divestments; 
gain/loss on disposal of investments; tax on the 
preceding items; and tax credits on one-off recognition 
of deferred tax asset in respect of UK trade losses
SDSR Strategic Defence and Security Review
SSRO Single Source Regulations Office
TSR Total shareholder return
UK Corporate 
Governance Code
Guidelines of the Financial Reporting  
Council to address the principal aspects  
of corporate governance
UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
Underlying basic 
earnings per share
Basic earnings per share as adjusted to exclude 
‘specific adjusting items’
Underlying 
effective tax rate
The tax charge for the year excluding the tax impact 
of ‘specific adjusting items’ expressed as a 
percentage of underlying profit before tax
Underlying  
net cash from 
operations  
(post capex)
Net cash inflow from operations before cash flows  
of specific adjusting items, less net cash outflow  
on purchase/sale of intangible assets and property, 
plant and equipment
Underlying net 
finance costs
Net finance costs excluding net pension  
finance costs
Underlying 
operating cash 
conversion
The ratio of underlying net cash from operations 
(post capex) to underlying operating profit excluding 
share of post-tax result of equity-accounted joint 
ventures and associates
Underlying 
operating margin
Underlying operating profit expressed  
as a percentage of revenue
Underlying 
operating profit
Operating profit as adjusted to exclude  
‘specific adjusting items’
Underlying profit 
before tax
Profit before tax as adjusted to exclude  
‘specific adjusting items’
VSP Value Sharing Plan
Yellow Book Single-source pricing regulations used by MOD  
up to 2015. Now replaced by the Orange Book
141
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information
Glossary Shareholding enquiries
The Company’s registrar is Equiniti. Enquiries regarding your 
shareholding, including the following administrative matters,  
should be addressed to Equiniti:
• Change of personal details such as change of name or address.
• Lost share certificates.
• Dividend payment enquiries.
• Direct dividend payments. You can have your dividends paid 
directly into a UK bank or building society account by completing 
a dividend mandate form. The associated tax voucher will still  
be sent to your registered address. If you live outside the UK, 
Equiniti offers a global payments service which is available in 
certain countries and could enable you to receive your dividends 
direct into your bank account in your local currency. 
• Tax voucher enquiries. Tax vouchers are sent to a shareholder’s 
registered address. Shareholders who have dividends paid direct 
into a bank or building society account receive a consolidated  
tax voucher which details all dividends paid for the year. 
Shareholders who prefer to continue receiving a tax voucher 
with each dividend payment, rather than a consolidated tax 
voucher, can contact Equiniti to request this.
Contact details for registrar
By post:
Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing,  
West Sussex BN99 6DA
By telephone:
0871 384 2021* for UK calls 
+44 (0)121 415 7576 for calls from outside the UK
*  Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.  
Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
By email:
You can send an email enquiry securely from Equiniti’s website,  
at https://help.shareview.co.uk.
Online:
Equiniti’s website at https://help.shareview.co.uk (Shareview)  
includes answers to frequently asked questions and provides key 
forms for download. Shareview also offers online access to your 
shareholding where you can manage your account, register for 
electronic communications, see details of balance movements and 
complete certain amendments online, such as changes to dividend 
mandate instructions. You can register at www.shareview.co.uk,  
click on ‘Register’ and follow the steps.
Electronic communications
The Company offers shareholders the option to receive documentation 
and communications electronically, via the Company’s website.  
The wider use of electronic communications enables fast receipt of 
documents, reduces the Company’s printing, paper and postal costs 
and reduces the Company’s environmental impact. Shareholders can 
register for electronic communications at www.shareview.co.uk  
and may also cast their vote for the 2015 Annual General Meeting 
online quickly and easily using the Sharevote service by visiting  
www.sharevote.co.uk.
Donating shares to charity – ShareGift
Small parcels of shares, which may be uneconomic to sell on their 
own, can be donated to ShareGift, the share donation charity 
(registered charity no. 1052686). ShareGift transfers these holdings 
into their name, aggregates them, and uses the proceeds to support  
a wide range of UK charities based on donor suggestion. If you would 
like further details about ShareGift, please visit www.sharegift.org, 
email help@sharegift.org or telephone them on 020 7930 3737.
Share price
Details of current and historical share prices can be found on the 
Company’s website at www.QinetiQ.com/investors. The graph below 
shows the share price trend during the year ended 31 March 2015:
240
220
200
180
160
140
120
31 Mar 14 30 May 14 31 Jul 14 30 Nov 14 30 Sep 14 31 Jan 15 31 Mar 15
The share prices used in the graph above are the mid-market prices 
as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Analysis of Share Register at 31 March 2015
By type  
of holder
Number  
of holdings
% of total  
holdings
Shares  
held
% of share  
capital
Individuals 5,923 87.22% 6,171,964 1.01%
Institutions and others 868 12.78% 602,438,040 98.99%
Total 6,791 100.00% 608,610,004 100.00%
By size of holding
1–500 4,385 64.57% 890,912 0.15%
501–1,000 617 9.09% 498,216 0.08%
1,001–5,000 1,135 16.71% 2,783,820 0.46%
5,001–10,000 195 2.87% 1,455,210 0.24%
10,001–100,000 239 3.52% 8,159,016 1.34%
Over 100,000 220 3.24% 594,822,830 97.73%
Total 6,791 100.00% 608,610,004 100.00%
142
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Shareholder information Beware of share fraud
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors 
into scams. They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless 
or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an 
upfront payment. While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell 
shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
How to avoid share fraud 
1.  Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares. 
2.  Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person  
and firm contacting you and then end the call. 
3.  Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk  
to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised  
by the FCA. 
4.  Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details. 
5.  Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want  
to call it back. 
6.  Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact 
details on the Register or you are told they are out of date. 
7.  Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.fca.org.uk/scams. 
8.  Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm 
you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service  
or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
9.  Think about getting independent financial and professional 
advice before you hand over any money. 
10. Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Report a scam
•  If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the 
share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you 
can find out more about investment scams. 
•  You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. 
•  If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should 
contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Key dates 
22 July 2015 Interim management statement
22 July 2015 Annual General Meeting
6 August 2015 Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend
7 August 2015 Final 2015 dividend record date
4 September 2015 Final 2015 dividend payment date
30 September 2015 Half-year financial period end
19 November 2015 Half-year results announcement
February 2016 Interim management statement  
(provisional date)
31 March 2016 Financial year end
May 2016 Preliminary results announcement 
(provisional date)
Cautionary statement
All statements other than statements of historical fact included in  
this Annual Report, including, without limitation, those regarding  
the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of  
QinetiQ and its strategy, plans and objectives and the markets and 
economies in which it operates, are forward-looking statements.  
Such forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s 
assumptions made on the basis of information available to it at this 
time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other 
important factors which could cause the actual results, performance 
or achievements of QinetiQ or the markets and economies in which 
QinetiQ operates to be materially different from future results, 
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such 
forward-looking statements.  Nothing in this Annual Report  
should be regarded as a profit forecast. 
This Annual Report is intended to provide information to  
shareholders and is not designed to be relied upon by any other 
party. The Company and its Directors accept no liability to any  
other person other than under English law. 
Company information
Registered office
Cody Technology Park  
Ively Road  
Farnborough  
Hampshire 
GU14 0LX
Tel: +44 (0) 1252 392000
Company Registration Number: 
4586941
Auditor
KPMG LLP 
Chartered Accountants  
15 Canada Square  
London 
E14 5GL
Registrar
Equiniti 
Aspect House  
Spencer Road  
Lancing 
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA
Advisors 
Corporate brokers
J.P.Morgan 
25 Bank Street  
London 
E14 5JP
Bank of America Merrill Lynch  
2 King Edward Street 
London 
EC1A 1HQ
Principal legal advisor 
Ashurst LLP  
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London 
EC2A 2HA
143
Strategic report
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance Financial statements Additional information
Additional information 144
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes This report is printed on Claro Silk paper. Manufactured at a mill that is FSC® accredited.  
Certified to both ISO 14001 Environmental Standard and to the European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme.
Printed by Principal Colour. 
Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSC® Chain of Custody certified.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay 
Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.sampsonmay.com Registered office
Cody Technology Park
Ively Road, Farnborough
Hampshire GU14 0LX
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1252 392000
www.QinetiQ.com
Company Registration Number
4586941
©QinetiQ Group plc
