 R A V E N R U S S I A L I M I T E D
www.RavenRussia.com
Registered Office
Raven Russia Limited, P .O. Box 522, 1 Le Truchot, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 6EH
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2010
R A V E N R U S S I A L I M I T E D
R A V E N R U S S I A L I M I T E D
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010  Highlights 4
Chairman’s Statement 5
Chief Executive’s Report 6
Property Review 8
Financial Review 10
Directors 12
Directors’ Report 14
Corporate Governance 19
Directors’ Remuneration Report 23
Independent Auditor’s Report 28
Group Income Statement 29
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 30
Group Balance Sheet 31
Group Cash Flow Statement 32
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 33
Notes to the Financial Statements 34
Advisers 73
Contents
3 Lobnya  
• Reported NOI for the year up 22% from $50 million to $61 million;
• Profit before tax of $56 million (2009: loss $148 million);
• Adjusted fully diluted NAV per share 105 cents (2009: 99 cents), based on a portfolio ERV yield of 12.8%;
• 220,000 sqm of space let in 2010, generating $23.3 million of annualised NOI;
• Currently, annualised NOI of $96.6 million (including PLAs and LOIs) with a further $17.5 million under active negotiation;
• Positive operating cashflow of $33 million;
• Current cash balance of $132 million;
• Gearing of 35.6% net of cash;
• 1p final dividend proposed. 
Highlights
 4 The Board of Raven Russia Limited (“Raven Russia”)
announces the Group’s results for the year ended
31st December 2010.
The key operational focus last year was letting. We have made
continued progress in an improving market. 
Reported net operating income (“NOI”) increased by
$11 million in the year to $61 million (2009: $50 million).
With a stable overhead base, this gives a straight contribution
to operating profit which increased to $25 million (2009:
$13 million) and is also reflected in strong operating cash
inflows for the year which more than doubled to $33 million
(2009: $15 million).
Following the sale of our Baltia project, generating a profit
of $12 million after costs, and a revaluation surplus on our
property portfolio of $79 million (2009: loss of $108 million),
we have recorded a healthy profit before tax of $56 million
(2009: loss of $148 million).
Today, of our total finished portfolio of 975,000 sqm,
321,000 sqm (33%) stands vacant, 94,000 sqm (10%)
of which is subject to pre-let agreements (“PLAs”) and letters
of intent (“LOIs”) and we are in active discussions on 157,000
sqm (16%) of the remaining space. On average, we suffer a
cost of $40 per sqm servicing vacant space whilst continuing
with our letting programme. 
We have maintained our strong balance sheet with gearing of
35.6% as calculated in note 35 to the financial statements and
a cash position today of $132 million.
We completed the sale of our Baltia project at an equivalent
yield of 10% in the year, recording a profit on sale of
$12 million and generating cash of $21 million after costs.
Adjusted fully diluted NAV per share was 105c at the year end,
compared to 99c at 31 December 2009. 
We remain bemused by the valuation of our portfolio. Whilst
accepting the sparsity of comparable transactions, we are still
roughly at replacement cost and on an overall ERV yield of
12.8% (2009: 14.3%).
There must come a time when valuers don’t simply discount
Polish/Czech Republic/Hungarian yields by 2% points to
UK/French/German yields; and then discount by a further 3%
points for Russia! Someone will wake up to the growth and
dynamism of the Russian economy when compared to the
declining nature of those Western European economies and
value well let Grade A Russian buildings accordingly. The old
paradigm must shift and we must all begin to accept the
“new normal”.
As promised, we moved our ordinary shares and warrants
onto the Official List in August 2010. All of our listed
instruments have performed well in the year, ordinary shares
with a year end price of 62.5p (2009:45p), warrants at 37.5p
(2009:24p) and preference shares at 129.25p (2009:93p).
Due to the continuing progress in NOI and our strong balance
sheet we intend to declare a final dividend of 1p per share.
This is in addition to the tender offer made during the year,
where we purchased and cancelled ordinary shares, with a
cost equivalent to 1p per share.
We are continuing our progress with letting and financing and
maintaining a strong liquid balance sheet. Both ordinary and
preference shareholders have received good returns and we
are well placed for this to continue. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders,
employees and advisors for their support during the year.
Richard Jewson 
Chairman
13 March 2011
Chairman’s Statement
5 Letting space has remained our key focus and the progress
of the first half has been maintained. We let 220,000 sqm
of space to third parties during the year on top of the
189,124 sqm let in 2009. (That’s 4,400,000 square feet in
24 months for our British audience).
At 31 December 2010, annualised NOI was running at
$83.8million and additional PLAs and LOIs totalled $4.2 million.
At today’s date the $83.8 million has increased to $85.7 million
and additional PLAs and LOIs have increased to $10.9 million.
On top of this we have a further 157,000 sqm under active
negotiation which could add $17.5 million to LOIs. 
So if all of this converts we could reach the big figure of
$114 million of annualised NOI. This would leave us 93%
let and heading towards $121 million of annualised NOI. 
The high level of space under negotiation gives some indication
of how strong the occupier market is today. Although this
category has the possibility to disappoint, with some good luck
we are well on the way to making significant inroads into our
vacant space.
The market is continuing to improve generally and particularly
in Moscow, Jones Lang LaSalle (“JLL”) now reports that there
is a 3.9% vacancy in Grade A Moscow warehouses. There is
virtually no new development and vacant space is leasing fast.
Rents have started to rise. 
Quite why a portfolio of finished buildings that can produce
income of over $120 million is valued at only $943 million is
hard to fathom. There have been few investment transactions
to demonstrate yield compression for valuation purposes.
Despite our best efforts and cash we have found it difficult
to find anything to buy.
However, we did announce on 28 February, the conditional
acquisition of the Southgate warehouse project, near
Domodedova airport, South of Moscow. The project comprises
a completed warehouse of 76,550 sqm, mainly let to John
Deere and 88 hectares of permitted land, allowing the potential
development of a further 440,000 sqm of warehouse space.
Existing minority shareholders have 30 business days from
date of announcement to match our offer. So we will wait to
see if we get it. 
As our portfolio matures and we can demonstrate the high
quality of our rental income, I do believe that our valuations will
continue to improve. High quality, growing income from world
class assets is becoming increasingly hard to find, we are
certainly in the right place, with healthy tenant demand and
a dynamic and growing macro-economic environment.
The simple income statement I ran through last year has now
changed a bit, but is not fundamentally different. As a result
of new financings, annual interest cost now runs at $34 million
(but we have more cash) and at today’s exchange rate, our
preference share coupon runs at $27 million. We have broken
down our overheads to show the split between running the
portfolio and our central overheads ($13 million and $6 million
per annum respectively). The central overheads which support
our listing requirements also support our Guernsey and Cyprus
Chief Executive’s Report
6
Shushary   
7
Chief Executive’s Report – continued
offices which more than pay for themselves in the associated
reduced tax burden, both now and in the future.
Roslogistics and Raven Mount each have an overhead base of
$3 million but the former should now generate sufficient profits
to support its rental obligations of $10 million and we expect
Raven Mount to at least break even in the income statement
as we liquidate its stock.
In terms of growth we are working hard on new leasing and
managing existing tenants’ leases to benefit from increasing
rental levels. 
We have started building 55,000 sqm at Klimovsk. As all
infrastructure is in place we estimate a further investment of
$34 million to complete. If we achieve rents of $120 per sqm
then this will give an excellent return. 
All the components are falling into place for us to commence
further new development. With a focus on Moscow, this will
happen this year. Klimovsk is underway and if we complete
Southgate we will start there too. We also have some other
good potential land acquisitions. This will also answer the
“what are you doing with all that cash?” question, as well
as improving overall returns by putting this cash to work.
In summary, we have a strong balance sheet with plenty of
cash ($132 million at today’s date) for earnings enhancing
acquisitions or profitable development. We will soon have a
clearly visible and growing dividend and there is still lots of
potential for NAV growth from revaluations.
The oil price is well over $100 a barrel and the Russian
consumer is spending money. Russia will host the winter
Olympics in 2014 in Sochi, a new Russian Grand Prix is
planned and the World Cup arrives in 2018, and the
government has committed to major infrastructure upgrades
to facilitate events like this. At the macro level, all of these facts
are beneficial to the country we operate in. At the property level
there is virtually no new supply becoming available in Moscow
and the vacancy rate is falling in all of our other markets.
Demand is strong and rents should grow during the course
of the year.
Our main objective remains to lease the remaining space on
the best terms possible to the strongest tenants and to take
advantage of market opportunities, either by building new
space or acquisition. 
The achievements of 2010 have been overshadowed by the
death of our colleague and friend Oleg Tomin in the bombing
of Domodedovo, Moscow airport on 24th January 2011.
This tragedy puts a new perspective on our efforts and has
saddened us all greatly.
Glyn Hirsch
Chief Executive Officer
13 March 2011 2010 was a year of significant progress for the Company.
Most importantly, we completed 220,000 sqm (2.4 million
square feet) of new lettings to third parties across the portfolio,
generating an additional $23.3 million of annual rental income
plus full operating cost recovery on the space. We are now
firmly the market leader in our sector and are very well placed
to continue our growth through new leasing on our vacant
space and also selective development.
Property has always been a cyclical business particularly
because of the long lead time from any project’s conception
to its realisation. The market in Russia has been down over
the past couple of years as a result of the global financial crisis,
over supply and a lack of tenant demand. That all seems to be
changing now and very quickly.
The investment properties were valued by JLL at the period
end, in accordance with the RICS Valuation and Appraisal
guidelines, at an aggregate gross value of $943 million.
This resulted in an increase of $62 million in portfolio value,
on a like for like basis, compared to 31 December 2009,
reflecting our progress in leasing and the improvement in
the market.
Investment Portfolio
In Moscow we have six completed projects totalling
561,000 sqm and producing an annualised income of
$53.2 million at year end. These properties were 76% let
at year end with the largest element of vacancy (95,000 sqm)
being at Noginsk. During the year we let 112,000 sqm in
Moscow, and have seen a steady increase in rents. Prime
Moscow rents are now around $105-$115 per sqm and we
expect this level to continue to rise during 2011.
At the project level we have completed the buyout of our
development partner at Klimovsk. Phase 1 of this project only
has 8,000 sqm vacant and we have a signed LOI in place.
We have therefore taken the decision to start work on Phase 2
which will deliver 55,000 sqm of Grade A space in the first half
of 2012. The improvement in the leasing market and increased
levels of tenant demand coupled with a competitive build cost
of around $650 per sqm, due to the infrastructure investment
we have already made in Phase 1, should make this a highly
profitable investment.
At Istra, only 13,000 sqm remains vacant and we are in
discussion with a number of potential occupiers. Phase 5 of
the project was completed at the end of December and has
been let to Rusklimat, as DSV failed to fulfil their obligations
under the pre lease agreement. 
Tenant demand has been the slowest in the east of Moscow
and this has affected our Noginsk project where 95,000 sqm
remains vacant. The property has a working rail link and is one
of the few projects in Moscow where it is now possible to lease
over 30,000 sqm in one building. We are confident we will
make significant progress in leasing in the next 6 months.
The disappointment and the delay in letting this space is offset
in part by the fact we are now talking to tenants at significantly
better rents than a year ago. Ultimately shareholders will benefit
from leasing at higher rents and the effect this has on value
once rents are capitalised.
8
Property Review
Noginsk Property Review – continued
9
Elsewhere in Moscow our projects are 100% full save for a
small amount of space at Southern. On inspection the vast
majority of our tenants’ space looks full and many are reporting
an improvement in business and are willing to discuss
expansion.
During the last quarter we completed on the sale of Baltia,
Moscow. This building had been fully leased since we acquired
it in 2005 at a yield of 12.5%. All the three main tenants in the
building were keen to expand their operations and we were
successful in moving one of them to Istra where they took
13,000 sqm on a new five year lease. In St Petersburg, at our
Shushari project, we have secured a couple of notable lettings
during the year including 12,000 sqm to Johnson Controls and
33,000 sqm to Dixy, the Russian retailer, both on long term
leases. The remaining space at Shushari is attracting interest
from tenants and whilst supply is higher than in Moscow and
demand less we still expect to lease the majority of the
remaining vacant space during the coming year. In total, in
St Petersburg including our Pulkovo property, we have leased
66,000 sqm during the year.
Tenant demand in Rostov and Novosibirsk has been
improving, driven by mainly Russian companies including
retailers. In total we have leased an additional 41,000 sqm
during the past 12 months. Average demand in the regions
is 5,000 sqm-7,500 sqm which is smaller than in Moscow
but which gives us a broader tenant base.
Lettings to third parties have been offset by the
consolidation of our Roslogistics subsidiary, where we took
back 58,000 sqm of space in St Petersburg and the Regions.
The business now operates out of 77,000 sqm of our space
and we expect a full contribution to rent on this space in 2011. 
Land Bank
At the year end JLL also valued the Phase 2 development land
at Noginsk, Klimovsk, Rostov and Kiev, a total of 87 ha. These
projects benefit from existing infrastructure and utilities and
should the Company choose, development could commence
on them in short order.
The Company holds an additional 290 ha of land in Kiev,
Ukraine, Minsk, Belarus and in various regional cities of Russia
that has longer term potential. We still do not envisage any
speculative development on these sites, although all remain
available on a Build to Suit basis or as parcelled land sales. 
The Market
Evidence of an improving rental market and also renewed
investor interest has been helpful to JLL in producing the year
end valuations. Equivalent yields in Moscow for Grade A, well
let, rack rented warehouses are now in the region of 11.5%.
This isn’t demanding and provides an investor with substantial
positive cashflow if he is able to secure debt at a 60% LTV and
a margin over US Libor of 500bps. With these financial
dynamics, and the potential for rents to rise, then so should
valuations.
As mentioned earlier property is a cyclical business and the
strategy we have followed over the past five years has
protected us when the market dipped in 2008 and 2009. In
Moscow, especially, we are now into a different part of the
cycle. Supply has been eaten up over the past 12 months, so
much so that JLL report a year end vacancy rate of only 3.9%.
Demand has been very strong, particularly from the local
retailers and pharmaceutical groups. Rents are on the rise and
we know of at least one deal that has been signed at a rent of
over $120 per sqm for a 10,000 sqm letting. 
In Moscow, where almost 60% of our portfolio is located, the
lack of new supply caused by the absence of debt and equity
should see the market move more towards Build to Suit, where
the tenant shares some of the development risk. Tenants who
need space immediately will have less and less choice and will
have to pay up or choose secondary properties. Financial Review
10
The 2010 financial year has been the first year with a fully
completed portfolio and no significant construction projects.
As the Chairman and Chief Executive have said, the focus
has been firmly on leasing space.
Income
Investment Portfolio
The warehouse portfolio generated $50.4 million of NOI
(2009: $46 million) from third party tenants and after
absorbing the cost of servicing vacant space of $20.8 million
(2009: $16.5 million). This cost will reduce in 2011 as new
lettings commence.
Roslogistics
We have completed the consolidation of the Roslogistics
business in the year. When we bought out our partners in late
2009, the business had leased or pre let 135,000 sqm of our
portfolio, 106,000 sqm of which was in St Petersburg and the
Regional cities. We have now reduced this space to a more
manageable 76,600 sqm, 72% of which is in Moscow and
St Petersburg. We have assisted in rationalising the business,
terminating loss making contracts and focussing the
management on operational efficiencies. The business has
shown the results of this moving from a negligible contribution
to NOI in 2008 and $2.5 million in 2009 to $5.7 million in 2010.
2011 should see the full benefit of the reorganisation and an
improving market for third party logistics operators.
Raven Mount
With a contribution to NOI of $4.9 million (2009: $1.8 million),
we continue to liquidate Raven Mount stock at above
acquisition cost. Gross sales of residential stock in the year
totalled $8.8 million (2009: $8.3 million) and our share of the
Coln joint venture contributed a further $9 million (2009:
$6.7 million) of sales. This achieved against the backdrop of
an extremely difficult market for first time buyers and second
homes in the UK.
Overheads
Overheads for the investment portfolio were $13.2 million
(2009: $14.9 million) and central overheads, which support
our listing and our Guernsey/Cyprus tax structure, $6.1 million
(2009: $7.4 million). Roslogistics and Raven Mount reduced
to $3.4 million (2009: $4.5 million) and $3.1 million (2009:
$5.4 million) respectively before depreciation, following the
integration of both into the Group. In addition, the cost of
moving to the Official List was $2 million and Roslogistics had
a cost of $1.4 million to close a loss making site. There was
a cost for share based payments of $6.4 million (2009:
$0.2 million) as the various share incentive schemes began to
vest. This cost is dependent on the share price on the day of
vesting and is reversed through reserves, so no effect on
reported NAV.
Istra Phase 5 11
Financial Review – continued 
Financing
Debt service costs totalled $35.7 million (2009: $37 million)
including amortisation of costs of $3 million (2009: $5.5 million).
Our year end debt level, excluding preference shares, was
$432 million (2009: $446 million) with a weighted average cost
of debt of 7.0% (2009: 6.9%) and average term to maturity
of 3 years (2009: 3.5 years).
As disclosed in last year’s annual financial statements, we
successfully rolled over our one remaining construction facility
on the Noginsk project with HSH Nordbank. The debt team
are currently working on a number of options to refinance this
during 2011.
In February, we completed the syndication on our Novosibirsk
project, drawing an additional $10 million. A further $10 million
was drawn in October on the Aareal Bank facility, secured on
the Istra project. 
At the end of the summer we completed on the final
syndicated tranche of $10 million of the $40 million IFC facility
on our Rostov project. 
We have also increased and drawn on an existing, short term
Barclays’ facility of £7.5 million at a cost of 2.5% over UK
LIBOR. This gave additional cash of £5 million and is secured
on certain assets of Raven Mount and a short term, $10 million
Group facility from RBSI was rolled over to January 2012 at a
margin of 2.85%.
Since the year end, we have completed on one further debt
transaction with Marfin Bank. This was a 7 year term dollar
loan to partially refinance the equity used to construct the now
completed and fully let Lobyna project in northern Moscow.
This has generated $30 million of additional funding. 
The Group has met all covenants on its debt facilities during
the period.
The dollar value of our preference shares was $217 million
(2009: $219 million) at 31 December 2010. The unrealised
foreign exchange loss since issue is $9.4 million (2009:
$14.1 million) and is included in the translation reserve. As we
consider the preference shares to be capital instruments for
our performance ratios, we have adjusted for unrealised foreign
exchange movements on these when calculating adjusted NAV
per share. The coupon paid during the year of $27.7 million
(2009: $20.1 million) is included in finance expense. Our
weighted cost of debt and gearing level, including preference
shares as debt, is 8.4% (2009: 8.6%) and 53% (2009: 57%)
respectively.
Hedging
It is the Group’s policy to hedge the cost of debt secured on
completed assets and this is hedged using a mixture of caps
and swaps. $117 million (2009: $39 million) is capped at
3.64% and $225 million (2009: $237 million) swapped at an
average of 3.10% both with two and a half years remaining.
Cash flow hedges are operated through the lease mechanisms
which are mainly US dollar pegged and in holding sufficient
Sterling cash reserves to cover preference share coupon and
dividend commitments.
Cashflow
The strong letting performance in the year more than doubled
our operating cash inflows to $33 million (2009: $14 million).
This, together with new financings, covered our bank debt
interest and amortisation obligations in the year. We were then
able to pay out $42 million (2009: $23 million) on our various
capital instruments, encompassing ordinary dividends,
preference share coupon, a warrant buy back and a tender
offer, and still hold over $100 million in cash at the year end.
Net Asset Value and Dividends
Our Net Assets have increased from $546 million at
31 December 2009 to $580 million at the year end. This gives
an Adjusted Basic NAV per share of $1.20 (2009: $1.17) and
Adjusted Fully Diluted NAV per share of $1.05 (2009: 99c).
It is the Board’s intention to pay a 1p final dividend (2009: 0.5p)
and this will be proposed at the AGM.
Mark Sinclair
Chief Financial Officer
13 March 2011 12
Richard Jewson (aged 66)
Non-Executive Chairman
Richard Jewson joined Jewson, the timber and building merchant, in 1965 becoming the Managing Director, then Chairman of
its holding group, Meyer International plc from which he retired in 1993. Since then he has served as non-executive director and
chairman of a number of public companies. He retired in 2004 from 10 years as Chairman of Savills plc and in 2005 from 14 years
as a non-executive Director and deputy Chairman of Anglian Water plc. He is currently Chairman of Archant Ltd, and a non-executive
director of Temple Bar Investment Trust plc, Grafton Group plc and other unquoted companies. 
He is a member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee and is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Anton Bilton (aged 46)
Executive Deputy Chairman
Anton Bilton is an economics graduate from The City University in London. Anton was the founder of The Raven Group. He has also
been a founder and director of three other companies that have floated on AIM and four public property companies established under
the Business Expansion Scheme.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Glyn Hirsch (aged 49)
Chief Executive Officer
Glyn Hirsch qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Peat, Marwick Mitchell & Co in 1985. Until 1995, he worked in the corporate
finance department of UBS (formerly Phillips & Drew) latterly as an Executive Director specialising in UK smaller companies. From 1995
until 2001, he was Chief Executive of CLS Holdings plc, the listed property investment company, a former Director of Citadel Holdings
plc, the specialist French property investor and former Chairman of Property Fund Management plc, the listed property fund
management business.
Mark Sinclair (aged 45)
Chief Financial Officer
Mark Sinclair, a Guernsey resident, is a chartered accountant, and spent 18 years at BDO Stoy Hayward, a leading professional
services firm in the UK. He was a partner in the London real estate group responsible for a portfolio of large property companies, both
listed and private. He joined Raven Mount in June 2006 as Finance Director of Raven Russia Property Management Ltd, the Property
Adviser to the Company. He has significant experience in all financial aspects of property transactions and company reporting. Mark
was appointed to the Board on 23 March 2009.
Colin Smith (aged 41)
Chief Operating Officer
Colin Smith, a Guernsey resident, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Stoy Hayward. Prior to joining the Company, he was
a director in the audit and assurance division of the chartered accountant practice of BDO in Guernsey, having joined BDO in 1994.
Colin has also been a non-executive director of a number of offshore investment funds and companies.
Directors 13
Directors – continued 
Stephen Coe (aged 45)
Non-Executive Director
Stephen Coe BSc, FCA, a resident of Guernsey, is self employed providing executive and non-executive services to public and private
clients. His current public directorships include Matrix European Real Estate Investment Trust Ltd, ACP Capital Ltd and Trinity Capital
Limited where he acts as a non-executive director; he is also chairman of the audit committee for the three entities. Private clients
include investment funds and a captive insurer. From 2003 to 2006, he was Managing Director of Investec Trust (Guernsey) Ltd
and Investec Administration Services Ltd, responsible for private client and institutional structures. Between 1997 and 2003 he
was a director of Bachmann Trust Company Ltd and previously he worked with Price Waterhouse specialising in financial services.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
David Moore (aged 50)
Non-Executive Director
David Moore is a resident of Guernsey. He is an advocate of the Royal Court of Guernsey and is a partner with Ozannes, the
Company’s lawyers in Guernsey. He has been with Ozannes since 1993 and before that spent 10 years practising in the City of
London, predominantly with Ashurst Morris Crisp. He specialises in corporate and financial matters and is a non-executive director
of a number of investment and insurance management companies, investment and insurance companies including Standard Life
Investments Property Income Trust Ltd of which he is non-executive chairman.
He is a member of the Audit Committee.
Christopher Sherwell (aged 63)
Non-Executive Director
Christopher Sherwell is a Guernsey resident and a former managing director of Schroders in the Channel Islands. Before joining
Schroders, he was Far East Regional Strategist in London and Hong Kong for Smith New Court Securities and prior to that spent
15 years as a journalist much of them as a foreign correspondent for the Financial Times. He has considerable public company
experience and acts as a non executive director on a number of publicly listed investment companies including Goldman Sachs
Dynamic Opportunities Ltd, where he is chairman, IRP Property Investments Ltd, Baker Steel Resources Trust Ltd and Hermes
Alternative Investment Fund Plc.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee. 14
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended
31 December 2010.
Principal activities
The Company is a Guernsey registered investment company and during the year carried on business as a property investment
company. 
Business review
A review of the business during the year is contained in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Report, Property Review and
Financial Review.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are set out in the attached financial statements.
The Company made a tender offer for ordinary shares during the year instead of offering an interim dividend. The amount paid out to
those tendering shares was the equivalent of a 1p per ordinary share dividend, (2009: 0.5p dividend). A final dividend of 1p is being
proposed at the Annual General Meeting (2009: 0.5p).
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Internal controls and an effective risk management regime are integral to the Group’s continued operation. The risk management
processes adopted by the Group are described within the Corporate Governance statement. The following section outlines the Group’s
principal risk and uncertainties.
Strategic Risks
A poorly executed or ineffective strategy may damage shareholder value, fail to meet shareholders’ expectations and have reputational
consequences for the Group. The principal risks to delivering our strategy are:
Risk
Our inability to anticipate,
manage and take advantage
of changes in the economic
environment.
Management treatments to mitigate principal risks
The Board monitors the external financial environment closely in the jurisdictions it operates and
establishes a number of strategic priorities to respond to anticipated changes in the economic
environment. The decision to focus on the Russian market and liquidate UK assets being one
such strategic outcome. During 2009, the slow down in the global economy and rapid
deterioration in international financial and property markets had an adverse impact on the
business but the inherent infrastructure undersupply in Russia should enhance the Group’s
returns as the market recovers.
Our ability to accurately
evaluate and enhance or
realise value from real estate
investment opportunities in 
the markets we operate in.
The Russian market has shown signs of recovery in 2010, especially in Moscow, which has
now become the primary focus for our Russian businesses in the short term. In the UK market,
various initiatives such as “rent to buy” schemes have been undertaken to stimulate residential
stock sales.
Directors’ Report 15
Directors’ Report – continued 
Financial Risks
The financial risks to which the Group is exposed could lead to the Group’s inability to meet shareholder expectations in terms of
returns and ultimately the financial viability of the Group. The principal risks are:
Deterioration in the Company’s
credit profile, a decline in debt
market conditions or a general
rise in interest rates could
impact the cost and availability
of borrowing.
The Group monitors changes in credit market conditions, and to the broader financial
environment, and seeks to optimise its use of difference sources of debt capital. Interest
rate sensitivity is mitigated by using fixed rate debt instruments or caps.
Foreign exchange rate changes
could reduce the US Dollar
value of assets and earnings.
The operational currency of Russian assets is Russian Rouble but the transaction currency is
US Dollars. To mitigate this, leases are pegged to US Dollar rates. Debt is raised in US Dollars
also. Capital instruments are denominated in Sterling and sufficient sterling cash is retained to
service these. However, the balance sheet is open to exchange rate movements on the carrying
value of our preference shares.
Potential taxation issues. As the Group operates in a number of jurisdictions, monitoring of cross border tax issues
and repatriation of funds is required. The Group has developed adequate presence in its key
jurisdictions of Guernsey, Cyprus and Russia to manage the risks that changing tax legislation
may present.
Risk
A material fall in the Group’s
property asset values or rental
income could lead to a breach
of financial covenants within
its credit facilities, which in turn
could lead to credit facilities
being cancelled.
Management treatments to mitigate principal risks
The Group has a Board approved funding and treasury strategy and monitors funding needs
regularly.
Financial covenant ratios are monitored and sensitised as part of normal financial planning
procedures. The majority of the Group’s financing facilities are project specific and non-recourse
in nature. This helps mitigate the risk of one facility breach having a knock on effect on the
Group’s balance sheet. This was demonstrated in 2009 when security on an onerous facility
was surrendered without significant balance sheet impact. This structure also assists in the
re-negotiation of financial covenants if required. The Group does not have significant gearing
and other than the occasion noted above, managed all facilities sufficiently without breach
throughout the crisis period in 2009. Directors’ Report – continued 
16
Real Estate and Development Risks
Real estate and development risks may impact income and the value of the Group’s property assets. The principal risks are:
Operational Risk
The Group’s inability to continue its operations may impact the reputation, revenue and value of the Group. The principal risks are:
Risk
Business and IT system
disruption.
Management treatments to mitigate principal risks
IT disaster recovery plans are in place and all data is stored remotely offsite for all offices.
Failing to attract, retain and
motivate key staff employees.
The Remuneration Committee and Executive Committee regularly reviews remuneration against
comparable market information. Employees have regular appraisals and documented
development plans.
A change or breach of
regulatory and local legal
requirements.
Regulatory compliance is managed with the assistance of external advisors. Changes in
Russian legal requirements are monitored by the in house legal department and with the use
of external advisors where required.
Risk
A potential loss of income and
increased vacancy due to
customer default, falling demand
or oversupply.
Management treatments to mitigate principal risks
The Group has developed a good tenant mix of both international and Russian tenants and
monitors the credit worthiness of its tenants and works closely with individual tenants facing
financial difficulty. The impact of transferring foreign exchange risk to tenants by the use of
US Dollar pegged leases is also monitored in times of US Dollar strength.
Given the stage of development of the Group, there has been no significant customer default
and vacant space relates to the introduction of new space into the market in 2009.
Failing to acquire or dispose
of assets at attractive prices.
The Group has built up a strong property team in Moscow that monitors the market and market
opportunities through a network of contacts and agents.
A decline in the value of
property assets due to market
conditions.
2009 saw the Russian market rapidly decline and property values drop below replacement
cost. The inherent undersupply in the market should assist in the recovery of those values
as new supply is constrained.
Development projects fail to
deliver the expected returns.
This may be due to increased
project costs, delays, changes
in customer demand, or a fall
in property market values.
All potential development projects are subject to a full technical and financial appraisal on which
Board approval is based. The strategic choice of the warehouse market as a focus was partly
based on the ability to build in phases and hence manage the risk of speculative builds in a
market downturn. All speculative development ceased in the second half of 2009.
Holding excess or insufficient
development land due to
unexpected changes in
customer demand.
The Executive Board review the land holding and acquisition policy of the Group and agree
a strategy for existing holdings and potential acquisitions. 17
Directors’ Report – continued 
Directors
The Directors, who served throughout the year were as follows:
Richard Jewson (Non-Executive Chairman)
Anton Bilton (Executive Deputy Chairman) 
Glyn Hirsch (Chief Executive Officer) 
Mark Sinclair (Chief Financial Officer) 
Colin Smith (Chief Operating Officer) 
Stephen Coe (Non-Executive Director)
David Moore (Non-Executive Director)
Christopher Sherwell (Non-Executive Director) 
At each annual general meeting of the Company, one third of the Directors shall retire from office. In addition, each Director shall retire
from office at the third annual general meeting after he was appointed or reappointed, if he would not otherwise fall within the Directors
to retire by rotation. A retiring Director shall be eligible for re-appointment.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration and shareholdings are included within the Remuneration Report.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company has been notified of shareholders, other than directors, holding 3% or more of the ordinary shares as follows:
Ordinary Shares of £0.01 Percentage
Name of holder Number held of share capital
Invesco Perpetual 115,443,388 21.74
Schroder Investment Management 76,490,819 14.41
Mackenzie Cundill Investment Management 59,000,000 11.11
F&C Asset Management Limited 26,413,490 4.97
Legal & General Investment Management 19,845,187 3.74
JO Hambro Capital Management 16,917,990 3.19
Substantial shareholders are stated as at 25 February 2011.
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going Concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings are described in the Financial Review and the notes
to the accompanying financial statements. In addition, in note 35 there is a description of the Group’s objectives and policies for
managing its capital, its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
During the year the Group had and continues to hold substantial cash and short term deposits. These were supplemented by the
increasing and profitable rental income stream and as a consequence the Directors believe the Group is well placed to manage its
business risks. The move to the main market of the London Stock Exchange during the year had further increased the liquidity in the
Company’s securities. 
After making enquiries and examining major areas which could give rise to significant financial exposure, the Board has a reasonable
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparation of these financial statements. 18
Directors’ Report – continued 
Directors’ responsibilities 
Guernsey company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Group at the end of the year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial
statements, the Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the financial statements; and
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Group will continue in
business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies
(Guernsey) Law, 2008 and IFRS as adopted by the EU. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware and each
has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge:
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, gives
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group.
The business review, which is incorporated into the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance
of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Mark Sinclair Colin Smith
Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer
13 March 2011 19
Corporate Governance
Combined Code
The Board is committed to maintaining a high standard of
corporate governance throughout the Groups’ operations.
The Financial Services Authority’s listing rules require the
Company to explain how it has applied the Main Principles
in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Financial
Reporting Council in June 2008 (the “Code”). This report,
together with the Directors’ and Remuneration Reports, set out
how the Company has done so. In the opinion of the Board,
the Company has complied fully with the provisions of the
Code. Alongside the Board’s review of compliance with the
Code, it has considered the new UK Corporate Governance
Code and the future changes to the Company’s corporate
governance activities that this will entail.
The Role of the Board
The Board is accountable for the governance processes within
the Group, and sets the parameters within which the Group
seeks to further the interests of shareholders, while monitoring
the performance of the executives to whom it delegates
management responsibility of the Group. The Board have
approved a formal schedule of matters reserved solely for its
consideration which includes:
• Strategy;
• Capital structure and dividends;
• Financial reporting including approving results;
• Internal control and risk management;
• Corporate governance; and 
• Material transaction activity.
The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities
through its Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Terms of references for each of these committees are reviewed
periodically by the Board and are made available on the
Company’s website, www.ravenrussia.com. An outline of each
of the Committees’ functions and responsibilities is included
below.
Board composition
During the year, the board comprised eight directors,
Non-Executive Chairman, Richard Jewson, four Executive
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. The Board
considers all the Non-Executive Directors (including the
Chairman) to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
The balance of skills and expertise of the Board ensures that
no individual or group of individuals dominate the Board’s
decision making, allowing for independent challenge and rigour
to the Board’s deliberations.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are undertaken
by Richard Jewson and Glyn Hirsch respectively, terms of
reference delineating clear divisions of responsibilities are
in place and reviewed on a regular basis.
Christopher Sherwell is the Senior Independent Director of
the Company.
David Moore is a partner in Mourant Ozannes, Advocates
and Notaries Public. Mourant Ozannes provide independent
Guernsey legal advice to the Group. Total legal fees paid to
Mourant Ozannes in the year ended 31 December 2010
amounted to £1,194 (2009: £58,070). Mr Moore refrains from
participation in and voting on any board resolutions concerning
the appointment or remuneration of Mourant Ozannes. The
other members of the Board consider that Mr Moore has
conducted himself and carried out his duties in relation to the
Company in a manner consistent with, and demonstrative of,
his independence. The Board considers, therefore, Mr Moore
to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Biographies for each director are included in the Directors’
Report. In accordance with the Articles, one third of the
Directors are required to retire by rotation. The Directors
retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in 2011
are Anton Bilton and Mark Sinclair. 
The full Board meets six times a year to consider general
matters affecting the Company and otherwise as required.
Committee meetings comprising any two or more Directors
meet on an ad hoc basis to consider transactional and related
matters concerning the Company’s business.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive
appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers
distributed in advance of any board meeting and regular
management information. All the Directors are entitled to have
access to independent professional advice at the Company’s
expense where they deem it necessary to discharge their
responsibilities as Directors. On appointment, a director
receives advice from the Company’s financial and other
professional advisers as to the affairs of the Company and their
responsibilities, an estimation of time commitments necessary
to undertake the role and a commitment to receive other such
training as may, from time to time, be appropriate. 20
Corporate Governance – continued
Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 31 December 2010
(where ‘N/A’ is shown, the director listed is not a member of the Committee)
Audit Nominations Remuneration
Board
(1)
Committee Committee Committee
R Jewson 74 12
A Bilton 7 N/A 1 N/A
G Hirsch 7 N/A N/A N/A
M Sinclair 7 N/A N/A N/A
C Smith 7 N/A N/A N/A
S Coe 54 N/A 3
C Sherwell 74 13
D Moore 74 N/A N/A
Number of meetings during the year 74 13
(1) In addition to the above Board meetings there were 41 Board Committee meetings held throughout the year
Board performance evaluation
The Board undertakes annual performance evaluations of it
and its Committees’ activities. These are led by the Chairman
and where dealing with the Chairman’s performance, by the
Senior Independent Director.
The performance evaluations during 2010 were facilitated
internally which took the form of a questionnaire and one
to one interview with the Chairman or Senior Independent
Director. The results, recommendations and actions, once
collated, were reviewed and discussed by the full Board during
the January 2011 and March 2011 Board meetings as part of
a wider corporate governance review of the Group. It was
concluded that the performance of the Board, its Committees
and individual directors were operating effectively and had the
necessary balance of skills and expertise required to direct
the business.
Board Committees
The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees to undertaken specific activities of
the Group’s affairs through delegated authority from the full
Board. Terms of reference for each Committee are agreed
and reviewed on a regular basis by the Board. Full terms
of reference for each Committee can be obtained from the
Company’s website. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Richard Jewson, David
Moore, Christopher Sherwell and Stephen Coe, being the
Chairman, who is considered to have recent and relevant
financial experience. The Committee meets at least twice a
year. There are a number of regular attendees at the meetings
of the Committee which include members of the Board, senior
management and the Group’s external auditors. The Chairman
of the Committee also meets with the external auditors without
management present.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the financial
performance of the Group is properly reported on and
monitored. The Committee reviews the annual and interim
accounts, results, management information statements,
announcements, internal control systems and risk
management, accounting policies of the Group and the
continuing appointment of the auditors. 
Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an
internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review
by the Committee. Although there is no formal internal audit
function, the Committee assesses the internal controls and risk
management of the Group on a regular basis and reports to
the Board accordingly.
During the year, the Committee has considered the
appointment, compensation and independence of the Group’s
auditor, Ernst & Young LLP . 
Having considered the ratio for non audit services performed
by Ernst & Young LLP , the Committee is satisfied that where
the auditors are used for non audit services, due to their
intrinsic knowledge of the Group’s activities, they were best
placed and offered commercial advantage to the Group in
performing these services. The policy for the provision of non
audit services is reviewed and confirmed by the Committee 21
Corporate Governance – continued
annually. For the year ended December 2010, fees payable to
Ernst & Young LLP totalled $1.483m of which 64% was for the
provision of non audit services. The magnitude of the ratio for
the year was due to their engagement as reporting
accountants and work surrounding the listing of the Ordinary
Shares and Warrants on the main market of the London Stock
Exchange and corporate transactions in the previous financial
year. Fee’s for this totalled $714,000. Assuming a reduction in
corporate transactional activity, it is expected that the ratio for
non audit to audit fees will decrease.
Ernst & Young LLP have provided the Committee with written
confirmation of their independence. The Committee has
recommended a resolution for their reappointment be
proposed to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises Anton Bilton,
Christopher Sherwell and Richard Jewson, who is Chairman.
The Committee undertakes an annual review of any succession
planning and ensures that the membership and composition
of the Board and its Committees are constituted appropriately,
with the necessary balance of skills and expertise to undertake
their roles effectively.
During the year the Committee reviewed and assessed the
performance of the Board and its Committees. It concluded that
the Board comprised the appropriate mix of skill and experience
for the ongoing activities of the Group. Should the Committee
consider it necessary to either refresh or enlarge the Board or its
Committees, acting in accordance with its terms of reference, a
rigorous and thorough evaluation will be undertaken by the
Committee in assessing the requirements of the Company and
Group so that the individual or individuals appointed will add
value to the ongoing activities of the business.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Stephen Coe,
Richard Jewson and Christopher Sherwell, who is Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year to
review the performance of Executive Directors and to
recommend their remuneration and other benefit packages.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the
Executive Directors. Full details of the activities undertaken by
the Committee during the year are included within the
Remuneration Committee Report. This Report will be subject
to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has overall responsibility for the systems of internal
control and for reviewing their effectiveness throughout the
Group and ensuring that there is a process that identifies,
evaluates, manages or eliminates the principal risks that may
affect the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives.
Such a system is designed to manage or reduce the effects of
the possible risks to which the Group’s activities are subject to,
rather than providing absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
Key features of the risk management process are:
• A comprehensive system of reporting and business
planning;
• A defined schedule of matters reserved for the Board;
• An organisation structure chart with clearly defined levels
of authority and division of responsibilities;
• Formal documented policies and procedures throughout
the Group;
• The close involvement of the Executive Directors and
senior management in all aspects of the day-to-day
operations, including regular meetings with senior
management to review all operational aspects of the
business and risk management systems;
• The Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on
objectives throughout the year;
• A formal whistle blowing policy;
• A comprehensive and robust system of financial reporting;
and
• A formal assessment of risks within the business
enshrined at all operational levels within the Group.
The Audit Committee has established a Risk Committee to
carry out the review and assessment of risks within the Group’s
activities. This Risk Committee comprises Executive Directors
and senior management involved in each operating jurisdiction
and activity of the Group. This process allows a bottom up,
as well as top down approach to risk assessment and ensures
that all significant principal risks to which the Group is subject
to are identified.
Investor relations
The Chief Executive, Executive Deputy Chairman and Chief
Financial Officer are the Company’s point of contact for
investors, fund managers, analysts, the press and other
interested parties. The Company’s investor relations
programme includes formal presentations of the annual and
interim results, as well as regular analyst briefings and
meetings.
The Board regularly receive reports on the Group’s investor
relations activities including any reports prepared by the
Company’s brokers and analysts following the Company. The Board believes that sustainable financial performance and
delivering on the objectives of the Company are indispensable
measures in order to build trust with the Company’s
shareholders. To promote a clear understanding of the
Company, its objectives and financial results, the Board aims to
ensure that information relating to the Company is disclosed in
a timely manner and in a format suitable to the shareholders of
the Company. The Company’s website has been developed to
facilitate communication with all shareholders. Communication
through these means allows our investors to receive
information in a timely and cost effective manner. 
The notice of AGM accompanies this report. A separate proxy
card is provided for Shareholders.
22
Corporate Governance – continued 23
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Remuneration policy principles
The Group’s remuneration policy aims to attract, retain and
incentivise high calibre executives and senior staff and to
align their interests with those of shareholders and other
stakeholders in the business. The Remuneration Committee
(“the Committee”) seeks to ensure that total remuneration is
at competitive levels compared to the Company’s peers in
the property sector, whilst taking into account the strategic
and geographical complexity of the business. No Director,
Executive or Non-Executive, is involved in deciding his own
remuneration. 
Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive
Directors, Stephen Coe, Richard Jewson and Christopher
Sherwell (Chairman). The Committee has responsibility for
determining policy and the framework for the remuneration
and employment arrangements of the Executive Directors
and senior management of the Company consistent with
the principles above. 
Executive Directors
Remuneration packages for Executive Directors include
performance-related and non-performance-related rewards
and comprise annual salaries, benefits such as life and health
insurance, pension contributions, performance-related bonuses
in cash and shares and share options.
Details of these payments in the year are shown in the
table below. The cash bonus amounts disclosed relate to
performance in 2009, and were determined by the Committee
following the announcement of the 2009 financial results in
March 2010.
Executive Directors may serve as Non-Executive Directors for
companies outside of the group and retain such fees which
may be paid to them. Glyn Hirsch is a Non-Executive Director
on Liontrust Asset Management Plc for which he receives a fee
of £27,400 per annum.
Basic salary and benefits
The Committee reviews basic salaries and the level and nature
of benefits provided to the Executive Directors and senior
management annually. Basic salary is the only element of the
Executive Directors’ remuneration which attracts pension
contributions.
As confirmed in last year’s Remuneration Committee Report,
Executive Directors received no salary increases in 2010 and
increases in 2011 will be limited to the increase in UK RPI. 
Benefits principally comprise life insurance, health insurance and
private healthcare subscriptions. The cost of these benefits for
Executive Directors is included in the table below. A contribution
of 10% of basic salary is made to each Executive Director for
his personal pension arrangements or direct to his personal
pension plan.
Directors’ remuneration details in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010
Salaries/ Cash Total Total Pension Pension
fees Bonuses Benefits 2010 2009 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive
A Bilton 480 – 11 491 418 45 39
G Hirsch 480 – 11 491 477 45 45
M Sinclair
(1)
300 100 2 402 578 30 23
C Smith 225 100 5 330 354 23 21
1,485 200 29 1,714 1,827 143 128
Non-executive
R Jewson 80 –– 80 80 ––
C Sherwell 40 –– 40 40 ––
S Coe 40 –– 40 40 ––
D Moore 40 –– 40 40 ––
200 –– 200 200 ––
(1) Reflects remuneration and benefits from date of appointment on 23 March 2009. 24
Directors’ Remuneration Report – continued
The contractual arrangements of the Executive Directors for 2011 are:
Contractual
Appointment Unexpired Notice termination
Salary Date term period payment
Director
A Bilton 494,000 27 November Rolling contract 12 months Payment 
2008 of 12
G Hirsch 494,000 27 November Rolling contract 12 months months
2008 salary and
M Sinclair 309,000 23 March 2009 Rolling contract 12 months benefits on
C Smith 232,000 14 November Rolling contract 12 months termination
2008
Bonus Plan
In 2009, the Committee designed a bonus plan for 2009, 2010
and 2011 which reduced the cash burden to the Group and
aligned Executive Directors and senior management with
shareholder interests. As set out in last year’s report, 15 million
of the 19 million Raven Russia shares previously held in
Treasury by the Company are being used as consideration for
bonuses for Executive Directors and senior management in
respect of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011. These shares were
acquired as part of the Raven Mount Group plc acquisition at
a cost of 23.5p per share and had a market value of 62.5p per
share at 31 December 2010. They are held by the Company’s
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) for this purpose. 
Regarding the objectives set out in last year’s report, the
following decisions were made during the year in respect
of 2009:
1. No cash bonuses were paid to Anton Bilton or
Glyn Hirsch and cash bonuses of £100,000 were
paid to each of Mark Sinclair and Colin Smith.
2. Of the 15 million shares held by the EBT, an allocation
of 5.9 million was made available for distribution to the
Executive Directors and senior management for
performance targets met in 2009. 5.6 million of these
were issued to Executive Directors and senior
management in 2010. The allocation to Executive
Directors is shown in the table below under the column
headed “2009 Awards”. Recipients may not sell their
shares for at least one year, barring a change of control
of the Company. This allocation was satisfied by awards
announced on 23 April 2010 and 30 June 2010.
In respect of 2010, the Committee has determined that:
4.7 million shares will be allocated to satisfy bonuses for
Executive Directors and senior management for 2010, with
awards based on continuing employment and personal targets.
No cash bonuses for 2010 will be awarded to Anton Bilton and
Glyn Hirsch. Mark Sinclair and Colin Smith will receive
£100,000 each, following the issue of these financial
statements.
The objectives set for 2010 and that were considered by
the Committee included:
• Successful listing of the Company’s ordinary shares
on the Official List;
• Letting target of 200,000 square metres;
• Annualised NOI target of $90 million (including Baltia
and PLAs);
• Treasury management with maintenance of cash
buffer;
• Maintaining local and international tenants with
strong covenants;
• Asset and tenant management including operating
expenditure targets;
• Management and expansion of debt relationships;
• Internal control and risk management; and
• Proactive shareholder relations programme.
The Remuneration Committee met during March 2011
and was satisfied that the targets had been met and that
awards to Directors as set out in the table below (column
headed “2010 Awards”) would be made, following the
announcement of these results
Number of
Ordinary Shares
2009 2010
awards
(1)
awards
A Bilton 1,500,000 900,000
G Hirsch 1,500,000 900,000
M Sinclair 775,000 775,000
C Smith 160,000 160,000
(1) Awards announced on 23 April 2010 and 30 June 2010. 25
Directors’ Remuneration Report – continued
In respect of 2011, the Remuneration Committee will have
discretion to issue up to a maximum of 4.4 million shares to
the Executive Directors and Senior Management based on the
Committee’s assessment of Group performance against certain
financial and share price indicators.The Committee will have
the discretion to issue the awards on a sliding scale based on:
• Annualised Net Operating Income targets up to
$115 million per annum;
• Dividend cover targets and/or a share price or diluted NAV
per share target of 75p;
• Treasury management with maintenance of cash buffer;
• Maintaining local and international tenants with strong
covenants;
• Asset and tenant management including operating
expenditure targets;
• Management and expansion of debt relationships;
• Internal control and risk management; and
• Proactive shareholder relations programme.
Any awards based on these targets assume that the senior
management remain in employment at 31 December 2011 and
would be made, following the issue of the audited financial
statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Together with the existing share schemes described below, this
allows senior management to hold up to 5.7% of existing share
capital and 4.9% of diluted share capital through bonus and
incentive schemes. This compares to the authority given to the
Property Advisor at the time of listing, to acquire new shares
up to a maximum of 7.5% of the issued share capital of the
Company for its incentive schemes. Using existing shares held
by the EBT also minimises any dilutive impact.
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
The Group operates two ESOS in which the Executive
Directors participate. These schemes were approved by
shareholders on 28 August 2008 and 24 March 2009 and
replaced ESOS that had been put in place for the Property
Advisor prior to its acquisition by the Company in November
2008. Options are granted by the Company’s EBT, whose
Trustees are independent of the Company but will consider
the recommendations of the Committee as to the granting
of awards under the schemes. 
(a) Executive Retention Scheme (ERS)
This scheme was introduced for certain Executive
Directors and Senior Managers at the time of the
acquisition of the Property Advisor. The EBT currently
holds the 5 million ordinary shares for this scheme. The
options it grants over these shares are exercisable from
the date of publication of the audited financial statements
of Raven Russia Limited for the year ended 31 December
2010. The options do not have an exercise price,
dividends roll up during the life of the option and the sole
vesting condition is that the scheme member remains in
the employment of the Group until the first exercise date.
Anton Bilton and Glyn Hirsch do not participate in this
scheme.
(b) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
All employees of the Group are eligible to receive
invitations to participate in this scheme. The EBT currently
holds the 10 million ordinary shares reserved for this
scheme. The options it grants over these shares vest in
three equal tranches, subject to performance criteria, on
24 March 2012, 24 March 2013 and 24 March 2014. 
Performance criteria for each tranche is based on meeting
a target, total shareholder return of 7.5% over UK RPI in
each of the following three year periods, with a starting
share price of 25p:
• 24 March 2009 to 24 March 2012;
• 24 March 2010 to 24 March 2013; and
• 24 March 2011 to 24 March 2014.
Dividends roll up during the vesting period and options
granted under this scheme have an exercise price of 25p.
The Directors’ interests in the ESOS are set out below:
Number of Shares
ERS LTIP Total
A Bilton – 810,811 810,811
G Hirsch – 1,000,000 1,000,000
M Sinclair 1,000,000 1,000,000 2,000,000
C Smith 125,000 500,000 625,000
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined
by the Committee in consultation with the wider Board,
including in particular the Executive Deputy Chairman and
the Chief Executive. The Committee believes the pay of the
Non-Executive Directors reflects their commitment of time and
the responsibilities of their roles. No Non-Executive Director is
entitled to any form of performance-related remuneration,
including share options. 26
Directors’ Remuneration Report – continued
The contractual arrangements for 2011 of the Non-Executives Directors are set out below. 
Contractual
Appointment Unexpired Notice termination
Fees Date term period payment
Non-Executive Director
R Jewson 80,000 29 June 2007 Rolling contract 3 months No provision for 
S Coe 42,000 4 July 2005 Rolling contract 3 months payment on 
D Moore 42,000 4 July 2005 Rolling contract 3 months termination
C Sherwell 42,000 1 April 2008 Rolling contract 3 months
Performance graph
The graph below shows the performance of the Company’s ordinary shares relative to the FTSE Real Estate Sector Index for the year
ended 31 December 2010.
80
100
120
140
160
FTSE 350 SS Real Estate
Raven Russia
01/01/11
01/12/10
01/11/10
01/10/10
01/09/10
01/08/10
01/07/10
01/06/10
01/05/10
01/04/10
01/03/10
01/02/10
01/01/10
Source: FactSet. 27
Directors’ Remuneration Report – continued 
Interests of Executive and Non-Executive Directors in Ordinary Shares, Preference Shares and
Warrants 
The beneficial interests of the Directors in office at 31 December 2010 in the ordinary shares, preference shares and warrants of the
Company, both at the beginning (or date of appointment if later) and the end of the year, are set out below:
Director Number of Number of Number of
ordinary shares preference shares warrants
31 December 2010 31 December 2010 31 December 2010
R Jewson 123,653 125,127 15,157 
A Bilton
(1)
17,107,277 27,281,549 15,082,944 
G Hirsch
(1)
1,944,024 3,549,910 2,292,817 
M Sinclair 614,779 150,887 7,332 
C Smith 74,100 89,178 7,385 
C Sherwell 29,000 100,712 –
S Coe 72,727 51,933 31,997 
D Moore 101,779 57,052 40,557 
20,067,339 31,406,348 17,478,189
Director Number of Number of Number of
ordinary shares preference shares warrants
31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2009
R Jewson 194,229 21,811 20,500 
A Bilton
(1)
19,373,757 21,005,339 20,569,345 
G Hirsch
(1)
472,175 3,133,050 3,124,650 
M Sinclair 16,797 20,887 10,000 
C Smith 11,569 31,710 10,443 
C Sherwell 29,000 ––
S Coe 63,000 37,599 25,000 
D Moore 89,564 57,052 55,310 
20,250,091 24,307,448 23,815,248
(1) Includes ordinary and preference shares and warrants held by an Employer Funded Retirement Benefit Scheme We have audited the financial statements of Raven Russia
Limited for the year ended 31 December 2010 which
comprise Group Income Statement, the Group Statement
of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Financial
Position, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group
Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 39.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European
Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as
a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies
(Guernsey) Law, 2008 and our engagement letter dated
17 August 2010. Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the company’s members those matters we
are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and
auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities
Statement,the directors are responsible for the preparation of
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express
an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the company’s circumstances and have been
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information
in the Raven Russia Limited annual report and financial
statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs
as at 31 December 2010. and of its profit for the year
then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements
of the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008.
Matters on which we are required to report
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Where, under the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008, we
are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• proper accounting records have not been kept; or
• the financial statements are not in agreement with
the accounting records; or
• we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit.
Where, under the Listing Rules, we are required to review
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating
to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Craig Hughes
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
London
13 March 2011
Notes:
1. ThemaintenanceandintegrityoftheRavenRussiaweb
siteistheresponsibilityofthedirectors;theworkcarried
outbytheauditorsdoesnotinvolveconsiderationof
thesemattersand,accordingly,theauditorsacceptno
responsibilityforanychangesthatmayhaveoccurredto
thefinancialstatementssincetheywereinitiallypresented
onthewebsite.
2. LegislationinGuernseygoverningthepreparationand
disseminationoffinancialstatementsmaydifferfrom
legislationinotherjurisdictions.
28
Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Group Income Statement
29
For the year ended 31 December 2010
2010 2009
Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total
Notes US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Gross revenue 4/5 130,628 – 130,628 112,204 – 112,204
Property operating expenditure
and cost of sales (69,553) – (69,553) (61,880) – (61,880)
Net rental and related income 61,075 – 61,075 50,324 – 50,324
Administrative expenses 4/6 (31,364) – (31,364) (33,662) – (33,662)
Share-based payments 32 (6,427) – (6,427) (190) – (190)
Foreign currency profits/(losses) 1,985 – 1,985 1,020 (4,117) (3,097) 
Operating expenditure (35,806) – (35,806) (32,832) (4,117) (36,949)
Operating profit/(loss) before 
profits and losses on 
investment property 25,269 – 25,269 17,492 (4,117) 13,375
Profit on disposal of investment 
property – 12,178 12,178 –– –
Unrealised profit/(loss) on 
revaluation of investment property 11 – 62,798 62,798 – (57,933) (57,933)
Unrealised profit/(loss) on 
revaluation of investment property 
under construction 12 – 16,453 16,453 – (50,544) (50,544)
Operating profit/(loss) 25,269 91,429 116,698 17,492 (112,594) (95,102)
Finance income 7 2,483 1,370 3,853 3,952 866 4,818
Finance expense 7 (64,839) – (64,839) (57,120) (892) (58,012)
(Loss)/profit before tax (37,087) 92,799 55,712 (35,676) (112,620) (148,296)
Tax 8 (1,838) (12,389) (14,227) 6,914 2,103 9,017
(Loss)/profit for the year (38,925) 80,410 41,485 (28,762) (110,517) (139,279)
Earnings per share: 9
Basic (cents) –– 8.41 –– (28.49)
Diluted (cents) –– 7.40 –– (28.49)
Adjusted (EPRA) earnings 9
per share:
Basic (cents) –– (7.68) –– (7.04)
Diluted (cents) –– (7.68) –– (7.04)
The total column of this statement represents the Group’s Income Statement, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by
the EU. The revenue and capital columns are both supplied as supplementary information permitted by IFRS as adopted by the EU. 
All items in the above statement derive from continuing operations.
All income is attributable to the equity holders of the parent company. There are no non-controlling interests.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement. Heading
30
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2010
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Profit/(loss) for the year 41,485 (139,279)
Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets – 753
Foreign currency translation 2,661 (45,279)
Deferred tax relating to foreign currency translation 661 3,693
Other comprehensive income, net of tax 3,322 (40,833)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 44,807 (180,112)
All income is attributable to the equity holders of the parent company. There are no non-controlling interests.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement. 31
As at 31 December 2010
2010 2009
Notes US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets
Investment property 11 942,950 878,775
Investment property under construction 12 106,741 101,280
Plant and equipment 6,682 7,663
Intangible assets 13 13,498 13,442
Other receivables 16 15,522 18,214
Derivative financial instruments 19 347 195
Deferred tax assets 26 61,219 61,176
1,146,959 1,080,745
Current assets
Inventory 17 56,341 61,403
Trade and other receivables 18 34,737 68,815
Available for sale financial assets – 4,232
Derivative financial instruments 19 102 –
Cash and short term deposits 20 107,641 123,710
198,821 258,160
Disposal group assets classified as held for sale 21 – 51,654
Total assets 1,345,780 1,390,559
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 47,938 62,852
Derivative financial instruments 19 1,682 474
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 89,845 97,597
139,465 160,923
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 342,205 347,973
Preference shares 24 217,425 219,444
Other payables 25 25,168 34,249
Derivative financial instruments 19 4,439 6,166
Deferred tax liabilities 26 36,714 24,267
625,951 632,099
Liabilities associated with disposal groups classified as held for sale 21 – 51,654
Total liabilities 765,416 844,676
Net assets 580,364 545,883
Equity
Share capital 27 10,196 9,924
Share premium 55,119 46,858
Warrants 28 6,033 8,584
Own shares held 29 (12,241) (13,841)
Special reserve 852,802 870,692
Capital reserve (71,152) (151,562)
Translation reserve (109,354) (112,676)
Retained earnings (151,039) (112,096)
Total equity 30 580,364 545,883
Net asset value per share (dollars): 31
Basic 1.16 1.14
Diluted 1.01 0.97
Adjusted net asset value per share (dollars): 31
Basic 1.20 1.17
Diluted 1.05 0.99
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Sinclair Colin Smith
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
Group Balance Sheet 32
Group Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2010
2010 2009
Notes US$’000 US$’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) before tax 55,712 (148,296)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 6 2,188 1,344
Finance income 7 (3,853) (4,818)
Finance expense 7 64,839 58,012
Profit on disposal of investment property (12,178) –
Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investment property 11 (62,798) 57,933
Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investment property under construction 12 (16,453) 50,544
Foreign exchange (profits)/losses arising from non-operating activities (1,985) 3,097
Recognised share-based payments 32 6,427 190
31,899 18,006
Increase in operating receivables 5,456 (9,365)
Decrease/(increase) in other operating current assets 8,163 (224)
(Decrease)/increase in operating payables (9,420) 7,006
36,098 15,423
Tax paid (2,960) (514)
Net cash generated from operating activities 33,138 14,909
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments for investment property under construction (35,669) (138,345)
Decrease in VAT recoverable on construction 26,646 46,495
Proceeds from disposal of investment property 43,451 –
Cash disposed with subsidiary undertakings (3,534) –
Capital expenditure – (1,113)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – (3,578)
Cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings – 31,211
Loans repaid 722 –
Settlement of maturing forward currency financial instruments 7 409 (892)
Interest received 7 2,483 2,043
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 34,508 (64,179)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from long term borrowings 53,594 115,791
Repayment of long term borrowings (63,622) (110,784)
Repayment of other borrowings – (5,713)
Borrowing costs paid (31,611) (27,069)
Proceeds from issue of preference shares and warrants – 106,999
Exercise of warrants 27/28 1,606 –
Purchase of warrants 28 (5,467) –
Purchase of ordinary shares 27 (8,047) –
Dividends paid on preference shares (24,599) (19,226)
Ordinary dividends paid 10 (3,949) (4,048)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (82,095) 55,950
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (14,449) 6,680
Opening cash and cash equivalents 123,782 108,435
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1,692) 8,667
Closing cash and cash equivalents 39 107,641 123,782
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement. Group Statement of Changes in Equity
33
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Own
Share Share Shares Special Capital Translation Retained
Capital Premium Warrants Held Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Total
Notes US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
For the year ended 31 December 2009
At 1 January 2009 9,921 46,791 –– 870,692 (41,798) (71,090) (79,476) 735,040
Loss for the year –– –– –– (139,279) (139,279)
Other comprehensive income –– –– – 753 (41,586) – (40,833)
Total comprehensive income for the year –– –– – 753 (41,586) (139,279) (180,112)
Warrants issued 28 –– 8,593 –– –– – 8,593
Warrants exercised 27/28 3 67 (9) –– –– – 61
Own shares acquired 29 –– – (13,841) (13,841)
Ordinary dividends paid 10 –– –– ––– (4,048) (4,048)
Share-based payment expense 32 –– –– ––– 190 190
Transfer in respect of capital losses –– –– – (110,517) – 110,517 –
At 31 December 2009 9,924 46,858 8,584 (13,841) 870,692 (151,562) (112,676) (112,096) 545,883
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Profit for the year –– –– ––– 41,485 41,485
Other comprehensive income –– –– –– 3,322 – 3,322
Total comprehensive income for the year –– –– –– 3,322 41,485 44,807
Warrants exercised 27/28 71 1,820 (285) –– –– – 1,606
Warrant offer 27/28 340 14,349 (2,266) – (17,890) –– – (5,467)
Own shares disposed 29 –– – 1,600 –– – 1,809 3,409
Ordinary shares cancelled 27 (139) (7,908) –– –– –– (8,047)
Ordinary dividends paid 10 –– –– ––– (3,949) (3,949)
Share-based payment expense 32 –– –– ––– 2,122 2,122
Transfer in respect of capital profits –– –– – 80,410 – (80,410) –
At 31 December 2010 10,196 55,119 6,033 (12,241) 852,802 (71,152) (109,354) (151,039) 580,364
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement. Notes to the Financial Statements
34
For the year ended 31 December 2010
1. General information
Raven Russia Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”) is a property investment group specialising
in commercial real estate in Russia.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in Guernsey under the provisions of the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008.
The Company’s registered office is 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 6EH.
The audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 comprise the Company and its
subsidiaries and were authorised by the Board for issue on 13 March 2011.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008, section 244, not
to prepare company financial statements as group financial statements have been prepared for both current and prior periods.
The group financial statements are presented in US Dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars ($000)
except where otherwise indicated.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the group financial statements are set out below. The policies
have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies. The areas involving a high
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are
disclosed in note 3.
Statement of compliance 
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
adopted for use in the European Union (“IFRS”) and the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except that the Group has adopted
the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC intepretations as of 1 January 2010:
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised) and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Amended) 
IAS 17 Leases (Amendment) 
The principal effects of these changes on the financial statements of the Group are as follows: 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised) and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Amended)
The revised standards are effective prospectively for business combinations effected in financial periods beginning on or after
1 July 2009.
IFRS 3 (Revised) introduces a number of changes that could impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results
in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results. Insofar as the Group is concerned the principal change
is that direct costs associated with an acquisition will be expensed as incurred whereas previously the Group included such
costs in the calculation of goodwill.
IAS 27 (Amended) requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary (without loss of control) is accounted for as
an equity transaction. Therefore, any such transaction would no longer give rise to goodwill or a gain or loss. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
35
The adoption of these amendments and revisions did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the
Group.
IAS 17 Leases (Amendment) 
The amendment requires that in determining whether the lease of land (either separately or in combination with other property)
is an operating or a finance lease, the same criteria are applied as for any other asset. Depending on the circumstances of the
particular lease this may mean that disposals of land via a long lease are treated as a disposal under a finance lease rather
than the issue of an operating lease. The adoption of this amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or
performance of the Group.
The IASB also issued various other interpretations and amendments to standards that did not have any effect on the financial
performance or financial position of the Group and in many cases did not have any relevance to the activities of the Group.
These were:
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions 
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Eligible Hedged Items 
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners 
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers 
Improvements to IFRSs (April 2009) 
Certain new interpretations and amendments or revisions to existing standards, which may be relevant to the Group, have
been published that are mandatory for later accounting periods and which have not been adopted early. These are:
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (Revised) effective 1 January 2011 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2013 
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation – Classification of rights issues (Amendment) effective 1 February 2010 
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement (Amendment) effective 1 January 2011 
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective 1 July 2010 
Improvements to IFRSs (2010)
The Group is currently assessing the impact of these changes on its financial statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries and the special
purpose vehicles (“SPVs’) controlled by the Company, made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the
Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefit from its
activities.
The Group has acquired investment properties through the purchase of SPVs. In the opinion of the Directors, these
transactions did not meet the definition of a business combination as set out in IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”. Accordingly
the transactions have not been accounted for as an acquisition of a business and instead the financial statements reflect the
substance of the transactions, which is considered to be the purchase of investment property and investment property under
construction.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Income Statement from the effective
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of entities acquired to bring the accounting policies into
line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenditure are eliminated on consolidation.  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
36
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the interest in the fair value of identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Cost comprises the fair values of assets given, liabilities assumed and equity
instruments issued. For business combinations after 1 January 2010, transaction costs associated with an acquisition are
expensed as incurred.
Goodwill is capitalised with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the Income Statement. Impairment tests on
goodwill are undertaken annually at the financial year end. Impairment charges are included in the administrative expenses
line item in the Income Statement. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.
Where the interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired exceeds the cost of the
combination, the resulting negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Joint ventures 
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake economic activity that is subject to joint
control. The Group undertakes its joint ventures through jointly controlled entities. The group financial statements include the
Group’s proportionate share of these entities’ assets, liabilities, income and expenditure on a line by line basis from the date
on which joint control commences to the date on which joint control ceases. Any premium paid for an interest in a jointly
controlled entity above the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is accounted
for in accordance with the goodwill accounting policy.
Revenue recognition 
(a) Property investment 
Rental income from operating leases is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rental increases
calculated with reference to an underlying index and the resulting rental income (“contingent rents”) are recognised in income
as they are determined.
Incentives for lessees to enter into lease agreements are spread evenly over the lease term, even if the payments are not made
on such a basis. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease, together with any further term for which the tenant
has the option to continue the lease, where, at the inception of the lease, the directors are reasonably certain that the tenant
will exercise that option.
Premiums received to terminate leases are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise. 
(b) Roslogistics 
Logistics revenue, excluding value added tax, is recognised as services are provided. 
(c) Raven Mount 
The sales of completed properties and land are recognised on legal completion. 
Where property is under development and agreement has been reached to sell such property when construction is complete,
the Directors consider whether the contract comprises:
a contract to construct a property; or 
a contract for the sale of a completed property. 
All of the Group’s contracts of this type are considered to be contracts for construction of property and revenue is recognised
using the percentage to complete method as construction progresses. The percentage of work completed is measured based
on costs incurred up until the end of the reporting period as a proportion of total costs expected to be incurred. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
37
Taxation 
The Company is a limited company registered in Guernsey, Channel Islands, and is exempt from taxation. The Group is liable
to Russian, UK and Cypriot tax arising on the results of its Russian, UK and Cypriot operations.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
(a) Current tax 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit (or loss) as reported in the
Income Statement because it excludes items of income and expenditure that are taxable or deductible in other years and it
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
(b) Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities
in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Unrecognised
deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable
that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset
realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax is charged
or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against
current tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
(c) Value added tax 
Revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities are recognised net of the amount of value added tax except: 
Where the value added tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which
case the value added tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expenditure item as
applicable; and
Receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of value added tax included. 
The net amount of value added tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables
or payables, as appropriate, in the balance sheet.
Investment property and investment property under construction 
Investment property comprises completed property and property under construction held to earn rentals or for capital
appreciation or both. Investment property comprises both freehold and leasehold land and buildings. 
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs. After initial recognition, investment
property is carried at fair value. The Directors assess the fair value of investment property based on independent valuations
carried out by their appointed property valuers or on independent valuations prepared for banking purposes. The Group has
appointed Jones Lang LaSalle as property valuers to prepare valuations on a semi-annual basis. Valuations are undertaken Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
38
in accordance with appropriate sections of the current Practice Statements contained in the Royal Institution of Chartered
Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Standards, 6th Edition (the “Red Book”). This is an internationally accepted basis of
valuation. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in the Income Statement
in the period in which they arise. 
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the construction of investment property are included in the cost of the property
from the date of commencement of construction until construction is completed.
Where properties are acquired through corporate acquisitions and there are no significant assets or liabilities other than
property, the acquisition is treated as an asset acquisition. In all other cases the acquisition is accounted for as a business
combination, in which case, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture are measured at their estimated fair value
at the date of acquisition.
Leasing (as lessors) 
Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the asset are
classified as operating leases. All of the Group’s properties are leased under operating leases and are included in investment
property in the balance sheet.
Inventory 
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Such inventory includes land, work in progress and completed
units that are available for sale. As residential development is speculative by nature, most inventory is not covered by forward
sale contracts.
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the categories discussed below, depending upon the purpose for which the
asset was acquired. The Group has not classified any of its financial assets as held to maturity.
(a) Fair value through profit or loss 
This category comprises only in-the-money derivatives (see financial liabilities policy for out-of-the-money derivatives), which
are carried at fair value with changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement in finance income or finance
expense.
(b) Loans and receivables 
These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. In the
case of the Group, loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, loans and cash and short term deposits.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value, plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to their
acquisition or issue, and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for
impairment. 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. The amount of the impairment
loss is recognised in administrative expenses. If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss decreases and
the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment is recognised, the previously recognised
impairment loss is reversed. Any such reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and short term deposits include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short term highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less.
(c) Available-for-sale financial investments 
These comprise the Group’s investment in unquoted equity securities and are presented as available for sale financial assets
on the balance sheet. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
39
Available-for-sale financial investments are carried at fair value with changes in the fair value recognised as other
comprehensive income in the capital reserve until the investment is disposed of, at which time the cumulative gain or loss
is recognised in other operating income.
Financial liabilities and equity 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered
into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its
liabilities. Equity comprises ordinary shares and listed warrants.
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into one of the categories listed below. 
(a) Fair value through profit or loss 
This category comprises only out-of-the-money derivatives, which are carried at fair value with changes in the fair value
recognised in the income statement in finance income or finance expense.
(b) Other financial liabilities 
Other financial liabilities include interest bearing loans, trade payables (including rent deposits and retentions under
construction contracts), preference shares and other short-term monetary liabilities.
Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently carried at
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest bearing loans and preference shares are initially recorded at fair value net of direct issue costs and subsequently
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement
or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement using the effective interest method. 
For capital risk management, the Directors consider both the ordinary and preference shares to be permanent capital of the
Company, with similar rights as to cancellation.
Own shares held 
Own equity instruments which are reacquired are recognised at cost and deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised
in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference
between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognised in retained earnings.
Share-based payments 
The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees (including senior executives) and service
providers. 
The cost of equity-settled transactions is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. Fair
value is determined by an external valuer, using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account
is taken of any service and performance conditions (vesting conditions), other than performance conditions linked to the price
of the shares of the Company (market conditions). Any other conditions, which are required to be met in order for an employee
to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Like market conditions, non-vesting
conditions are taken into account in determining the fair value at grant date.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which
the performance and service conditions are fulfilled. The cumulative expense is recognised at each reporting date until the
vesting date, reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity
instruments that will ultimately vest. The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in
cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is
conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market
or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and service conditions are satisfied. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
40
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet
recognised for the award is recognised immediately. This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control
of either the entity or the employee are not met.
Foreign currency translation 
(a) Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each Group entity are measured in the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (the “functional currency”). For the Company the directors consider this to be Sterling.
The presentation currency of the Group is United States Dollars, which the directors consider to be the key currency for the
Group’s operations as a whole.
(b) Transactions and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at
the year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income
statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates at the date of the initial transaction or when
their fair values are reassessed.
(c) On consolidation 
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation
currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet; 
(ii) income and expenditure for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rate prevailing in the period;
and
(iii) all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
On consolidation, the exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are recognised
in other comprehensive income. When a foreign entity is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income
statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity
are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Dividends 
Dividends to the Company’s ordinary shareholders are recognised when they become legally payable. In the case of interim
dividends, this is when declared by the directors. In the case of final dividends, this is when it is approved by the shareholders
at an AGM.
3. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group makes certain estimates and judgements regarding the future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated
and are based on historical experience as adjusted for current market conditions and other factors. The resulting accounting
estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and judgements that have a significant risk
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are outlined
below.
(a) Valuation of investment property and investment property under construction 
The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar lease and other contracts. In the absence
of such information, the Group determines the amount within a range of reasonable, fair value estimates. In making its
judgement the Group considers information from a variety of sources and engages external, professional advisers to carry out
third party valuations of its properties. These are completed in accordance with appropriate sections of the current Practice
Statements contained in the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Standards, 6th Edition (the “Red
Book”). This is an internationally accepted basis of valuation. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
41
In completing these valuations, the valuers use their market knowledge and professional judgement and consider the following: 
(i) current prices in an active market for properties of a different nature, condition or location (or subject to different lease or
other contracts), adjusted to reflect those differences;
(ii) recent prices of similar properties in less active markets, with adjustments to reflect any changes in economic conditions
since the date of the transactions occurred at those prices; and
(iii) discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows, derived from the terms of any existing
lease or other contracts and (where possible) from external evidence such as current market rents for similar properties
in the same location and condition, and using discount rates that reflect current market assessments of the uncertainty
in the amount and timing of cash flows.
All of the above require the valuers to make estimations and assumptions. In a market where transactional activity is minimal,
the valuers are required to use a greater degree of estimation or judgement than in a market where comparable transactions
are readily available.
(b) Income tax 
As part of the process of preparing its financial statements, the Group is required to estimate the provision for income tax in
each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. This process involves an estimation of the actual current tax exposure, together
with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These
differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in the balance sheet.
Russian tax legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which may occur frequently. The interpretation of
legislation which the Group applies to its transactions and activities may be challenged by the relevant regional and federal
authorities. Additionally there may be inconsistent interpretation of tax regulations by various authorities, creating uncertainties
in the taxation environment in Russia. Fiscal periods remain open to review by the authorities for the three calendar years
preceding the years of review and in some circumstances may cover a longer period. Additionally, there have been instances
where tax regulations have taken effect retrospectively.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income tax and the recognition of deferred tax assets and
liabilities.
(c) Recognition of deferred tax assets 
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be
available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted. Recognition, therefore, involves
judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset
has been recognised.
(d) Acquisitions of investment property 
The consideration payable in respect of each acquisition is dependent upon certain future events. In calculating the cost of
each acquisition the Group has assessed the most probable outcome as at the balance sheet date. These amounts are
reconsidered annually at each year end. The assessments include consideration of the future rental levels and costs of
construction of a property as well as the terms of the legal agreements governing each acquisition. Based on these factors
management will consider whether a liability or a contingent liability should be recognised or disclosed at the balance sheet
date.
(e) Classification of a joint venture or subsidiary undertaking 
The Group’s investment property and investment property under construction is typically held in a property specific SPV, which
may be legally structured as a joint venture with a development partner, though in substance reflects the Group’s investment in
a wholly owned subsidiary. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
42
In assessing whether a particular SPV is accounted for as a subsidiary or joint venture, the Group considers all of the
contractual terms of the arrangement, including the extent to which the responsibilities and parameters of the development
are determined in advance of the joint venture agreement being agreed between the two parties. The Group will then consider
whether it has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the SPV, so as to obtain benefits from its activities,
and the existence of any legal disputes or challenges to this control in order to conclude on the classification of the SPV as
a joint venture or subsidiary undertaking.
(f) Inventory 
The Group is required to allocate site wide development costs between units being built or completed in the current period
and those for future periods. In making such assessments and allocations, there is a degree of inherent estimation uncertainty.
The Group has established internal controls designed to effectively assess and review inventory carrying values and ensure the
appropriateness of the estimates made.
4. Segmental information 
The Group has three operating segments, which are managed and report independently to the Board of the Group.
These comprise:
Property investment – acquire, develop and lease commercial property in Russia and the CIS 
Roslogistics – provision of warehousing, transport, customs brokerage and related services in Russia and the CIS 
Raven Mount – construct and sell residential property in the UK 
Financial information relating to investment property is provided to the Board on a property by property basis. The information
provided is gross rentals, operating costs, net operating income, revaluation gains and losses and where relevant the profit or
loss on disposal of an investment property. The individual properties have similar economic characteristics and are aggregated
into a single reporting segment.
Information about Raven Mount provided to the Board comprises the gross sale proceeds, inventory cost of sales and gross
profit, including the share of profits or losses of its joint venture.
Roslogistics is a discrete business and the Board is presented with turnover, cost of sales and operating profits or losses after
deduction of administrative expenses.
Administrative expenses are reported to the Board by segment. Foreign currency gains or losses, finance income and finance
expense are not reported to the Board on a segment basis. Sales between segments are eliminated prior to provision of
financial information to the Board.
The segmental information reported reflects the management information provided to the Board, previously property
investment income and logistics revenues were reported net of associated direct costs. Comparative amounts have been
restated accordingly.
For the balance sheet, segmental information is provided in relation to investment property, inventory, cash balances and
borrowings. Whilst segment liabilities includes loans and borrowings, segment loss does not include the related finance costs.
If such finance costs were included in segment loss, the loss from investment property would have increased by US$36,504k
(2009: US$35,249k) and the loss from Raven Mount by US$13,520k (2009: US$9,617k). Aggregate segment loss would have
increased by US$50,024k (2009: US$44,866k). Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
43
Year ended 31 December 2010 
Property Raven Segment Central
Investment Roslogistics Mount Total Overhead Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Gross income 91,236 21,584 17,808 130,628 – 130,628
Operating costs/cost of sales (40,877) (15,816) (12,860) (69,553) – (69,553)
Net operating income 50,359 5,768 4,948 61,075 – 61,075
Administrative expenses
Running general & administration 
expenses (13,216) (3,377) (3,060) (19,653) (6,149) (25,802)
Listing costs –––– (2,017) (2,017)
Closure costs – (1,357) – (1,357) – (1,357)
Depreciation (573) (1,599) (16) (2,188) – (2,188)
Share-based payments (1,310) –– (1,310) (5,117) (6,427)
Foreign currency profits –––– 1,985 1,985
Operating profit/(loss) before 
profits on investment property 35,260 (565) 1,872 36,567 (11,298) 25,269
Profit on disposal of investment 
property 12,178 –– 12,178 – 12,178
Unrealised profit on revaluation of 
investment property 62,798 –– 62,798 – 62,798
Unrealised profit on revaluation of 
investment property under 
construction 16,453 –– 16,453 – 16,453
Segment profit/(loss) 126,689 (565) 1,872 127,996 (11,298) 116,698
Finance income 3,853
Finance expense (64,839)
Profit before tax 55,712
As at 31 December 2010 
Property Raven
Investment Roslogistics Mount Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Assets 
Investment property 942,950 –– 942,950
Investment property under construction 106,741 –– 106,741
Inventory –– 56,341 56,341
Cash and short term deposits 102,463 2,306 2,872 107,641
Segment assets 1,152,154 2,306 59,213 1,213,673
Other non-current assets 97,268
Other current assets 34,839
Total assets 1,345,780
Segment liabilities 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 422,738 – 9,312 432,050
Capital expenditure 
Payments for investment property under construction 35,669 –– 35,669 Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
44
Year ended 31 December 2009
Property Raven Segment Central
Investment Roslogistics Mount Total Overhead Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Gross income 80,763 16,427 15,014 112,204 – 112,204
Operating costs/cost of sales (34,647) (14,022) (13,211) (61,880) – (61,880)
Net operating income 46,116 2,405 1,803 50,324 – 50,324
Administrative expenses
Running general & administration 
expenses (14,944) (4,526) (5,411) (24,881) (7,437) (32,318)
Listing costs ––––––
Other exceptional items ––––––
Depreciation (316) (1,010) (18) (1,344) – (1,344) 
Share-based payments (190) –– (190) – (190) 
Foreign currency profits –––– (3,097) (3,097) 
Operating profit/(loss) before 
losses on investment property 30,666 (3,131) (3,626) 23,909 (10,534) 13,375
Unrealised loss on revaluation of 
investment property (57,933) –– (57,933) – (57,933) 
Unrealised loss on revaluation of 
investment property under 
construction (50,544) –– (50,544) – (50,544) 
Segment loss (77,811) (3,131) (3,626) (84,568) (10,534) (95,102) 
Finance income 4,818
Finance expense (58,012)
Loss before tax (148,296) 
As at 31 December 2009
Property Raven
Investment Roslogistics Mount Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Assets 
Investment property 878,775 –– 878,775
Investment property under construction 101,280 –– 101,280
Inventory –– 61,403 61,403
Cash and short term deposits 96,168 220 27,322 123,710
Segment assets 1,076,223 220 88,725 1,165,168
Other non-current assets 100,690
Other current assets 73,047
Total assets 1,338,905
Segment liabilities 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 434,269 – 11,301 445,570
Capital expenditure 
Payments for investment property under construction 138,345 –– 138,345
In 2010 there were no single customers accounting for more than 10% of Group revenues. In 2009 there were two customers
of the property investment segment, which exceeded this threshold. The Group derived revenues of US$13.3 million and
US$11.1 million from these customers. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
45
5. Gross Revenue
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Rental and related income 91,236 80,763
Proceeds from the sale of inventory property 17,808 15,014
Logistics 21,584 16,427
130,628 112,204
The Group’s leases typically include annual rental increases (“contingent rents”) based on a consumer price index in Russia,
Europe and USA, which are recognised in income as they arise. Contingent rents included in rental income for the year
amounted to US$337k (2009: US$950k).
Details of the Group’s contracted future minimum lease receivables are detailed in note 38. 
6. Administrative expenses
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Employment costs 12,363 14,716
Directors’ remuneration 3,275 3,116
Office running costs and insurance 4,315 4,105
Travel costs 1,557 1,334
External administrator fees 385 1,172
Auditors’ remuneration - audit services 539 693
Auditors’ remuneration - non-audit services 230 1,030
Legal and professional 2,195 2,656
Abortive project costs – 313
Depreciation 2,188 1,344
Listing costs 2,017 –
Closure costs 1,357 –
Registrar costs and other administrative expenses 754 2,279
Share of operating expenditure of joint ventures 189 904 
31,364 33,662  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
46
7. Finance income and expense
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Finance income
Income from cash and short term deposits 1,249 2,043 
Interest income on loans receivable 1,234 380 
Total interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 2,483 2,423 
Change in fair value of open forward currency derivative financial instruments 961 866 
Change in fair value of open interest rate derivative financial instruments – 1,529 
Profit on maturing forward currency derivative financial instruments 409 –
Finance income 3,853 4,818 
Finance expense
Interest expense on loans and borrowings measured at amortised cost 35,740 37,043 
Interest expense on preference shares 27,735 20,077 
Total interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 63,475 57,120 
Loss on maturing forward currency derivative financial instruments – 892 
Change in fair value of open interest rate derivative financial instruments 1,333 –
Loss on closure of interest rate derivative financial instruments 31 –
Finance expense 64,839 58,012 
8. Tax
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
The tax expense for the year comprises: 
Current taxation 1,752 2,690 
Increase in deferred tax asset (note 26) (303) (16,093) 
Increase in deferred tax liability (note 26) 12,778 4,386 
Tax charge/(credit) 14,227 (9,017) 
The charge/(credit) for the year can be reconciled to the profit/(loss) per the income statement as follows: 
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Profit/(loss) before tax 55,712 (148,296) 
Tax at the Russian corporate tax rate of 20% 11,142 (29,659) 
Tax effect of income not subject to tax and non-deductible expenses 5,116 27,409 
Tax on dividends and other inter company gains 771 1,987 
Tax effect of financing arrangements (22,335) (12,986) 
Movement on unprovided deferred tax on tax losses 20,385 5,000 
Over provision in prior year (852) (768) 
14,227 (9,017)  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
47
9. Earnings per share
In addition to reporting IFRS earnings per share the Group has decided to adopt the European Public Real Estate Association
(“EPRA”) earnings measure, as set out in their Best Practice Policy Recommendations document issued in October 2010.
The EPRA earnings measure excludes investment property revaluations, impairments, gains and losses on disposal of
investment property, intangible asset movements, gains and losses on derivative financial instruments and related taxation.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: 
2010 2009
Earnings US$’000 US$’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being the 
net profit/(loss) for the year 41,485 (139,279) 
Adjustments to arrive at EPRA earnings: 
Profit on disposal of investment property (12,178) –
Unrealised (profit)/loss on revaluation of investment property (62,798) 57,933 
Unrealised (profit)/loss on revaluation of investment property under construction (16,453) 50,544 
(Profit)/loss on maturing foreign currency derivative financial instruments (409) 892 
Change in fair value of open forward currency derivative financial instruments (961) (866) 
Loss on closure of interest rate derivative financial instruments 31 –
Change in fair value of open interest rate derivative financial instruments 1,333 (1,529) 
Movement on deferred tax thereon 12,095 (2,103) 
Adjusted EPRA earnings (37,855) (34,408) 
2010 2009
Number of shares No ’000 No ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 
and basic EPRA EPS (excluding own shares held) 493,100 488,906 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 
Listed warrants (note 28) 61,285 –
ERS (note 32) 3,388 –
LTIP (note 32) 2,611 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted 
EPS and diluted EPRA EPS (excluding own shares held) 560,384 488,906  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
48
2010 2009
Cents Cents 
EPS basic 8.41 (28.49) 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 
Listed warrants (0.93) –
ERS (0.05) –
LTIP (0.03) –
Diluted EPS (cents) 7.40 (28.49) 
EPRA EPS basic (cents) (7.68) (7.04) 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 
Listed warrants ––
ERS ––
LTIP ––
EPRA EPS diluted (cents) (7.68) (7.04) 
10. Ordinary dividends
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Declared and paid during the year on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2009 0.5 pence (2008: nil pence) 3,949 –
Interim dividend for 2010 nil pence (2009: 0.5 pence) – 4,048 
3,949 4,048 
Instead of an interim dividend for 2010 the Directors implemented a tender offer buy back of 1 in 62 ordinary shares at
58 pence, the equivalent of a dividend of 1 pence per share (see note 27). The Directors are proposing to declare a final
dividend for 2010 of 1 pence per share.
11. Investment property
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Balance at 1 January 878,775 453,750 
Transfer from investment property under construction (note 12) 25,533 515,354 
Transfer to disposal assets classified as held for sale (note 21) – (37,489) 
Movement in completion provisions 4,688 5,093 
Disposals (28,844) –
Unrealised profit/(loss) on revaluation 62,798 (57,933) 
Balance at 31 December 942,950 878,775 
It is the Group’s policy to carry investment property at fair value in accordance with IAS 40 “Investment Property”. The fair
value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2010 has been arrived at on the basis of market valuations carried
out by Jones Lang LaSalle (“JLL”), external valuers to the Group. JLL have consented to the use of their name in these
financial statements.
The valuations used by the Directors in these financial statements have been carried out in accordance with The Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors Valuation Standards, Sixth Edition (the “Red Book”). The definition of market value is “the
estimated amount for which an asset should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and willing seller in an Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
49
arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without
compulsion”.
The following assumptions were used in determining the valuations, which were specific to the Group: 
No allowances have been made for any expenses of realisation or for taxation which might arise in the event of a disposal
of a property;
The market values reported are gross of purchasers’ costs, which would be incurred on the sale of assets as this is the
recognised valuation approach in Russia; and 
No account is taken of the future effect of any index based rent uplifts. 
At 31 December 2010 the Group has pledged investment property with a value of US$673 million (2009: US$658 million) to
secure banking facilities granted to the Group (note 23).
12. Investment property under construction
Additional 
Assets Phases of 
Under Completed 
Construction Property Landbank Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2009 397,044 21,451 25,158 443,653 
Costs incurred 210,696 12,265 39,067 262,028 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (26,391) (560) (1,309) (28,260) 
Transfer to investment property (note 11) (515,354) –– (515,354) 
Transfer to disposal assets classified as held for 
sale (note 21) (10,243) –– (10,243) 
Unrealised loss on revaluation (39,240) (1,000) (10,304) (50,544) 
Balance at 31 December 2009 16,512 32,156 52,612 101,280 
Costs incurred 16,324 958 1,716 18,998 
Disposals –– (3,821) (3,821) 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (106) (104) (426) (636) 
Transfer to investment property (note 11) (17,793) (7,740) – (25,533) 
Unrealised gain on revaluation 363 16,090 – 16,453 
Balance at 31 December 2010 15,300 41,360 50,081 106,741 
Borrowing costs capitalised in the year amounted to US$0.4 million (2009: US$10.5 million). 
Assets under construction have been valued by JLL using the residual value method and additional phases of completed
investment property on a comparable basis, based on recent real estate transactions with similar characteristics and location
to those assets.
The Directors have valued land based on the amounts they consider they can achieve for permitted land and land with access
and infrastructure. The Directors also considered updated acquisition appraisals, the key assumptions being developer’s
required returns, market rents and yields on completed properties. On this basis the Directors’ consider the fair value of the
land bank to be US$50 million, which equates to an average price of US$17 per square metre.
At 31 December 2010 the Group has pledged investment property under construction with a carrying value of US$11 million
(2009: US$40 million) to secure banking facilities granted to the Group (note 23). Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
50
13. Intangible assets
Goodwill
US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2009 –
On acquisition of Raven Mount Group plc (note 36) 8,059 
On change in financing arrangements for Roslogistics (note 36) 5,383 
Balance at 31 December 2009 13,442 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 56 
Balance at 31 December 2010 13,498 
Goodwill acquired through the Raven Mount and Roslogistics business combinations has been allocated for impairment
purposes to their operating segments. These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for
internal management purposes. The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on value in use calculations
using cash flow projections and project appraisals approved for internal management reporting and discounted at rates
appropriate to each of the segments.
14. Investment in subsidiary undertakings
The principal subsidiary undertakings of Raven Russia Limited, all of which have been included in these consolidated financial
statements, are as follows: 
Proportion of 
ownership interest
Name Country of incorporation 2010 2009
CJSC Kulon Estates Russia – 100% 
CJSC Kulon Development Russia 100% 100% 
Fenix LLC Russia 100% 100% 
Petroestate LLC Russia 100% 100% 
EG Logistics LLC Russia 100% 100% 
CSJC Kulon Istra Russia 100% 100% 
Soyuz-Invest LLC Russia 100% 100% 
Reserv-Invest LLC Russia 100% 100% 
Real-Invest LLC Russia 100% 100% 
CSJC Noginsk Vostok Russia 100% 100% 
Resource Economia LLC Russia 100% 100% 
Kulon Spb LLC Russia 100% 100% 
AKM Logistics LLC Russia – 100% 
Megalogix Limited Cyprus 100% 100% 
Logopark Don LLC Russia 100% 100% 
Logopark Ob LLC Russia 100% 100% 
Roslogistics Holdings (Russia) Limited Cyprus 100% 100% 
Avalon Logistics Company LLC Russia 100% 100% 
Raven Mount Group plc England 100% 100% 
Raven Russia Property Advisers Limited England 100% 100% 
Raven Russia (Service Company) Limited Guernsey 100% 100%  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
51
During the year the Group disposed of the properties and related assets held in the SPVs, CJSC Kulon Estates and AKM
Logistics LLC (see note 21).
The Group’s investment property and investment property under construction are held by its subsidiary undertakings. 
15. Investment in joint ventures
The principal jointly controlled entity of the Group is as follows: 
Proportion of 
ownership interest
Name Country of incorporation 2010 2009
Coln Park LLP England 50% 50%
The Group’s interest in each jointly controlled entity has been accounted for by proportionate consolidation. The aggregate
amounts recognised in the balance sheet and income statement were: 
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets 29 4 
Current assets 15,864 14,782 
Current liabilities (10,159) (10,921) 
Net assets/(liabilities) 5,734 3,865 
Income 8,749 13,558 
Expenditure (6,831) (12,169) 
1,918 1,389 
The income and expenditure amounts for 2009 include amounts for Megalogix Limited, Roslogistics Holdings (Russia) Limited
and Ambridge Consultancy Limited for the period up until the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the shares in each.
16. Other receivables 
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Loans receivable 1,017 13 
VAT recoverable 5,946 7,402 
Security deposit 1,722 1,722 
Prepayments and other receivables 6,837 9,077 
15,522 18,214 
VAT recoverable arises through the payment of value added tax on construction of investment property, which will be
recovered through the offset of VAT paid on future revenue receipts or repayment direct from the taxation authority. VAT
recoverable has been split between current and non-current assets based on the Group’s assessment of when recovery will
occur. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
52
17. Inventory
Land held
for Housing
development stock Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2009 –– –
On acquisition of Raven Mount Group plc (note 36) 2,402 60,590 62,992 
Costs incurred in the year 694 7,787 8,481 
Cost of sales – (11,066) (11,066) 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 38 958 996 
Balance at 31 December 2009 3,134 58,269 61,403 
Costs incurred in the year 449 8,468 8,917 
Cost of sales – (12,793) (12,793) 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (99) (1,087) (1,186) 
Balance at 31 December 2010 3,484 52,857 56,341 
The Group has pledged inventory with a carrying value of US$42 million (2009: US$50 million) to secure banking facilities
granted to the Group (note 23).
18. Trade and other receivables
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Trade receivables 15,828 12,641 
Prepayments 4,888 11,221 
VAT recoverable 6,384 35,806 
Tax recoverable 2,397 3,564 
Loans receivable 642 2,422 
Accrued income 236 905 
Other receivables 4,362 2,256 
34,737 68,815 
19. Derivative financial instruments
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Interest rate derivative financial instruments
Non-current assets 347 195 
Non-current liabilities (4,439) (5,781) 
Current liabilities (1,682) –
Forward currency derivative financial instruments 
Current assets 102 –
Non-current liabilities – (385) 
Current liabilities – (474) 
The Group has entered into a series of interest rate derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rate and resulting
cash flow exposure from the Group’s banking facilities. The instruments have a notional value of US$302 million (2009:
US$276 million) and a weighted average fixed or capped rate of 3.3% (2009: 3.3%). Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
53
The Group has also entered into a series of forward currency derivative financial instruments to hedge rentals received under
leases denominated in euros. At 31 December 2010 there were open contracts to sell euros amounting to €5.1 million (2009:
€11.9 million) and buy US Dollars amounting to US$6.9 million (2009: US$16.2 million) at an average rate of 1.36 (2009: 1.36).
20. Cash and short term deposits
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Cash at bank and on call 76,808 43,675 
Short term deposits 30,833 80,035 
107,641 123,710 
Included within cash and short term deposits is US$1.3 million (2009: US$3.6 million) which is held as security for the Group’s
foreign currency derivative financial instruments (note 19) and is thus restricted in the use to which it can be put by the Group.
The Group has also pledged short term deposits with a carrying value of US$25.1 million (2009: US$25.5 million) as security
for a loan facility granted to the Group (note 23). US$11 million of the loan was outstanding at 31 December 2010 (2009:
US$11 million). 
Cash at bank and on call attracts variable interest rates, whilst short term deposits attract fixed rates but mature and re-price
over a short period of time. The weighted average interest rate at the balance sheet date is 1.08% (2009: 1.16%).
21. Disposal group 
The disposal group represented an investment property, adjacent land and related assets and liabilities on the AKM project in
St Petersburg. This included a loan facility with Nomos Bank, of US$44 million with a margin over US LIBOR of 12% and a
term remaining of 4 years, secured on the property and land. As the asset would not generate sufficient income to service the
debt, Nomos accepted the property and related assets, net of the liabilities, in consideration for the repayment of all
outstanding amounts due under the bank facility. 
The Group completed the transfer of assets and liabilities to Nomos Bank on 5 August 2010.  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
54
Details of the disposal group assets and liabilities at 31 December 2009 are provided in the table below. 
US$’000
Non-current assets
Investment property 37,489 
Investment property under construction 10,243 
Plant and equipment 45 
Other receivables 186 
Deferred tax asset 2,796 
50,759
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables 823 
Cash and short term deposits 72 
895 
Total assets 51,654
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 3,045 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 47,817 
50,862 
Non-current liabilities 
Deferred tax 792
Total liabilities 51,654 
22. Trade and other payables
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Investment property acquisition obligations 621 –
Trade and other payables 9,402 13,075 
Construction payables 14,757 26,731 
Advanced rentals 11,350 8,478 
Tax payable 6,396 9,242 
Other payable 5,412 5,326 
47,938 62,852  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
55
23. Interest bearing loans and borrowings
(a) Bank loans
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Loans due for settlement within 12 months 82,194 93,273
Loans due for settlement after 12 months 340,366 339,900
422,560 433,173
(b) Other interest bearing loans
Loans due for settlement within 12 months 7,651 4,324 
Loans due for settlement after 12 months 1,839 8,073
9,490 12,397
Totals
Loans due for settlement within 12 months 89,845 97,597
Loans due for settlement after 12 months 342,205 347,973
432,050 445,570
The Group’s borrowings have the following maturity profile:
On demand or within one year 89,845 97,597
In the second year 161,736 29,776
In the third to fifth years 122,865 252,240
After five years 57,605 65,957
432,050 445,570
The principal terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings on a weighted average basis are summarised below: 
As at 31 December 2010 
Interest Maturity 
Rate % (years) US$’000
Secured on: 
Investment property and investment property under construction 7.20% 3.1 402,515 
Inventory 2.42% 0.2 9,042 
Cash 2.85% 1.1 11,003 
Unsecured 11.6% 1.0 9,490 
432,050 
As at 31 December 2009
Secured on: 
Investment property and investment property under construction 7.20% 3.9 410,720 
Inventory 2.38% 0.5 11,301
Cash 2.95% 1.1 11,152 
Unsecured 12.4% 1.0 12,397 
445,570  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
56
During the year the Group successfully extended or drew down on a number of its debt facilities. As reported in the 2009
financial statements, the euro denominated construction facility of US$62.3 million equivalent was extended and converted into
a US dollar loan. The Group also completed the syndication of term debt secured on its two regional investment properties,
drawing a further US$10 million under each of the facilities. Finally the Group drew the remaining US$10 million undrawn on
the Istra project and increased and extended the short term facility secured on its inventory property in the UK, releasing a
further £5 million of cash.
The Group repaid US$19.3 million of debt secured on its Baltia project, upon completion of the sale of the project in the year. 
Since the year end the Group has completed and fully drawn on a US$30 million facility secured on its Lobnya project. The
facility was provided by Marfin Bank, has a 7 year term and a margin over US LIBOR of 6.75%.
The Group has entered into hedging arrangements in respect of its interest rate exposure (note 19). US$225 million (2009:
US$237 million) of Group bank borrowings have been fixed with two years remaining (2009: three years) at a weighted average
swap rate of 3.10% (2009: 3.29%) and US$117 million (2009: US$39 million) capped at 3.64% (2009: 5.50%) for three years
(2009: three years). This gave a weighted average cost of debt to the Group of 7.0% (2009: 6.4%) at the year end.
24. Preference shares
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Authorised share capital:
400,000,000 (2009: 400,000,000) preference shares of 1p each 5,981 5,981
2010 2009
Number Number
Issued share capital:
At 1 January 143,315,179 –
Issued in the year for cash – 76,155,000
On acquisition of Raven Mount Group plc (note 36) – 66,409,478
Scrip dividends 1,041,977 750,701 
At 31 December 144,357,156 143,313,179
The Company has issued preference shares, which entitle the holders to a cumulative preference dividend of 12% based on
a par value per share of £1.
25. Other payables
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Investment property acquisition obligations 7,287 13,838
Rent deposits 11,803 9,238 
Deferred revenue – 49 
Retentions under construction contracts 5,838 8,692 
Other payables 240 2,432
25,168 34,249  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
57
26. Deferred tax
(a) Deferred tax assets
Tax losses Other Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2009 34,436 394 34,830 
Recognised on business combination (note 36) 2,917 – 2,917 
Recognition on settlement of contracts 6,214 – 6,214 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 225 – 225 
Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale (note 21) (2,796) – (2,796) 
Credit to income 16,090 3 16,093 
Credit to equity 3,693 – 3,693 
Balance at 31 December 2009 60,779 397 61,176 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (597) – (597) 
On disposal of SPV (324) – (324) 
Credit/(charge) to income 501 (198) 303 
Credit to equity 661 – 661 
Balance at 31 December 2010 61,020 199 61,219 
The Group has tax losses of US$236 million (2009: US$138 million) for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised. 
Amounts credited to equity arise on the translation of loans, which comprise part of the net investment of the Group in foreign
entities.
(b) Deferred tax liabilities
Revaluation
Accelerated of
tax investment
allowances property Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2009 5,856 10,564 16,420 
Recognised on business combination (note 36) 916 – 916
Recognition on settlement of contracts 1,974 – 1,974 
Transfer to liabilities associated with disposal groups classified as held
for sale (note 21) (792) – (792) 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1,363 – 1,363 
Charge/(credit) to income 6,489 (2,103) 4,386 
Balance at 31 December 2009 15,806 8,461 24,267 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (302) – (302) 
On disposal of SPV (29) – (29) 
Charge to income 683 12,095 12,778 
Balance at 31 December 2010 16,158 20,556 36,714  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
58
27. Share capital
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Authorised ordinary share capital:
1,500,000,000 (2009: 1,500,000,000) ordinary shares of 1p each 27,469 27,469
2010 2009
Number Number
Issued share capital:
At 1 January 512,697,594 512,552,915 
Issued in the year for cash on warrant exercises 4,512,713 144,679 
Issued under the warrant offer (note 28) 21,740,807 –
Cancelled under the tender offer (8,677,910) –
At 31 December 530,273,204 512,697,594 
On 25 October 2010 the Company completed the purchase of 8,677,910 ordinary shares under the terms of a tender offer, for
a cash consideration of £5 million. The shares repurchased were cancelled.
Of the authorised ordinary share capital at 31 December 2010, 115,897,016 (2009: 154,810,632) are reserved for options and
warrants.
Details of own shares held are given in note 29. 
28. Warrants
2010 2009
Number Number
At 1 January 142,419,799 –
Issued in the year for cash – 76,155,000 
On acquisition of Raven Mount Group plc (note 36) – 66,409,478 
Exercised in the year (4,512,713) (144,679) 
Cancelled under the warrant offer (36,256,016) –
At 31 December 101,651,070 142,419,799 
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000 
At 1 January 8,584 –
Issued in the year for cash – 4,416 
On acquisition of Raven Mount Group plc (note 36) – 4,177 
Exercised in the year (285) (9) 
Cancelled under the warrant offer (2,266) –
At 31 December 6,033 8,584 
The Company has issued warrants, which entitle each holder to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company at an exercise
price of 25p per share. The warrants expire on 25 March 2019.
The warrants issued on acquisition of Raven Mount Group plc include 8.1 million warrants (US$502k) issued to settle a liability
of Raven Mount Group plc. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
59
On 28 July 2010 the Company purchased and cancelled 36,256,016 warrants under an open offer to all warrantholders.
The consideration for the purchase was settled partly in cash, £3.5 million, and partly through the issue of 21,740,807 ordinary
shares.
In the period since 31 December 2010 657,071 warrants have been exercised. 
29. Own shares held
2010 2009
Number Number
At 1 January 34,035,054 –
Acquired in the year – 5,000,000 
On acquisition of Raven Mount Group plc (note 36) – 29,035,054 
Disposals in the year (note 32) (5,635,000) –
At 31 December 28,400,054 34,035,054 
30. Equity
The following describes the nature and purpose of each component within equity:
Component Description and purpose
Share capital The amount subscribed for ordinary share capital at nominal value. 
Share premium The amount subscribed for ordinary share capital in excess of the nominal value. 
Warrants The consideration attributed to the subscription of warrants less associated costs of issuance. 
Own shares held The cost to the Company of acquiring the own shares held by the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings.
Special reserve During 2005 and 2006 the Company applied to the Royal Court of Guernsey to reduce its share 
capital by cancellation of its share premium at that time and creation of a special reserve, which is an 
additional distributable reserve to be used for all purposes permitted under Guernsey Company law, 
including buy back of shares and the payment of dividends.
Capital reserve The amount of any capital profits and losses, including gains and losses on the disposal of investment
properties (after taxation), increases and decreases in the fair value of investment properties held at 
each period end, foreign exchange profits and losses on capital items, profits and losses on forward 
currency financial instruments and deferred taxation on the increase in fair value of investment
properties.
Translation reserve The amount of any gains or losses arising on the retranslation of net assets of overseas operations.
Retained earnings The amount of any profit or loss for the year after payment of dividend, together with the amount of 
any equity-settled share-based payments, and the transfer of capital items described above. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
60
31. Net asset value per share
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Net asset value 580,364 545,883 
Intangible assets – goodwill (13,498) (13,442) 
Deferred tax on revaluation gains 20,556 8,461 
Unrealised foreign exchange losses on preference shares 9,372 14,125 
Fair value of interest rate derivative financial instruments 5,774 5,586 
Adjusted net asset value 602,568 560,613 
Assuming exercise of all dilutive potential ordinary shares
– Listed warrants (note 28) 39,789 56,843 
– ERS (note 32) ––
– LTIP (note 32) 3,619 407 
Adjusted fully diluted net asset value 645,976 617,863 
Number of ordinary shares (note 27) 530,273,204 512,697,594 
Less own shares held (note 29) (28,400,054) (34,035,054) 
501,873,150 478,662,540 
Assuming exercise of all dilutive potential ordinary shares
– Listed warrants (note 28) 101,651,070 142,419,799 
– ERS (note 32) 5,000,000 1,775,000 
– LTIP (note 32) 9,245,946 1,020,000 
Number of ordinary shares assuming exercise of all potential ordinary shares 617,770,166 623,877,339 
2010 2009
US$ US$
Net asset value per share 1.16 1.14
Fully diluted net asset value per share 1.01 0.97
Adjusted net asset value per share 1.20 1.17
Adjusted fully diluted net asset value per share 1.05 0.99
As the preference shares are considered to be capital for capital risk management (see note 35 d) unrealised foreign exchange
movements on these have been adjusted when calculating adjusted NAV per share. The comparative information has been
restated to reflect this change.
32. Share based payments
(a) Terms
In 2005, as part consideration for the services offered by Cenkos Securities Limited and Kinmont Limited under the Placing
Agreement, options were granted to these companies pursuant to which they have the right to subscribe for 1,530,000 and
382,500 ordinary shares respectively at £1.00 per share. The options expired in 2010.
Also in 2005, to incentivise personnel of the Company’s former Property Adviser involved in providing advice to the Group,
the Company granted to the trustee of the Raven Mount Employee Benefit Trust an option to acquire up to 7.5% of its issued
ordinary share capital from time to time less up to 100,000 ordinary shares under option to Adrian Collins, the Company’s
former Chairman. The options vested in three tranches and were exercisable over a period of 4 to 12 years following the
Company’s admission to AIM dependent upon cumulative performance criteria of between 9% and 12% total share return
having been met. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
61
The first tranche of options held by the trustee and Adrian Collins lapsed as the associated performance criteria were not met.
Upon the Company’s acquisition of the Property Advisor the remaining options held by the trustee were cancelled and the
Company agreed to grant replacement options to certain employees and former employees of the Property Advisor’s group.
These replacement options were issued in 2009 and 2010 and comprise the Employee Retention Scheme (“ERS”) and Long
Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) more fully explained in the Remuneration Report.
The second and third tranche of options held by Adrian Collins lapsed as the associated performance criteria were not met. 
Finally in 2005, the Company issued warrants to the Property Advisor pursuant to which the Property Advisor was granted the
right to subscribe for 7,650,000 ordinary shares in the Company at £1 per ordinary share. These warrants were transferred by
the Property Advisor to its then parent company, Raven Mount Group plc, immediately prior to the Company’s acquisition of
the Property Advisor. These warrants are now held by the Group following the Company’s acquisition of Raven Mount Group
plc during 2009.
2010 2010 2009 2009
Weighted No of Weighted
average options average
No of exercise and exercise
options price warrants price
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4,740,833 46p 9,629,166 100p 
Issued during the year
– ERS 3,225,000 0p 1,775,000 0p 
– LTIP 8,225,946 25p 1,020,000 25p 
Lapsed during the year (1,945,833) 100p (33,333) 100p 
Repurchased through business combination –– (7,650,000) 100p 
Outstanding at the end of the period 14,245,946 16p 4,740,833 46p 
Exercisable at the end of the period –– 1,912,500 100p 
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options was 7 years (2009: 4 years). 
(b) Share-based payment charge
The options granted in the period under the ERS were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The options
granted under the LTIP were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The key inputs to these models are:
ERS LTIP
Share price on grant 40.25p 40.25p 
Exercise price 0.0p 25.0p
Dividend yield 0.75% 0.75%
Risk free rate 0.56% 1.20%
Expected volatility 38% 41%
Expected volatility was calculated as the median volatility of the Company’s ordinary share price for periods commensurate
with the lives of the options. The risk free rate is based on the yield of UK sovereign bonds with maturities close to the
expected expiry dates of the options.
The Group recognised a total share-based payment expense as a result of the ERS and LTIP awards of US$2.1 million
(2009: US$0.2 million) for the year. Also, and as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report approved by shareholders,
the Company utlised 5.6 million of ordinary shares held (note 29) to satisfy bonuses to the Executive Directors and senior
management. This resulted in a charge of US$4.3 million (2009: US$ nil) for the year. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
62
33. Capital commitments
The Group has committed to fund the construction of certain additional investment property. At 31 December 2010,
US$ 5.7 million of funding was required (2009: US$12.2 million), excluding VAT.
34. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation
and are not disclosed in this note. Further disclosures concerning transactions with the Company’s directors are made in
the Remuneration Report and note 6. There are no loan balances with directors.
Ozannes
David Moore is a partner in Ozannes, Advocates and Notaries Public. Ozannes provide independent legal advice to the Group.
Total legal fees paid to Ozannes during the year amounted to £1,194 (2009: £58,070).
Joint Ventures
The Group has leased investment property to Avalon Logistics Company LLC, the operating subsidiary of Roslogistics
Holdings (Russia) Limited, and provided loan finance to three joint venture vehicles, which the Group acquired out right
in 2009. A summary of the Income Statement and Balance Sheet impact of these transactions in the period prior to them
becoming subsidiary undertakings of the Group is as follows:
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Net rental income – 1,505
Loan interest receivable – 240
Trade receivables ––
Loan receivable ––
Impairment of loan receivable ––
Remuneration of key management personnel
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Short term employee benefits 4,699 4,314 
Post employment benefits 297 262 
Share-based payment 6,196 100 
11,192 4,676 
35. Financial instruments – risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks in relation to the financial instruments it uses: market risk (including
currency risk, price risk and cash flow interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The financial risks relate to the following
financial instruments: trade receivables, available for sale financial investments, cash and short term deposits, trade and other
payables, borrowings, preference shares and derivative financial instruments.
The tables and analyses below exclude financial instruments included within the disposal group (note 21) as they were
expected to be settled within 12 months. Risk management parameters are established by the Board on a project by project
basis and overseen by management in conjunction with professional advisers. Reports are provided to the Board formally on
a weekly basis and also when authorised changes are required.
(a) Market risk
Currency risk 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from a variety of currency exposures, Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
63
primarily with respect to US Dollars, Sterling, Russian Rouble and Euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial
transactions (including construction contracts and lease receivables), recognised monetary assets and liabilities and net
investments in foreign entities.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated in US Dollars. 
In some cases underlying construction contracts on the Group’s development projects are denominated in Russian Roubles.
Non deliverable forwards were taken out to hedge against the US Dollar/Russian Rouble cash flow exposure, when considered
necessary, during the principal phase of construction of each project. All of these contracts have now matured as the Group’s
principal construction activities are now substantially complete. Whilst the table below indicates the exposure of the Group to
monetary items in foreign currency, the largest foreign currency swings will occur during construction periods. The fact some
of the Group’s property owning subsidiaries have a functional currency of Russian Rouble and a presentation currency of
US Dollars means that both the Balance Sheet and Income Statement are exposed to unrealised exchange movements
on translation to presentation currency.
During construction periods it is likely that the subsidiary companies will hold larger Rouble denominated cash balances
to fund construction contracts, which will also increase exposure to fluctuations in currency rates.
At holding company level, the Group’s exposure to Sterling is primarily driven by the need to pay a quarterly preference
dividend, but also head office costs and ordinary dividends.
The table below summarises the Group’s currency profile at 31 December: 
Russian
US Dollar Sterling Rouble Other Total
As at 31 December 2010 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets
Loans receivable 4 1,013 –– 1,017 
Derivative financial instruments 347 –– – 347 
Current assets
Trade receivables 8,724 1,106 5,991 7 15,828 
Loans receivable – 578 63 – 641 
Derivative financial instruments 102 –– – 102 
Other current receivables 2,112 1,483 1,487 1 5,083 
Cash and short term deposits 55,124 30,804 20,144 1,569 107,641 
66,413 34,984 27,685 1,577 130,659 
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 331,309 10,896 –– 342,205 
Preference shares – 217,425 –– 217,425 
Derivative financial instruments 4,439 –– – 4,439 
Rent deposits 8,903 – 2,353 547 11,803 
Investment property acquisition obligations 7,287 –– – 7,287 
Retentions under construction contracts –– 5,838 – 5,838 
Other payables –– 240 – 240 
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 80,425 9,420 –– 89,845 
Derivative financial instruments 1,682 –– – 1,682 
Other payables 90 4,431 15,627 21 20,169 
434,135 242,172 24,058 568 700,933  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
64
Russian
US Dollar Sterling Rouble Other Total
As at 31 December 2009 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets
Loans receivable 13 –– – 13
Derivative financial instruments 195 –– – 195
Current assets
Trade receivables 4,331 557 3,157 1,231 9,276
Loans receivable 64 –– – 64
Other current receivables 336 4,622 5,194 91 10,243
Available for sale financial assets – 4,232 –– 4,232
Cash and short term deposits 31,235 68,973 20,071 3,431 123,710
36,174 78,384 28,422 4,753 147,733
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 336,783 11,190 –– 347,973
Preference shares – 219,444 –– 219,444
Derivative financial instruments 6,166 –– – 6,166
Rent deposits 6,866 – 2,371 – 9,237
Investment property acquisition obligations 13,838 –– – 13,838
Retentions under construction contracts –– 2,891 5,801 8,692
Other payables –– 66 – 66
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23,443 11,263 3 62,888 97,597
Derivative financial instruments 474 –– – 474
Other payables 2,994 12,326 10,617 382 26,319
390,564 254,223 15,948 69,071 729,806
The sensitivity analyses below are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice this is unlikely to occur and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated, for example a change in
interest rate and a change in foreign currency exchange rates. The Group principally manages foreign currency risk on a
project by project basis. The sensitivity analysis prepared by management of foreign currency risk illustrates how changes
in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The tables above present financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies held by the Group in 2010 and 2009.
If the US Dollar weakened or strengthened by 10% against the Russian Rouble, Sterling or Euro, with all other variables in
each case remaining constant, then: 
2010 2009
Post tax profit or loss would change by: US$’000 US$’000
Russian Rouble 182 643 
Sterling 4,011 2,140 
Euro ––
2010 2009
Net asset value would change by: US$’000 US$’000
Russian Rouble 46 1,247 
Sterling 21,145 17,584 
Euro 75 6,432 
The majority of sterling sensitivity relates to the retranslation of the value of irredeemable preference shares.  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
65
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group has significant interest-bearing cash resources, the majority of which are held in business accounts with its principal
bankers.
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings (note 23), which include preference shares issued (note 24).
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whilst borrowings issued at a fixed rate
expose the Group to fair value risk. The Group’s cash flow and fair value risk is reviewed monthly by the Board. The cash flow
and fair value risk is approved monthly by the Board.
The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a dynamic basis. It takes on exposure to the effects of fluctuations in the
prevailing levels of market interest rates on its financial position and cash flows. Interest costs may increase as a result of such
changes. They may reduce or create losses in the event that unexpected movements arise. Various scenarios are simulated
taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging. Based on these scenarios
the Group calculates the impact on profit and loss of a defined interest rate shift. The simulation is run on an on-going basis to
verify that the maximum potential impact is within the parameters expected by management. Formal reporting to the Board on
cash flows is made on a monthly basis. To date the Group has sought to fix its exposure to interest rate risk on borrowings
through the use of a variety of interest rate derivatives and the issue of preference shares at a fixed coupon. This gives
certainty over future cash flow but exposure to fair value movements, which amounted to an unrealised loss of US$7.4 million
at 31 December 2010 (2009: loss of US$6.0 million). Sensitivity analysis on the Group’s interest rate borrowings, net of interest
bearing deposits, indicate that a 1% increase in the relevant underlying rate would decrease the profit for the year and net
assets by US$900,000 (2009: US$700,000). If the various LIBORs were to drop to zero then there would be an decrease in
the profit for the year and in net assets of US$100,000 (2009: US$600,000) as the loss on income from cash would be greater
than gains on interest expense because of the low LIBOR rates prevailing at this time and the interest rate hedges in place.
(b) Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and short term deposits, trade and other receivables and derivative financial
instruments.
Credit risk associated with the Group’s trade and other receivables is considered low due to the Group having policies in place
to ensure that rental contracts are made with tenants meeting appropriate balance sheet covenants, supplemented by rental
deposits or bank guarantees from international banks. The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances for
doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to
collect all amounts due according to the terms of the receivables concerned. Details of the movements in provision for
impairment of trade receivables is provided in the table below.
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
At 1 January 377 –
Charge for the year – 1,000
Utilised in the year – (623)
Unused amounts reversed ––
At 31 December 377 377
At 31 December 2010 there were no significant amounts of trade receivables that were past due for collection. 
The Group has VAT recoverable of US$12 million (2009: US$43 million). The timing of recovery of these balances is subject to
future revenue receipts and application to the Russian Courts. The Group forecasts the recovery of these balances based
upon the timing of future revenue receipts and its experience of successful application to the Russian Courts. No balances are
considered past due or impaired at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$ nil) based upon this assessment of the timing of future
cash receipts. The Group believes its only exposure is in relation to the timing of recovery.
The credit risk on the Group’s cash and short term deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited to the Group’s policy
of monitoring counterparty exposures. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
66
(c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash, the availability of funding through an adequate amount
of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. The Board and its advisers seek to have appropriate
credit facilities in place on a project by project basis, either from available cash resources or from bank facilities.
Management monitor the Group’s liquidity position on a daily basis. Formal liquidity reports are issued from all jurisdictions on
a weekly basis and are reviewed monthly by the Board, along with cash flow forecasts. A summary table with maturity of
financial liabilities is presented below.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings show the gross undiscounted cash flows. 
Financial liabilities
Years Years
Total Current Year 2 3 to 5 5 to 10
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
As at 31 December 2010
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 513,051 116,845 183,736 145,865 66,605
Preference shares 271,223 27,122 27,122 81,367 135,612
Derivative financial instruments 6,121 1,682 – 4,439 –
Trade and other payables 45,337 45,337 –– –
835,732 190,986 210,858 231,671 202,217 
As at 31 December 2009
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 445,696 97,627 29,807 252,286 65,976
Preference shares 274,550 27,455 27,455 82,365 137,275
Derivative financial instruments 6,640 474 385 5,781 –
Trade and other payables 58,153 58,153 –– –
785,039 183,709 57,647 340,432 203,251 
Details of the interest rates applicable to the Group’s long term borrowings and preference shares are given in notes 23 and
24. The Group is subject to interest costs in perpetuity in respect of preference shares, which have no contractual maturity
date. The table above does not show cash flows beyond 10 years.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by forecasting cash flow requirements for future years. The Group’s
objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts and other
short term borrowing facilities, bank loans and equity fund raisings. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
67
Fair values 
Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial instruments in the
financial statements.
2010 2010 2009 2009
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
Value Value Value Value
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets
Loans receivable 1,017 959 13 13 
Derivative financial instruments 347 347 195 195 
Current assets
Trade receivables 15,828 15,828 9,276 9,276 
Loans receivable 641 641 64 64 
Other current receivables 5,083 5,083 10,243 10,243 
Available for sale financial assets –– 4,232 4,232 
Derivative financial instruments 102 102 ––
Cash and short term deposits 107,641 107,641 123,710 123,710 
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 342,205 287,322 347,973 229,656 
Preference shares 217,425 292,132 219,444 212,776 
Derivative financial instruments 4,439 4,439 6,166 6,166 
Rent deposits 11,803 11,803 9,238 9,238 
Investment property acquisition obligations 7,287 7,287 13,838 13,838 
Retentions under construction contracts 5,838 5,838 8,692 8,692 
Other payables 240 240 66 66 
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 89,845 89,845 97,597 97,597 
Derivative financial instruments 1,682 1,682 474 474 
Other payables 20,169 20,169 26,319 26,319 
Fair values have been calculated by using market values at the balance sheet date. The market values of loans receivable and
borrowings have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. The fair value of
short term deposits, VAT recoverable and other assets, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables is assumed to
approximate to their book values. The fair value of preference shares is assumed to be their last quoted price. The fair value
of derivatives is determined by a model with market based inputs. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
68
Fair value hierarchy 
The following table shows an analysis of the fair values of financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet by level of the
fair value hierarchy*:
Total Fair
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Value
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
As at 31 December 2010
Assets measured at fair value
Derivative financial instruments – 449 – 449
Liabilities measured at fair value
Derivative financial instruments – 6,121 – 6,121
As at 31 December 2009
Assets measured at fair value
Derivative financial instruments – 195 – 195
Available for sale financial assets –– 4,232 4,232
Liabilities measured at fair value
Derivative financial instruments – 6,640 – 6,640
* Explanation of the fair value hierarchy:
Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that can be accessed at the balance sheet
date.
Level 2 – Use of a model with inputs that are directly or indirectly observable market data. 
Level 3 – Use of a model with inputs that are not based on observable market data. 
(d) Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern to provide
returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of
capital.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital
to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors
capital on the basis of its gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as
total borrowings (including borrowings and trade and other payables as shown in the balance sheet) but excluding preference
shares, which for capital risk management is considered to be capital rather than debt, less cash and short term deposits.
Total capital is calculated as equity, as shown in the balance sheet, plus preference shares and net debt. Where the Group
has a net cash position, the gearing ratio will be zero. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
69
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Non-current liabilities (excluding preference shares) 408,526 412,655 
Current liabilities 139,465 160,923 
Liabilities associated with disposal groups classified as held for sale – 51,654 
Total borrowings 547,991 625,232 
Less: cash and short term deposits (including disposal groups) 107,641 123,783 
Net debt 440,350 501,449 
Equity 580,364 545,883 
Preference shares 217,425 219,444 
Total capital 1,238,139 1,266,776 
Gearing ratio 35.57% 39.58% 
36. Business combinations 
(a) 2009 combination – Raven Mount Group plc (“Raven Mount”) 
On 8 May 2009 the Company’s acquisition of Raven Mount was pronounced unconditional. The Group considered Raven
Mount to comprise a single cash generating unit. Prior to its acquisition Raven Mount was considered a related party to the
Group. The acquisition of Raven Mount was in respect of 100% of its issued share capital. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
70
Details of the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill are as follows: 
Book Fair
Value Adjustment Value
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 59 – 59
Deferred tax assets 1,398 – 1,398
Current assets
Inventories 66,171 (3,179) 62,992
Trade and other receivables 4,920 – 4,920
Available for sale investments 15,731 – 15,731
Cash and cash equivalents 29,914 – 29,914
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (21,082) – (21,082)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (6,189) – (6,189)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (916) – (916)
Net asset value 90,006 (3,179) 86,827
Goodwill (note 13) 8,059
94,886
Discharged by:
Issue of preference shares (note 24) 88,198
Issue of warrants (note 28) 3,675
Acquisition costs 3,013
94,886
Included in the US$8 million of goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated
and reliably measured from the acquiree due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies.
Available for sale investments acquired with Raven Mount included 29 million own shares, see note 29. 
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009, Raven Mount contributed US$3,531k to the Group’s loss for the year. Had
the combination taken place at the beginning of 2009, the Group’s loss before tax would have increased by US$1,271k and
gross revenue from continuing operations would have increased by US$9,261k. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
71
(b) 2009 combination – Roslogistics Holdings (Russia) Limited (“Roslogistics”) 
Following a change to the financing arrangements of the Group’s logistics joint venture, Roslogistics, the Group considers the
substance of the arrangement to be that of a parent and subsidiary. The change was deemed effective from 1 May 2009.
The Group considers Roslogistics to be a single cash generating unit. 
Details of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill are as follows: 
Book Fair
Value Adjustment Value
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2,372 – 2,372
Intangible assets 323 (323) –
Deferred tax assets 1,519 – 1,519
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 2,304 – 2,304
Cash and cash equivalents 299 – 299
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (3,994) – (3,994)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings –– –
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (10,437) 3,119 (7,318)
Net asset value (7,614) 2,796 (4,818)
Goodwill (note 13) 5,383
565
Discharged by:
Cash consideration paid 500
Acquisition costs 65
565
Included in the US$5 million of goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated
and reliably measured from the acquiree due to their nature. These items include the expected values of synergies and an
assembled workforce.
From 1 May 2009 to 31 December 2009, Roslogistics contributed US$709k to the Group’s loss for the year. Had the
combination taken place at the beginning of 2009, the Group’s loss before tax would have increased by US$2,427k and gross
revenues from continuing operations would have increased by US$13,710k.
37. Subsequent events
On 28 February 2011 the Group entered into a conditional Sale and Purchase Agreement to purchase the Southgate
warehouse project in Moscow. The provisional purchase price for the acquisition is US$54.5 million, the gross value of the
property and land being US$99.3 million. Existing debt facilities of US$43.5 million will be acquired with the project. The
consideration will be satisfied partly by the issue of up to 25.9 million ordinary shares in Raven Russia, at the election of the
vendors, and the balance in cash. The principal condition of the acquisition involves the right of a minority owner of the project
to match any formal offer for the purchase by a third party.
Details of post year end re-financings are set out in note 23 and post year end warrant exercises are set out in note 28.  72
Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
38. Operating lease arrangements 
The Group earns rental income by leasing its investment properties to tenants under non-cancellable operating leases. 
At the balance sheet date the Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments:
2010 2009
US$’000 US$’000
Within one year 65,856 64,846 
In the second year 65,592 61,929 
In the third to fifth year (inclusive) 182,429 176,798 
After five years 86,483 82,659 
400,360 386,232 
39. Cash and cash equivalents 
2010 2009
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise: US$’000 US$’000
Cash and short term deposits per balance sheet 107,641 123,710
Cash included within disposal group assets (note 21) – 72
107,641 123,782 Registered Office:
P .O. Box 522 
1 Le Truchot
St. Peter Port
Guernsey
GY1 6EH 
Nominated Advisers, Joint Brokers & Financial Advisers:
Singer Capital Markets Limited
One Hanover Street
London
W1S 1AX
Joint Brokers:
Matrix Corporate Capital LLP
One Vine Street
London
W1J 0AH
Principal Bankers:
Royal Bank of Scotland International
UK Solicitors:
Berwin Leighton Paisner
Adelaide House
London Bridge
London
EC4R 9HA
Guernsey Advocates:
Carey Olsen
Carey House
Les Banques
St Peter Port
Guernsey
GY1 4BZ
Company Secretary:
Benn Garnham
Valuer:
Jones Lang LaSalle
Kosmodamianskaya NAB
52 Korp 3
Moscow
Registrars:
Capita Registrars (Guernsey) Limited
Longue Hougue House
St Sampson
Guernsey
GY1 3US
UK Transfer Agent:
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Independent Auditors:
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London
SE1 2AF
Advisers
73
Typesetting and printed by Linkway 15928 Oleg Vladimirovich Tomin
Томин Олег Владимирович
1974-2011  R A V E N R U S S I A L I M I T E D
www.RavenRussia.com
Registered Office
Raven Russia Limited, P .O. Box 522, 1 Le Truchot, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 6EH
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2010
R A V E N R U S S I A L I M I T E D
R A V E N R U S S I A L I M I T E D
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
