 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
2015
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (RB)
Annual Report and Financial Statements
bette rbusiness   Chief Executive’s Review  
on pages 8–9
  Strategic framework on pages 12–13
We make a difference to 
people’s lives through a 
trusted portfolio of brands, 
across consumer health, 
hygiene and home.
Our vision
A world where people are 
healthier and live better.
Our strategy
Contents
Our purpose
To make a difference, by 
giving people innovative 
solutions for healthier lives 
and happier homes.
Strategic Report
1 Highlights
2 At a glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
7 Reasons why RB delivers
8 Chief Executive’s Review
10 Our unique culture
12 Strategic framework
14 Our market and resources
 betterfinancials
16 – Our strategy to deliver 
17 – Organisation
19 – Powermarkets
20 – Powerbrands
22 – Virtuous earnings model
 bettersociety
24 – Workplace
26 – Communities
26 – Products
 betterenvironment
27 – Greenhouse gas emissions
28 – Water
28 – Waste
29 – Sourcing
30 Our operating model
32 Our operating model in action
34 Creating stakeholder value
36 Financial Review
40 Strategic Risks
Governance Report
46 Board of Directors
50 Executive Committee
52 Chairman’s Statement on 
Corporate Governance
54 Corporate Governance Statement
60 Nomination Committee Report
61 Audit Committee Report
66 Directors’ Remuneration Report
68 Our remuneration at a glance
70 Annual Report on Remuneration
79 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
85 Report of the Directors
88 Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities
Financial Statements
89 Financial Statements
bette rbusiness
betterfinancials
How we drive growth  
and outperformance
bettersociety
How we support  
our communities and 
develop our people
betterenvironment
How we reduce  
our environmental 
impact
Any information contained in the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements on the price at which shares or other securities in Reckitt Benckiser Group plc have been bought or sold in the 
past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 1
Highlights
betterfinancials
bettersociety betterenvironment
Net Revenue
£8,874m
Like-for-like
1
 growth +6% 
Gross margin
59.1%
+140 bps 
Adjusted
1
 operating margin
26.8%
+210 bps
Net Revenue from more  
sustainable products
£558m
6% of Net Revenue
 Read more on page 26
People reached with  
Health and Hygiene  
messaging
237m
Since 2013
Save a Child Every Minute
£6.5m
Committed to the programme in 2015
Greenhouse gas emissions 
per unit of production
14%
Reduction since 2012
Water use per unit  
of production
30%
Reduction since 2012 
Waste per unit  
of production
14%
Reduction since 2012
Adjusted
1
 earnings per share (diluted)
258.6p
+12% 
Developing markets
30%
of Net Revenue 
Health and Hygiene
74%
 of Net Revenue
1. Note: Definition of non-IFRS measures and their reconciliation  
to IFRS measures are shown on page 39. Read more on pages 16–23
 Read more on pages 27–29 Read more on pages 24–26 KEY:
ENA regions
DvM regions
RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2
At a glance
The right markets, 
categories and brands.
Millions of consumers worldwide love and trust our brands. We have 
operations in more than 60 countries and sales in most countries across 
the globe. 
We organise our business into two areas, centred on groups of 
countries with many similarities in consumer behaviour, brand 
development and how the retail trade is organised. This structure helps 
us to be faster to market, with more consistent in-market activation.
Net Revenue
£5,830m
2014: £5,891m
Like-for-like growth
+5%
Net Revenue
£349m
2014: £316m
Like-for-like growth
+4%
Net Revenue
£2,695m
2014: £2,629m
Like-for-like growth
+9%
ENA 
Europe (including Russia/CIS and Israel),  
North America and Australia/New Zealand
Food
DvM
Africa, Middle East (excluding Israel), Turkey, Asia  
(excluding Russia/CIS) and Latin America
We run Food as a standalone business.  
Its brands include French’s, the leading 
mustard brand in the US. The Portfolio category includes our  
laundry and fabric softener business,  
as well as our Food brands.
Health
Hygiene
Home
Health
Hygiene
Home
Health
Hygiene
Home
Strategic Report
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 3
Financial Statements Governance Report
Net Revenue
£628m
2014: £698m
Like-for-like growth
+1%
Net Revenue
£2,942m 
2014: £2,701m
Like-for-like growth
+14%
Net Revenue
£3,589m 
2014: £3,627m
Like-for-like growth
+3%
Net Revenue
£1,715m 
2014: £1,810m
Like-for-like growth
+2%
Portfolio (including Food)
Health and wellbeing are the key to 
happiness. Our health brands are generally 
sold over the counter and include products 
targeting everyday issues such as pain, fever, 
cold, flu, sore throat or heartburn. Our sexual 
wellbeing products, including condoms, 
lubricants and other aids, promote safe and 
pleasurable sex. The Health category also 
includes footcare, with products to address 
hard skin and other foot and nail conditions.
Hygiene is the foundation for healthy living. 
Our brands promote personal hygiene 
for good health and home hygiene, to 
create a safe environment for families. 
Our range includes disinfectant cleaners, 
multipurpose and speciality cleaners, 
lavatory care, automatic dishwashing 
detergents, pest control, depilatory 
products and acne treatments.
Home is the centre of family life. Our brands 
help create the right environment for families 
to enjoy their time together. Products in this 
category include air care, water softeners, 
garment care and fabric treatment.
Market positions 
• Nurofen and Gaviscon are leading 
analgesic and gastro-intestinal brands  
in Europe and Australia
• Durex is No.1 worldwide in condoms  
for both safe and more pleasurable sex
• Strepsils is No.1 in medicated sore  
throat globally
• Mucinex is the No.1 cough brand in  
the US
• Scholl has leading positions in many 
footcare markets
Market positions 
• RB is No.1 globally in the overall  
category of surface care 
• No.2 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol 
in North America and Harpic across Europe 
and Developing Markets
• Dettol is No.1 worldwide in antiseptic liquids 
• Finish is No.1 worldwide in automatic 
dishwashing
• No.2 worldwide in pest control with  
the Powerbrand Mortein, the Group’s 
international brand, supported by  
local brand franchises like d-Con in  
North America
• Veet is No.1 worldwide  
in depilatory products
Market positions 
• Vanish is No.1 worldwide in fabric treatment
• Calgon is No.1 worldwide in water softeners
• Woolite is No.2 worldwide in garment care
• Air Wick is No.2 worldwide in air care RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 4
Chairman’s
Statement
“Our purpose-driven 
strategy is delivering  
for all stakeholders.”
A year of delivery
2015 was another successful year for RB, as we continued to benefit 
from the strategy we outlined in 2012. Total Net Revenue was flat due 
to the negative impact of foreign exchange, but increased by 6% on 
a like-for-like basis. Reported Operating Profit was up 4% in actual 
currency and 7% in constant currency terms. Adjusted Operating 
Profit rose 9% in actual currency and 12% in constant currency, 
resulting in a 210bps increase in our Adjusted Operating Margin. 
Reported Diluted Earnings Per Share were 240.9p, up 6% while 
Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share were 12% higher at 258.6p.
Our strong operational performance and continued excellent cash 
conversion enabled us to return a record amount to Shareholders 
in 2015. We maintained the level of dividend this year, despite the 
loss in earnings from the Indivior demerger in December 2014. 
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 88.7p per share, 
up 12%, giving a total dividend for the year of 139p. Subject to 
Shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 26 May 
2016 to Shareholders on the register on 15 April 2016.
We also increased our share repurchase programme to £0.8 billion 
for the year (up from £0.3 billion) while maintaining our net 
debt position at around £1.6 billion. The Directors believe this 
policy of balanced returns leaves your Balance Sheet in a healthy 
position, while giving us the financial strength to invest in 
strategic, value-accretive acquisitions, in line with our strategy.
It is pleasing that RB’s share price performance continues to reflect 
our successful delivery. During the year, RB’s share price rose by 
20.6% to 6281p, well ahead of the 4.9% change in the FTSE 100.
A successful strategy
RB’s strategy concentrates our resources on the attractive Health and
Hygiene categories and looks to deliver well-balanced growth across
developed and developing markets. The Board remains highly focused 
on the success of this strategy. Each year, we spend considerable 
time with the Executive Committee, reviewing RB’s competitive 
environment and our plans for driving the business forward. We also 
carefully monitor the Company’s progress against its plans. Through 
this work, we remain convinced that our strategy is the right one and 
that it continues to position RB to outperform for the long term. 
Sustainability is a fundamental part of this strategy, as we 
recognise that we have a wider responsibility that goes beyond 
our commitment to deliver financial returns for Shareholders. 
We made further strong progress with our sustainability agenda 
this year, using our health and hygiene capabilities to make a 
real difference to people’s lives, while ensuring we operate safely 
and with the lowest possible impact on the environment.
At the start of 2015, we announced Project Supercharge, which
is already making a significant difference to our organisation and its 
performance. At its heart, it is about simplifying our business, so we 
can get our innovations to market more quickly and effectively. At the
same time, the substantial cost savings from the programme frees up 
cash for investment elsewhere, further improving our prospects for 
growth. More information about Project Supercharge and its benefits 
can be found on page 17.
Returns to Shareholders
£20.8bn
Of additional value delivered to our  
Shareholders in the last three years
Net Revenue from more 
sustainable products
£558m
6% of Net Revenue
Adrian Bellamy / Chairman Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 5
Governance 
in action
Board members’  
trip to India
In September 2015, the Board held a highly 
successful visit to India, which is a key 
growth market for RB and we believe will 
soon rank in the top three countries for 
revenues. Board members met government 
ministers, including Minister of Power, 
Piyush Goyal and Finance Minister, Arun 
Jaitley, e-commerce entrepreneurs including 
Snap Deal CEO Kunal Bahl, and Kailash 
Satyarthi, who won the 2014 Nobel 
Peace Prize for his work to protect the 
rights of children and young people.
The visit enhanced Board members’ 
knowledge of the Indian business 
environment, including the pivotal role  
that e-commerce will play in future growth. 
At the same time, it emphasised the 
importance of RB’s purpose as a company, 
which goes beyond our financial success. 
The Board learned about the progress 
we have made in supporting the Indian 
Government’s campaign for a cleaner 
India – known as Swachh Bharat – in 
which we are helping to improve hand 
hygiene and sanitation, which in turn helps 
people in India to live healthier lives. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 6
Governance
We believe that good governance is vital for business success. It
provides the framework within which RB can implement its strategy
and create further value for our Shareholders. Our annual evaluation of 
the effectiveness of the Board and its committees again showed that 
governance within RB is strong and effective. The evaluation identified 
areas for further improvement, which we are implementing. More 
detail about the evaluation and its findings are on page 57.
The Board also benefitted from the contributions and broad range of 
skills of our three new Non-Executive Directors, Mary Harris, Pam Kirby 
and Chris Sinclair, who joined the Board in February 2015 and who 
have brought fresh perspectives to add to the deep experience of our 
long-standing Directors. 
More information about RB’s approach to corporate governance and 
the Board’s activities during the year can be found in my statement on 
pages 52 and 53 and in the full Corporate Governance Report on pages 
54 to 58.
A culture of outperformance
As this Annual Report makes clear, RB’s culture is critical to its success. 
Our culture makes RB a dynamic and exciting business, which rewards 
outperformance and is constantly looking to do better for our 
customers, consumers and Shareholders.
Appreciation
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Rakesh Kapoor and his 
team for their substantial achievements this year and for positioning  
the business to succeed for years to come. We have an exceptional 
depth of talent on our Executive Committee and in our broader senior 
management team, which gives us the leadership we require to 
continue to outperform. I would also like to thank everyone in RB 
around the world for their outstanding commitment and performance 
in the last 12 months. 
My thanks also go to my colleagues on the Board for their guidance.
During the year we were very sorry to receive the resignation of our 
long time Deputy Chairman, Peter Harf, due to his ever increasing 
workload at JAB. Peter led the public offering of Benckiser and  
was subsequently very instrumental in bringing together Reckitt  
and Colman and Benckiser to form RB as we are today. This wise 
combination of two great companies has proven enormously  
beneficial to the shareholders of both corporations. Over the years 
Peter has been an outstanding director offering his great experience 
and wisdom during our Board deliberations. He contributed 
meaningfully to the growth of Shareholder wealth in RB. On behalf  
of all stakeholders I thank Peter for his immense contribution and  
wish him well in the future.
At the AGM to be held on 5 May 2016 (AGM), Jaspal Bindra, Sue Shim 
and Doug Tough will not be offering themselves for re-election and will 
retire from the Board from the conclusion of the meeting. I would very 
much like to thank each of them for their contributions and wish them 
well for the future pursuits they will be undertaking.
Thank you also to our Shareholders for your continued support.
AGM resolutions
The AGM is on 5 May 2016 and the resolutions that Shareholders will 
vote on are fully explained in the Notice of Meeting.
Conclusion
The Board remains confident that the building blocks are in place for 
RB’s ongoing success. The combination of our strategy, culture and 
people gives us a platform for continued growth and outperformance, 
which will benefit all our stakeholders.
Adrian Bellamy / Chairman
22 March 2016
Chairman’s
Statement continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 7
Performance-driven culture
Our culture is central to our outperformance, 
because our strategy becomes real when we 
execute it with excellence. We live our values 
of Achievement, Ownership, Entrepreneurship 
and Partnership. Our compensation approach 
and industry-leading share ownership 
requirement for senior management 
encourage our people to act as Shareholders 
and to treat the Company as their own.
Share ownership requirement  
of “Top40” management
£185m
Successful innovation
Continuous, successful innovation is the 
key to long-term success. We listen to 
our consumers and develop products that 
create healthier lives and happier homes. 
We then invest heavily behind these 
initiatives, with category and penetration-
building and consumer education activities 
we call Brand Equity Investment (BEI).
Scholl Velvet Smooth  
Express Pedi rolled out in
50markets
Virtuous earnings model
Our virtuous earnings model starts with Gross 
Margin, which we constantly seek to grow  
by targeting higher-margin segments, led by 
consumer health, and optimising cost 
throughout our supply chain. Combined with 
tight fixed-cost containment, this provides room 
in our Income Statement to invest for growth 
through our short and long-term BEI initiatives, 
enabling us to drive Net Revenue and expand 
our Operating Margin. Converting our profit 
into cash is an important part of our culture  
and compensation ethos. All our operational 
management teams have revenue, profit and 
net working capital objectives built into their 
annual bonus targets.
Gross Margin
+140bps
Value creation 
We are primarily an organic growth 
company and have created significant 
value from successful innovation, 
investing behind our brands and in-store 
excellence. However, the consumer 
health market is fragmented, which 
gives us the opportunity to acquire 
strong brands. In recent years we 
have made important, value-accretive 
acquisitions, which have enhanced our 
organic growth platform and provided 
significant returns for our Shareholders.
Total Shareholder Return since 2012 
announcement of new strategy
+126%
Right portfolio strategy
We identify unmet consumer needs in 
underpenetrated, higher-growth and higher-
margin categories. We drive growth through 
innovation, penetration-building programmes, 
scaled distribution, consumer education and 
in-store excellence. We invest disproportionately 
behind our high-potential markets (Powermarkets) 
and our faster growing brands (Powerbrands). 
Our growth is broad based and we do 
not rely on any one market or brand.
Powerbrands
19
Powermarkets
16 Read more on page 16
Reasons why RB delivers
 Read more on pages 10–11
 Read more on pages 30–33 Read more on pages 22–23 Read more on page 34–35 RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 8
Chief Executive’s
Review
“The combination of the 
right portfolio strategy 
and the right culture is 
delivering outstanding 
returns to Shareholders.”
“Our people have the 
hunger you usually only 
find in companies that 
are just starting out.”
RB has a long track record of outperformance. While it is tempting to 
focus on the ‘hardware’ of our financial performance, to discover what 
truly makes RB special you need to understand the ‘software’ beyond 
it – our culture and values, and our talented people who embody both.
RB’s culture is very different from others in our industry. Our people 
have the hunger you usually only find in companies that are just 
starting out. We have a compelling desire to challenge ourselves 
and each other, so we outperform and make RB the best company 
we can be. Our culture is reflected in our values – Achievement, 
Ownership, Entrepreneurship and Partnership. They determine 
how we make decisions and how our leadership provides a role 
model for the behaviours we want. Our values are interlinked, 
and they combine to make RB a business where we act fast, take 
responsibility and aim for and reward exceptional achievement.
I also believe that successful companies must have a clear purpose, 
which explains who they are and what they stand for. RB stands  
for healthier lives and happier homes. This purpose inspires us and 
helps us to prioritise. For example, we know which innovations 
to pursue and which capabilities we need, because we can easily 
see whether or not they will help us achieve our purpose. Our 
purpose therefore directly informs our business strategy.
Results
2015 was an excellent year for RB, as we continued to benefit 
from our focus on consumer health and hygiene. These categories 
are faster growing, higher margin and less competitive. Our 
approach of identifying unmet needs means we can drive 
category growth, rather than fighting for market share.
We delivered strong like-for-like growth and exceptional Operating 
Margin expansion. The starting point for our virtuous earnings 
model is Gross Margin, which we increased by 140bps, as we 
drove a superior sales mix and ongoing optimisation of our cost 
base. Higher gross margins give us the capacity to invest heavily 
behind our brands, which in turn drives our top line. Brand Equity 
Investment (BEI) rose by £48 million (constant) equivalent to 12.7% 
(-20bps) of Net Revenue, which understates the true increase given 
our reinvestment of efficiencies. Our operating margins are already 
best in class but we increased them by a further 210bps, to 26.8%.
Supercharging our organisation
In our markets, speed matters. However, as organisations 
grow they inevitably become more complex, which makes 
them rigid and slower to respond. We must constantly battle 
against this, so our culture and business can thrive.
We announced Project Supercharge at the start of 2015. It is our 
programme to ensure we have a simpler, more agile organisation, 
which focuses our efforts on our consumers and our retail 
customers. Supercharge is already delivering real benefits. For 
example, we have reduced our geographical areas from three to 
two, bringing our developing markets under a single leadership 
and helping us to deliver more scalable innovation and better in-
country activation. To focus on the blockbuster innovations with 
the best returns, we have reduced the number of projects in our 
pipeline, while increasing their average value. And our Power of 
1 teams (see page 30) are helping us to roll-out new products 
more quickly, consistently and cost effectively across our areas.
Supercharge is a cultural programme but it is also delivering cost 
savings to reinvigorate our earnings model. Our people have embraced 
Supercharge to such an extent that we have accelerated these benefits 
and achieved more than we planned in 2015. We also now expect to 
achieve the upper end of our £100 million – £150 million annual savings 
target once we have fully implemented this three-year programme.
Number of “Top400” management  
working outside their home country
61%
Like-for-like Net Revenue growth
+6%
Rakesh Kapoor / Chief Executive Officer 0
225
450
675
900
1125
1350
1575
1800
Value of £100 invested at 1 January 2000
1 Jan 00
1 Jan 01
1 Jan 02
1 Jan 03
1 Jan 04
1 Jan 05
1 Jan 06
1 Jan 07
1 Jan 08
1 Jan 09
1 Jan 10
1 Jan 11
1 Jan 12
1 Jan 13
1 Jan 14
1 Jan 15
1 Jan 16
FTSE 100 RB 
£1,721
£156
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 9
A connected company
The digital revolution is transforming the business world, so we 
continue to invest in creating a connected company. The need to  
be where our consumers are, means we are increasingly moving  
online. In some of our key markets, more than 50% of our media 
impressions are now through digital media. We are connecting our 
Powerbrands directly to consumers, for example by engaging with  
new mothers to promote Dettol, and using technology and data  
to derive better and faster insights, so we can rapidly identify and 
respond to changes in consumer demand. E-commerce is ever more 
important and more than 25% of our revenue in China now comes 
through this channel. We use China to develop new approaches  
to e-commerce, which we can then apply to the rest of the world.
Our betterbusiness strategy
Truly sustainable businesses need to be financially strong while 
improving people’s lives and acting in an environmentally 
sustainable way. Our betterbusiness strategy therefore 
encompasses how we drive financial performance – through 
our focus on our Powermarkets, Powerbrands, our organisation 
and our margins – as well as how we meet our social and 
environmental responsibilities, so we deliver sustainable value.
The most effective social programmes are those which inspire people 
because they are closely connected to the Company’s business. Our 
Save a Child Every Minute campaign with Save the Children uses 
our expertise and our people’s efforts to effect real change, with 
the goal of stopping diarrhoea being a top five killer of children. This 
year we have launched two innovative hygiene products to reduce 
the incidence of diarrhoea, with their profits being reinvested in 
the programme. We also continue to educate people and to raise 
awareness of health and hygiene. I am delighted that our efforts mean 
we have already hit our 2020 target of reaching 200 million people.
We have a well-established sustainability programme, as we aim  
to grow in an environmentally and socially responsible way. As  
a result, we work hard to make our products and our production 
more sustainable, by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, waste 
and energy and water use, and by increasing the proportion of 
Net Revenues from more sustainable products. More details of our 
approach and performance can be found on pages 24 to 29.
Conclusion
We are making good progress with our strategy and remain on 
target to reach our 2020 goals. Despite all our achievements 
so far, we believe there is much more to go for, as we drive 
penetration of our markets and introduce innovations that 
delight consumers and create value for all our stakeholders.
In 2016 we expect that the macroenvironment will be tough but 
we remain confident that our strategic choices across Powerbrands 
and Powermarkets will enable RB to deliver another year of growth 
and margin expansion. We are targeting like-for-like Net Revenue 
growth of +4-5%. For operating margin our medium-term target is 
for moderate margin expansion. We expect this to be supplemented 
in 2016 by part of the remaining Project Supercharge efficiencies.
Rakesh Kapoor / Chief Executive Officer
22 March 2016
Case study
Connected to 
our consumers
 
Durex passionately believes in providing couples with better 
protection and better sex. We know that the best way to reach our 
core targets – young people – and talk to them about sex is through 
digital media. In 2015, Durex therefore decided to take connectivity 
to a completely new level.
In China, Durex created the first personalised condom packs, 
allowing people to go online to choose their preferred design and 
create a personal message for the person they love, with the packs 
then shipped directly to their home. 
Globally, Durex showed that the best way to turn on is to turn off 
your device. YouTube videos created for our Earth Hour campaign 
in March 2015, were viewed more than 75 million times, making 
them the most-watched branded YouTube videos  
for weeks. 
No icon is yet available to communicate safer sex on social 
platforms, so for World Aids Day 2015, Durex campaigned for a 
‘condom emoji’. The Durex video really struck a chord with young 
people, creating a digital interaction every three seconds during 
the campaign and achieving 2.9 billion impressions globally.
When it comes to better and healthier sex – in real life or  
on the net – the best way to connect is the Durex way.
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
RB has demonstrated outstanding Shareholder return. If you 
invested £100 on 1 January 2000 that investment would have 
grown to £1,721 by the end of 2015. That same £100 invested in 
the FTSE 100 would be worth £156 over the same period of time. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 10
Our unique culture
RB has a distinctly different 
culture. Our culture is all 
about the people who 
make RB what it is; the 
ways in which we improve 
the health and hygiene of 
our consumers, and how 
we work with and develop 
our people, suppliers, 
partners and third parties.
Our culture is captured by our four values – 
Achievement, Ownership, Entrepreneurship and 
Partnership. These values are interlinked and 
together define how we make decisions, how our 
people act and how we assess and reward them. 
Our leaders are role models for these behaviours, 
so everyone in RB understands the way we work.
Achievement
Everyone wants a sense of 
achievement and for RB that  
means outperformance.
We constantly raise the bar, expecting more from 
ourselves and inspiring others to stretch beyond targets. 
This hunger is the basis of our drive to outperform.
Every day we challenge the tried and tested because 
we want to be better – better innovations, better ways 
of doing things and better results. We explore what it 
means to be the very best. We have a unique approach to 
rewards, where average performance results in average 
rewards but top performance earns excellent rewards.
Partnership
Partnership means  
leveraging our relationships  
to drive outperformance.
In today’s world, we cannot be the best if we do everything 
ourselves. In aggregate, there is far more innovation, creativity 
and knowledge outside RB than there can ever be inside it. We 
therefore partner with organisations who can bring us innovative 
products and help us develop more effective ways of working.
We also strive for a spirit of openness in our internal 
partnerships. To maximise our potential, we have to seek 
help when we need it, share best practice and make each 
other better every day. To be a great company, we must 
be obsessed by making each other the best we can be.
THE RIGHT VALUES
ACHIEVEMENT
We don’t just aim  
high, we strive for  
outperformance.
OWNERSHIP
We treat the Company 
as if it is our own.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Daring to be different, 
taking calculated risks.
PARTNERSHIP
Leveraging relationships 
for outperformance. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 11
Case study
Project
Supercharge
• We have focused our innovation pipeline on fewer, bigger, 
better innovations and it is now stronger than ever. 
• We have increased investments behind our health products  
and behind those capabilities that are critical to grow our  
share of the healthcare market and drive our Powerbrands  
to market leading positions.
• We are reducing the number of partners we work with by 
consolidating our creative agencies and point of sale suppliers. 
By involving procurement specialists early in the supplier 
selection process, we are able to negotiate the best possible 
deals which often results in savings for the same level of 
service. Procurement have delivered significant savings  
in freight costs, copy production and Consumer Market  
Insights (CMI).
The benefits:
• Our resource allocation is now focused on fewer, bigger 
projects. We have boosted the average size of our top 10 
projects by 27%, whilst reducing complexity.
• In DvM we have set up a centre of excellence for healthcare  
to boost capabilities.
• We have invested in e-commerce in the DvM area.
• Through agency consolidation we now have the very best 
creative agencies working across each of our portfolios.  
Our creative communications strategy is working much  
harder to grow penetration for our Powerbrands.
• Through better forward planning of copy production,  
we have been able to drive efficiencies and we are seeing 
significant increases in multi country campaigns and also in  
the average number of copies per TV campaign.
# Supercharging Outperformance. 
Ownership
To build a company focused on 
achievement, our people need  
a sense of ownership. 
This means our people take ownership of issues, identify 
what needs to be done and see ideas through to fruition. 
They accept responsibility and own the outcome. Rather 
than waiting to be told what to do, they act in RB’s and 
consumers’ best interests and when making spending 
decisions, they spend as if the money were their own.
We encourage our people to behave as if they own the 
business. The “Top40” managers in RB have the highest 
shareholding requirements in the industry. Medium to long-
term rewards, based on outperformance in earnings per share 
growth, can significantly outweigh short-term bonuses. Many 
employees throughout the business also own shares and 
have share-based incentives. Wherever possible, employees 
are given the opportunity to participate in share ownership 
schemes. Outperformance therefore has material benefits 
for our people, by creating value for Shareholders. 
Entrepreneurship
Owners are usually entrepreneurs. 
Entrepreneurs challenge the status 
quo, find fresh approaches and 
adopt new thinking.
They have more ideas and look for the resources to implement 
them. This contrasts with the typical big company, which has 
more resources than ideas and – because it worries more 
about failure than success – avoids taking calculated risks.
We make a conscious effort to breed a culture of 
entrepreneurship. By tightly controlling resources, we 
encourage our people to innovate and find better ways to 
achieve their goals. We allow passionate people to pursue 
projects they believe in, knowing they can fail small and 
will be rewarded if their project is launched. We create a 
culture of diversity, so we benefit from different experiences 
and viewpoints, and encourage people to speak up.
Total share ownership requirement  
for “Top40” management
£185m
Nationalities in  
“Top400” management
49 betterbusiness
betterfinancials
How we drive growth  
and outperformance
bettersociety
How we support  
our communities and 
develop our people
betterenvironment
How we reduce  
our environmental impact
RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 12
Strategic Framework:  
The changing world drives our purpose-
driven strategy and business model
Our world  
is changing…
Powerful long-term trends  
are increasing demands  
for our products
We are living longer
Our incomes are rising
We are more proactive (about health)
Our lives are busier
We are always connected
Healthcare costs are rising
Regulation is changing
Society and Shareholders expect more
Our purpose
To make a difference by  
giving people innovative  
solutions for healthier  
lives and happier homes.
The right strategy:
(Our Hardware)
The right culture:
(Our Software)
Why we  
can deliver
Our purpose-driven  
strategy and unique culture  
create the conditions for  
outperformance relative  
to our markets
 Read more on pages 14–15 Read more on pages 16–29
– Achievement
– Entrepreneurship
– Ownership
– Partnership Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 13
For our People
Rewarding and challenging careers
+
For our Consumers
Innovative solutions that make a difference
+
For our Shareholders
Sustainable growth and outperformance
+
For our Customers
Leading brands that drive profitable  
category growth and footfall
+
For our Communities
Healthier and happier communities 
through the use of our products
Create
For our Consumers
Create innovative products that meet  
under-served demands
Scale
Scale our innovations,  
to make them as global  
as possible
Activate 
For our Customers
Activate our ideas  
through our customer  
relationships while driving  
consumer demand
How we  
can deliver
Our three-part model  
enables us to rapidly  
scale up our ideas and  
offer them to consumers  
around the world
What we  
can deliver
Our strategy and business  
model create value for our  
stakeholders and reinforce our  
position as the global leader  
in health and hygiene
 Read more on pages 30–33 Read more on pages 34–35
Global leader in consumer health and hygiene
1
1. Based on RB’s definition of hygiene plus consumer health sales. (Data sources: Hygiene: RB select categories (Euromonitor); Consumer 
Health: OTC (Nicholas Hall) ; Condoms/Devices (ACNielsen); Foot care – (ACNielsen – select markets only). RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 14
Our world is changing…
Our consumer landscape 
is changing
Our environment
is changing
Our market and resources
Healthcare costs are rising
Access to healthcare is not only a human 
need – it is a basic human right. The current 
infrastructure and health delivery systems are 
creaking under the strain of ever-increasing 
demand as they face a perfect storm of 
pressures: burgeoning population, increased 
longevity, and resource shortfalls among 
doctors, nurses and other health professionals. 
As the boundaries of science get pushed 
back, we are able to offer more solutions 
for health needs but that adds cost. As costs 
spiral and resources diminish, what we can 
least afford to do is reduce the healthcare 
that people can access. We need a radical 
rethink to find more cost-effective ways to help 
consumers protect and manage their health.
Regulation is changing
The ever-changing global consumer landscape 
exposes potential gaps in regulation in 
environmental stewardship, patient safety and 
data protection. In response, governments 
are demanding more responsible behaviours 
and accountability from all stakeholders. 
Evolving laws and regulations mean companies 
must innovate to keep pace and adapt their 
products to exclude ingredients that may affect 
safety or the environment and to reduce the 
environmental footprint of their operations. This 
favours forward-thinking companies who strive 
for transparency and continuous improvement.
We are  
living longer
Life expectancy is rising around the 
world. Between 2015 and 2030, the 
number of people aged over 60 is 
expected to increase to more than 1.4 
billion. Ageing populations are putting 
ever greater demands on healthcare 
services and motivating people to look 
for new ways to promote wellbeing as 
well as wellness.
We are more 
proactive (about health)
Longer life expectancies and rising 
incomes are encouraging more of 
us to actively look after ourselves 
and prevent health issues before 
they occur, for example through 
better hygiene and healthier home 
environments. We believe that self-care 
is the new frontier of healthcare.
We are always 
connected
Advances in digital technology, 
particularly mobiles, mean consumers 
can make ever-greater use of online 
resources and e-commerce to manage 
lifestyles and healthcare. Sites such 
as WebMD enable us to learn about 
health and wellbeing, while Facebook 
and other social media help us to 
interact with brands and to exchange 
information with people with similar 
issues and interests. Consumers around 
Our incomes  
are rising
An expanding middle class, particularly 
in developing markets, means more 
people have money to spend on 
health and hygiene products after 
meeting their essential needs. Increased 
income also spurs development of 
better infrastructure such as sanitation 
systems, which further drives demand. 
Our lives are busier
Modern life brings more opportunities 
at work and at home but also more 
demands on our time. This encourages 
consumers to use easily accessible over-
the-counter health products, rather 
than wait for a doctor’s appointment, 
to seek out the fastest-acting hygiene 
or laundry product and to look for 
personal grooming and beauty 
treatments that can be used at home.
the world increasingly act on this 
information by buying products online. 
E-commerce enables companies to 
gather data about consumers and 
their preferences, to tailor offers that 
are specific to them, and to provide a 
consistent customer experience across 
different countries and to increase 
engagement. This requires companies 
to have robust systems and processes 
for gathering data and the ability to 
analyse it to derive valuable insights 
while protecting consumer privacy. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 15
Society and Shareholders 
expect more
How this links to our strategy 
The licence to operate for companies like RB now encompasses 
stakeholders’ expectations that can go beyond the letter of the 
law and regulations. Continuous improvement on environmental 
and social metrics is expected of responsible companies.
One particularly strong trend is a growing focus on tackling the 
causes of easily preventable deaths and illness. For example,  
each year around the world there are over 84,000 deaths from 
sexually transmitted diseases, over half a million deaths of children 
under the age of five from diarrhoea and over 610,000 deaths 
from malaria, which can all be prevented.
We believe we are uniquely placed  
to respond to these global trends 
through our betterbusiness strategy. 
Our focus on Health, Hygiene and Home categories helps consumers 
protect and improve their health and wellbeing as they enjoy longer 
and more prosperous lives.
Our Powermarkets address the countries with the fastest growing 
demand for these products. For example, we expect that in India 
there will be 100 million more toilets by 2020 and we want to be 
there and elsewhere to fulfil increased sanitation needs. 
We continue to expand our e-commerce capabilities and to invest  
in our IT and data analysis. This will help us exploit opportunities in 
the emerging eHealth arena. We believe that digital capability will 
revolutionise health monitoring and we are committed to be at the 
forefront of this trend. In fact, 25% of all sales in China today are  
via e-commerce and we anticipate this to be over 50% by 2020.
We recognise the need to balance our desire for delivering 
sustainable financial outperformance for our Shareholders with 
delivering meaningful employment and economic viability for  
the communities where we live and operate and protecting our 
precious environmental resources. 
Business must be a force for good across all three metrics. 
prioritising one over the other is not sustainable.
Our emphasis on an agile, responsive organisation enables us to 
anticipate and address consumer needs quickly and effectively. 
Consumer health is higher margin, which helps give us the financial 
headroom to invest in innovation and in building brands, so that 
consumers have access to the next generation of products that  
meet their changing needs.
This approach drives financial outperformance, with revenues 
growing faster than the market and increasing margins creating  
value for our investors.
At the same time, we know that growth and responsibility go hand 
in hand. Our betterbusiness strategy therefore also encompasses 
our role in society – through the way we look after our people and 
our community programmes – and our drive to continue to reduce 
our environmental impact. Our betterbusiness strategy inspires us  
to do the right thing every day.
Our environment
is changing  
 
 
 
Gross
Margin
UNIQUE
CULTURE 
Net
Revenue
Fixed cost
BEI
Operating
Margin
RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 16
Our strategy to deliver
Why we can deliver
The betterfinancials element of our 
strategy has four pillars, which focus 
our business on faster-growing 
markets and categories and enable 
us to outperform.
betterfinancials
THESE PILLARS ARE:
Organisation Powermarkets Powerbrands Virtuous  
earnings model
 See pages 17–18 See page 19 See pages 20–21 See pages 22–23
We organise our business 
into two geographical 
areas
1
ENA/DvM
This helps us to allocate 
resources effectively and 
to scale our blockbuster 
innovations. We continually 
invest in and evolve our 
organisation, to ensure 
speed of decision making 
and execution.
16
Powermarkets
We have selected 16 
Powermarkets, the 
majority of which are in 
developing markets.
They benefit from higher 
growth, rising middle classes 
and opportunities to increase 
penetration. In addition to 
their growth potential, our 
Powermarkets are those 
where we see the ability 
to win.
19
Powerbrands  
spread across
1
Health
Hygiene
Home
These Powerbrands provide 
over 80% of our revenue and 
enable us to achieve higher 
growth and higher margins.
Our virtuous earnings model 
gives us the capacity to 
invest in top line growth, 
while expanding our 
operating margins.
1. Our total operations also  
include Food.
1. French’s is also a Powerbrand. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 17
Organisation
DESCRIPTION
For our business to continue to thrive, we need to organise it for 
continued success. Growing organisations can become more complex 
and slower to react, which is a major disadvantage in a fast-moving 
industry. We therefore focus on how we can remain agile so that our 
creativity is unleashed and we can be even more customer centric. 
PROGRESS
At the start of 2015, we announced Project Supercharge. This is 
primarily a cultural programme, born from our desire to always 
be better. It is designed to fight the complexity that arises in 
big companies, which means we must constantly simplify and 
reduce the layers of decision making. Supercharge does this 
by ensuring we focus on the two things that really matter: the 
consumer and the retail customer. A full description of Supercharge 
can be found on page 17 of our 2014 Annual Report.
Supercharge is already delivering substantial benefits for us, examples 
of which include:
• Streamlining our portfolio of initiatives in support of blockbuster 
innovations has enabled us to increase the average size of our  
top 10 projects by 27% during 2015.
• Changing our geographical structure from the start of 2015, 
combining our two areas focused on developing markets into a 
single DvM area, and moving Australia, New Zealand, Russia, CIS 
and Israel into our ENA area.
• Organising our business around clusters of similar consumers and 
bringing developing markets under one leadership supports our 
ability to deliver bigger, better and more scalable innovation, 
combined with improved in-market activation at a country level. 
Simplifying and delayering our structure has also provided funds  
to reinvest in growing our revenue. We are already seeing benefits 
from the new structure, including faster growth in Australia and 
Russia, as a result of grouping them with similar countries, and the 
ability to streamline decision making and share information between 
markets more effectively.
• Deploying ‘Power of 1’ teams in both ENA and DvM, helping us  
to deliver more efficient, effective and scalable roll-outs of our 
innovations. Each Powerbrand is assigned a lead market. The Power 
of 1 team in that market is now responsible, with input from the 
other countries in its area, for developing a master launch package 
for that innovation. This ensures consistency across the area and 
avoids the time and cost of reworking the launch package for 
individual countries.
As well as creating a simpler, more agile organisation, Supercharge is 
providing substantial cost savings. We estimated these savings at the 
time of announcement of the project as £100 million – £150 million 
a year by 2017. The speed with which our people have embraced 
Supercharge accelerated delivery of savings in 2015, contributing to our 
operating margin enhancement this year (see page 22 for more details).
Creating a connected company
To improve our efficiency and support our ability to grow, we are 
focusing our information technology investment into three main areas.
First, we have introduced a global process for managing our investment 
so we create a standard set of systems. This ensures we only spend 
money in one place and can then scale that system as required, rather 
than duplicating investments in similar systems in different countries.
We are also enhancing the connectivity between our systems, so we 
can generate insights more quickly. For example, connecting our sales 
systems with our factories enables us to respond faster to changes  
in demand for a product. This improved connectivity will enable us  
to share data wherever it is needed in the business. During 2015,  
we have also rolled out collaborative tools such as telepresence units 
and document sharing. This helps create a more collaborative and 
productive environment, in which people can work more closely 
together, while reducing travelling costs.
In addition, we are improving efficiency by negotiating global deals 
with IT suppliers and beginning to standardise and globalise our back 
office processes.
OUTLOOK
After a highly successful first year of Supercharge, we are well 
positioned to continue to reap the benefits in its second year and we 
are now targeting the upper end of the initial £100 million – £150 
million annual savings target. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 18
Organisation continued
betterfinancials
ENA
Rob de Groot / Executive Vice President, ENA
PROGRESS
Total Net Revenue was £5,830 million, with LFL growth of +5%.  
All European regions had a strong finish to the year, completing a year 
of broad-based growth. Absolute growth was led by our larger markets 
(UK, France, Germany and Spain) whilst smaller markets in Eastern and 
South Eastern Europe had strong rates of growth. Australia performed 
well throughout the year. Operational performance in Russia and CIS 
was strong with an improved go-to-market model for our Consumer 
Health business but the outlook remains uncertain given the current 
market and currency issues. 
North America had a good year with 3% LFL growth driven by the 
launch of our successful Velvet Smooth Express Pedi under the new 
brand name, Amopé, and in the second half, our new electronic nail 
file. VMS brands were mixed with good growth in Digestive Advantage  
and Move Free offset by weakness in Megared and Airborne. Mucinex 
had a strong end to the year, benefitting from the launch of new liquid 
filled caplets across the adult Fast Max Multi-Symptom and Sinus 
variants. Lysol performed well, driven by health education programmes, 
offset by competitive market conditions for Finish.
Adjusted Operating Profit increased +10% (constant) to £1,744 million; 
the adjusted operating margin increased +210bps to 29.9%, due to 
strong gross margin expansion and Project Supercharge initiatives.
Our priorities for 2016 include continuing our drive towards healthcare 
brands, with a focus on higher-margin channels, as well as continuing 
to build our e-commerce capabilities.
DvM
Frederic Larmuseau / Executive Vice President, DvM
PROGRESS
Total net revenue was £2,695 million, with LFL growth of +9%. 
Growth came from all regions. In South Asia, India continued 
to deliver improving growth trends. Our penetration-building 
initiatives within Dettol and Harpic support the Government’s 
health and hygiene initiatives. China had a strong performance 
with Durex and e-commerce driven initiatives leading the 
growth. Middle East, Turkey and South Africa also had strong 
performances. Brazil remains challenging, although strong pest 
demand in the second half helped mitigate some of the weakness. 
Thailand, Indonesia and West Africa also remain challenging. 
Adjusted Operating Profit increased by 19% (constant) to 
£528 million; the adjusted operating margin was +210bps 
higher at 19.6%. This was due to strong gross margin 
expansion, combined with Supercharge initiatives.
Our priorities for 2016 include continuing to enhance distribution  
and penetration to enable our products to reach even more consumers, 
as well as continuing to build our e-commerce capabilities.
Food
PROGRESS
Total Net Revenue was £349 million, a +4% LFL increase versus prior 
year at constant exchange rates. In North America growth was led 
by Frank’s RedHot and the launch of French’s ketchup. Growth in 
North America was partially offset by share losses in French’s mustard 
due to a competitive entry. Increased distribution drove growth 
outside the USA. Operating margins improved by +230bps to 29.2% 
due to pricing initiatives and Project Supercharge efficiencies. 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Like-for-like Net  
Revenue growth
+6%
2015 target: +4%
2016 target: +4-5% at 
constant exchange rates
Target to 2020: Total Net 
Revenue growth which 
outperforms the markets 
in which we operate
Operating margin  
Expansion
+210bps
2015 target: Moderate 
to ‘nice’ expansion
2016 target: Moderate  
margin expansion
Target to 2020: Moderate 
margin expansion
PERFORMANCE
 Exceeded our like-for-like Net Revenue growth target.
 Gross margin expansion +140bps to 59.1%, driven by mix, 
commodity costs and cost optimisation initiatives.
 Adjusted Operating Margin up +210 bps to 26.8%.
Why we can deliver Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 19
Powermarkets
DESCRIPTION
Our Powerbrand approach, where we disproportionately invest 
resources and management talent behind our higher-growth, 
higher-margin brands, has been successful for us. This success 
encouraged us to adopt the same mindset to our markets, making our 
‘Powermarkets’ one of the four pillars of our betterfinancials strategy. 
These are markets where we see the highest potential for absolute 
growth and where we have the capability and infrastructure to win.
By looking at our markets through this lens, we have identified 
16 Powermarkets. A significant proportion of these are developing 
markets, due to their higher growth potential and better penetration 
opportunities for our brands. Our Powermarkets also include a number 
of our larger developed markets, which will be significant contributors 
to our absolute growth. Powermarkets receive priority for our top-rated 
and high potential people, and like our Powerbrands, we will invest 
disproportionately for growth.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Proportion of total Net 
Revenue from DvM 
30%
2014: 30% 
Target to 2020: 40%
PERFORMANCE
 Delivered broad-based growth across ENA (+5% like-for-like) 
and DvM (+9% like-for-like).
 Made further progress towards our target for the percentage of 
total Net Revenue from DvM, with good progress from strong, 
organic growth offset by unfavourable foreign exchange impacts 
from many emerging markets.
Case study
China
While the full list of our Powermarkets is commercially sensitive, 
we have said that China is one of them. So how have we treated 
China differently since it became a Powermarket?
• First, we promoted it within our organisational structure,  
from being designated as a small country within our hierarchy 
to being its own region. This has reduced the number of  
touch points and layers of management between it and the 
CEO/top management.
• We then upscaled both the seniority and reward structure of 
the management team. China is now a market where we put 
our more senior and high potential people. It is also a stepping 
stone for further promotion within RB. For example, our 
General Manager in China has recently been promoted  
to lead our Consumer Health division within our global 
category function.
• We also prioritise investment behind our brands, distribution 
and equity building capabilities. In fact China now has its  
own dedicated digital media team. 
This means that China will be slightly dilutive to our operating 
margin in the short-term but we are happy to invest for growth. 
China, in due course, will be a large market for us, with the right 
product portfolio, strong gross margin and a similarly strong 
operating margin. 
In summary, our strategy is simple – we aim to be a ‘self-help’ 
company. By investing disproportionately behind, and moving  
our centre of gravity towards, higher growth markets (our 
Powermarkets) and higher growth brands (our Powerbrands),  
we should become a higher growth business over the  
long-term, even if market and category growth rates do  
not materially change. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 20
Powerbrands
betterfinancials
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Proportion of total Net 
Revenue from Health 
and Hygiene
74%
2014: 72%
Target to 2020: 80%
PERFORMANCE
 Continued to benefit from strategy of focusing on Health  
and Hygiene, which delivered like-for-like Net Revenue  
growth of 14% and 3% respectively.
 High quality, Health and Hygiene led growth of LFL +8%.
Why we can deliver
OUR POWERBRANDS ARE:
DESCRIPTION
Health and wellbeing are the key to happiness. Our health brands are 
generally sold over the counter and include products targeting everyday 
issues such as pain, fever, cold, flu, sore throat or heartburn. Our sexual 
wellbeing products, including condoms, lubricants and other aids, promote 
safe and pleasurable sex. The Health category also includes footcare, with 
products to address hard skin and other foot and nail conditions.
PROGRESS
Total Net Revenue was £2,942 million, with LFL growth +14% (total 
+14%) – an exceptional year of growth and outperformance relative 
to our markets. Growth was driven by a number of factors: 
 Strong category growth, towards the high end of the +4-6% 
medium-term category growth trends. This is due to a strong 
cold and flu season at the beginning of the year.
 Innovation within the Scholl franchise, in particular our Velvet 
Smooth Express Pedi, a series of insole initiatives, and the 
Velvet Smooth Electronic Nail Care System. This has delivered 
an outstanding performance throughout many ENA markets 
and a number of DvM markets. 
 A full year of contribution from the successful Amopé franchise 
in North America following its initial launch in Q4 2014. 
 Broad based growth across all of our Health Powerbrands, driven  
by innovation (eg; Durex RealFeel, Strefen Direct Spray). 
 Consumer education programmes (eg; Nurofen Express), improved 
go-to-market capabilities (Russia and Turkey) and improved 
distribution and in-store execution programmes in pharmacies and 
online (Durex China). 
 VMS performance was mixed, with good growth in Digestive 
Advantage and Move Free offset by weakness in Megared and 
Airborne.
We believe we are well positioned to outperform long-term category 
growth within Consumer Health, driven by our market leading, trusted 
brands, strong consumer centric innovation pipeline, and significant 
investment behind medical professional and consumer education 
programmes. We do not believe, however, that the current level of 
growth is sustainable.
Health
Portfolio  
(including Food)
33% 
of Net Revenue
Health
Hygiene
Home
• Durex,  
Gaviscon, 
Nurofen, Mucinex, 
Scholl, Strepsils
Health
Hygiene
Home
• Cillit Bang,  
Clearasil, Dettol, 
Finish, Harpic, Lysol,  
Mortein, Veet
• French’s
Health
Hygiene
Home
• Air Wick,  
Calgon, Vanish,  
Woolite
Health
Hygiene
Home Health
Hygiene
Home
Health
Hygiene
Home
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 21
DESCRIPTION
Hygiene is the foundation for healthy living. Our brands promote 
personal hygiene for good health and home hygiene, to create a safe 
environment for families. Our range includes disinfectant cleaners, 
multipurpose and speciality cleaners, lavatory care, automatic dishwashing 
detergents, pest control, depilatory products and acne treatments.
PROGRESS
Total Net Revenue was £3,589 million, with LFL growth of +3%. DvM 
weighted brands of Dettol and Harpic led the growth in this category 
behind both penetration-building programmes and innovations such 
as our new Dettol Squeezy hand wash and Harpic bathroom cleaner 
in India. Our pest franchise (led by Mortein and SBP) had a mixed 
performance, with innovations and strong demand in Brazil and Australia 
offset by weakness in India behind competitive activity. Finish also had 
a mixed performance with strong growth across emerging market 
countries and the UK offset by competitive market conditions in the 
US. Finish continues to be heavily weighted to developed markets. 
We continue to work on penetration improvement programmes with 
dishwasher machine manufacturers in order to drive category growth. 
DESCRIPTION
Home is the centre of family life. Our brands help create  
the right environment for families to enjoy their time together.  
Products in this category include air care, water softeners,  
garment care and fabric treatment.
PROGRESS
Total Net Revenue was £1,715 million with LFL growth of +2%. Our 
largest Powerbrands of Air Wick and Vanish led the growth driven by 
fewer but larger innovations (Air Wick Life Scents range and Vanish 
Gold range) and scaling of these innovations across many markets. The 
roll-out of Air Wick Pure and launch of Wax Melts in the second half of 
2015 are also showing strong in-market results. Vanish in Brazil had a 
challenging year due to both market conditions and competitive activity. 
Hygiene
Home
41% 
of Net Revenue
19% 
of Net Revenue
Portfolio (including food)
DESCRIPTION
Portfolio includes the laundry and fabric softener business  
as well as Food brands.
PROGRESS
Total Net Revenue was £628 million, with LFL performance of +1%.  
The laundry detergents and fabric softener market in Southern Europe 
remains weak and competitive. However, the organisational changes 
made a year ago have helped stabilise the performance of our brands 
in this challenging category.
7% 
of Net Revenue
Case study
Dettol Squeezy 
We all understand the importance of hand washing 
in leading a healthier life and preventing dangerous 
diseases. However, in developing markets, hand 
washing is not yet a regular habit.
Our research shows that consumers know that liquid 
hand wash is more hygienic than bar soap, which 
turns soggy and germ ridden over time. However, 
consumers can struggle to afford liquid hand soaps. 
We therefore took up the challenge to produce a 
liquid hand soap for the price of a bar of soap. 
The result is the innovative delivery mechanism for 
new Dettol Squeezy, which comes in a squeezable 
bottle and is loved by kids and adults alike. It gives 
consumers the same superior Dettol protection and 
is proven to kill 100 illness-causing germs. India is 
our largest hand wash market and we achieved one 
of our most successful launches there, when we 
introduced Dettol Squeezy in March 2015.  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 22
Virtuous earnings model
betterfinancials
DESCRIPTION
We focus on higher-margin initiatives and rigorous control  
of our costs. Through our virtuous earnings model, this funds  
our investment in our brands, capabilities and development,  
and enables us to deliver operating margin expansion.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Adjusted Operating Margin
26.8%
2015 target: Moderate to ‘nice’  
operating margin expansion
Medium-term target:  
Moderate operating margin expansion
We expect this to be supplemented in 2016 by part  
of the remaining Project Supercharge efficiencies.
PROGRESS
Our virtuous earnings model continued to deliver in 2015.
Increased gross margin
+140bps
We increased gross margin by 140bps (actual), driven by mix, 
commodity costs and cost optimisation.
Reduced fixed costs
-50bps
We reduced fixed costs (excluding exceptional items) by 
50bps, largely as a result of accelerated benefits from our 
Supercharge programme.
Increased BEI
+£48m
We increased investment behind our brands, increasing BEI by 
£48 million (at constant exchange rates), which equated to 
12.7% (-20bps) of Net Revenue. The efficiencies we have driven 
from our Supercharge programme have been reinvested back 
into brand equity building initiatives throughout the year.
Net Revenue growth
+6%
We grew Net Revenue by 6% on a like-for-like basis.
Increased Adjusted Operating Margin
+210bps
The outcome was an increase in the operating margin of 
210bps, to 26.8%.
Why we can deliver Fixed cost
Operating
Margin
BEI
UNIQUE
CULTURE
Net
Revenue
Gross
Margin
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 23
 Gross Margin
Our ethos is that the virtuous earnings model starts at gross margin. 
Gross margin creates room in the income statement to fund investment 
and deliver operating profit growth. We drive gross margin expansion 
through our focus on higher-margin brands, which results in a superior 
sales mix, stronger pricing and by continuing to optimise our cost of 
goods sold, an ongoing process we call Project Fuel.
 Fixed cost
We always invest appropriately behind our people, capabilities and 
infrastructure. However, we deliberately keep our organisation lean and 
encourage our people to focus and prioritise. We constantly seek to 
avoid duplication, inefficiency and waste.
 Brand Equity Investment (BEI)
There are many ways to invest behind brands. We focus our  
investment on consumer education and penetration-building  
activities, to build long-term brand equity. BEI includes our TV  
and print media spend, digital and social media investment and 
consumer and medical education.
 Net Revenue
BEI helps us to drive Net Revenue growth, in particular as we  
invest disproportionately behind our Powerbrands and in our 
Powermarkets, ensuring we put our investment where it can  
have the greatest effect on the top line.
 Operating Margin
Our operating margin is already best in class, but we believe  
that our virtuous earnings model means our ability to further  
expand our margins is far from over. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 24
Workplace
bettersociety
DESCRIPTION
Our trademark is to attract great people, give them a career packed 
with global challenges and experiences, inspire them with stretching 
performance-based rewards, and nurture an achievement-focused 
culture where winning is critical. At the same time, we look after our 
people and contractors through high standards of health & safety  
and adherence to RB’s code of conduct. We expect our suppliers  
to take similar care, and our human rights programme includes  
a range of measures to facilitate this.
PROGRESS
Health & safety
Protecting our people is our priority. During this year a key initiative has 
been launched to further increase safety for our commercial offices and 
staff; this has included enhancing accountability, staff training and the 
release of global minimum safety standards. Research and Development 
(R&D) has completed a global risk register highlighting clear functional 
risks and mitigation in place; this work has led to the closing of gaps 
and will inform priorities for continually improving safety into 2016.
 
After an initial pilot in 2014, we have expanded our process safety 
management programme into Africa, Latin America and India. This 
programme considers the risks and controls needed to manage 
catastrophic risk at our aerosol and chlorine manufacturing facilities. 
We have also reviewed our behavioural safety programme across our 
factories, which included us focusing the safety observation 
programme to encourage workers to challenge known poor behaviours 
and become a key tool leading to a continually enhanced safety culture.
The outcome has been a further reduction in our lost work day 
accident rate, which fell by 13.9%, giving us an aggregate reduction 
since 2012 of 25.4%. 
A diverse and global workforce
We value diverse backgrounds and experiences, which bring different 
perspectives and new ideas. Our Executive Committee (EC) is made up 
of seven nationalities and its members have had experience in multiple 
countries during their RB careers. Our “Top400” executives include 49 
nationalities and 69% of our General Manager, marketing and sales 
leaders are working outside their country of origin.
International assignments are part of our way of life and range from 
the most strategic to the most operational roles. Being immersed in 
different cultures and ways of working helps our top people to 
challenge conventional thinking. We are confident that those who 
consistently succeed at these challenges become global leaders  
of distinction. 
Diversity of course includes gender and this year we launched Project 
DARE, which aims to develop, attract, retain and engage talented 
women. Initiatives include more options for flexible working and a 
global maternity policy, which sets a minimum standard and makes  
us one of only a handful of employers with such a policy. 
Gender diversity
The percentages of female members in the Group’s director, senior 
manager and all employee populations at 31 December 2015 were 
29%, 19% and 42% respectively. The Group has designated the 
members of its “Top40” and “Top400” populations as RB’s ‘senior 
managers’ for the purposes of the gender split disclosure required by 
the Companies Act 2006. Of Board Directors, 10 were male and 4 
female, of senior managers, 339 were male and 78 female, and 15,027 
of all employees were male and 10,723 female. There is a variance in 
total employee numbers from those reported in note 5 on page 111,  
in respect of contracted labour for which gender split information is  
not available.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Increased supplier audits since 2014
51%
Lost work day accident rate
1
0.080
2014: 0.093
Target: continual reduction year-on-year
1. At manufacturing, warehouse and R&D sites.
Why we can deliver Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 25
We take on around 200 graduates each year, placing them in our larger 
markets, where we have the critical mass to develop them. We put 
considerable effort into identifying which universities will provide our 
next generation of leaders, considering not just their academic prowess 
but also their fit with our entrepreneurial culture. 
Succession planning is a key focus and we review our plans at each 
monthly EC meeting. The EC oversees planning for all “Top40” and 
“Top400” roles, while regional leaders plan for middle manager 
positions, which are those below our “Top400”. Our aim is to grow 
half our middle managers ourselves and to recruit the remainder from 
outside, ensuring we bring in people who think differently.
We have a career tool, which helps our people to identify the functional 
and leadership development they need. Training follows our 70/20/10 
model, with 70% on the job, 20% learning from others and 10% 
formal training. On-the-job training mostly consists of stretch 
assignments, since we believe people learn best when challenged. 
UNDERSTANDING ENGAGEMENT
We use a bespoke survey, which we call our Culture Pulse, to measure 
how well our people think we are doing. This measures our 
performance against our Culture and our Leadership Charter, which 
sets out how we behave and how we deliver. The survey identifies the 
areas that are most important to our people and where we are doing 
least well, relative to the other areas. We then formulate action plans at 
a local level to address these issues. The results show that our people 
are highly engaged to work at RB, and that they value both our culture 
and our Leadership Charter.
STRETCHING PERFORMANCE-BASED REWARDS
Our reward system is designed to attract and inspire a high-
achievement talent base. We provide competitive base salaries and 
significant short and long-term incentives, which are set to deliver 
outstanding rewards for outperformance. Measures are simple, 
unambiguous and concrete. Average performance results in 
average bonuses, while top performance results in excellent rewards. 
We believe this unique approach ensures we attract the right people. 
Our annual performance reviews assess both what our people have 
achieved and how they have done it. The ‘how’ is defined by the 
behaviours expected in our culture and our Leadership Charter.
 Read more in our Sustainability Report
HUMAN RIGHTS
RB has had a human rights programme in place for some years and in 
2015 undertook a review of its approach against industry comparators 
and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). 
We have established a range of mechanisms that use cross-functional 
support to engage on human rights with suppliers and to identify and 
address any issues identified. These measures focus on our own 
operations and supply chain and include due diligence, self assessments, 
audits, internal and external training and other capacity building 
initiatives. We acknowledge the growing importance and complexity 
of human rights and are committed to continuously improving our 
programme of activity in this area.
Case study
Lost Work Day Accident Rate 
Our Shangma site in China has led the way in proactively improving 
safety and reducing the number of accidents on site. An innovative 
and focused approach on legal compliance, worker participation, 
procedures, health initiatives and leadership enabled the site to 
achieve 5 million hours worked without a lost work day, by the end 
of 2015. In November, the site held a safety week to celebrate this 
achievement and to look at how it could drive its health & safety 
culture forward in 2016 and beyond.
0.0
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
1.5
2001
1.340
2002
0.815
2003
0.577
2004
0.404
2005
0.324
2006
0.338
2007
0.220
2008
0.182
2009
0.142
2010
0.136
2011
0.127
2012
0.107
2013
0.107
2014
0.093
2015
0.080
The LWDAR is the number of workplace accidents 
(resulting in at least one day of lost time) that  
occur per 100,000 hours of work. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 26
Communities
Products
bettersociety
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TARGET to 2020
People reached with health  
and hygiene messaging
1
200m
1. This goal has been increased to 400 million.
PERFORMANCE:
2
 
237m
since 2013
2. Total number of people reached is lower than the 
sum of the programmes to account for possible 
double counting.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TARGET to 2020
Net Revenue from more 
sustainable products
1/3
of Net Revenue
Save a Child Every Minute
TARGET
Remove diarrhoea as one  
of the top killers of children
PERFORMANCE: Committed  
£6.5 million to the programme  
in 2015
PERFORMANCE
6% of Net Revenue
up from 5% of Net Revenue
DESCRIPTION
As a responsible business, we recognise 
our larger role in society. Our community 
initiatives support our vision of a world 
where people are healthier and live better. 
We do this by promoting health and 
hygiene messages, bringing together the 
awareness and education work of our 
Dettol, Lysol, Harpic, Mortein and Durex 
brands, and through our partnership 
with Save the Children, which aims to 
eradicate child deaths from diarrhoea.
PROGRESS
Our aim is to reach over 200 million 
people by 2020, to help them improve 
their health and hygiene. This includes 
delivering hygiene, sanitation, sexual health 
and mosquito-borne disease prevention 
programmes. These programmes support 
the UN’s Sustainable Development goals. 
Our progress has been rapid and this year 
we exceeded our 2020 target, which is 
why we have decided to increase the goal 
to reach 400 million people by 2020. 
DESCRIPTION
We are committed to advancing global 
health, consumer safety and environmental 
protection by continuously optimising 
our products and aim to increase the 
proportion of our revenue that comes 
from products that we’ve made more 
sustainable. We are focused on ingredient 
innovation and increased transparency 
and aspire to provide 100% transparency 
about the ingredients in our products.
PROGRESS
The proportion of Net Revenue from more 
sustainable products rose to 6%, from 5% 
last year. To ensure our products are fit for 
the future, our primary focus has been on 
improving the sustainability profile of our 
innovations. By the end of 2015, almost 
70% of our pipeline consisted of more 
sustainable products, up from 50% last year. 
From 2016, we will also include existing 
products where we have made changes that 
have a meaningful sustainability impact.
Since 2013 we have reached:
• 104 million people through hygiene and 
sanitation programmes;
• 115 million people with sexual health 
messaging; and
• 20 million people with malaria/dengue 
prevention education programmes.
Save a Child Every Minute is our diarrhoea 
eradication programme with Save the 
Children. In March 2015, we unveiled 
two innovative products to support the 
programme – a low-cost germ protection 
bar and a toilet powder which makes 
pit latrines more hygienic. Profits from 
these products will be reinvested in the 
programme and they will be produced 
locally, to encourage entrepreneurship and 
reduce their environmental footprint.
In 2015 we committed £6.5 million to 
the programme, of this £3.25 million was 
raised through RB events worldwide, plus 
a corporate donation of £3.25 million.
We have a proactive programme of assessing 
the ingredients of our products and have 
a restricted substances list, which contains 
ingredients we have phased out or are in the 
process of phasing out. Towards the end of 
the year, we introduced a new policy covering 
restricted substances. We provide ingredients 
information to consumers on packs, via our 
consumer care lines and, in some countries, 
through ingredients websites. We continue 
to roll-out new websites, so more consumers 
can obtain meaningful information.
Why we can deliver Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 27
Greenhouse gas emissions
betterenvironment
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TARGET to 2020
Carbon footprint per dose of product
1/3 
reduction
TARGET to 2020
GHG emissions per unit of production
40% 
reduction
DESCRIPTION
We look to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 
designing more sustainable products and by continually improving 
our manufacturing processes. Sustainability is a key element of our 
innovation process as we look at the carbon footprint of our products 
across their entire lifecycle, from the sourcing of raw materials to the 
way they are manufactured, used and disposed of. Our total carbon 
footprint per dose has remained broadly unchanged since 2012. While 
we are making good progress in the areas within our control, like 
manufacturing, we have not seen material reductions from the largest 
part of our footprint – those associated with consumers using our 
products. We are reducing carbon emissions associated with energy 
use by focusing on energy efficiency programmes, investing in on site 
renewable technologies and procuring energy from renewable sources.
PROGRESS
Our GHG emissions for 2015 were made up of:
1. Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (Scope 1)  
79,502 tCO
2
e (2014: 86,235).
2. Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our  
own use (Scope 2): 214,586 tCO
2
e (2014: 219,202).
Our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2015 were therefore 
294,087 tCO
2
e (2014: 305,437).
 
We calculate our emissions intensity per unit of production. This 
equated to 0.0389 tCO
2
e per unit of production in 2015 (2014: 0.0410).
Footnote
Our GHG data includes all GHG emissions from operations covered by the Group Financial 
Statements for which we have operational control. We include emissions for businesses we 
acquire in the first full calendar year of our ownership. We calculated CO
2
e emissions using 
internationally recognised methodologies from the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
and International Energy Authority (IEA). Scope 2 GHG emissions reported in 2015 are net 
emissions which equals gross emissions from renewable electricity purchased (7,542t).
Case study
Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi’s 
reduced packaging
Following the success of the Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi in 2014, we challenged 
ourselves to think bigger in a way that would drive even stronger growth. Aligned with our 
FUEL programme, we chased product improvements that improved sustainability while 
simultaneously delivering cost savings, focused on two areas. Packaging adaptation improved 
the product’s visibility at the point of sale while decreasing the amount of materials used. 
Product improvements decreased the complexity of the device, while increasing durability.  
In total, we made a 26% reduction in material weight per product, saving approximately 300 
tonnes of PET and 137 tonnes of paper and board each year. Combined, these changes will  
save over £5 million and 3,500 tonnes of CO
2
 per year.
PERFORMANCE
Increase since 2012
1%
PERFORMANCE
Reduction since 2012
14% RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 28
Water
Waste
betterenvironment
DESCRIPTION
We seek to reduce the water impact of all our 
products throughout their lifecycle, from raw 
materials sourcing through to the way they are 
manufactured, used and disposed of. We also 
consider water scarcity in specific locations. 
PROGRESS
We continued our ongoing initiatives to 
reduce the water impact of our operations, 
including identifying sites in areas of water 
scarcity, so we can plan ahead. While we are 
making good progress in the areas within our 
control, the majority of our total water impact 
comes from the water used by consumers 
for our hygiene products, especially bar 
soap in developing markets, which creates a 
tension for us as our drive to improve people’s 
lives through better hygiene inevitably 
results in greater water use for washing.
DESCRIPTION
Our aim is for none of our waste to go to 
landfill. We also look to reduce the waste 
created by our manufacturing processes. We 
are creating a culture of zero waste and look 
for new revenue streams and disposal options, 
for example where other organisations can 
use our waste as raw materials.
PROGRESS
We made further good progress, with 
our manufacturing sites showing great 
motivation to achieve our waste targets. 
At some sites, landfill is our only disposal 
option but we continue to develop 
partnerships with others who can use our 
waste, so we do not have to dispose of it.
We are also committed to reducing waste 
from our products by using less packaging.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TARGET to 2020
Water impact per dose of product
1/3
reduction
TARGET to 2020
Water use per unit of production
35%
reduction
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TARGET to 2020
Factories sending zero waste 
to landfill
100%
 
TARGET to 2020
Manufacturing waste per unit  
of production
1
10%
reduction
1. Increased 2020 target to 20% reduction over  
2012 baseline.
PERFORMANCE
Reduction since 2012
9%
PERFORMANCE
Reduction since 2012
30%
PERFORMANCE
Factories sending zero waste 
to landfill
89%
PERFORMANCE
Reduction since 2012
14%
Why we can deliver Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 29
Sourcing
Case study 
Reducing waste to landfill
We have a goal of achieving zero waste to landfill by 2020.  
To help us reach this target, we are creating partnerships with local 
businesses and the communities in which we operate, to develop 
innovative solutions. In our Jammu pest factory, in India, a local brick 
manufacturer is now using our briquette ash to make bricks for 
boundary wall construction. This has diverted 2,100 tonnes of waste 
from landfill annually, reducing waste to landfill in our Asia region  
by 92%.
92%
reduction in waste to 
landfill in our Asia region
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TARGET to 2020
All natural raw materials to be 
responsibly sourced
PERFORMANCE
Palm oil traced to mill
1
70%
1. Excluding surfactants.
DESCRIPTION
We believe in responsibly sourcing all our 
natural raw materials. Our policy clearly 
defines the minimum standards expected 
of our suppliers. We are committed to 
zero deforestation, zero development 
on peatlands and zero exploitation of 
workers or communities, and to being 
transparent about our requirements 
and our progress. Our responsible 
sourcing programmes focus on high-risk 
commodities such as palm oil and latex. 
PROGRESS
We have continued to make good progress 
against our responsible palm oil sourcing 
targets. Partnering with TFT we have 
undertaken a detailed review of our physical 
palm oil supply chain, achieving 100% 
traceability to refinery in 2014, and 70% 
traceability to mill in 2015. Additionally, we 
completed on-the-ground risk assessments 
for all key suppliers and have Green Palm 
Certificates covering all palm oil procured.
During the year, we completed due 
diligence including on-the-ground field 
assessments of our latex supply chain. The 
findings of these assessments confirm that 
RB’s latex has been responsibly sourced, 
meeting the requirements of our Natural 
Raw Material standard. We are now 
conducting a scoping exercise to identify 
opportunities to work with smallholder 
farmers within our latex supply chain. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 30
Our operating model
How we can deliver
Our operating model is to use FMCG experience to develop, acquire, 
produce, distribute and promote consumer products in growing 
Health, Hygiene and Home categories. Our model has three key 
elements, which enable us to create value for all our stakeholders,  
but primarily for our consumers, our people and our Shareholders. 
Capital inputs
Financial
Shareholders’ equity, debt and 
retained profit
+
Intellectual
Proven clinical R&D capabilities, 
well-loved brands and an agile 
organisation
+
Manufactured 
Well-invested manufacturing sites, 
R&D laboratories and logistics 
centres
+
Human 
Highly motivated people  
and partners, in a culture of 
outperformance
+
Social
Strong, value-creating 
relationships with customers, 
consumers, suppliers and 
communities
+
Natural
Natural raw materials, water 
and energy
Create
Create innovative 
products that meet 
under-served demands
Innovate
• Consumer insight
• Clinically proven R&D
• Embedded sustainability
Scale
Scale our innovations, 
to make them as global 
as possible
Procurement
• Centralised globally
• Sustainably sourced
Manufacturing
• 46 factories 
• Quality assurance
Commercial operations
• Power of 1 – One lead market 
for each Powerbrand
• 124 logistics centres globally
• Best-in-class supply services
Acquisitions
• Rapid acquisition integration Global leader 
in health and 
hygiene
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 31
Activate
Activate our ideas, 
through our customer 
relationships and driving 
consumer demand
Customer networks
• Sales in most countries  
across the globe
• Global sales operations and 
strategic partnerships
• Local sales forces with 
executional excellence
Consumer education
• Brand equity investment
Outcomes we deliver
Employees
Rewarding careers for our people
+
Consumers
Innovative solutions that make a difference
+
Shareholders
Sustainable growth and outperformance
+
Customers
Leading brands that drive profitable category 
growth and footfall
+
Communities
Healthier and happier communities 
through the use of our products
  See our operating model in action on page 32 RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 32
Our operating model in action
How we can deliver
Create
Continuous and successful innovation is the key for staying ahead  
in our markets. Consumer insights are the starting point for all our 
innovations. Through our focus groups and digital channels, we gain  
a deep understanding of consumers’ needs, including needs that 
consumers are not yet aware of.
Every day, our people generate new ideas for meeting those needs.  
We also increasingly partner with third parties who bring us ideas for 
great products. To maximise our return on investment, we focus on 
under-served needs, where we can create differentiated products 
which result in greater consumer loyalty, faster growth and better 
margins. We also concentrate our investment on ideas with blockbuster 
potential, rather than smaller enhancements to existing products. 
Speed is critical, so we focus on advances that come to life in months, 
not years.
We then leverage our R&D capabilities to develop clinically proven and 
innovative solutions, through R&D hubs in the UK, India and the US 
which specialise in particular product categories. The process contains 
‘gates’, ensuring we regularly test the idea as development proceeds. 
Our spread by geography and product category reduces the risk of any 
one innovation failing to deliver. Sustainability considerations are built 
into our innovation process, for example as we look to minimise the 
carbon emissions and water used to make our products.
Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi 
Create
In action
We identified a widespread under-served need for quick and 
effective removal of hard skin. Consumers had been using 
pumice stones and manual files for hundreds of years, with 
few improvements. We test-marketed an electronic foot file 
and validated its potential, then improved both the design and 
performance to enable a rapid worldwide launch in 2014.
In 2015, we introduced additional versions to create a very 
strong second wave of growth. These included further device 
designs to target specific consumer types, and different 
coarseness levels for the roller-heads, to achieve optimum 
performance for different skin types.
Our operating model is  
to use FMCG experience  
to develop, acquire, produce,  
distribute and promote  
consumer products in growing  
Health, Hygiene and Home 
categories. Our model has three  
key elements, which enable  
us to create value for all our 
stakeholders, but primarily  
for our consumers, our people  
and our Shareholders.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 33
Scale
Centralised procurement leverages our global purchasing power, while 
ensuring we source sustainably and responsibly. We then manufacture 
our products in 46 factories worldwide, which continually strive to 
improve efficiency and reduce their environmental impact. All our 
Powerbrands are manufactured in-house, while carefully selected third 
parties manufacture some other brands on our behalf. 
Quality is essential, so we have a dedicated assurance team. The 
stringent quality requirements in healthcare mean that we manage 
our consumer health factories globally, to ensure we consistently meet 
our standards.
To make our products physically available, we have 124 logistics 
centres worldwide, holding finished products for quick and efficient 
distribution. Our supply services organisation is customer facing and 
aims to achieve best-in-class delivery and customer satisfaction. 
To scale our innovation more quickly, we identify a lead market for our 
Powerbrands and use our Power of 1 teams to develop a global launch 
package that we can then take everywhere, minimising reworking  
and inconsistency.
Our strong Balance Sheet and sector-leading cash conversion also allow 
us to acquire brands that add value and support our vision. We quickly 
integrate acquired brands, so they benefit from our global value 
creation model.
Activate
Our brands include many category leaders. They drive footfall for 
our retail customers, which encourages them to stock our products. 
We develop strong relationships with major retailers, so we can work 
together to promote our products and drive growth and penetration  
of the product category. 
To support our efforts, we have over 60 commercial operations 
worldwide, with local sales, marketing and doctor/medical detailing 
teams. Our global sales operation manages our global retailer 
relationships and our relationships with strategic partners such as 
Facebook. We use distributors to reach smaller retailers and build 
relationships with these distributors that focus on executional excellence.
Ultimately, our business depends on consumer demand for our 
products. We invest heavily behind our brands, through targeted 
television and print advertising, social and other digital media, and 
consumer and medical education. Our virtuous earnings model (see 
pages 22 to 23) enables us to fund this investment. This in turn enables 
us to grow revenues while increasing our margins, driving returns  
for Shareholders.
Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi 
Scale Activate
In action In action
We used the lessons from our 
test-marketing to optimise our sales 
and marketing plans. Combined  
with agile centralised production,  
this enabled us to launch across 50 
markets in 2014 – a record for RB.  
In 2015, we further tightened the 
process and focus, allowing us to 
introduce the additional versions 
across these same markets in under 
six months.
Our rapid roll-outs and the resulting success enabled us to 
define how to achieve executional excellence. By continually 
sharing and applying this knowledge, we were able to drive 
further success in market. Strong retailer profitability drove 
increased collaboration, leading to greater and more visible 
physical availability and creating a virtuous cycle. 
With these well co-ordinated Create-Scale-Activate activities, 
sales of Velvet Smooth Express Pedi doubled in 2015, building 
on an already strong 2014 performance. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 34
What we can deliver
Our business model is 
designed to create value 
for all our stakeholders. 
In the process, it ultimately creates  
a sustainable, long-term and growing 
business, which adds value for  
our Shareholders. 
Creating stakeholder value
For our Customers
With our many market-leading brands, our products  
are an important driver of footfall and web traffic for our 
traditional and online retail customers, which in turn helps  
them to grow their revenue. This is underpinned by our  
strong customer relationships and our ability to successfully 
activate our products in-store.
Through our innovation and penetration-building activities,  
we are able to grow our categories and further increase  
revenue for us and our customers.
For our People
We provide fascinating and challenging careers for  
our people, with the opportunity to work across a growing  
group and around the world. We invest in their development,  
so they can maximise their potential, recognising that this  
benefits them and us. We enable our people to take 
responsibility so they can get things done, and provide  
excellent rewards for outstanding performance.
For our Shareholders
Our culture and strategy have delivered strong operational  
and financial performance, which in turn enable us to grow  
our dividend and return funds to Shareholders through  
share buybacks.
This success has helped us to generate outstanding  
long-term Shareholder returns. If you had invested £100  
on 1 January 2000, that investment would have been worth 
£1,721 at the end of 2015. That same £100 invested in the  
FTSE 100 would be worth £156 over the same period. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 35
RB has announced a number of new  
product initiatives for the first half of 2016:
Health
• Nurofen Soft Chews for Children: Effective relief with 
just the right strength medicine for kids 7-11. In an 
innovative gummy format; they’re easy to chew and no 
need for water.
• Scholl Velvet Smooth Wet & Dry: for soft, beautiful feet 
effortlessly: on wet and dry skin.
• Scholl Athlete’s Foot Complete Pen & Spray Kit: The first 
Athlete’s Foot treatment kit to provide both effective 
treatment and prevention from reoccurrence.
• Roll-out of Durex Invisible condom: Durex’s thinnest 
condom – offered in a super premium pack, maximising 
shelf impact. Offers consumers ultimate sensitivity for an 
even closer connection, protected by Durex quality.
• Durex Pleasure Ring: Harder for Longer. Durex’s new 
constriction ring helps men maximise hardness for longer 
and to intensify the pleasure for them and their partner.
 
Hygiene
• Dettol Gold: Delivers 100% superior germ killing action 
vs. other anti-bacterial soaps in the market.
• Lysol Disinfectant Max Cover Mist: New wide area 
disinfectant mist for unbeatable protection and 
deodorisation of your large surfaces.
• Harpic/Cillit Bang/Lysol Fresh Power 6: Same amazing 
freshness from the first to the last flush.
• Finish Supercharged Powerball: One supercharged 
solution for all your dishwashing needs.
 
Home
• Air Wick Pure: Just fragrance, no wet spray. A water-free 
aerosol to enjoy the pleasure of Pure fragrance.
• Air Wick scented Oil Warmer: The ultimate fragrance 
control for a superior fragrance experience.
 
Food
• French’s ‘better for you’ Ketchup and Mustard:  
A new range of products under our ‘Promise’ campaign, 
which is anchored in three pillars: Real Ingredients, Great 
Taste and Commitment to our Communities. In 2015  
all French’s formulas were reviewed and all those that 
did not comply with our ‘Promise’ principles were 
reformulated. We removed high fructose corn syrup  
and all artificial flavours, colours and fillers from all  
our formulas.
Preview of 2016 Initiatives
For our Consumers
Consumers benefit from safe, high-quality products that  
help them to lead healthier lives and have happier homes.  
Our over-the-counter Health brands provide quick and  
easily accessible relief for common ailments and support  
our consumers’ wellbeing. Hygiene products help to protect 
consumers, while our Home products create a pleasant and 
comfortable home environment that families love.
Through our relentless focus on innovation, we meet  
our consumers’ changing needs and ensure our products  
play an important part in maintaining and improving  
their lifestyles.
For our Communities
We use our capabilities and the passion of our people  
to benefit our communities, by educating and raising  
awareness of the benefits of improving health and  
hygiene standards.
Through our partnership with Save the Children, we aim  
to stop diarrhoea being a major killer of children. Other  
products – such as Durex and Mortein – have a key role  
to play in preventing sexually transmitted and mosquito- 
borne diseases respectively. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 36
Financial
Review
“In mixed market conditions, 
RB delivered an excellent 
year of growth and margin 
expansion, driven by an 
exceptional performance  
in our Consumer Health brands. ”
Like-for-like revenue growth
+6%
2015 target: +4%
Adjusted Operating Margin expansion
+210bps
2015 target: Moderate to ‘nice’ expansion
Adrian Hennah / Chief Financial Officer
Total full year (FY) Net Revenue was £8,874 million, an increase 
of +5% at constant exchange rates, (nil% on a reported basis) 
and +6% on a LFL basis. The impact of net M&A was slightly 
negative, as a positive impact from our K-Y acquisition was more 
than offset by the disposal of our Footwear and Medcom Hospital 
businesses. Negative foreign exchange on translation reduced 
Net Revenue by 5%. From a geographic perspective growth 
was broad based. Our developed market area of ENA delivered 
LFL growth of +5%, an excellent performance where markets 
are stable. Our emerging market area (DvM) delivered +9% LFL 
growth with improving trends in the second half driven by India 
and China. Brazil and parts of ASEAN remain challenging.
Health had an exceptional year of +14% LFL growth (nil% on 
a reported basis), with a combination of successful innovations 
(e.g. Scholl Express Pedi and electronic nail file, and Durex 
Invisible), a strong flu season at the beginning of the year, and a 
large new brand launch in the US (Amopé). We believe we are 
well placed to outperform in Consumer Health, but continue 
to emphasise that double digit growth – well above the longer-
term category growth rate of 4-6% – is not sustainable. 
Gross Margin increased by +140bps to 59.1%, with contributions 
from mix, input costs and cost programmes. Product mix was 
favourable as Consumer Health brands grew at a higher rate than 
the rest of the business. We also continued to deliver supply chain 
savings through our Project Fuel cost optimisation programme. The 
impact of commodity driven input costs will vary from year-to-year, 
and in 2015 these were a significant tailwind, offset somewhat by 
negative transactional foreign exchange (strengthening of the US 
dollar versus most currencies). Gross Margin has, and will continue 
to, drive our virtuous earnings model, as we focus on favourable 
mix, driven by Consumer Health led growth, Project Fuel, pricing 
and gross margin enhancing innovations across our Powerbrands.
We increased investment behind our brands (as defined by our BEI 
metric), by +£48 million (constant exchange), -20bps to 12.7% of 
Net Revenue. The efficiencies we have driven from our Supercharge 
programme, (e.g. consolidation of creative agencies and media buying 
savings), have been reinvested back into brand equity building initiatives 
throughout the year. We continue to expect Project Supercharge to 
deliver approximately £150 million in annual cost savings over three 
years, and have achieved a significant portion of those savings within 
the first year.
Operating profit as reported was £2,241 million, +4% versus FY 2014 
(+7% constant), reflecting the impact of an exceptional pre-tax charge 
in 2015 of £133 million (2014: £21 million). The exceptional items were 
in line with previously announced programmes, principally the disposal 
of the Medcom Hospital business and Supercharge. Details of the 
exceptional charge are set out in Note 3 on page 110. On an adjusted 
basis, operating profit was ahead +9% (+12% constant) to £2,374 
million. The Adjusted Operating Margin increased by +210bps to 
26.8%, due to the strong gross margin expansion, and approximately 
£100 million Project Supercharge led cost efficiencies.
Net income as reported was £1,743 million, an increase of +5% (+8% 
constant) versus 2014. On an adjusted basis, net income was £1,871 
million +11% (+15% constant). Diluted earnings per share of 240.9 
pence was +6% on a reported basis; on an adjusted basis, the growth 
was +12% to 258.6 pence. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 37
Net finance expense
Net finance expense was £33 million (2014: £38 million). 
Tax
The effective tax rate was 21% (2014: 22%) and the tax rate 
excluding exceptionals was 20% (2014: 22%). The UK Chancellor 
has enacted future reductions in the UK corporate tax rate in 
2017 and 2020. These reductions will have only a small impact on 
our ongoing tax rate. They have, however, a larger non-recurring 
accounting impact on our reported tax charge during 2015 (the 
year of enactment) as we have a significant deferred tax liability in 
the UK, the size of which will be reduced by lower future tax rates. 
Whilst there is no impact on cash tax payable from this adjustment 
to our deferred tax liability, our tax rate has been positively 
impacted in the year by 3%. We continue to expect our sustainable, 
underlying Group effective tax rate to be in the region of 23%. 
Net Working Capital
Inventories decreased to £681 million (2014: £745 million) 
in part due to foreign exchange and our sustained focus on 
inventory management. Trade and other receivables were broadly 
maintained at £1,331 million (2014: £1,307 million). Trade and 
other payables increased to £2,948 million (2014: £2,883 million) 
in part due to the reclassification of a long-term payable to short-
term payable. Together this has led to a decrease in Net Working 
Capital to -£936 million (2014: -£831 million). Net Working 
Capital as a percentage of net revenue is -11% (2014: -9%). 
Cash flow
Converting our profit into cash is an important part of our culture and 
compensation ethos. Cash generated from operations was £2,295 
million (2014: £2,324 million). Net cash generated from operating 
activities was £1,784 million (2014: £2,099 million) after net interest 
payments of £31 million (2014: £32 million) and tax payments of £480 
million (2014: £416 million). The decrease largely reflects the demerger 
of Indivior plc in the prior year (£223 million) and higher tax payments. 
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated from operating 
activities after capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets and any related disposals. Free cash flow reflects 
cash flows that could be used for payment of dividends, repayment of 
debt or to fund our strategic objectives. Free cash flow was £1,656 
million (2014: £1,934 million, £1,711 million excluding cash flows from 
discontinued operations). Free cash flow conversion as a percentage of 
continuing net income was 95% (2014: 103% excluding cashflows 
from discontinued operations) with the reduction due in part to higher 
tax payments. 
Net debt
Net debt at the end of the year was £1,620 million (2014: £1,543 
million). This reflected strong free cash flow generation, offset by the 
payment of dividends totalling £924 million (2014: £988 million) and 
net M&A of £10 million (2014: £340 million). The Group regularly 
reviews its banking arrangements and has adequate facilities available 
to it. 
Exceptional Items
A pre-tax exceptional charge of £133 million has been incurred during 
the year; £76 million in relation to the ongoing restructuring of the 
Group’s organisation and the integration of prior year acquisitions and 
a further £57 million loss on the disposal of the Medcom hospital 
business. This included a loss of £33 million arising from the recycling, 
from equity, of previous exchange losses arising from consolidation of 
the legal entity sold. 
Balance sheet
At the end of 2015, the Group had total equity of £6,906 million  
(2014: £6,834 million), an increase of +1%. Net debt was £1,620 million 
(2014: £1,543 million). The Group had non-current assets of £12,386 
million (2014: £12,336 million), of which £730 million (2014: £757 
million) is property, plant and equipment, the remainder being 
goodwill, other intangible assets, deferred tax, retirement benefit 
surplus and other receivables. The Group has Net Working Capital of 
-£936 million (2014: -£831 million), current provisions of £229 million 
(2014: £317 million) and long-term liabilities other than borrowings of 
£2,652 million (2014: £2,737 million).
The Group’s financial ratios remain strong. Return on Shareholders’ 
funds (net income divided by total Shareholders’ funds) was 25.2%  
on a reported basis and 27.1% on an adjusted basis (2014: 47.2%  
on a reported basis and 28.7% on an adjusted basis). 
Dividends
The Board of Directors recommends a final dividend of 88.7 
pence (2014: 79 pence), to give a full year dividend of 139 pence 
(2014: 139 pence). The dividend, if approved by Shareholders 
at the AGM on 5 May 2016, will be paid on 26 May 2016 to 
Shareholders on the register at the record date of 15 April 2016. 
The ex-dividend date is 14 April 2016 and the last date for election 
for the share alternative to the dividend is 5 May 2016. The final 
dividend will be accrued once approved by Shareholders. 
Capital returns policy
RB has consistently communicated its intention to use its strong 
cash flow for the benefit of Shareholders. Our priority remains to 
reinvest our financial resources back into the business, including 
through value-adding acquisitions. Through continued strong cash 
generation the Group has reached a net debt level of approximately 
£1.6 billion. It is not possible to be definitive on future needs, but we 
consider that this provides the Group with appropriate liquidity. We 
intend to continue our current policy of paying an ordinary dividend 
equivalent to around 50% of adjusted net income. We also intend to 
continue our current share buyback policy which will broadly maintain 
our current debt level in 2016, subject to future M&A activity. 
Contingent liabilities
The Group is involved in a number of civil and/or criminal investigations 
by government authorities as well as litigation proceedings and has 
made provisions for such matters where appropriate. Where it is too 
early to determine the likely outcome of such matters, or to make a 
reliable estimate, the Directors have made no provision for these 
potential liabilities.
The Group from time to time is involved in discussions in relation to 
ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world. 
Where appropriate, the Directors make provisions based on their 
assessment of each case. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 38
Financial
Review continued
RB’s return on capital employed (ROCE), both “as reported” and 
adjusted for the demerger of RBP, is set out above. A return-based, 
approach is firmly embedded into both organic operational activities 
and M&A transactions undertaken by the Group.
Organic activities
Operational activities which utilise capital employed are undertaken
with the same rigorous and returns-based approach, which we adopt
for brand equity investment and other “P&L” based investments:
• Capital expenditure (capex) – all proposed capex must be 
supported by a relevant business case. We do not set rigid capex 
budgets each year, but allow the organisation to invest where and 
when the case is strong. We assign a high priority to projects 
addressing safety and quality opportunities. Capex levels are on 
average approximately 2% of Net Revenue.
• Net Working Capital (NWC) – tight management of inventories, 
payables and receivables is always required. The Leadership in every 
market in which RB operates is targeted on NWC performance. It is 
typically one of the three multiplicative metrics which determine the 
annual bonus. NWC is on average approximately minus 8–9% of 
Net Revenue, superior to industry averages.
Inorganic activities
Our principal focus is on organic growth. However, there is an  
inorganic element to our strategy focussed around both value accreting 
acquisitions, and non-core / tail brand divestures. Decision making  
with respect to inorganic opportunities is taken at a Group level. Our 
front-line operations play the leadership role in building the case for an 
acquisition, the due diligence prior to a transaction and delivering value 
once a transaction takes place.
A transaction may reduce the Group’s ROCE during the years 
immediately following the transaction. Of key importance, however,  
is the generation of an appropriate cash return on invested capital 
within a reasonable time frame. The Group deliberately sets no return 
thresholds for an acquisition, as transactions vary in nature, strategic 
importance, risk and size. The Group does, however undertake a 
significant amount of analysis and due diligence prior to any transaction 
to review the return expected to be generated by the end of year three, 
compared to the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
As management are required to hold a significant personal stake of  
RB shares, there is strong alignment of interest between management 
and shareholders in seeking to ensure that transactions deliver an 
appropriate return within an appropriate time frame. Post investment 
reviews of all transaction are undertaken on a regular basis and 
discussed at a Board level.
Review of RB ROCE
The Group’s ROCE declined immediately following the acquisitions  
of BHI (2006), Adams (2008), SSL (2010) and Schiff (2012) and then 
improved as good returns were subsequently generated. It was also 
negatively impacted in 2013 with the demerger of RBP, as RBP earned  
a high return on capital employed (RBP ROCE is removed in reported 
data from both 2014 and its comparative year, 2013). 
RB performed well in 2014. ROCE performed less well, however, as 
reported profit was reduced by significant foreign exchange headwinds 
(-10% negative translational impact on Group profits), while capital 
employed was less impacted as the majority of the Group’s net assets 
(especially intangible assets) are denominated in either sterling or  
US dollars – both of which showed meaningful strength versus  
other currencies.
In 2015 the Group ROCE increased following a year of excellent organic 
growth and a minimal increase in capital employed. 
2001
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
2002 2000
As reported 
Excluding RB Pharmaceuticals (RBP)
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
ROCE
YEAR
Return on capital employed (ROCE) Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 39
Throughout the Annual Report, the following terms are used to describe RB’s financial performance. 
These terms are defined below:
• Like-for-like (LFL) growth on Net Revenue excludes the impact of changes in exchange rates, acquisitions and disposals.
• Continuing growth on Net Revenue excludes the impact of changes in exchange rates and disposals.
• Constant exchange rate adjusts the actual consolidated results such that the foreign currency conversion applied is made using the same 
exchange rates as was applied in the prior year.
• Actual exchange rates show the statutory performance and position of the Group, which consolidates the results of foreign currency 
transactions at year-end closing rates (Balance Sheet) or annual average rates (Income Statement).
• BEI represents our Brand Equity Investment and is the marketing support designed to capture the voice, mind and heart of our consumers.
• Adjusted results exclude exceptional items, defined as material, non-recurring expenses or income.
• Free cash flow is defined as net cash generated from operating activities less net capital expenditure.
• Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) is defined as Net Adjusted Operating Profit after Tax divided by capital employed, where capital 
employed is measured as Total Assets less non-interest bearing Current Liabilities.  
Summary of % Net Revenue growth
FY 2015 FY 2014
LFL Net M&A FX Reported LFL Net M&A FX Reported
ENA +5% -1% -5% -1% +3% – -7% -4%
DvM +9% – -6% +3% +6% +1% -12% -5%
Food +4% – +6% +10% +3% – -6% -3%
Group +6% -1% -5% – +4% – -9% -5%
FY 2015 FY 2014
LFL Net M&A FX Reported LFL Net M&A FX Reported
Health +14% +1% -5% +9% +8% +2% -8% +3%
Hygiene +3% – -4% -1% +3% – -9% -5%
Home +2% – -7% -5% +1% – -10% -8%
Portfolio +1% -9% -2% -10% -5% -11% -7% -15%
Group +6% -1% -5% – +4% – -9% -5%
Adjusted Net Income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 1,743 1,663
Exceptional items 133 21
Tax effect of exceptional items (5) –
Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 1,871 1,684
Free Cash Flow
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash generated from operations 2,295 2,324
Plus proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 51 19
Less net interest paid (31) (32)
Less tax paid (480) (416)
Less purchase of intangible assets (25) (27)
Less purchase of property, plant and equipment (154) (157)
Free cash flow 1,656 1,711
Non GAAP measures RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 40
Strategic Risks
Our framework  
for risk management 
The following table provides a 
summary review of the principal 
strategic risks and uncertainties that 
could affect the Group, as identified 
by management and the Board.  
RB operates a major risk assessment 
process to periodically identify, 
assess and mitigate those risks  
it considers to be most significant  
to the successful execution of  
our strategy.
The most senior leaders of our business dedicate time each year,  
in a facilitated discussion with the Group risk team to consider the 
risk environment for their particular functional or geographic area 
of responsibility and how their emerging or known risks could 
impact on the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives.
Similar sessions are held with the Group’s external advisors.  
The key content from these sessions is then synthesised into the 
Group’s top risks, with each risk having an Executive Committee 
(EC) owner, who is accountable for executing the current control 
strategy and for compiling and executing a plan of mitigating 
actions to properly manage the Group’s exposure to that risk. 
Progress is reviewed periodically and the full output from the 
major risk assessment process is formally submitted annually  
by the EC to the Board for its consideration and endorsement. 
Through the course of each year, the EC and Board agendas 
address all of the top risks through specific ‘deep dives’ to  
ensure proper focus and progress with mitigation.
The Group’s activities expose it to a number of other risks which, while 
also actively managed, may still adversely impact the business and its 
financials. A more detailed consideration of a broader range of risks 
faced by the Group appears on pages 158 to 164 of this report.
Group major risks 5. Cyber Security and  
Data Protection
6. Loss of Key Management
7. Significant Country Under-
performance
8. Legal Non-Compliance
9. Major Tax Disputes
10. ‘Black Swan’ Event
1. Non-Compliance  
of Licensed Products
2. Supply Business Continuity 
Planning
3. Non-Compliance with  
Quality Standards
4. ERP/IT Systems Failure
Compared with a year ago, the Cyber Security and Data Protection risk 
is now considered sufficiently material to include this for the first time 
as a Group major risk, while Activities Upscheduling has been 
downgraded and removed from the list, as the materiality of the 
exposure has reduced significantly.
Exchange rate risk
A description of the exchange rate risk to the Group, and the means 
used to mitigate that risk, appears on page 164 (General Financial Risks 
of a Global Company) and on pages 163 to 164 (Currency Exchange).
Viability statement
Management conducted a viability review covering a five-year period. 
This period was selected as it is the period covered in the Group’s 
long-term forecasting process. This period covers the introduction  
to market of the current product pipeline. 
The five-year viability review first looks at the Group’s ability to 
continue in operation if it performs in line with the Group forecast.  
This assumes that normal market conditions continue and current 
trends remain. The evaluation takes into account the Group’s cash  
flow, historic Group planning accuracy, available banking facilities  
and interest cover ratios in connection with financial covenants. The 
analysis concluded that if RB performs in line with forecast it would 
have sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due, and 
remain compliant with financial covenants. 
The analysis goes on to consider the viability of the business should 
adverse unexpected events arise. To illustrate this, a sensitised view of  
the Group forecast was produced. The adverse assumptions are based 
primarily upon the realisation of key Group Strategic risks, which have 
the most relevant potential impact on viability (see risks marked “*”  
on opposite and following pages).
The sensitivity assigns each adverse assumption an estimated annual 
monetary value and estimates the impact on interest cover ratios and 
headroom over available borrowing facilities. The analysis concludes 
that even with the occurrence of key unexpected scenarios, RB would 
still have sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due, 
and remain compliant with financial covenants.
Management has further considered the occurrence of a ‘Black Swan’ 
Event: an event with sufficient potential impact to risk the future of RB 
as a strong and independent business operating in its chosen markets. 
The occurrence of a major issue could result in significant reputational 
impact, a catastrophic share price fall, significant loss of consumer 
confidence and inability to retain and recruit quality people. Such an 
event could have an impact on the viability of the business. 
As there are a number of mitigating controls in place across the 
business, the occurrence of a Black Swan event is considered sufficiently 
unlikely that it has not been factored into the sensitivity analysis. 
As a result of the Viability Review, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period covered in 
the Viability Review. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 41
MAJOR RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION
1. Non-Compliance 
of Licensed 
Products*
betterfinancials
Risk that non-compliance 
with regulations (e.g. licences, 
manufacturing, products and 
laws) results in significant 
financial losses arising from 
regulator-enforced factory 
closures, product recalls, delayed 
launches, fines, penalties, etc. 
Also, reputational damage with 
consumers and regulators.
Regulation is imposed in respect 
of, but not limited to, ingredients, 
manufacturing standards, labour 
standards, product safety and 
quality, marketing, packaging, 
labelling, storage, distribution, 
advertising, imports and exports, 
social and environmental 
responsibility and health & 
safety. These regulations can 
change and may become more 
stringent. Additionally we are 
required to obtain, maintain 
and update licences for such 
products. If we are found to be 
non-compliant with applicable 
laws and regulations, we could 
be subject to civil remedies or 
regulatory actions, such as fines, 
injunctions or product recalls, 
and/or criminal sanctions.
The Group has quality and 
compliance structures in 
place with teams focused 
on driving adherence to the 
business management and 
quality systems company wide. 
Control programmes in place 
to manage compliance risks 
include: Regulatory Excellence 
(marketing authorisations), 
Product Vulnerability 
(formulation assessments), 
Core Company Data (legislative 
requirements), Pharmacovigilance 
(adverse events monitoring) 
and Consumer Care 
(complaints call line).
RB employs senior regulatory 
and legal specialists at a Group, 
regional and local level who 
are responsible for setting 
policies and ensuring that all 
employees are aware of, and 
comply with, both Group policies 
and the laws and regulations 
relevant to their roles.
A Governance Framework Team 
has recently been established 
to oversee and coordinate this 
broad-based agenda. There has 
been no change to the assessed 
profile of this risk in the last year.
2. Supply Business 
Continuity 
Planning
betterfinancials
Risk that our business continuity 
plans (BCPs), including mono-
sourcing (materials and 
products) do not adequately 
address all risks facing the 
Group, resulting in unforeseen 
business disruption.
We may face risks to continuity 
of supply arising from certain 
specialised suppliers, both of 
raw materials and of third party 
manufactured items. Significant 
disruptions to our own, or 
our suppliers’ operations, may 
affect our ability to source 
raw materials and negatively 
impact our costs. Suppliers may 
fail to fulfil their contractual 
obligations. Replacing suppliers 
may require them to be qualified 
under industry, governmental 
or our own standards, which 
could require investment and 
may take time to resolve.
Suppliers of key raw and 
packaging materials, co-
packers of finished product 
and the Group’s manufacturing 
facilities and key technologies 
are risk assessed for their 
potential impact on supply 
disruption for our products. 
Business continuity plans are 
in place throughout the Group 
and major sites are routinely 
and independently assessed 
towards achievement of a highly 
protected risk (HPR) site status.
Our consumer product recall 
process was fully tested and 
proven as effective during 
an incident in the USA. The 
concern level over this risk has 
reduced, with no significant 
further actions outstanding.
Increased
No change
Decreased RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 42
MAJOR RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION
3. Non-Compliance 
with Quality 
Standards*
betterfinancials
 
Risk of non-compliance 
with quality standards, most 
notably Good Manufacturing 
Practices (GMP), which are 
being increasingly audited by 
health agencies from multiple 
jurisdictions, restricting our 
ability to produce or sell key 
brands, particularly Healthcare. 
The span of this risk covers the 
complete product lifecycle: 
global regulated process 
compliance, R&D, factories, 
external manufacturing facilities 
(co-packers) and in-market 
execution non-compliance.
Various factors may adversely 
impact on our reputation, 
including product quality 
inconsistencies or contamination 
resulting in product recalls. 
Reputational risks may also arise 
from our third parties’ labour 
standards, health, safety and 
environmental standards, raw 
material sourcing and ethical 
standards. We could also be the 
victim of product tampering or 
counterfeiting or grey imports.
The Group has a comprehensive 
suite of policies, processes and 
systems to drive compliance 
with good manufacturing 
practice and monitor quality 
assurance, together with routine 
KPI reporting. An appropriately 
resourced global quality audit 
team covers factories’ co-
packers, distribution centres 
and commercial units. Audits 
by regulatory bodies (FDA, 
MHRA, Anvisa, etc.) and 
notified bodies (SGS, DGM) are 
comprehensively prepared for 
and promptly responded to.
The manufacturing of Personal 
Hygiene products has been 
integrated into the Healthcare 
cluster this year, driving stronger 
regulatory disciplines. The 
potential impact of this risk 
has been assessed slightly 
higher than previously, having 
analysed the Mucinex product 
recall experience, but its profile 
otherwise remains unchanged.
4. ERP/IT Systems 
Failure
betterfinancials
Risk of IT disruption or 
accounting error, due to legacy 
Enterprise Resource Planning 
(ERP) and IT systems, impacts 
business operations in a 
number of areas, e.g. through 
unavailability of key management 
information or disruption to 
transactional processing.
Failures or disruptions to our 
systems or the systems of 
third parties on whom we rely, 
due to any number of causes, 
particularly if prolonged, or, 
if any failure or disruption 
were to impact our backup or 
disaster recovery plans, could 
result in a loss of key data 
and/or affect our operations. 
Sub-optimal implementations 
of new systems could occur. 
Our computer systems, 
software and networks may 
be vulnerable to unauthorised 
access, computer viruses or 
other malicious code and other 
cyber threats that could have 
a security impact. All of these 
could be costly to remedy and 
we may be subject to litigation.
The Group is engaged in a rolling 
ERP update programme. Disaster 
recovery plans are in place and 
are tested periodically. It also 
invests in security measures 
and anti-virus software to 
safeguard against this threat. 
Maintenance of current systems 
throughout the execution of the 
ERP programme implementation 
is an ongoing priority.
SAP manufacturing and 
commercial templates have 
now been successfully put in 
place in some locations. This 
has resulted in the potential 
impact of this risk being assessed 
lower than previously, as more 
elements of the programme 
have been proven to be robust.
Strategic Risks continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 43
MAJOR RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION
5. Cyber Security 
and Data 
Protection*
betterfinancials
Risk that RB is subject to 
increasingly sophisticated 
cyber attacks aimed at causing 
business disruption, capture of 
data for financial gain, general 
embarrassment and reputational 
damage or that RB’s data 
protection is considered by 
regulators to be inadequate.
While this risk is not new, the 
context for its inclusion is the 
increased business appetite 
for consumer personal data to 
drive sales and growth. The 
potential impact of the threat 
is also now greater due to 
the reliance on an increasing 
number of connected systems.
The legislative environment has 
also been strengthened with 
significant financial penalties 
now enforceable to penalise 
data protection breaches.
The Group has strengthened 
controls and defences around 
this area of increasing risk. A data 
protection programme has been 
established to drive compliance.
An update of systems patching 
against cyber threats has been 
undertaken and improvements 
to approaches to protect 
against data loss and manage 
privileged access to systems 
are currently under way. 
Broader awareness training 
also continues to be a focus.
This risk has been included 
in the Group major risks for 
the first time. It has been 
assessed as having a potentially 
major impact with a medium 
possibility of that occurring.
6. Loss of Key 
Management
betterfinancials
Risk that RB cannot implement 
its strategies and meet objectives 
as a result of key management 
leaving the business who cannot 
be readily replaced by equally 
experienced/qualified candidates.
The market for talent is intensely 
competitive and we could face 
challenges in sourcing qualified 
personnel. If we are unable to 
achieve our performance targets, 
our management would not be 
entitled to their variable pay, 
which is a significant element 
of total remuneration. This 
could operate as a disincentive 
for them to continue their 
employment with us.
The Group structures its reward 
programme to attract and 
retain the best people. The 
formal succession planning 
process continues to evolve 
with plans being reviewed and 
updated regularly for all key 
positions and individuals.
The concern level over this 
risk has reduced, due to a 
consistently high retention 
level for key management.
7 . Significant 
Country Under-
performance
betterfinancials
Risk of material impact on 
Group growth and profit 
of under-performance or 
extreme foreign exchange 
volatility in certain markets 
e.g. China, Russia and Brazil.
A variety of factors may adversely 
affect our results of operations 
and financial condition during 
periods of economic uncertainty 
or instability, social or labour 
unrest or political upheaval in the 
markets in which we operate. 
Such periods may also lead to 
government actions, such as 
imposition of martial law, trade 
restrictions, foreign ownership 
restrictions, capital, price or 
currency controls, nationalisation 
or expropriation of property or 
other resources, or changes in 
legal and regulatory requirements 
and taxation regimes.
The Group has developed a 
robust strategy to drive margin 
expansion and enable continued 
investment behind our brands. 
Both financial results and 
currency volatility are closely 
monitored. Partnerships are 
strengthened with distributors 
to better manage local risks.
This risk is spread over many 
varied markets, and is considered 
‘business as usual’ as our strategy 
gives us increased protection 
against market uncertainty. 
As such, the potential impact 
of this risk has been assessed 
as lower than previously.
Increased
No change
Decreased RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 44
MAJOR RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION
8. Legal  
Non-Compliance*
betterfinancials
Risk that we are not fully 
compliant with relevant laws 
and regulations, including 
anti-corruption laws and global 
competition laws, resulting 
in damage to RB’s reputation 
and significant potential 
fines and other penalties.
Failure to comply with applicable 
anti-trust and competition 
laws, rules and regulations 
in any jurisdiction may result 
in civil and/or criminal legal 
proceedings. We are subject to 
the UK Bribery Act 2010, the 
US Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act of 1977, as amended, and 
similar laws worldwide. Given 
our extensive international 
operations, we are exposed to 
significant risks, particularly with 
respect to parties not subject to 
our direct control, such as agents 
and joint venture partners, 
and also through businesses 
we acquire. Any violation of 
applicable sanctions, money 
laundering or other relevant 
laws could also have a negative 
impact on our reputation.
The Group is proactive 
in addressing legal risks 
internally, through mandatory 
online training undertaken 
by employees and country-
based legal oversight. We 
also respond to government 
authorities in a forthright 
and co-operative manner. 
A Legal Academy was launched 
this year that will provide 
enhanced training on a wide 
range of topics, including 
compliance. The whistleblowing 
hotline was also relaunched and 
strengthened from the start of 
the year with a new supplier.
There has been no change 
to the assessed profile of 
this risk in the last year.
9. Major Tax 
Disputes 
betterfinancials
Risk of significant unprovisioned 
cash outflows as a result 
of tax authority challenge 
to filed tax positions in 
any particular territory.
We are subject to tax laws and 
transfer pricing regulations in 
multiple jurisdictions, including 
those relating to the flow of 
funds between RB and its 
subsidiaries. Our effective tax rate 
in any given financial year reflects 
a variety of factors that may not 
be present in succeeding financial 
years, and may be affected by 
changes in the tax laws of the 
jurisdictions in which we operate.
The Group has the appropriate 
risk framework in place to 
monitor, assess and mitigate 
operational tax risk.
The Board considers that tax 
exposures are adequately 
provided for, while recognising 
that an element of risk will 
always remain. 
There has been no significant 
change to the assessed profile 
of this risk in the last year.
10. ‘Black Swan’ 
Event
betterfinancials
An absolute worst-case scenario 
with sufficient potential impact 
to risk the future of RB as 
a strong and independent 
business operating in its chosen 
markets. This could arise or be 
amplified by adverse economic 
or social conditions, political 
upheavals or natural disasters.
Significant reputational impact as 
a result of a major issue resulting 
in multiple fatalities, possibly 
compounded by apparently 
negligent management 
behaviour; extreme adverse 
press coverage and viral social 
media linking the RB name to 
consumer brands, leading to 
a catastrophic share price fall, 
very significant loss of consumer 
confidence and inability to retain 
and recruit quality people.
A strong governance framework 
and operating model are 
applied to drive compliance, 
transparency and oversight. 
Robust Group policies are 
maintained and a programme 
of rolling independent audits 
operated to ensure their proper 
application. Comprehensive 
crisis management training 
programme and support tools are 
in place and regularly updated.
Strategic Risks continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 45
Increased
No change
Decreased
DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION
Routine Risks
betterfinancials
We are subject to a range of 
compliance and routine risks 
as part of everyday business.
In order to manage the more 
numerous and routine risks, the 
Group maintains a complete and 
robust governance framework.
This consists of a full set 
of policies, processes and 
systems covering all aspects of 
compliance, with international 
and local laws as well as with 
the Group’s stated minimum 
control standards. Management 
provide primary assurance by 
driving risk compliance through 
their respective area, regional 
or functional responsibility. 
This is done through regular 
and detailed business reviews. 
Secondary assurance is 
provided independently 
through a combination of 
Internal and External Audit 
covering all aspects of the 
Group’s operations.
By order of the Board
Christine Logan / Company Secretary
22 March 2016 RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 46
Board
of Directors
Adrian Bellamy
Chairman
Other current appointments
Adrian is Chairman of Williams-
Sonoma Inc, River Island, Total 
Wine & More and Chairman 
of the Supervisory Board of 
Action Nederland BV.
Other current appointments
None.
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director 
of RELX Group plc, RELX 
NV and Indivior PLC. 
Other current appointments
None.
Rakesh Kapoor
Chief Executive Officer
Adrian Hennah
Chief Financial Officer
Jaspal Bindra
Non-Executive Director
Nationality
British
Nationality
Indian/British
Nationality
British
Nationality
Indian
Nationality
Brazilian/Italian
Nationality
British
Nationality
British
Nationality
British
Length of tenure
16 years
Length of tenure
Four years
Length of tenure
Two years
Length of tenure
One year
Length of tenure
Two years
Length of tenure
<One year
Length of tenure
12 years
Length of tenure
<One year
Committee membership
Nomination, Remuneration
Committee membership
Nomination
Committee membership
None
Committee membership
Audit
Committee membership
Remuneration
Committee membership
Audit
Committee membership
Chair of Audit, Nomination
Committee membership
Audit
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in 1999 and Non-
Executive Chairman in May 
2003. Adrian was formerly 
Chairman of The Body Shop 
International plc. Other previous 
directorships include The Gap 
Inc, Gucci Group NV and The 
Robert Mondavi Corporation.
Adrian earned his Bachelor of 
Commerce and Master of Business 
Leadership degrees from the 
University of South Africa.
Skills and Experience 
Joined the Board in September 
2011 following his appointment 
as CEO of the Company. Rakesh 
joined RB in 1987 and served 
in various regional and central 
marketing roles. He was appointed 
EVP Category Development 
in 2006 with responsibility for 
global category management, 
R&D, media, market research 
and strategic alliances. 
Rakesh has an MBA from XLRI, 
Jamshedpur and a Chemical 
Engineering degree from BITS.
Skills and Experience 
Joined RB in January 2013 as 
Chief Financial Officer Designate, 
and was appointed CFO in 
February 2013. Prior to joining 
RB, Adrian spent six years at 
Smith & Nephew plc as CFO and 
four years as CFO at Invensys 
plc. Adrian also spent 18 years at 
GlaxoSmithKline plc, holding a 
number of senior management 
and financial roles. His earlier 
career was with PwC (then Price 
Waterhouse) in both audit and 
consultancy, and Stadtsparkasse 
Koeln, the German regional bank. 
Adrian has a degree in law 
from Cambridge University 
and is a Sloan Fellow of the 
London Business School.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 July 2014. Jaspal 
served as Group Executive 
Director to the Board of Standard 
Chartered plc from January 2010 
to May 2015. He joined that 
company in 1998 and held various 
senior positions, including Global 
Head of Client Relationship for 
Wholesale Bank prior to this. 
His earlier career was with UBS 
Investment Banking and Bank of 
America where he worked across 
Treasury Markets and Consumer 
Banking in India and Singapore. 
Jaspal is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant and Master of 
Business Administration (MBA).
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in December 2013. 
Following a career working in 
finance in Brazil, Nicandro joined 
BAT in 1981. He had an extensive 
career with BAT working in 
the UK, Hong Kong and Brazil, 
including holding the positions of 
Regional Director for Africa and 
Middle East and COO before being 
appointed to his current role. 
Nicandro holds degrees in 
finance, economics and 
business administration 
from PUC, Sao Paulo.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2015. 
Mary was formerly a Partner at 
McKinsey & Company, with a 
particular focus on consumer 
and retail businesses in China, 
South East Asia and Europe. 
Mary is a graduate of the 
University of Oxford (MA Politics, 
Philosophy and Economics) and 
Harvard Business School.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in December 2003 and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
in November 2006. He was the 
Senior Independent Director 
between February 2005 and 
November 2006. Ken’s experience 
in finance and business includes 
working in the electronics, retail, 
consumer products and healthcare 
sectors. Ken was formerly CFO 
of Vodafone Group plc and a 
former Non-Executive Director 
of Tesco plc and Pearson plc. 
Ken is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management 
Accountants, the Association 
of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2015. Pamela 
served as Chairman of Scynexis Inc 
until June 2015. She was formerly 
CEO of Quintiles Transnational 
Corporation and held senior 
positions at AstraZeneca PLC 
and Hoffmann-La Roche. 
Pamela is a graduate of the 
University of London (BSc 
Pharmacology and PhD 
Clinical Pharmacology). Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 47
Other current appointments
Chief Executive Officer of 
British American Tobacco p.l.c. 
(BAT) since March 2011.
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director of ITV 
plc and J Sainsbury plc. Member 
of Supervisory Boards of Unibail 
Rodamco SE and TNT Express NV.
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director of 
Merlin Entertainments plc.
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director of 
DCC plc, Victrex plc and 
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC. 
Nicandro Durante
Non-Executive Director
Mary Harris
Non-Executive Director
Ken Hydon
Non-Executive Director
Nationality
British
Nationality
Indian/British
Nationality
British
Nationality
Indian
Nationality
Brazilian/Italian
Nationality
British
Nationality
British
Nationality
British
Length of tenure
16 years
Length of tenure
Four years
Length of tenure
Two years
Length of tenure
One year
Length of tenure
Two years
Length of tenure
<One year
Length of tenure
12 years
Length of tenure
<One year
Committee membership
Nomination, Remuneration
Committee membership
Nomination
Committee membership
None
Committee membership
Audit
Committee membership
Remuneration
Committee membership
Audit
Committee membership
Chair of Audit, Nomination
Committee membership
Audit
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in 1999 and Non-
Executive Chairman in May 
2003. Adrian was formerly 
Chairman of The Body Shop 
International plc. Other previous 
directorships include The Gap 
Inc, Gucci Group NV and The 
Robert Mondavi Corporation.
Adrian earned his Bachelor of 
Commerce and Master of Business 
Leadership degrees from the 
University of South Africa.
Skills and Experience 
Joined the Board in September 
2011 following his appointment 
as CEO of the Company. Rakesh 
joined RB in 1987 and served 
in various regional and central 
marketing roles. He was appointed 
EVP Category Development 
in 2006 with responsibility for 
global category management, 
R&D, media, market research 
and strategic alliances. 
Rakesh has an MBA from XLRI, 
Jamshedpur and a Chemical 
Engineering degree from BITS.
Skills and Experience 
Joined RB in January 2013 as 
Chief Financial Officer Designate, 
and was appointed CFO in 
February 2013. Prior to joining 
RB, Adrian spent six years at 
Smith & Nephew plc as CFO and 
four years as CFO at Invensys 
plc. Adrian also spent 18 years at 
GlaxoSmithKline plc, holding a 
number of senior management 
and financial roles. His earlier 
career was with PwC (then Price 
Waterhouse) in both audit and 
consultancy, and Stadtsparkasse 
Koeln, the German regional bank. 
Adrian has a degree in law 
from Cambridge University 
and is a Sloan Fellow of the 
London Business School.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 July 2014. Jaspal 
served as Group Executive 
Director to the Board of Standard 
Chartered plc from January 2010 
to May 2015. He joined that 
company in 1998 and held various 
senior positions, including Global 
Head of Client Relationship for 
Wholesale Bank prior to this. 
His earlier career was with UBS 
Investment Banking and Bank of 
America where he worked across 
Treasury Markets and Consumer 
Banking in India and Singapore. 
Jaspal is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant and Master of 
Business Administration (MBA).
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in December 2013. 
Following a career working in 
finance in Brazil, Nicandro joined 
BAT in 1981. He had an extensive 
career with BAT working in 
the UK, Hong Kong and Brazil, 
including holding the positions of 
Regional Director for Africa and 
Middle East and COO before being 
appointed to his current role. 
Nicandro holds degrees in 
finance, economics and 
business administration 
from PUC, Sao Paulo.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2015. 
Mary was formerly a Partner at 
McKinsey & Company, with a 
particular focus on consumer 
and retail businesses in China, 
South East Asia and Europe. 
Mary is a graduate of the 
University of Oxford (MA Politics, 
Philosophy and Economics) and 
Harvard Business School.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in December 2003 and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
in November 2006. He was the 
Senior Independent Director 
between February 2005 and 
November 2006. Ken’s experience 
in finance and business includes 
working in the electronics, retail, 
consumer products and healthcare 
sectors. Ken was formerly CFO 
of Vodafone Group plc and a 
former Non-Executive Director 
of Tesco plc and Pearson plc. 
Ken is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management 
Accountants, the Association 
of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2015. Pamela 
served as Chairman of Scynexis Inc 
until June 2015. She was formerly 
CEO of Quintiles Transnational 
Corporation and held senior 
positions at AstraZeneca PLC 
and Hoffmann-La Roche. 
Pamela is a graduate of the 
University of London (BSc 
Pharmacology and PhD 
Clinical Pharmacology).
Dr Pamela Kirby
Non-Executive Director RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 48
Board
of Directors
Other current appointments
Chief Executive Officer of 
Intertek Group plc and Chairman 
of Good Restaurants AG.
Other current appointments
EVP of Samsung Electronics, 
Korea.
Other current appointments
Chairman and CEO of Mattel, Inc. 
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director of 
Experian plc and Director 
of Allstate Corporation and 
InterContinental Exchange Inc. 
André Lacroix
Non-Executive Director
Sue Shim
Non-Executive Director
Christopher Sinclair
Non-Executive Director
Judy Sprieser
Non-Executive Director
Nationality
French
Nationality
South Korean
Nationality
American
Nationality
American
Nationality
Canadian/American
Nationality
British
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in December 1999. 
He stepped down as a Non-
Executive Director and Deputy 
Chairman of the Company 
on 21 December 2015.
Length of tenure
Seven years
Length of tenure
One year
Length of tenure
<One year
Length of tenure
12 years
Length of tenure
One year
Length of tenure
Five years
Committee membership
Audit, Nomination
Committee membership
Audit
Committee membership
Remuneration
Committee membership
Nomination, 
Chair of Remuneration
Committee membership
Remuneration
Committee membership
Audit
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director of RB in October 2008. 
André became the Senior 
Independent Director in June 
2013. He was CEO of Inchcape 
plc from 2006 until March 2015. 
He was previously Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of 
Euro Disney S.C.A., President 
of Burger King International, 
previously part of Diageo, and 
also held positions at Colgate, 
PepsiCo and Ernst & Young LLP. 
André is a graduate 
of ESCP Europe.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 July 2014. Sue 
has extensive consumer goods 
experience in a range of product 
categories and cultures, and 
held senior positions in Procter 
& Gamble, including Marketing 
Director, Cosmetics & Skincare in 
North East Asia, Global Marketing 
Director of Feminine Care and 
Skin Care in the USA prior to 
joining Samsung Electronics. 
Sue attended the Harvard Business 
School Advanced Management 
Program in 2006 and received a 
Global MPA degree from New 
York University and University 
College London in 2015.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2015. 
Chris was previously Executive 
Chairman of Scandent Holdings, 
Executive Chairman of Cambridge 
Solutions Ltd, Chairman and CEO 
of Caribiner International, and 
President and CEO at Quality 
Foods Centers, Inc. Earlier in his 
career, he held various senior 
management positions with 
PepsiCo, including Chairman 
and CEO of Pepsi Cola Co, and 
Chairman of PepsiCo International 
Foods and Beverages.
Christopher is a graduate of the 
University of Kansas (Business 
Administration) and the Tuck 
School at Dartmouth College.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in August 2003 and has 
been Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee since June 2004. Judy 
was previously Director and Vice 
Chairman at Royal Ahold NV, CEO 
of Transora Inc. and Executive Vice 
President of Sara Lee Corporation 
and CFO of Sara Lee’s Food Group. 
Judy has a Bachelor’s and 
Master’s degree from 
Northwestern University.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 November 2014. 
Doug was appointed a Non-
Executive Director of International 
Flavors & Fragrances Inc in 2008 
and acted as Chairman and 
CEO between 2010 and 2014. 
Prior to that, he served as CEO 
and MD of Ansell Limited. His 
earlier career was in a variety 
of executive positions with 
Cadbury Schweppes PLC. 
Doug is a graduate of the 
University of Kentucky 
(BBA) and the University of 
Western Ontario (MBA).
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2010. Warren 
was previously a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of Paypoint 
plc until May 2015. He was Chief 
Financial Officer of Cobham 
plc from 2003 to 2013 and 
previously held senior finance 
positions at Cable & Wireless 
plc and British Airways plc. 
Warren is a Chartered Accountant 
and has an MBA from INSEAD. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 49
Other current appointments
Director of Molson Coors 
Brewing Company.
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director of Thomas 
Cook Group PLC, Survitec 
Limited and the UK Foreign 
& Commonwealth Office.
Doug Tough
Non-Executive Director
Warren Tucker
Non-Executive Director
Nationality
French
Nationality
South Korean
Nationality
American
Nationality
American
Nationality
Canadian/American
Nationality
British
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in December 1999. 
He stepped down as a Non-
Executive Director and Deputy 
Chairman of the Company 
on 21 December 2015.
Length of tenure
Seven years
Length of tenure
One year
Length of tenure
<One year
Length of tenure
12 years
Length of tenure
One year
Length of tenure
Five years
Committee membership
Audit, Nomination
Committee membership
Audit
Committee membership
Remuneration
Committee membership
Nomination, 
Chair of Remuneration
Committee membership
Remuneration
Committee membership
Audit
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director of RB in October 2008. 
André became the Senior 
Independent Director in June 
2013. He was CEO of Inchcape 
plc from 2006 until March 2015. 
He was previously Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of 
Euro Disney S.C.A., President 
of Burger King International, 
previously part of Diageo, and 
also held positions at Colgate, 
PepsiCo and Ernst & Young LLP. 
André is a graduate 
of ESCP Europe.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 July 2014. Sue 
has extensive consumer goods 
experience in a range of product 
categories and cultures, and 
held senior positions in Procter 
& Gamble, including Marketing 
Director, Cosmetics & Skincare in 
North East Asia, Global Marketing 
Director of Feminine Care and 
Skin Care in the USA prior to 
joining Samsung Electronics. 
Sue attended the Harvard Business 
School Advanced Management 
Program in 2006 and received a 
Global MPA degree from New 
York University and University 
College London in 2015.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2015. 
Chris was previously Executive 
Chairman of Scandent Holdings, 
Executive Chairman of Cambridge 
Solutions Ltd, Chairman and CEO 
of Caribiner International, and 
President and CEO at Quality 
Foods Centers, Inc. Earlier in his 
career, he held various senior 
management positions with 
PepsiCo, including Chairman 
and CEO of Pepsi Cola Co, and 
Chairman of PepsiCo International 
Foods and Beverages.
Christopher is a graduate of the 
University of Kansas (Business 
Administration) and the Tuck 
School at Dartmouth College.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in August 2003 and has 
been Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee since June 2004. Judy 
was previously Director and Vice 
Chairman at Royal Ahold NV, CEO 
of Transora Inc. and Executive Vice 
President of Sara Lee Corporation 
and CFO of Sara Lee’s Food Group. 
Judy has a Bachelor’s and 
Master’s degree from 
Northwestern University.
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 November 2014. 
Doug was appointed a Non-
Executive Director of International 
Flavors & Fragrances Inc in 2008 
and acted as Chairman and 
CEO between 2010 and 2014. 
Prior to that, he served as CEO 
and MD of Ansell Limited. His 
earlier career was in a variety 
of executive positions with 
Cadbury Schweppes PLC. 
Doug is a graduate of the 
University of Kentucky 
(BBA) and the University of 
Western Ontario (MBA).
Skills and Experience 
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2010. Warren 
was previously a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of Paypoint 
plc until May 2015. He was Chief 
Financial Officer of Cobham 
plc from 2003 to 2013 and 
previously held senior finance 
positions at Cable & Wireless 
plc and British Airways plc. 
Warren is a Chartered Accountant 
and has an MBA from INSEAD.
Peter Harf
Non-Executive Director
Other Directors that
served in the year RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 50
Executive
Committee
Rakesh Kapoor
Chief Executive Officer
Amedeo Fasano
Executive Vice President, 
Supply
Roberto Funari
Executive Vice President, 
Category Development
Rob de Groot
Executive Vice President, 
ENA
Nationality
Indian/British
Nationality
Italian
Nationality
Brazilian
Nationality
Dutch
Nationality
British
Nationality
Belgian
Nationality
British
Nationality
Australian
Company tenure
28 years
Company tenure
18 years
Company tenure
Two years
Company tenure
27 years
Company tenure
Two years
Company tenure
14 years
Company tenure
One year
Company tenure
11 years
Experience
Rakesh joined Reckitt & Colman 
in 1987, serving in various roles 
including Regional Sales Manager, 
North India, General Manager, 
Indian Southern Region and 
Regional Marketing Director, 
South Asia. In 1999, he was 
appointed Global Category 
Director, Pest Control. Following 
the merger, he assumed the 
role of Senior Vice President, 
Home Care. He was appointed 
SVP, Regional Director, Northern 
Europe in 2001 and in July 
2006 he was promoted to EVP, 
Category Development. Rakesh 
became CEO in September 2011. 
Experience
Amedeo joined in 1997 as Supply 
Director Italy. After the Reckitt & 
Colman and Benckiser merger, 
he was appointed Manufacturing 
Director for Central, South 
Western and Southern Europe 
regions. In 2002 he became 
Regional Supply Director North 
America and in 2003 SVP Supply 
Australia and New Zealand. In 
2007 he took over the role of 
SVP Supply Developing Markets 
and in March 2009 Amedeo 
was appointed as EVP Supply. 
He previously worked for Pirelli 
Tyres in multiple supply roles.
Experience 
Roberto rejoined RB in February 
2013 following two years at 
Imperial Tobacco where he was 
Group Marketing Director and an 
Executive Committee member. 
In his prior 12-year career with 
Reckitt & Colman and RB, 
Roberto rose rapidly through the 
organisation, holding increasingly 
senior marketing and general 
management roles in both 
emerging and developed markets, 
including Brazil, The Netherlands, 
South Africa and Central Europe. 
His last role was as Global 
Category Officer, Fabric and Home 
Care. He was appointed to his 
current role in January 2015.
Experience 
Rob joined Reckitt & Colman in 
1988. After international roles in 
marketing and sales he became 
General Manager The Netherlands, 
then SVP, Regional Director 
Eastern Europe and was appointed 
Global Category Officer, Surface 
and Dish, before being appointed 
EVP North America & Australia. 
As part of RB’s new strategy for 
continued outperformance, in 
January 2012 Rob became EVP 
of the newly created ENA area.
Experience 
Adrian joined the Company in 
January 2013 as Chief Financial 
Officer Designate, and was 
appointed as CFO in February 
2013. He joined the Company 
following six years at Smith & 
Nephew plc, as CFO. Previously 
he was CFO for four years at 
lnvensys, the international 
engineering company. Adrian also 
spent 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline 
plc, one of the world’s largest 
pharmaceutical companies, 
holding a number of senior 
management and financial roles. 
He has previously worked at 
PwC (then Price Waterhouse) 
for four years in both audit 
and consultancy, and also for 
Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the German 
regional bank. He is a Non-
Executive Director of RELX Group 
plc, RELX NV and Indivior PLC.
Experience
Frederic joined the Company in 
2001 as Marketing Director for 
Malaysia-Singapore. In 2003, 
he was promoted to Regional 
Marketing Director for East Asia 
and in 2005 became Global 
Category Director for Vanish. 
He was appointed General 
Manager for Brazil in February 
2008 and in October 2009, 
Frederic was promoted to SVP, 
Regional Director, Latin America.
In January 2012, Frederic was 
appointed to the position of 
SVP, Regional Director, North 
America. He was appointed as 
EVP in June 2013 before taking 
up his current role in January 
2015. Before joining RB, Frederic 
worked for Procter & Gamble. 
Experience 
Darrell joined RB in September 
2014 from Marks & Spencer 
plc, the UK-headquartered 
international clothes and food 
retailer. Darrell was responsible 
for the development of Marks 
& Spencer’s global online 
platform. Importantly, Darrell also 
has experience of successfully 
delivering global ERP and 
supply chain systems, including 
SAP. Prior to this, Darrell spent 
five years with Vodafone in a 
number of increasingly senior 
roles culminating as Global 
Director Information Technology, 
Strategy and Planning. He also 
spent five years at Ernst & Young 
as a Programme Manager 
and two years at Mars Inc. as 
Business Systems Manager.
Experience 
Deborah joined RB in 2004 in 
the Australian business. She has 
worked in Australia, the USA, 
the UK and The Netherlands 
since joining RB. Deborah was 
appointed Global HRD Finance 
and IS in 2009, Regional HRD 
ANZ in 2011, Regional HRD 
North America in 2012 and 
Area HRD Europe and North 
America in 2013. In 2015 
Deborah was appointed SVP 
HR. Before joining RB, Deborah 
worked in a variety of industries 
in HR in Australia including 
News Limited, George Weston 
Foods and Qantas Airways. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 51
Adrian Hennah
Chief Financial Officer
Frederic Larmuseau
Executive Vice President, 
DvM
Darrell Stein
Senior Vice President, 
Information Services
Deborah Yates
Senior Vice President, HR
Nationality
Indian/British
Nationality
Italian
Nationality
Brazilian
Nationality
Dutch
Nationality
British
Nationality
Belgian
Nationality
British
Nationality
Australian
Company tenure
28 years
Company tenure
18 years
Company tenure
Two years
Company tenure
27 years
Company tenure
Two years
Company tenure
14 years
Company tenure
One year
Company tenure
11 years
Experience
Rakesh joined Reckitt & Colman 
in 1987, serving in various roles 
including Regional Sales Manager, 
North India, General Manager, 
Indian Southern Region and 
Regional Marketing Director, 
South Asia. In 1999, he was 
appointed Global Category 
Director, Pest Control. Following 
the merger, he assumed the 
role of Senior Vice President, 
Home Care. He was appointed 
SVP, Regional Director, Northern 
Europe in 2001 and in July 
2006 he was promoted to EVP, 
Category Development. Rakesh 
became CEO in September 2011. 
Experience
Amedeo joined in 1997 as Supply 
Director Italy. After the Reckitt & 
Colman and Benckiser merger, 
he was appointed Manufacturing 
Director for Central, South 
Western and Southern Europe 
regions. In 2002 he became 
Regional Supply Director North 
America and in 2003 SVP Supply 
Australia and New Zealand. In 
2007 he took over the role of 
SVP Supply Developing Markets 
and in March 2009 Amedeo 
was appointed as EVP Supply. 
He previously worked for Pirelli 
Tyres in multiple supply roles.
Experience 
Roberto rejoined RB in February 
2013 following two years at 
Imperial Tobacco where he was 
Group Marketing Director and an 
Executive Committee member. 
In his prior 12-year career with 
Reckitt & Colman and RB, 
Roberto rose rapidly through the 
organisation, holding increasingly 
senior marketing and general 
management roles in both 
emerging and developed markets, 
including Brazil, The Netherlands, 
South Africa and Central Europe. 
His last role was as Global 
Category Officer, Fabric and Home 
Care. He was appointed to his 
current role in January 2015.
Experience 
Rob joined Reckitt & Colman in 
1988. After international roles in 
marketing and sales he became 
General Manager The Netherlands, 
then SVP, Regional Director 
Eastern Europe and was appointed 
Global Category Officer, Surface 
and Dish, before being appointed 
EVP North America & Australia. 
As part of RB’s new strategy for 
continued outperformance, in 
January 2012 Rob became EVP 
of the newly created ENA area.
Experience 
Adrian joined the Company in 
January 2013 as Chief Financial 
Officer Designate, and was 
appointed as CFO in February 
2013. He joined the Company 
following six years at Smith & 
Nephew plc, as CFO. Previously 
he was CFO for four years at 
lnvensys, the international 
engineering company. Adrian also 
spent 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline 
plc, one of the world’s largest 
pharmaceutical companies, 
holding a number of senior 
management and financial roles. 
He has previously worked at 
PwC (then Price Waterhouse) 
for four years in both audit 
and consultancy, and also for 
Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the German 
regional bank. He is a Non-
Executive Director of RELX Group 
plc, RELX NV and Indivior PLC.
Experience
Frederic joined the Company in 
2001 as Marketing Director for 
Malaysia-Singapore. In 2003, 
he was promoted to Regional 
Marketing Director for East Asia 
and in 2005 became Global 
Category Director for Vanish. 
He was appointed General 
Manager for Brazil in February 
2008 and in October 2009, 
Frederic was promoted to SVP, 
Regional Director, Latin America.
In January 2012, Frederic was 
appointed to the position of 
SVP, Regional Director, North 
America. He was appointed as 
EVP in June 2013 before taking 
up his current role in January 
2015. Before joining RB, Frederic 
worked for Procter & Gamble. 
Experience 
Darrell joined RB in September 
2014 from Marks & Spencer 
plc, the UK-headquartered 
international clothes and food 
retailer. Darrell was responsible 
for the development of Marks 
& Spencer’s global online 
platform. Importantly, Darrell also 
has experience of successfully 
delivering global ERP and 
supply chain systems, including 
SAP. Prior to this, Darrell spent 
five years with Vodafone in a 
number of increasingly senior 
roles culminating as Global 
Director Information Technology, 
Strategy and Planning. He also 
spent five years at Ernst & Young 
as a Programme Manager 
and two years at Mars Inc. as 
Business Systems Manager.
Experience 
Deborah joined RB in 2004 in 
the Australian business. She has 
worked in Australia, the USA, 
the UK and The Netherlands 
since joining RB. Deborah was 
appointed Global HRD Finance 
and IS in 2009, Regional HRD 
ANZ in 2011, Regional HRD 
North America in 2012 and 
Area HRD Europe and North 
America in 2013. In 2015 
Deborah was appointed SVP 
HR. Before joining RB, Deborah 
worked in a variety of industries 
in HR in Australia including 
News Limited, George Weston 
Foods and Qantas Airways. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 52
Introduction
On behalf of the Board, I’m pleased to present the Company’s 
Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 
31 December 2015. As in previous years, we report against the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC). As your Board, we strive to work competently 
and effectively within that framework and I’m pleased to report 
that our high standards of compliance with the Code remain.
2014 saw considerable changes to narrative and remuneration 
reporting requirements for listed companies, and over the past 
year, we have built upon the changes implemented in last year’s 
report to maintain and further enlighten our Shareholders’ 
understanding of how their Company is being run, decisions 
are made, risks properly managed and value returned.
New appointments have been made to the Board, a new set of 
employee share option plans were introduced following approval 
at the 2015 AGM, our Supercharge programme has increased 
business cost efficiencies, and a review of risks to the business as 
a result of an ever increasingly digital world have all helped drive 
forward RB’s profitability, transparency and governance structure.
Leadership
Following significant changes in regulatory reporting requirements 
last year and a focus on strengthening the composition of the 
Board, 2015 has been a year of integration and stabilisation.
Biographies of the members of our current Board of Directors can 
be found on pages 46 to 49. The strong base that our diverse Board 
offers enables us to draw on a vast array of skills and experiences 
to ensure the long-term success of the business, comprehensively 
manage risk and deliver on our stakeholders’ expectations.
During the year I was pleased to announce the appointments of Chris 
Sinclair, Mary Harris and Pam Kirby. They have all been supported 
with comprehensive inductions to the Company, its business and 
its values and have added industry expertise and international 
and gender diversity to further strengthen our Board. Having an 
experienced, well-balanced and diverse Board with a wide range of 
skills enhances our decision-making capabilities and this Corporate 
Governance Report has been structured to demonstrate this, in 
addition to our compliance with the Code during the year.
Chairman’s Statement on 
Corporate Governance
Adrian Bellamy / Chairman
“We remain committed  
to the highest standards  
of corporate governance 
across the Group to 
underpin our strategy  
and promote our long-
term success.”
In December 2015, Peter Harf stepped down from his position on the 
Board, to allow him to spend more time at JAB and its portfolio of 
companies. Throughout his tenure, Peter was a highly respected and 
well regarded member and I would like to thank him for his valued 
contribution over the past 16 years. We will miss his expertise and 
capabilities. We have a number of other long-serving members on 
the Board who have served longer terms than those recommended 
by the Code, their wealth of knowledge and experience is considered 
invaluable; Judy Sprieser and Ken Hydon have therefore been asked 
to remain with the Company and I am delighted they have both 
agreed to do so. While the newer members of the Board continue 
to be developed into their new roles, Judy and Ken will continue 
to serve as Chairs of the Remuneration and Audit Committee 
respectively to ensure a successful transition in due course.
On 16 March 2016, we announced that Jaspal Bindra, Sue Shim and 
Doug Tough would not offer themselves for re-election at the 2016 
AGM and they will therefore retire from the Board at the conclusion of 
the meeting. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank each of 
them for their contributions and wish them well in their future pursuits.
Effectiveness
In view of the changes to the Board, it was determined that the 2015 
evaluation of the Board’s effectiveness would be best served by being 
conducted internally, taking into account the principal themes raised 
over the previous two years.
The 2015 review concluded positively that members of the Board were 
committed to spending more time on Board discussions, as well as 
becoming more involved in development of strategy and focus on risk. 
The induction process was praised and it was acknowledged that, 
together with ongoing training, this was considered important in 
understanding the Company’s key strategic priorities and emerging 
governance issues.
It is the intention of the Board to carry out an external evaluation in 
2016, in line with the Code requirements and corporate governance 
best practice. 
Diversity
We remain committed to a more balanced gender and ethnic 
background representation throughout our organisation, although 
we will always recruit the best placed candidate. I am pleased that in 
the last 12 months two additional female Non-Executive Directors have 
joined the Board.
The Company continues to operate with a corporate diversity and 
inclusion policy adopted and reviewed by the Executive Committee.   Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 53
The Executive Committee, with seven nationalities, and the Company’s 
wider global leadership community, with 49 nationalities between 
them, represent a broad background of collective skills and experience, 
helping to gain a greater insight into and better serve the needs of our 
customers and consumers. 
RB also supports gender balance and our DARE (Developing, Attracting, 
Retaining and Engaging talented women) programme was launched 
during the year to provide support and flexibility to women to assist 
them with their career paths.
Accountability
The Board is responsible for confirming that the Group’s Financial 
Statements are fair, balanced and understandable. It is supported 
in its decision by the Audit Committee which ensures the integrity 
of the Group’s financial reporting, internal controls framework and 
risk management processes. The Audit Committee works closely 
with the Internal Audit function, as well as the External Auditor, 
and further details of their work can be found on pages 61 to 65.
Engagement
We place considerable importance on the views of our Shareholders. 
As Chairman, I am responsible for effective communication with 
Shareholders and ensuring that the Board collectively understands their 
views. The Company has a regular investor relations programme of 
meetings between our institutional Shareholders, analysts, Directors 
and senior management. Additional dialogue is held with institutional 
Shareholders as appropriate. Private Shareholders have the opportunity 
to speak with the Board and raise any concerns at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). 
Remuneration
Our approach to remuneration is detailed more fully in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 66 to 84. We remain committed to a policy of suitably 
rewarding effective performance and aligning the interests of Executive 
Directors and employees with the interests of our Shareholders. We will 
be asking Shareholders to approve an enhanced Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy at the AGM. Details of the proposed policy are set out on pages 
79 to 84. The primary change which will further strengthen the 
alignment of Executives’ interests with those of Shareholders is the 
addition of a two-year holding period for unvested LTIP awards upon 
cessation of employment. The Policy also includes malus and clawback 
provisions for LTIP awards and a reduction in the maximum number of 
shares and options that can be awarded under the LTIP.
Summary
The Board considers compliance with the Code of utmost importance. 
The Board authorises any instances of non-compliance only once it has 
satisfied itself that the spirit of the Code and good corporate 
governance within the Company generally continue.
All of the existing Directors, with the exception of Jaspal Bindra, Sue 
Shim and Doug Tough, will be offering themselves for re-election at the 
2016 AGM. Jaspal, Sue and Doug will retire from the Board following 
the meeting. Whilst myself, Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser have served 
beyond the period recommended under the Code, the Board believes 
the mix of tenure is in the best interests of our Shareholders. The Board 
regularly considers Board member succession and, in particular, 
succession for the Chairman (led by the Senior Independent Director) 
and the Committee Chairs. We look for your continued support for 
them to continue to serve the Board on your behalf and to promote  
the long-term success of the Company.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board has considered the 
requirements of the Competition and Markets Authority Order in 
respect of audit tendering, as well as the Code recommendations 
and the related FRC guidance, and we will comply with the UK 
implementation of the EU requirements on auditor rotation. 
The Audit Committee has commenced a preselection process 
with a number of audit firms in preparation for a possible 
audit tender in 2017, allowing for the appointment of a new 
auditor at the 2018 AGM. We are required to undertake an 
audit tender and auditor rotation by the 2020 year end.
The Corporate Governance Report outlines the Company’s governance 
processes in greater detail and is on pages 54 to 59. Except where 
otherwise mentioned above, the Company has complied with the  
Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2015.
Adrian Bellamy / Chairman
22 March 2016
Strategy and planning
 Group budgets, forecasts and key performance targets, 
including assumptions, scenarios and projections
 Post-acquisition reviews
 Performance relative to key competitors
 Group debt and funding arrangements
 The Supercharge programme
 Pensions
Risk management and internal control
 RB’s principal risks, emerging risks and the Group’s risk 
register
 Consideration and approval of the new Viability Statement
 The effectiveness of the Group’s compliance programme
 Detection and response to cyber threats
 Internal controls
 Evaluation of Internal and External Auditors
Leadership
 On-boarding of three new Non-Executive Directors
 Director and senior management succession planning 
 Change of Company Secretary
 Review of Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Results and Financial Statements
 Compliance with reporting requirements
 Annual Report
 Results and presentations to analysts
Corporate Governance
 Board and Committee evaluation and effectiveness
 Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability and Environment
 Interactions with institutional investors
 Developments in corporate governance
 Legal and regulatory updates
Key areas of Board focus in 2015
The Board considers reports from the CEO and the CFO on strategic and business  
developments as well as financial performance and forecasts for the business at every meeting. 
In addition, the following areas formed substantial areas of focus for the Board in the year: RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 54
The Company is premium listed on the 
London Stock Exchange and this Report 
is prepared with reference to the 
Financial Reporting Council’s UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 
in effect for the financial periods 
beginning on or after 1 October 2014. 
This Report sets out how the Company 
has applied the Main Principles of the 
Code throughout the year ended  
31 December 2015 and as at the date  
of this Report.
Leadership
Board responsibilities
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Group, 
focusing on its governance with the highest regard to the principles 
of the Code. As part of its responsibility, the Board oversees the 
development of the Company’s strategic aims, ensures appropriate 
processes are in place to manage risk and monitors the Company’s 
financial and operational performance against objectives.
The Board consists of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who 
together have collective accountability to RB’s Shareholders as well  
as responsibility for the overriding strategic, financial and operational 
objectives and direction of RB.
The Board manages the overall leadership of the Group with reference 
to its formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board. This schedule 
is reviewed annually with the last review undertaken in November 2015 
as part of the Board’s performance evaluation and broadly covers:
• matters which are legally required to be considered or decided by 
the Board, such as approval of RB’s Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, declaration of dividends and appointment of new 
Directors;
• matters recommended by the Code to be considered by the Board, 
such as Terms of Reference for the Board and its committees, review 
of internal controls and risk management;
• compliance with regulations governing UK publicly listed companies, 
such as the UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
and the Prospectus Rules; and
• matters relating to developments in or changes to the Group’s 
strategic direction, material corporate or financial transactions.
Corporate Governance 
Statement
The full Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available at 
www.rb.com. 
The principal activities undertaken by the Board are set out 
over the following pages. A summary overview is set out 
in the table on Board focus areas in 2015 on page 53.
Board meetings
Board meetings are structured in an open atmosphere conducive 
to challenge and debate. Board meetings are held regularly with all 
Directors expected to attend, with five scheduled meetings normally 
held each year. At least one of these meetings is held in an overseas 
Group business location to provide the Board with the opportunity 
to meet with local management and structured to include a formal 
and comprehensive site visit to an operating unit. The 2015 meeting 
was held in Delhi in India and included visits by the Board to the 
R&D office in Gurgaon, a Save the Children field visit, and time 
spent with external speakers covering local geopolitical, industry-
related and commercial issues. Further details can be found on page 
5. Additional meetings, which may be held by phone or consist 
of written resolutions, are held throughout the year to consider 
topics that may have arisen outside the formal agenda structure.
Directors receive papers several days in advance of meetings and are 
expected to devote sufficient time for review prior to the meeting 
taking place, enabling them to fully engage with, challenge and 
stimulate productive discussion.
At the conclusion of every formal Board meeting, the Chairman holds  
a session with the other Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive 
Directors present, providing further opportunity for the Non-Executive 
Directors to challenge and critique the performance of the Executive 
Directors and help drive future agenda items.
Operating and financial reports from the Executive Directors are 
discussed at each Board meeting. When appropriate, detailed 
presentations may be made by non-Board members on material 
matters to the Group.
Committees of the Board 
The Board has established three Board Committees to assist in the 
execution of its responsibilities. These are the Nomination Committee, 
Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Each Committee 
operates under terms of reference approved by the Board. The terms of 
reference are reviewed regularly and can be found on the Company’s 
website. The current Committee membership of each Director is shown 
on pages 46 to 49. The Board has also established two supporting 
management committees, the Disclosure Committee, which ensures 
accuracy and timeliness of disclosure of financial and other public 
announcements, and the Executive Committee, which is RB’s key 
management committee.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee’s key objective is to make recommendations 
to the Board on suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and 
its Committees and regularly review and refresh their composition to 
ensure that they comprise individuals with the necessary skills, 
knowledge and experience to effectively discharge their responsibilities. 
Membership during the year and further details are set out in the 
Nomination Committee Report on page 60.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities 
in relation to financial reporting, and is responsible for ensuring 
effective internal financial control and risk management. Membership 
of the Audit Committee and details of its activities during the year are 
set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 61 to 65. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 55
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations on remuneration policy to the Board in respect  
of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management and 
ensuring that remuneration policy and practices reward fairly and 
responsibly. Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the 
year is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 70. The 
Report on pages 66 to 84 details the current and proposed policy on 
remuneration and sets outs Directors’ remuneration, Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees and share ownership.
Board attendance at scheduled meetings 
In 2015, there were five scheduled Board meetings (plus two additional 
meetings). There were four regular Audit Committee meetings (plus 
two additional meetings) and four regular Remuneration Committee 
meetings. No formal Nomination Committee meetings were held 
during the year and the business of the Committee was dealt with by 
the Board during its private sessions. The table below sets out the 
attendance by individual Directors at Board, Audit and Remuneration 
Committee meetings which each Director was eligible to attend. Mary 
Harris and Judy Sprieser were unable to attend one meeting each due 
to a long standing commitment. Directors who were not members of 
individual Board committees were also invited to attend one or more 
meetings of those committees during the year.
Board Audit Remuneration
Adrian Bellamy 5 of 5 4 of 4
Jaspal Bindra 5 of 5 4 of 4
Nicandro Durante 5 of 5 4 of 4
Peter Harf
1
5 of 5
Mary Harris 4 of 5
Adrian Hennah 5 of 5
Pamela Kirby 5 of 5
Ken Hydon 5 of 5 4 of 4
Rakesh Kapoor 5 of 5
André Lacroix 5 of 5 4 of 4
Sue Shim 5 of 5 4 of 4
Christopher Sinclair 5 of 5
Judy Sprieser 4 of 5 3 of 4
Doug Tough 5 of 5 4 of 4
Warren Tucker 5 of 5 4 of 4
1. Peter Harf resigned from the Board on 21 December 2015.
The Chairman 
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO have a clear division of 
responsibilities, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. The 
Chairman’s principal responsibility is for the effective running of 
the Board and chairing Board and Shareholder meetings. Effective 
leadership and governance of the Board allows the Directors to focus 
on the key strategic, financial and operational issues, to make sound 
judgements and be comfortable to challenge any uncertainties, 
as well as ensuring a transparent approach in communicating 
with Shareholders.
The Chairman leads the annual performance evaluation process of the 
Board and its Committees, which in 2015, in light of the additional 
Non-Executive Director appointments, was structured to closely follow 
and improve upon the previous year’s recommendations. An external 
evaluation, in line with good corporate governance practice, will take 
place in 2016.
The Chief Executive Officer
The CEO is principally responsible for the day-to-day management of 
RB, in line with the strategic, financial and operational objectives set 
by the Board. He chairs the Executive Committee, consisting of the 
CEO, the CFO and senior management executives, who together are 
responsible for execution of the Company’s strategy and achieving its 
commercial aims. More details about the members of the Executive 
Committee are set out on pages 50 to 51.
The CEO has the power delegated to him by the Board to enable him to 
carry out his duties efficiently. Such powers include delegation of the 
day-to-day management of the business of the Company to each of the 
Officers of the Executive Committee, acting individually or as a group 
or sub-committee; acquisition and disposal of businesses and 
unbudgeted capital expenditure projects subject, in each case, to a £50 
million limit; and instructing advisors and instigating legal proceedings 
on behalf of the Company in respect of matters for which no further 
Board authority is required. 
The Senior Independent Director
The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the 
Chairman and is available to the other Directors and Shareholders who 
have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO 
or CFO. 
The Executive Directors
The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities for the 
operation of RB’s business as determined by the CEO. Every Director 
may request that any matter not delegated to the CEO should be 
discussed by the Board and that no action should be taken before  
the Board has decided on the matter.
The Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors share full responsibility for the execution 
of the Board’s duties, are independent of management and are 
therefore able to provide critical input into Board decisions through 
their contributions to Board discussions and their roles on, and 
Chairmanship of, Board Committees. With a wealth of experience  
and skills between them, they are well placed to help develop the 
Company’s long-term strategic, financial and operational goals, as well 
as constructively challenge and scrutinise the day-to-day management 
of the business against the performance targets and objectives set.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for setting appropriate 
levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors, and ensuring 
performance targets are continually monitored to be closely aligned 
with Shareholder interests. They are also critical to the development of 
succession planning and appointment and removal of senior executives 
and management. 
The Non-Executive Directors are also responsible for ensuring that 
adequate internal controls and risk management systems have been 
developed and implemented, that these are continually monitored 
and suitably robust and that financial information is accurate and 
transparent.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary takes responsibility for compliance with all 
relevant governance requirements and assists the Chairman with 
ensuring Board procedures are followed. The Company Secretary in his 
or her role further advises the Board on changes to relevant legal and 
corporate governance regulations. All Directors have access to the 
Company Secretary and the Board is collectively responsible for the 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 56
Effectiveness
Board composition and succession planning
The Board regularly reviews its composition to determine whether it 
has the right mix of skills and background to effectively perform its 
duties. As part of this review, it also considers internal executives and 
Senior Management positions to ensure a proper breadth of talent is 
developed. The Board has appointed Directors from a wide variety of 
business backgrounds to provide it with a strong balance of skills and 
experience. The Board is comprised of the Chairman, and 11 Non-
Executive Directors who, together with two Executive Directors, help 
maintain a solid, collective understanding of the Company and its daily 
business. More details about the current Board members can be found 
on pages 46 to 49.
André Lacroix acts as the Senior Independent Director. The Board has 
determined that the majority of Non-Executive Directors (excluding the 
Chairman, who was independent on appointment) are independent as 
recommended by the Code. The Board has deemed Judy Sprieser and 
Ken Hydon independent, notwithstanding that they have served in 
excess of the recommended nine years, by virtue of their behaviour and 
judgement, which remains challenging and unbiased. 
The Shareholder agreement between the Company and JAB Holdings 
B.V. (JAB) at the time of the merger in 1999 entitled JAB to nominate 
Board Directors. A holding in excess of 20% or 10% of the Company’s 
ordinary shares entitles JAB to nominate two Directors or one Director 
respectively. JAB’s current holding is below this amount and there is 
currently no nominated Director on the Board.
In accordance with the Code, every Director submits him or herself for 
election/re-election at every Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
Board diversity
The Board’s recent appointments have further built on its already 
existing foundation of diverse professional, ethnic and national 
backgrounds, as well as improving on our gender balance. This diversity 
reflects itself throughout our business and helps to ensure that we 
cater fully to our varied spectrum of consumers across all markets that 
we serve. Details of diversity through the workplace can be found on 
page 24.
Board balance and independence
On appointment, Non-Executive Directors are made aware and are 
required to confirm they will allocate sufficient time to their role to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively. They are also required to seek 
agreement from the Chairman before taking on additional 
commitments, and to declare any actual or potential conflicts of 
interest. Non-Executive Directors are engaged under the terms of a 
Letter of Appointment. Initial terms of appointment are for three years 
with one month’s notice, with all Directors standing for re-election at 
every Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
The Nomination Committee has principal responsibility delegated to it 
for making recommendations to the Board on new appointments as 
well as the composition of the Board and its committees. The Board 
and each of its members are confident they individually have the 
expertise and relevant experience required to perform the functions 
required of a Director of a listed company. 
The Company recognises the developmental advantages of an external 
non-executive role on a non-competitor board and Executive Directors 
are permitted to seek such a role, provided that they do not take on 
more than one non-executive directorship in, or become the Chairman 
of, a FTSE 100 company. Adrian Hennah is a Non-Executive Director of 
RELX Group PLC and RELX NV. The Board also approved his 
appointment as a Non-Executive Director of Indivior PLC in November 
2014, prior to the demerger of that entity from RB the following 
month, and Adrian remained a Director throughout 2015. It was 
announced on 11 March 2016 that he would step down from the 
Indivior Board with effect from 11 May 2016.
The 2015 evaluation of the Board’s performance during the year 
concluded that the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors 
continue to devote sufficient time to carrying out their duties to the 
Company. Each Director standing for re-election has individually 
provided assurances that they remain committed to their roles and can 
dedicate sufficient time to perform their duties. Accordingly, the Board 
recommends that all Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions to 
re-elect the Directors at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Director inductions and training
RB has established a comprehensive induction programme for new 
Directors. The programme covers RB’s business, legal and regulatory 
requirements of Directors and includes one-to-one presentations from 
senior executives across the Group covering topics such as strategy, 
investor relations, taxation, Internal Audit, supply and the Company’s 
categories of Health, Hygiene and Home. The induction programme 
has several aims and serves multiple purposes. It provides new Directors 
with an understanding of RB, its businesses and the markets and 
regulatory environments in which it operates, provides an overview of 
the responsibilities for Non-Executive Directors of RB and builds links to 
RB’s people and stakeholders. Incoming Board members will also have 
due diligence meetings with external legal advisors and meet with the 
Group’s External Auditor.
Site visits are arranged to the Group’s operations to gain an insight into 
the business, and also form part of the annual Board meeting cycle 
with at least one meeting held at an offsite business location. 
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Directors 
receive suitable training to enable them to carry out their duties. 
As part of their role, Directors are also expected to personally 
identify any additional training requirements they feel would 
benefit them in performing their duties to the Company. Ongoing 
training arranged by the Company covers a wide variety of sector-
specific and business issues, as well as legal and financial regulatory 
developments relevant to the Company and the Directors. Training 
may be provided by way of briefing papers or presentations, as well 
as meetings with senior executives or other external sources. 
Board support
The Company Secretary is responsible for organising Board meetings, 
as well as collating any papers for the Board to review and consider. 
Board and Committee papers, as well as past meeting minutes are 
accessible to all Directors through a secure and confidential electronic 
document storage facility. This facility is maintained by RB’s Secretariat 
function and additionally holds other information which the Chairman 
or Company Secretary may deem useful to the Directors, such as press 
releases and pertinent Company information.
All of the Directors have individual access to advice from the Company 
Secretary and a procedure exists for Directors to take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense in furtherance of 
their duties. 
Corporate Governance 
Statement continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 57
Conflicts of interest and indemnity
Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006) to 
avoid interests, direct or indirect, which might conflict with the 
interests of the Group. Under the terms of the Company’s Articles 
of Association, such conflicts can be authorised by the Board who at 
all times take responsibility for ensuring compliance with laws and 
regulations on corporate governance, and that Directors’ potential 
conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed. 
The Company indemnifies the Directors and Officers of the 
Company and any Group subsidiary to the extent permitted by 
CA 2006 and the FCA Listing Rules in respect of the legal defence 
costs for claims against them and third party liabilities. The 
indemnity would not provide cover for a Director or Officer if that 
individual was found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
Additionally, Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance cover was 
maintained throughout the year at the Company’s expense. 
Evaluation of the Board
The Board annually reviews its own and its Committees’ performance 
and effectiveness. In 2015, due to the significant addition of new 
Directors to the Board, it was determined more appropriate to conduct 
the process internally, to allow them to bed in. In line with the Code 
requirements, an independent external review will take place in 2016. 
The 2015 evaluation built on the outcomes of the internal and external 
evaluations carried out in the previous two years. The process centred 
on a detailed questionnaire agreed with the Chairman around the 
topics of Board processes, composition, Director induction and training, 
strategy, risk assessment and engagement with Shareholders which all 
Directors were asked to complete and return, together with relevant 
comments or points they wished to raise. The recommendations from 
the external evaluation performed by Egon Zehnder International 
in 2013 were also reviewed and consideration given to Board best 
practices. The Board reviewed and discussed the results, which 
indicated overall that Directors were committed, with a willingness 
to spend more time on Board discussion of issues and to become 
more involved in development of strategy and risk. The induction 
process was praised and it was acknowledged that both induction 
and ongoing training were considered important and necessary to 
understand strategic priorities and keep abreast of governance issues. 
The Chairman’s performance evaluation was led by the Senior 
Independent Director with input from his fellow Non-Executive 
Directors, the CEO and the CFO and each individual Director’s 
performance was evaluated by the Chairman through one-to-one 
discussions with each of them. The Remuneration Committee also 
reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors and other 
members of the Executive Committee. 
The 2015 review of the Board’s performance and that of its 
committees was positive and concluded that the Board, its 
Committees and individual Directors were continuing to perform 
effectively. Recommendations were taken on board and would be 
addressed and reassessed as part of the 2016 external evaluation. 
Accountability
Risk management
The Board has ultimate responsibility for preparing the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements. RB has implemented robust internal controls 
to safeguard the integrity of both the Group and its subsidiary Financial 
Statements and ensures that adequate verification processes are in 
place to enable it to confirm that the Group’s Financial Statements 
present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of RB’s 
position and prospects, balanced with Code requirements. The Board 
considers that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as  
a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide sufficient 
information for Shareholders to be able to assess the Company’s 
position, performance, business model and strategy.
RB’s finance function, headed up by the CFO, has implemented a 
number of policies, processes and controls to enable the Company to 
review and fully comply with changes in accounting standards, financial 
regulations and recognised practices. These processes are kept under 
review on an ongoing basis. Multiple teams including consolidation 
and financial accounting, together with technical support, ensure 
both internal and external developments are reviewed and responded 
to. The Group also maintains a Finance Policy Manual setting out the 
required standards of financial reporting and approvals across the 
Group and its operating units, including a structured process  
for the appraisal and authorisation of any material capital projects.
The basis for the preparation of Group Financial Statements is set out 
on page 102 under Accounting Policies.
The Company’s External Auditor’s Report setting out its work and 
reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 90 to 96. The terms, 
areas of responsibility and scope of the External Auditor’s work are 
agreed by the Board and set out in the Auditor’s engagement letter.
More information on the Group’s significant risks and strategy for 
growth and achieving targeted goals is detailed in the CEO’s statement 
and the Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 8 to 45. 
The Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities on page 88 details the 
Going Concern Statement as required by the Listing Rules and the 
Code, and the Directors’ responsibility for the Financial Statements, for 
disclosing relevant audit information to the Auditors and for ensuring 
that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Board visit to India
In November 2015, the RB Board travelled 
to Delhi, India for its annual off-site 
strategy session. 
Local business insights
 Tour of the R&D facility in Gurgaon
 Trade visits
DvM and Indian landscape
 Presentations by leading experts on Indian 
consumerism and the e-commerce revolution 
 Audience with the Minister of Finance 
 Review of the DvM operating area
 Meetings with local management, with a focus on 
internal financial controls by the Audit Committee
Save the Children 
 Visit to school in South Delhi to view RB’s work with  
Save the Children on its Stop Diarrhoea initiative, in 
particular behaviours and attitudes to hand washing  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 58
Risk appetite
The Board has overall responsibility for complying with the Code and 
the Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting. It 
oversees the internal controls established, and monitors their 
effectiveness, in managing risk. The sectors and environment within 
which RB operates are dynamic and fast moving, and the controls are 
continually kept under review to minimise the potential exposure to 
risk. The system is designed to evolve and manage, rather than 
eliminate, risks to RB’s business objectives, and the Board relies on 
these controls in so far as they are able to provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Group’s 
major risks and mitigating factors are detailed on pages 40 to 45.
As part of its risk control, RB regularly evaluates principal risks to 
achieving objectives, the likelihood of such risks materialising and 
determining the ability of the Group to cope with the circumstances 
should they occur. In doing so, it also looks to actions that can be 
taken, controls that can be implemented and processes that can be 
followed to reduce the chances of risk events taking place, mitigating 
the potential impact and ensuring that the cost of doing so is 
proportionate to the benefit gained.
Internal control
Internal control processes are implemented through clearly defined 
roles and responsibilities, delegated by the policies to the executive 
team and senior management.
RB operates three strands in monitoring internal control systems and 
managing risk:
• Management ensures the controls, policies and procedures are 
followed in dealing with risks in day-to-day business. Such risks 
are mitigated at source with controls interwoven into the relevant 
systems and processes. Supervisory controls either at management 
level or through delegation ensure appropriate checks and 
verification takes place, with any failures dealt with promptly 
and awareness raised in order to review gaps in existing controls. 
Throughout RB, a key responsibility for any line manager is to 
ensure the achievement of business objectives with appropriate 
risk management and internal control systems.
• Each function and operating unit has its own management which 
acts as a second line of oversight and verification. This level sets 
the local level policies and procedures, specific to its own business 
environment, subject to Group policy and authorisation. 
They further act in a supervisory capacity over the lower level 
management implementation of controls. The financial performance 
of each function and operating unit is monitored on a monthly basis 
against pre-approved budgets and set against forecasts, developed 
higher up the management chain, and ultimately overseen by the 
executive management and the Board.
Corporate Governance 
Statement continued
• The third strand is provided through independent review by both 
Internal and External Audit teams, who challenge the information 
and assurances provided by the first two strands. This review 
ultimately gets reported back to the Board, via the Audit 
Committee, with action taken to address matters identified. More 
details on the Audit Committee and its duties can be found on 
pages 61 to 65. The Group’s compliance controls further include 
operating an independent and anonymous whistleblowing facility, 
annual management reviews and providing training specific to 
individual needs within the business. The Board is also provided with 
reports on the effectiveness of these controls to ensure full 
oversight of the business. 
RB has a strong culture of support for its internal controls. Function and 
operating management meet to discuss performance measured against 
strategic aims and goals, with risks and risk controls incorporated into 
the discussions. More detail on the Group’s principal strategic risks and 
uncertainties can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 40 to 45 as 
well as principal operating risks set out on pages 158 to 164. 
RB has developed a Code of Conduct on which employees must 
undertake training. This training includes reminding employees of the 
Group’s strict policies on reporting of any adverse events in relation  
to its products, as well as the availability of an independent and 
anonymous whistleblowing facility. Together they help ensure a solid 
backbone of ethical, responsible behaviour amongst RB’s employees, 
providing an extra layer of support to the internal controls with an 
intrinsic awareness of RB’s policies on corporate responsibility.
Statement of compliance with the Code
The Board confirms that reviews and monitoring of the appropriateness 
and effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk 
management throughout the financial year and up to the date of 
approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements have been 
satisfactorily completed in compliance with provisions C.2.1 and C.2.3 
of the Code with no significant failings or weaknesses identified. 
During the year, the Directors undertook a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Company, including those that could threaten 
RB’s business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity. For 
further details, see the principal risks section on pages 158 to 164.
The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.6 and the information is 
included in the section on Takeover Directive on page 85. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 59
Relations with Shareholders
The Board values effective communication with 
Shareholders and is committed to regular, clear 
and transparent dialogue. This includes formal 
presentations of full year and interim results, 
together with quarterly statements on the 
Company’s key performance indicators, with 
roadshows to meet with institutional investors 
following results announcements.
RB maintains regular dialogue with trade analysts and fund managers 
to ensure a widespread understanding and availability of information 
regarding developments for the Group, as well as the industry sectors 
which RB serves. The Executive Directors and the Director of Investor 
Relations meet regularly with institutional Shareholders and analysts to 
discuss the performance of the Group and its strategy. Where 
appropriate, the views of Shareholders are also sought in relation to 
remuneration plans and governance issues.
Feedback is presented to the Board to ensure all Directors are fully 
aware of the views of existing Shareholders, investors and analysts. 
Analysis of RB’s Shareholder register is made available to the Board and 
reports prepared by the Group’s brokers and public relations advisors 
are provided to all Directors after every significant corporate event and 
on other relevant occasions.
On a monthly basis, and at each Board Meeting, the Board receives 
updates from the CEO on the Company’s share price movements, major 
share transactions and the views of both investors and analysts on the 
Group’s performance.
All Shareholders may speak with the Company’s investor relations 
team and the Company Secretary; and a section of the RB website is 
dedicated to Shareholders. The Chairman is also available to discuss 
governance and strategy with major Shareholders and does so regularly 
throughout the year, providing feedback on the meetings to the 
rest of the Board. If required, key executives, along with the Senior 
Independent Director, are available to discuss matters of concern. 
Annual General Meeting
The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to meet with its 
private Shareholders in particular, giving them an opportunity to put 
questions to the Chairman, Chairs of the Committees and the Board.
All Shareholders are able to vote on the resolutions put to the meeting. 
Voting is by way of poll providing each share with one vote. Results of 
the poll are released to the London Stock Exchange and published on 
the Group’s website shortly after the AGM.
Shareholder resources
Website
The Investor relations hub on the RB website provides the Board 
with an additional method of communicating with Shareholders. 
As well as the latest regulatory disclosures, the hub includes 
copies of the latest and previous annual reports, latest share 
price information and copies of previous investor presentations, 
as well as notable key calendar dates. The website is available 
at www.rb.com/investors.
Shareholders can also access our Sustainability report  
and associated policies on the RB website at  
www.rb.com/responsibility.
 Annual Report online
 Sustainability Report
 Corporate website RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 60
Nomination Committee 
Report
Role of Nomination Committee
The main purpose of the Committee is to make recommendations to  
the Board of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and its 
Committees, as well as regularly reviewing and making recommendations 
on their composition and membership. The Committee also has 
responsibility for reviewing succession plans for the Board and key 
management roles, and for authorising conflicts of interest.
Composition
During the year the Nomination Committee was made up of the 
Chairman, who also chairs the Committee, the CEO and all of the 
Non-Executive Directors. Members of the Nomination Committee and 
any persons attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion 
or decision on their own nomination.
Activity
Given that the composition of both the Board and the Nomination 
Committee was largely the same, during 2015 the Board integrated  
the Nomination Committee’s delegated duties into its regular meetings 
with matters being considered as part of diarised Board discussions  
and during private sessions, without the presence of management or 
the Company Secretary.
In late 2014 and early 2015, the Nomination Committee retained Egon 
Zehnder International as external search consultants in respect of the 
search for new non-executive candidates. EZI is an independent 
executive search firm which has no other current connection with the 
Company. An extensive search was carried out and a shortlist drawn 
up. Following meetings with each of the Chairman, the Senior 
Independent Director, the Deputy Chairman and the Executive 
Directors, Chris Sinclair, Pam Kirby and Mary Harris were identified  
as exceptional candidates and recommended to the Board for 
appointment on the basis that they met the criteria required, which 
included international and industry expertise and a strong cultural fit.
The Committee’s focus during 2015 and at the start of this year has 
been the maintenance of strong, balanced leadership, an introduction 
to RB and guidance to new Board members, the composition of the 
Board’s Committees and their Chairs, as well as succession planning  
for the positions of Chairman, CEO, and senior management. The 
Committee considered that it was essential to retain the wealth of 
knowledge and experience on the Board following Peter Harf’s 
resignation in late 2015, as well as stability. Therefore, following 
thorough consideration, it was determined that Judy Sprieser and Ken 
Hydon should be asked to remain with the Company and as Chairs of 
the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively for the time 
being to mentor their fellow Directors.
Diversity
The Board and Nomination Committee consider diversity, including 
gender, amongst its members to be a key factor in steering the 
Company to strategic and financial success. RB’s customers are from 
wide and diverse backgrounds and so diversity is pivotal to 
understanding and best serving our customers.
There is a strong commitment to engendering an all-embracing culture 
of acceptance throughout the business and the Board recognises the 
need to set the tone from the very top. This commitment is clearly 
demonstrated in the diverse composition of the Board, which during 
the year comprised six nationalities and four women.
Focus for 2016
The Board will continue to focus on maintaining strong leadership and 
to develop its Directors and update and refresh their skills and 
knowledge, with particular focus on the culture and operating model 
that has made RB a successful multinational company. The Nomination 
Committee will focus specifically on composition of the Board’s 
committees and Chairman and Committee Chairperson succession.
Adrian Bellamy / Chairman of the Nomination Committee
22 March 2016
Adrian Bellamy / Chairman
“Our ongoing focus is to 
maintain strong, balanced 
leadership and to harness 
and develop the wealth  
of experience and skills 
available on the Board to 
promote RB’s long-term 
success.” Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 61
Introduction
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit  
Committee Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2015, 
which outlines the role, responsibilities and activities of the Committee 
during the year. 
Maintaining the integrity of RB’s financial reporting and robustness of 
internal controls and risk management processes continues to be our  
key focus. This enables the Committee to endorse the results, provide 
reassurance to the Board and be able to say that the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable. 
Effective delivery of RB’s strategic objectives has to be underpinned by 
efficient and robust risk control processes and the Committee has 
continued to carefully review and monitor these processes. In addition  
to the regular agenda reviews, we paid particular attention in the year to 
supply risks, trade spend, legal compliance, cyber security, data protection 
and environmental, health & safety, commercial and reputational 
sustainability issues. The Committee met with local operational 
management at its meetings to consider financial, legal, regulatory and  
IT risks and controls, and also discussed internal control risk with local 
management during the Board visit to India. A major risk assessment was 
carried out to identify the principal strategic risks and uncertainties that 
might affect the Group and how they could be mitigated. Details are set 
out on pages 40 to 45.
This year, in addition to the Directors’ Going Concern assessment, a 
longer term viability review was carried out which covered the next five 
years, during which the current product pipeline is expected to flow 
through to our markets. The review included sensitivity analyses for the 
realisation of key Group Strategic Risks: non-compliance of licensed 
products, non-compliance with quality standards, cyber security and data 
protection, and legal non-compliance. These risks were thought to have 
the most significant effect on the long term viability of the business. The 
Committee considered the assumptions made in the viability review and 
the disclosure in relation to the Viability Statement on page 40.
A key responsibility of the Committee is to consider the significant areas 
of judgement and complexity in financial reporting. The Committee has, 
with support from PwC as External Auditor, reviewed the suitability of the 
accounting policies which have been adopted and whether management 
has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
Audit Committee Report
Ken Hydon / Chair of the Audit Committee
“Maintaining the integrity  
of our financial reporting 
and the robustness of  
our internal controls  
and risk management 
processes continues to  
be our key focus.”
At the request of the Board, the Committee has performed a review to 
assess whether the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements is fair 
balanced and understandable and whether it provides sufficient 
information to enable the shareholders to assess the business model, 
Strategy and performance. After the review, the Committee advised the 
Board that it was satisfied that the 2015 Annual Report and Financial 
Statements taken as a whole, met its objectives. 
At the end of the year effectiveness assessments were completed, based 
on questionnaires, for Internal Audit, External Audit and the Audit 
Committee itself. I am pleased to report that these assessments showed 
that we have effective Internal and External auditors and an effective 
Committee. 
Our Audit plans are continually evaluated by the Committee. I can confirm 
that the Internal Audit plan was completed, with a few modifications 
during the year to take into account current developments, and 
management responded well to the recommendations.
The Committee recognises that an independent and effective External 
Auditor is essential and has continued to be satisfied with the work 
carried out by PwC in the 2015 financial year. During the year we 
discussed the process for a retender of the audit. The Audit Committee 
has commenced a preselection process with a number of audit firms in 
preparation for a possible audit tender in 2017 allowing for the 
appointment of a new auditor at the 2018 AGM. The timing of the tender 
process will ensure compliance with the UK implementation of the EU 
requirements on auditor rotation, which in our case would mean a 
change of auditors by 2020, and is expected to coincide with the rotation 
of the current lead Audit Partner. 
The Committee members possess deep experience of financial and 
international business and I am grateful for their diligence throughout the 
year. We also appreciated the enthusiastic support of management. 
During the year, the Audit Committee carried out its duties in compliance 
with the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
considered developments in corporate governance and reporting with  
the aim of promoting best business practice. We will continue over the 
coming year to support and work with the Board to identify, monitor  
and mitigate potential risks through robust and appropriate control 
procedures and to maintain good standards of governance. 
Ken Hydon / Chairman of the Audit Committee
22 March 2016 RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 62
Composition 
Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee. Membership of the 
Audit Committee during the year comprised the following five 
Non-Executive Directors as set out below: 
Name
Ken Hydon (Chairman) 
Jaspal Bindra
André Lacroix
Sue Shim
Warren Tucker
The Board considers that each member of the Audit Committee is 
independent and meets the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code). The skills and expertise of each 
Committee member are summarised on pages 46 to 49. The Code’s 
requirement is for members of the Committee to have significant, 
recent and relevant financial experience. All of the members have 
financial, economics and/or business management expertise and two  
of the members have held senior finance posts. Ken Hydon, Chairman 
since 16 November 2006, was previously CFO of Vodafone Group plc 
until July 2005 and Warren Tucker was previously CFO of Cobham plc 
until May 2013. All members are expected to have an understanding of 
the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting and 
an understanding of the Group’s internal control systems. On joining 
the Committee and during their tenure, members receive additional 
training tailored to their individual requirements. Such training includes 
meetings with internal management covering Internal Audit, legal, tax, 
treasury and financial matters as well as meetings with the External 
Auditor. All members of the Committee receive regular briefings from 
senior executives on matters covering governance and legislative 
developments, accounting practices and policies and tax and treasury.
Meetings 
The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year, at times related 
to the Company’s reporting cycle. During 2015, the Company held four 
scheduled meetings, (plus two additional meetings) and the attendance 
of members at the meetings is set out in the table on page 55. Senior 
representatives of the External Auditor, Group Head of Internal Audit 
and the CFO are invited to, and regularly attend, meetings. The 
Chairman and CEO are also invited to attend all meetings and other 
senior management may attend by invitation from the Audit 
Committee. Time is allocated to each meeting for private discussion 
without invitees being present.
Audit Committee meetings take place ahead of Board meetings and 
the Audit Committee Chairman provides an update of the key issues 
discussed to the Board at each meeting. Minutes of Audit Committee 
meetings are provided to the Board and the External Auditor. 
Role and responsibilities
The Audit Committee forms an integral part of the Group’s governance 
framework and supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in 
ensuring the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, internal 
controls and overall risk management process.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to do the following:
Financial reporting 
• Review the interim and full year Financial Statements before 
submission to the full Board.
• Consider significant legal claims and regulatory issues. 
Risk management and internal controls 
• Review compliance procedures and RB’s overall risk framework 
(including the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements). 
• Consider operational risk and control processes covering assurance 
providers, geographical and functional areas. 
• Monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal 
control. 
Internal Audit 
• Approve Internal Audit’s annual plan. 
• Review Internal Audit activities, significant recommendations and 
findings and related management actions. 
• Review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function. 
External Audit 
• Consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding the 
Auditor and its terms of appointment.
• Review and monitor the Auditor’s independence and services 
supplied and the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference can be found at www.rb.com.
Activities during 2015
Audit Committee meetings cover matters set out in its terms of 
reference related to the reporting and audit cycle, including half  
and full year results and Internal and External Audit work plans and 
reports, as well as regular updates from senior financial management. 
In addition, the Committee establishes an annual agenda plan of  
specific matters arising. The principal matters considered by the  
Audit Committee during the year are as set out in the remainder of  
this report.
Audit Committee Report continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 63
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements
The Audit Committee assisted the Board with the discharge of its 
responsibilities for financial reporting: 
• Reviewing and approving the appropriateness of the interim and 
annual Financial Statements and related announcements. 
• Recommending that, in the Audit Committee’s view, the Financial 
Statements were fair, balanced and understandable. In addition to 
detailed preparation and verification procedures in place for the 
2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements, management placed 
a focus on narrative reporting and clear written and visual 
messaging to communicate the Group’s strategy. The Audit 
Committee concluded that the disclosures contained in the Financial 
Statements and the underlying processes and controls were 
appropriate and recommended to the Board that the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and 
understandable and provided the necessary information to assess 
the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
• Reviewing the appropriateness of the accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates used as set out on page 106 and 
concluding that the judgements and assumptions used were 
reasonable. The Audit Committee recommended the adoption of 
FRS 102: ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and 
Republic of Ireland’ to replace UK GAAP for the Parent Company.
The Audit Committee considered the following areas of significant 
financial judgement and complexity in relation to the 2015 Group 
Financial Statements:
• Impairment assessments. 
 Management performs an annual impairment review for goodwill 
and other intangible assets with indefinite lives. This is important 
given the significance of these items to the Group’s Balance Sheet. 
Key judgements include the allocation of these assets to cash 
generating units (CGUs) and Groups of CGUs (GCGUs) as well as 
estimates of future business performance and cash generation, 
discount rates and long-term growth rates (see Note 9 to the Group 
Financial Statements on pages 114 to 116). The Audit Committee 
has reviewed management’s analysis, including the allocation of 
assets to CGUs or GCGUs, assessment of the discount rates used, 
the appropriateness of specific risk factors applied to individual and 
groups of CGUs, as well as the adequacy of sensitivities applied. 
As a result of this review, the Audit Committee confirmed that 
it was comfortable that no impairment was required and that 
the indefinite life of the Group’s intangible assets continued to 
be appropriate.
• Legal liability provisioning.
 At 31 December 2015, a provision of £141 million was held on the 
Group’s Balance Sheet in relation to regulatory, civil and/or criminal 
investigations by government authorities as well as litigation 
proceedings. Management and legal judgement are important in 
determining the level of provisioning. The key judgements made, 
including legal advice, were discussed with the Audit Committee 
and the provisioning levels agreed to be appropriate. 
• Tax provisioning.
 From time to time the Group may also be involved in disputes in 
relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around 
the world where the approach of the authorities is particularly 
difficult to predict. The level of provisioning for these tax policies 
and investigations is an issue where management and tax 
judgement is important. The Committee debated the key 
judgements made with management, including relevant professional 
advice that may have been received in each case, and considers the 
tax provisioning levels to be appropriate. 
• Exceptional items. 
 The Committee considered the presentation of the Group Financial 
Statements and, in particular, the presentation of exceptional items 
and the items included within such measures. The Audit Committee 
discussed this with management and agreed that the presentation 
provided more meaningful information to Shareholders about the 
underlying performance of the Group. 
• Trade spend. 
 Trade spend is a significant expense for the Group, and the main 
judgements relate to trade accruals, specifically the timing and 
extent to which temporary promotional activity occurred. The Audit 
Committee reviewed with management its assessment of the control 
environment and the findings of Internal Audit relating to trade spend 
and considered that management operates an appropriate control 
environment which minimises the risks in this area. 
• Going concern and Viability Statement.
 A viability review was undertaken by management, encompassing 
its going concern review. (See Note 1 to the Group Financial 
Statements on page 102.) The Audit Committee reviewed the key 
assumptions used by management in its viability review and going 
concern assessment, as well as the scenarios applied and risks 
considered. Based on its review, the Audit Committee considers that 
the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the 
Financial Statements was appropriate and confirmed the suitability 
of the Viability Statement covering the next five years as set out on 
page 40. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 64
Risk management and internal control matters
In monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal 
controls, the Audit Committee reviewed compliance procedures and 
RB’s overall risk framework (including the Group’s whistleblowing 
arrangements) and considered operational risk and control processes. 
There were no significant failings or weaknesses during the year 
meriting disclosure in this report and the Audit Committee considers 
the internal control environment to be robust and functioning 
appropriately.
Other matters
The Audit Committee also considered the following specific matters 
during the year and the matters set out in the remainder of this report:
• ‘Deep Dive’ risk and control reviews were carried out on trade 
spend, environmental, health & safety, commercial and reputational, 
sustainability and legal compliance.
• The Audit Committee reviewed the Group’s major risk assessment 
process and gave detailed consideration to information systems risk 
in respect of cyber security and data protection.
• Senior Management engaged with the Committee members to 
present financial control reviews of the Group’s ENA Area and India.
• The External Auditor’s annual terms of engagement were approved.
• Ethical issues, including any fraudulent activity or reports raised 
under the whistleblowing procedure, were considered.
• The Committee also kept abreast of changes in financial reporting 
and governance matters by way of technical updates throughout 
the year.
External Auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring 
the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the 
effectiveness of the External Auditor and the audit process. The Audit 
Committee approves the Auditor’s terms of engagement and reviews 
the strategy and scope of the audit and the work plan. RB has a formal 
policy in place to safeguard the External Auditor’s independence.
The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services 
undertaken by the External Auditor during the year to satisfy itself that 
there is no impact on its independence. The Board recognises that in 
certain circumstances the nature of the advice required may make it 
more timely and cost effective to appoint an auditor who already has 
a good understanding of RB. The total fees paid to PwC for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 were £7.2 million, of which £1.4 million 
related to non-audit work (to which PwC were appointed principally for 
the above reasons). Details of non-audit services are set out in Note 4 
on page 110. The Group’s published policy on non-audit fees states 
that, on an annual basis, non-audit fees should not normally be in 
excess of 50% of the Group’s External Audit and audit-related fees  
on an aggregate basis. The Board confirms that, for the year ended 
31 December 2015, non-audit fees were less than 50% of the audit 
and audit-related fees. A copy of the Group’s Non-Audit Fees Policy is 
available at www.rb.com.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the 
External Auditor works well and the Audit Committee remains satisfied 
with its independence and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee monitors the rotation of the lead Audit Partner, 
who rotates every five years in accordance with best practice standards. 
The current lead Audit Partner has just completed the third year of his 
five-year term.
PwC was appointed as Auditor of Reckitt Benckiser plc in 2000, the 
year after the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N.V. in 
1999. At the time of the merger, PwC was the auditor of Reckitt & 
Colman plc and Deloitte LLP was the auditor of Benckiser N.V. 
Post-merger, the Audit Committee undertook a review and 
subsequently selected PwC as Auditor for the Group for the December 
2000 year end. There has been no subsequent audit tender. PwC has 
been the Auditor of the Parent Company since the formation of 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc in 2007.
The Committee recognises the recent EU Regulation and Directive 
on Audit Reform in respect of audit retenders and rotation, and 
the Competition and Markets Authority Order on mandatory audit 
tendering. Following careful consideration of the transitional rules and 
all available guidance, the Audit Committee has concluded that audit 
tendering and rotation are both required by the 2020 financial 
year end.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and making 
recommendations to the Board on tendering of the External Audit 
contract. After taking into account the work plan and relationship 
with the current External Auditor, the Board concluded, on the Audit 
Committee’s recommendation, that it was in the best interests of 
the Shareholders not to tender the audit contract at the current time. 
The Audit Committee has commenced a preselection process with a 
number of audit firms in preparation for a possible audit tender in 2017 
allowing for the appointment of a new auditor at the 2018 AGM. The 
timing of the tender process will ensure compliance with both the 
Competition and Markets Authority Order and UK implementation of 
EU regulations and is expected to coincide with the rotation of the 
current lead Audit Partner.
PwC has expressed its willingness to continue as External Auditor of the 
Company. Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee, and 
in accordance with section 489 of the 2006 Act, resolutions to propose 
the reappointment of PwC as the Company’s External Auditor and to 
authorise the Audit Committee to fix its remuneration will be put to the 
Shareholders at the AGM.
Internal Auditor 
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function. The Head of Internal Audit 
reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and to the CFO for 
administrative matters. The Internal Audit department is responsible for 
impartially assessing the key risks of the organisation and appraising 
and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of RB’s risk 
management and internal controls in financial, information systems and 
other business and operational areas to develop and improve the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management control and governance 
processes and strategies. RB’s identified Group major risks and their 
mitigating controls are described in detail on pages 40 to 45. 
Audit Committee Report continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 65
The annual Internal Audit plan is prepared under an agreed cover and 
scope policy and reflects a risk-based approach. Designated audit 
locations are determined at the start of each year following a risk and 
control assessment of each commercial and supply unit, covering sales, 
payroll, procurement and inventory management processes, and other 
perceived risk factors. Information systems and Head Office locations 
also fall within Internal Audit’s remit and are subject to audit. Following 
each audit, findings are reviewed and reported to management and to 
the Audit Committee, together with recommendations and updates. 
Resulting management actions and progress are tracked until a report 
is satisfactorily closed. In 2015, Internal Audit carried out 66 audits. 
Internal Audit is also responsible for monitoring and reporting ethical 
issues and updates the Audit Committee on any significant allegations 
in relation to breach of the Company’s Code of Conduct, bribery, fraud 
and whistleblowing. Any issues are thoroughly investigated, overseen 
by Internal Audit and in cooperation with appropriate management 
such as the Group General Counsel and Group Head of HR and 
reported to and considered by the Audit Committee. 
Governance
During the year the Company complied with the provisions of the Code 
in respect of internal controls, risk, management and accountability.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference were updated to reflect the 
2014 version of the Code and narrative reporting best practice. 
As part of the Board evaluation process, the Company Secretary carried 
out an internal evaluation. The Committee reviewed the results of 
questionnaires circulated to and completed by members regarding  
its effectiveness in different areas including risk and internal control, 
auditor independence, and consideration of going concern and external 
reporting. Both Audit Committee processes and the underlying 
knowledge and behaviours required to carry out those processes were 
reviewed and it was determined that the Committee fulfilled its 
responsibilities in respect of monitoring compliance, reported promptly 
to the Board on key issues and resolved them in a timely manner, and it 
was concluded that it was effective.
The performance of Internal Audit and the External Auditor were also 
assessed by way of an internal questionnaire completed by members of 
the Audit Committee, Executive Directors and senior management. In 
relation to the External Auditor’s review, respondents were invited to 
rate PwC’s effectiveness in a number of areas including quality, 
judgement, mindset and culture, skills and knowledge. The review led 
to the conclusion by the Audit Committee that PwC and the External 
Audit process were effective and that PwC provides a robust challenge 
of management actions. The evaluation of the Internal Audit function 
indicated that management appreciated the quality and capability of 
the Internal Audit team and their sharing of examples of best practice 
observed across factories and commercial businesses, which assisted 
with the improvement of internal controls and processes through the 
Group, and were satisfied with the service level provided. The Audit 
Committee considered the effectiveness review and the work carried 
out by the Internal Audit function and concluded that it was an 
effective operation.
The Audit Committee is exclusively responsible (on behalf of the Board) 
for matters relating to the appointment of the Auditor, and therefore, 
during the year the Company has complied with the Competition and 
Markets Authority Order. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 66
On behalf of the Board of Directors, it gives me great pleasure to 
present to you the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 December 2015. This includes a new Directors’ Remuneration Policy, 
together with our Annual Report on Remuneration, both of which we 
will be seeking Shareholder approval for at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) on 5 May 2016.
To assist Shareholders in understanding RB’s remuneration structure 
and its link to performance and Shareholder value creation, the report 
sets out overleaf an ‘at a glance’ summary. Our Annual Report on 
Remuneration is on pages 70 to 78 setting out details of how the 
current Remuneration Policy was implemented in 2015 and the 
decisions made for 2016 remuneration. This is followed by our 
proposed Directors’ Remuneration Policy which is detailed on 
pages 79 to 84.
I trust that you find this a clear and comprehensive report that 
illustrates the strong alignment between RB’s performance and our 
Executive Directors’ remuneration.
Context for executive remuneration at RB
As set out on pages 10 to 11 RB has a unique culture. We have  
a management team that is multinational, is globally mobile and  
we compete for talent against a peer group of global companies.
The Committee continues to believe that RB’s approach to 
remuneration plays an important part in supporting this strong 
performance culture, reflects the global nature of our business and 
delivers significant benefits to all Shareholders. Central to our 
remuneration philosophy are the principles of:
• Pay for performance 
• Shareholder alignment 
• Simplicity 
This philosophy is implemented in RB through our long standing,  
highly performance driven approach which is cascaded throughout  
the Company, such that our “Top400” executives participate in the 
same annual bonus and long-term incentive plan structures as the 
Executive Directors. This ensures we all strive towards the same 
performance outcomes and the Committee believes this has been a key 
factor in RB’s success in delivering significant value to Shareholders:
£100 invested in RB on 1 January 2000, following the merger of Reckitt
& Colman and Benckiser was worth £1,721 on 31 December 2015,
compared to growth in the FTSE 100 to £156 over the same period.
A commitment to pay for performance and Shareholder 
alignment
Whilst the core principles of RB’s remuneration philosophy have 
remained the same, the Committee continues to review remuneration 
and consult with our Shareholders on a regular basis and value the 
feedback that is provided.
This has resulted in RB making a number of changes to our 
remuneration framework in recent years. This evolution of RB’s 
remuneration policy demonstrates our commitment to pay for 
performance and Shareholder alignment.
For example, some of the changes made over the last five years include: 
• Reflecting best practice in the Executive Directors’ contracts so that 
payment upon termination no longer includes bonus
• Further enhancing the longer-term pay for performance link by 
stretching the LTIP performance conditions. The Committee reduced 
the level of vesting at threshold performance to 20%, and increased 
the performance required for maximum vesting to EPS growth of 
10% per annum, thereby reducing the number of shares vesting at 
the previously required maximum
• Introducing a maximum number of shares and options that may  
be awarded under the long-term incentive plan
• Enhancing the level of disclosure in our Remuneration Report, 
including the disclosure of annual bonus targets on a retrospective 
basis
• Ensuring that the LTIP vesting in May 2015 was fair and appropriate, 
by excluding the gain made on the demerger of Indivior from the 
EPS growth calculation for purposes of determining vesting. This 
resulted in a reduction in the vesting from 100% to 40% 
• Introducing malus and clawback provisions in our LTIP Rules 
approved by Shareholders at last year’s AGM
During 2015 the Remuneration Committee has again reviewed RB’s 
Remuneration Policy. We have had discussions with a number of our 
major Shareholders and the Committee is grateful for the feedback 
provided. We have taken the feedback into account and are proposing 
to implement improvements to the Remuneration Policy to further 
enhance the alignment between Executive Directors and Shareholders. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Judy Sprieser / Chair of the Remuneration Committee
“Central to our 
remuneration philosophy 
are the principles of  
pay for performance, 
Shareholder alignment 
and simplicity.” Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 67
Enhancements to RB’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee was pleased with the increased level of 
support that Shareholders gave RB’s Directors’ Remuneration Report last 
year. During 2015 the Remuneration Committee has carried out a further 
review of remuneration and will be seeking Shareholder approval for a 
revised Directors’ Remuneration Policy at our AGM in May 2016. 
Not only does RB’s Remuneration Policy play an important part in our 
unique culture, it is designed to drive the Company’s financial strategy 
of growth and outperformance in revenue and profit, whilst 
incentivising sustainable long-term growth in Shareholder value. 
To reinforce this remuneration philosophy the Committee ensures that 
the majority of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages is made 
up of variable pay, linked to stretching financial targets, with a large 
proportion of the package delivered in RB shares. For example, more 
than three-quarters of the CEO’s ‘on-target’ package is provided 
through variable pay.
Executive Directors have short and long-term incentive opportunities 
strongly linked to stretching outperformance targets to enable pay 
opportunities that correspond to Company performance in terms of 
growth, profitability and Shareholder returns. As a result, under 
maximum scenario, nearly 95% of the CEO’s total remuneration will be 
provided through performance linked variable pay.
RB’s performance driven remuneration philosophy is underpinned by an 
ownership culture throughout the Company, which is reinforced by our 
significant shareholding requirements.
The CEO is required to hold 600,000 shares and the CFO 200,000 
shares within eight years of appointment, which currently represent 
more than 40x salary and 20x salary respectively.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this shareholding 
requirement, which is significantly the most demanding in the market, 
ensures that Senior Executives focus on the creation of sustainable 
long-term Shareholder value. 
This focus on encouraging every Senior Executive to think as an owner 
and act in the long-term interests of Shareholders is cascaded 
throughout RB. For example, the aggregate current shareholding for 
our “Top40” executives is £159 million.
The Policy is being enhanced to further strengthen the alignment of 
executives’ interests with those of Shareholders. Alongside the current 
shareholding requirements, we are introducing an additional two year 
holding period in respect of unvested share option and performance 
share awards upon cessation of employment.
In addition to the significant shareholding requirements in service, this 
change will help ensure that the strong alignment between Executive 
Directors and Shareholders continues for a meaningful period once 
they have left the business, to ensure that the focus is always on 
creation of sustainable long-term Shareholder value.
The Policy is also being enhanced to include malus and clawback 
provisions on the LTIP awards. In addition the maximum award under 
the LTIP has been reduced.
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy which, subject to Shareholder 
approval will apply from 5 May 2016, is set out on pages 79 to 84.
Implementing the Policy approved by Shareholders 
There were no significant changes made to the remuneration structure 
during 2015 and all awards were made in line with the Remuneration 
Policy approved by Shareholders at the AGM in May 2014.
The key decisions taken during the year are summarised below and set 
out in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Base salaries for the Executive Directors were reviewed and increased 
by 3% in line with general employee salary increases effective from 
1 January 2015. The Committee has also maintained this approach 
when reviewing 2016 Executive Director salaries, with increases of 3% 
granted with effect from 1 January 2016.
In line with our approved Remuneration Policy, RB operates an annual 
bonus plan that is strongly aligned to performance, measured against 
stretching growth targets set by the Committee at the start of the year. 
2015 was a year of excellent growth and outperformance for RB, which 
created significant value for Shareholders. In the face of mixed market 
conditions, the management team delivered exceptional top line 
growth and margin expansion, which has resulted in outstanding 
adjusted net income growth of 15%, at constant rates.
The bonuses awarded to Executive Directors reflect these excellent 
achievements during 2015. In line with our continued commitment of 
transparency for Shareholders, disclosure of RB’s achievements against 
bonus targets are set out on page 70.
The performance period for awards made under the LTIP in December 
2012 ended on 31 December 2015. The sustained underlying growth 
in our key financial metrics has generated substantial value for our 
Shareholders over this period, such that £100 invested in RB on 
1 January 2013, was worth £179 by 31 December 2015, compared with 
growth in the FTSE 100 to £118 over the same period.
In addition to this excellent relative outperformance, RB has delivered 
significant absolute value to Shareholders over the three year 
performance period. Since 1 January 2013 RB has created value for our 
Shareholders of £20.8 billion, through the increase in the share price, 
dividends paid to Shareholders and the demerger of Indivior.
Our key long-term measure of performance is earnings per share 
growth, as it is the most appropriate measure of value creation over  
the long-term. LTIP vesting requires significant growth over the 
performance period in order to vest, with full vesting only achieved  
if the Company significantly out-performs the industry benchmark. 
The three-year performance period has seen significant exchange rate 
volatility impacting our reported earnings. Despite outstanding net 
income growth of 15%, at constant exchange rates, the adverse FX on 
translation reduced this performance by 4% in 2015. This follows the 
adverse impact of exchange rates in 2014 of 10%.
Earnings per share over the three year period from 2013 to 2015, 
measured on constant currency basis, grew by 43%. However given the 
translation FX impact this reduced to 26.3% when measured on actual 
currency basis. This is equivalent to compound average annual growth 
of 8.1% per annum.
Despite the impact of exchange rate volatility on the excellent earnings 
growth, the Committee determined that the awards should vest in line 
with the vesting schedule, calculated on an actual currency basis. The 
outstanding performance over the last three years results in vesting of 
80% being achieved. Further details on the LTIP vesting are set out on 
page 71.
In conclusion, I hope that you find this a clear and comprehensive 
report that demonstrates RB’s strong link between pay and 
performance and delivery of value to our Shareholders.
I trust that we can count on your support at the forthcoming AGM for 
the decisions we have taken as a Committee during the year, as set out 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration, and for the enhancements to 
RB’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
JUDY SPRIESER / Chair of the Remuneration Committee
22 March 2016
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The Report meets the 
requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules. In this Report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to Directors’ 
remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code (September 2014) (the Code), 
are applied in practice. The Remuneration Committee confirms that throughout the financial 
year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions. LINK TO STRATEGY KEY FEATURES OF POLICY HOW WE IMPLEMENT POLICY
Salary increases of 3% in 2015 
and 2016
Increases broadly in line with 
wider workforce
Base salary
Support recruitment
and retention
Long-term alignment 
with Shareholders
Drive over-
achievement of 
stretching annual 
targets
Incentivise long-
term financial 
outperformance 
and Shareholder value
Bonus
LTIP
Shares
Share
options
Shareholding
requirements
Stretching NR and NI growth 
targets, in excess of peer 
performance. Threshold 
performance results in zero
payout, with a maximum of 3.57x
Target bonus of 120% for CEO 
and 90% for CFO 
Clawback provisions apply
Vesting linked to stretching EPS 
growth conditions requiring 
significant out-performance of our 
peers, with 10% per annum needed 
for full vesting
Three-year performance period, 
with two-year malus and clawback 
provisions. Options have seven 
years to exercise post-vesting
The most demanding shareholding requirements in the market.
CEO: 600,000 shares (c.40x salary)/CFO: 200,000 shares (c20x)
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 68
Our remuneration
at a glance
RB’s virtuous earnings model RB’s culture RB’s remuneration philosophy
RB’s remuneration strategy
RB’s remuneration policy
 Achievement
 Ownership
 Entrepreneurship
 Partnership
 Pay for performance
 Shareholder alignment
 Simplicity
 One structure  
for “Top400”
Attract and retain the best global talent
 Reflect global competitive practice  
of our peer group
 Engage highly performance-driven  
individuals
Alignment with Shareholders
 High proportion of variable pay for short and long-term 
performance
 Meaningful share ownership policy
 Support the long-term success of the business and 
Shareholder value creation
 See pages 66-67 See pages 22-23 See pages 10-11
RB’S CONSCIOUSLY DIFFERENTIATED REMUNERATION PHILOSOPHY 
DRIVES OUTPERFORMANCE AND DELIVERY OF SHAREHOLDER VALUE
Underpinned by simplicity and transparency for management and Shareholders
 
 
 
 
Gross
Margin
UNIQUE
CULTURE 
Net
Revenue
Fixed cost
BEI
Operating
Margin 2015 Net Revenue
1
 growth of 6%
2015
2014
2013
6%
5%
5%
2015 Net Income
1
 growth of 15%
2015
2014
2013
14%
8%
15%
Three-year cumulative EPS growth of 43% 
on constant currency, 26% at actual
Actual exchange rates Constant currency 
2015
2014
2013
14%
8%
16%
12%
4%
8%
£179
£118
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Jan 16
Value of £100 invested on
 1 January 2013 
Three-year Total Shareholder Return of £179
FTSE 100 RB
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 69
2015 performance
2015 was a year of excellent growth and outperformance for RB, in  
the face of mixed market conditions. This strong, sustained growth 
across all of our key financial metrics has delivered significant value  
for Shareholders:
Rewarding 2015 performance
At RB, the remuneration packages are designed to support the 
philosophy of pay for performance and alignment between 
management and Shareholders.
Excellent performance has been delivered in mixed markets across our 
key performance metrics. Over the last three years, this sustained 
outperformance of RB’s underlying financial metrics has delivered 
outstanding Shareholder value in both absolute and relative terms.
The Remuneration Committee has assessed this performance delivered 
by RB, compared to the stretching performance targets set before the 
start of the performance period in line with the Remuneration Policy 
approved by Shareholders. Based on this, the 2015 bonus for Executive 
Directors paid out at 3.57x target and the LTIP in respect of three-year 
performance to 31 December 2015 vested at 80%.
Full details of RB’s performance against the metrics set for our annual 
bonus are set out on page 70, and the assessment of the LTIP vesting is 
detailed on page 71.
2015 single figure
The resultant ‘single figure’ of total remuneration is detailed on page 72 
and summarised in the chart below. As can be seen, the majority of RB’s 
total remuneration package is variable pay, linked to delivery of exceptional 
financial performance and creation of value for Shareholders. 
95% of the CEO’s total remuneration for 2015 is made up of variable 
remuneration linked to the achievement of stretching performance 
conditions, with in particular, more than 75% of his remuneration based 
on the long-term outperformance of the Company and delivered in RB 
shares. Furthermore, over half of the value of the CEO’s package is as a 
direct result of the significant share price growth over the last three years, 
which has seen RB create over £20.8 billion of value for our Shareholders.
CEO
CFO
£0m £5m £10m £15m £20m
Fixed remuneration Bonus
Value of LTIP at award Share price increase of LTIP award
£23.19m
£6.44m
Alignment between Executive Directors and Shareholders
Our performance linked remuneration package is underpinned by a 
meaningful share ownership policy, which drives a culture of ownership 
throughout the Company in order to further the alignment between 
our Executive Directors and our Shareholders. Executive Directors are 
required to build their share ownership over eight years and both have 
made good progress over the last 12 months.
The table on page 72 details the shareholding of the Executive 
Directors against their requirement as at 31 December 2015, which is 
summarised below:
0 100000 200000 300000 400000 500000 600000
Shareholding requirement Current shareholding 2015 vesting
1
CEO
CFO
1. ‘2015 vesting’ shows the estimated number of performance shares which will vest in  
respect of performance to 2015, after tax.
Market capitalisation at 1 January 2013 (bn)
Shareholder value at 31 December 2015 (bn)
£0bn £10bn £20bn £30bn £40bn £50bn
Market capitalisation (1 Jan 2013) Increase in Market Capitalisation
Dividends paid Indivior demerger 
1
More than £20.8bn of value created for Shareholders since 2013
1. Average market cap of Indivior over the six months following demerger.
1. Continuing operations, constant currency, ex RBP
1. Adjusted Net Income at constant currency, ex RBP RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 70
Annual Report on
Remuneration
Remuneration Committee membership in 2015
As of 31 December 2015, the Remuneration Committee comprised four 
Non-Executive Directors.
Name
Judy Sprieser (Chair) 
Nicandro Durante 
Doug Tough 
Adrian Bellamy 
During the year the Committee met four times. Further details on the 
members of the Committee during the year and on their attendance at 
meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance section.
The Committee’s purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling 
its oversight responsibility by ensuring that remuneration policy and 
practices reward fairly and responsibly; are linked to corporate and 
individual performance; and take account of the generally accepted 
principles of good governance.
On behalf of, and subject to approval by, the Board of Directors, the 
Committee primarily:
• Sets and regularly reviews the Company’s overall remuneration 
strategy; 
• Determines the general remuneration policy for senior executives; 
and 
• In respect of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and members of 
the Executive Committee sets, reviews and approves: 
 – Remuneration policies, including annual bonuses and long-term 
incentives; 
 – Individual remuneration and compensation arrangements; 
 – Individual benefits including pension and superannuation 
arrangements; 
 – Terms and conditions of employment including the Executive 
Directors’ service agreement; 
 – Participation in any of the Company’s bonus and long-term 
incentive plans; and 
 – The targets for any of the Company’s performance-related bonus 
and long-term incentive plans. 
The Executive Directors are responsible for evaluating and making 
recommendations to the Board of Directors on the remuneration of the 
Non-Executive Directors. 
Members of the Remuneration Committee and any person attending 
its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their 
own remuneration.
Shareholders approved RB’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2014 
AGM, which was operated unchanged in 2015. This was set out in full 
in the 2013 Annual Report and can also be found in the Corporate 
Governance section of our website at www.rb.com.
 
2015 Base Salary
Base salaries are reviewed taking into account the salary increases for 
the wider workforce and individual performance. For additional context 
the Remuneration Committee also reviews market practice for similar 
roles in the Company’s remuneration peer group, comprising 19 
international companies. As disclosed in last year’s report, following  
the review of salary levels in late 2014, the Committee approved the 
following base salary increases with effect from 1 January 2015:
Executive Director
Base salary at  
1 January 2014
Base salary 
from 
1 January 2015
Percentage 
increase
Rakesh Kapoor £865,000 £890,950 3%
Adrian Hennah £561,000 £577,830 3%
The base salary increases for Executive Directors take into account 
performance and follow the same base salary merit increase guidelines 
as other UK employees. The average salary increase for our UK 
employees was c.3%, effective 1 January 2015.
Annual bonus in respect of 2015 performance
Prior to the start of the year, the Remuneration Committee set 
stretching performance targets for the Executive Directors in 2015. As 
set out in last year’s report, these were based on absolute net revenue 
growth and net income growth, both measured in GBP at a constant 
exchange rate.
In line with the Remuneration Policy, threshold, target and maximum 
performance levels were set and calibrated such that at threshold, zero 
bonus is paid, with a target bonus opportunity of 120% of salary for 
the CEO and 90% of salary for the CFO. Performance under each of 
the measures is combined multiplicatively such that threshold 
performance, or below, results in a zero bonus and for truly exceptional 
performance the maximum bonus is 3.57x target bonus (428% of 
salary for the CEO and 321% for the CFO).
2015 was a year of excellent growth and outperformance for RB, which 
created significant value for Shareholders. In the face of mixed market 
conditions, the management team delivered exceptional growth and 
margin expansion, with consistent broad-based growth across both 
developed and developing markets.
The highlights of the 2015 performance include:
• Total Net Revenue growth of 5% based on constant exchange rates, 
with growth in like-for-like and continuing net revenue of 6%. This 
is the strongest like-for-like growth for six years and exceeds the 
targets set by the Committee.
• Gross margin expansion of 140bps to 59.1%, driven by mix, 
commodity costs and cost optimisation initiatives.
• Adjusted Operating Margin up 210bps to 26.8%.
• This results in excellent growth of 15% in adjusted net income, on  
a constant currency basis.
• This outstanding performance has resulted in a dividend payment 
which is in line with that delivered in 2014, despite the demerger of 
Indivior last year.
In line with our commitment to Shareholders we have continued to 
provide enhanced disclosure in respect of annual bonus achievements. 
The chart below illustrates RB’s actual 2015 performance compared to 
the threshold and maximum performance levels set by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Performance
measure
Threshold
(Zero bonus)
Actual
Audited
Maximum
(3.57 x target)
Net Income 
growth (%)
Net Revenue 
growth (%)
0%
0%
15%
6% 6%
10%
As illustrated above, the excellent 2015 growth and outperformance in 
both Net Revenue and Net Income exceeded the stretching 
performance required. In line with our Remuneration Policy approved 
by Shareholders, this generates a bonus payment of 3.57x target. This 
resulted in a 2015 bonus for the CEO and CFO, as follows:
CEO
CFO
Salary x
2015
bonus
Target
bonus
Performance
multiplier
£577,830
£890,950
90%
120%
3.57
3.57
x
x
x
x
x
=
=
=
£1,856,568
£3,816,830
Audited
  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 71
LTIP vesting for performance to 2015
The CEO received an LTIP award in December 2012 and the CFO 
received his first award following his appointment in February 2013. 
Vesting of both of these awards was dependent on compound average 
annual growth (CAAG) in adjusted EPS over the three-year period 
ending on 31 December 2015, with the vesting schedule requiring 
performance above industry benchmarks for awards to be released.
The RB LTIP policy, approved by Shareholders, is designed to align 
participants with Shareholders through making awards with stretching 
performance conditions denominated in both share options and 
performance shares.
This ensures that value is only realised for participants if meeting the 
performance conditions is combined with sustainable long-term growth 
in RB’s share price.
For the 2013 LTIP award, the Remuneration Committee set 
performance conditions attached to vesting that required EPS growth 
over the three years to 2015 to be 6% per annum for threshold vesting 
and 9% per annum for the awards to vest in full – i.e. equivalent to 
29.5% growth over the three year period.
Despite excellent 2015 net income growth of 15% at constant 
exchange rates the adverse FX on translation reduced this performance 
by 4% in 2015. This follows the adverse impact of exchange rates in 
2014 of 10%, resulting in translational exchange rates negatively 
impacting the excellent underlying performance delivered over the last 
three years.
Earnings per share growth over the three year period 2013 to 2015, 
measured on constant currency basis, was 43%. However given the 
translation FX impact this reduced to 26.3% when measured on actual 
currency basis. This is equivalent to compound average annual growth 
of 8.1% per annum.
Despite the impact of exchange rate volatility on the excellent earnings 
growth, the Committee determined that the awards should vest in line 
with the vesting schedule, calculated on an actual currency basis. The 
outstanding performance over the last three years results in vesting of 
80% being achieved.
Over this three year performance period, the sustained outperformance 
of RB’s core underlying financial metrics has delivered an additional 
£20.8 billion in value to our Shareholders over the last three years, 
through the increase in the share price, dividends paid to Shareholders 
and the demerger of Indivior. 
£100 invested in RB on 1 January 2013 was worth £179 by 
31 December 2015, compared with growth in the FTSE 100 to £118 
over the same period.
This significant value generated for Shareholders over the last three 
years is therefore reflected in the value of the LTIP vesting. Around  
two-thirds of the value of the CEO’s LTIP vesting is due to share price 
growth, as illustrated in the chart below:
2013 LTIP (80% vesting)
Face value at award Share price growth
CEO
CFO
£0m £4m £6m £2m £8m £10m £12m £14m £16m £18m
 
CEO Awards
Interests
held
Exercise
price
Vesting
4
%
Interests
vesting
Share
price
1
Estimated
value
Shares 205,643 n/a
80%
 164,514  £62.19  £10,231,126 
Options 411,286 £38.06 329,028 £62.19 £7,939,446 
CFO Awards
Shares 46,270 n/a
80%3
 37,016  £62.19  £2,302,025 
Options
2
 704 £42.61 704 £62.19 £13,784 
Options 91,816 £41.44 73,312 £62.19 £1,521,224 
Audited
1. As the share price on the date of vesting is unknown at the time of reporting, the value is estimated using the average market value over the last quarter of 2015 of £62.19. The actual value 
at vesting will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report. 
2. The share option award made to Adrian Hennah in February 2013 included 704 options awarded under a HMRC approved option scheme. As set out in last year’s Annual Report, following 
the demerger of Indivior PLC exercise prices of outstanding share option awards were adjusted. The exception to this was the HMRC approved options, for which the exercise price remained 
unchanged.
3. The vesting percentage shown is the total vesting percentage of an award. Under the vesting schedule of awards, the vesting percentage applies to the combined total amount of an award 
which may be split into HMRC approved and unapproved parts. Where a portion of an award has been granted under the HMRC approved part of the scheme, those shares are counted first 
when assessing the vested number of shares.
4. Compound average annual growth in adjusted EPS was 8.1% p.a over the performance period, when measured on actual currency basis. The Committee therefore determined vesting in line 
with vesting schedule at 80%.
Further details on LTIP vesting
Based on the performance assessment above, combined with the excellent sustained share price growth over the period, the 2013 LTIP awards to 
the CEO and CFO may vest to the following extent on 5 May 2016 for performance over the completed three-year period: RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 72
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors 
(Audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration 
received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 
2015, based on the information set out in the previous sections. This is 
compared to the prior year figure: 
Rakesh Kapoor Adrian Hennah
2015 
£
2014 
£
2015 
£
2014 
£
Base salary 890,950 865,000 577,830 561,000
Taxable benefits
1
47,658 36,304 28,256 22,041
Annual bonus
2
3,816,830 2,678,040 1,856,568 1,302,642
LTIP
3
18,170,572 8,940,513
4
3,837,033 1,300,000
Pension benefit
5
264,885 257,100 142,458 138,250
TOTAL 23,190,895 12,776,957
4
6,442,145 3,323,933
1. Taxable benefits consist primarily of car allowance and healthcare. During 2015 Adrian 
Hennah received an award under the all employee sharesave scheme. He participated on 
the same terms as all UK employees, receiving a 20% discount to the share price. Full 
details are set out on page 77 and a value of £3,738 has been included in respect of this 
participation.
2. Cash payment for performance during year based on multiplier of 3.57x target.  
See ‘Annual Bonus in respect of 2015 performance’ on page 70 for details. 
3. Reflects the estimated value of LTIP shares and options granted in December 2012 for 
Rakesh Kapoor and February 2013 for Adrian Hennah, which are due to vest on 5 May 
2016 at 80%. Valued using an average share price over Q4 of £62.19. £11.6 million and 
£2.2 million of the total LTIP value for Rakesh Kapoor and Adrian Hennah respectively is 
directly attributable to the share price growth over the period since award. See the 
relevant section on page 71 for more details. 
4. This value has been restated from last year which used an average share price of £50.79 
over Q4 2014 to estimate the value the award (£7,400,662). The actual value based on 
the £57.03 share price on the date of vesting on 7 May 2015 was £8,940,513. 
5. The Company paid the Executive Directors a cash allowance in respect of pension 
provision to the value shown in the table above. These payments reflect the full pension 
provision outlined in the policy table. Directors are only entitled to prospective pension on 
DC basis, with no DB accrual.
 
Review of past performance 
The chart below shows the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of the 
Company compared to the UK FTSE 100 Index over the four-year period 
from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2015.
This period represents the full financial years of the tenure of Rakesh 
Kapoor as CEO. 
 Total Shareholder Return over the 4 years to  
1 January 2016
£226
£130
90
110
130
150
170
190
210
230
Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Jan 16
Value of £100 invested on
 1 January 2012 
FTSE 100 RB
The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration for 
Rakesh Kapoor in his tenure as Chief Executive. However, the LTIP 
vesting included in the single figure for 2011 to 2013 are in respect  
of awards made to him prior to his appointment as CEO.
CEO single figure 
of remuneration 
(£000) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Rakesh Kapoor £4,497 £8,411 £6,840 £12,777 £23,191
Annual Bonus 
as a percentage 
of maximum 31% 53% 100% 72% 100%
LTIP vesting 100% 100% 40% 40% 80%
Executive Directors’ shareholding requirements (Audited)
Our performance linked remuneration package is underpinned by a meaningful share ownership policy, which drives a culture of ownership 
throughout the Company. The shareholding requirements for our Executive Directors are amongst the most onerous in the market and ensure  
a focus on delivery of sustainable creation of value for Shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to acquire significant numbers of shares over eight years and retain these until retirement from the Board. The 
table below shows the shareholding of each Executive Director against their respective shareholding requirement as of 31 December 2015:
Shareholding requirement  
(number of shares)
Shares owned 
outright
Other interests in shares and options under the LTIP
Performance shares Options held
To vest in  
May 2016
Unvested, 
subject to 
performance
Vested but not 
exercised
To vest in  
May 2016
Unvested, 
subject to 
performance
Rakesh Kapoor 600,000 474,217 164,514 726,772 164,514 329,028 1,211,269
Adrian Hennah 200,000 36,851 37,016 136,270 – 74,016 272,540
Rakesh Kapoor has exceeded his pro-rated target based on tenure to date and Adrian Hennah has made good progress towards his target during 
his first three years as an Executive Director to the satisfaction of the Committee. Further details of the scheme interests contained in the table 
above are provided in the table on page 77.
The Executive Directors also participate in the all employee sharesave scheme. Details of options held under this plan are set out on page 77.
Annual Report on
Remuneration continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 73
Percentage change in CEO remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in 
remuneration for all UK employees who form part of the management team (“Top400”). This group has been chosen as it represents the most 
appropriate comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based Group Chief Executive.
The analysis excludes part-time employees and is based on a consistent set of employees, i.e. the same individuals appear in the 2014 and  
2015 populations.
CEO Other employees
% change
2014-2015
% change
2013–2014
% change
2014-2015
% change
2013–2014
Base salary 3% 4% 3% 3%
Taxable benefits 31% -6% 18% 2%
Annual bonus 43% -25% 69% -26%
The difference in the percentage change of the annual bonus for the CEO and other employees is primarily a result of the fact that different targets 
are set for different areas of the business which are subject to different challenges.
The percentage change in taxable benefits for other employees excludes international transfer benefits as this is volatile from year-to-year based on 
each individual’s circumstances. During 2015 a cash payment was made in respect of the Indivior demerger to all participants in the HMRC 
approved share option and sharesave scheme and is included as a taxable benefit for 2015.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows Shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends and share buybacks) and total employee pay expenditure for FY 2014 and FY 2015, 
along with the percentage change in both.
2015 
£
2014 
£
% change 
2014–2015
Shareholder distributions (dividends and share buybacks) 1,728m 1,302m 33%
Total employee expenditure
1
1,158m 1,159m 0%
1. As set out in Note 5 to the Financial Statements, 2014 staff costs reported last year included £86 million incurred in respect of RB Pharmaceuticals business. For the purposes of the above 
calculation these costs have been excluded from the above table. 
Scheme interests awarded in 2015 (Audited) LTIP
In line with the Remuneration Policy approved by Shareholders, in December 2015, Executive Directors were granted the following awards under 
the LTIP, based on a fixed number of shares and share options. These awards do not accrue dividends during the vesting period. Vesting of these 
awards in full requires achievement of stretching performance conditions over the three-year period.
Date of grant
Shares over which 
awards granted
Market price 
at date of award
1
Exercise price
2
Face value
3
Performance period
Exercise/vesting 
period
Performance shares
Rakesh Kapoor 2 December 2015 240,000 £64.15 n/a £15,396,000 1 Jan 16–31 Dec 18 May 19
Adrian Hennah 2 December 2015 45,000 £64.15 n/a £2,886,750 1 Jan 16–31 Dec 18 May 19
Share options
Rakesh Kapoor 2 December 2015 400,000 £64.15 £63.25 £360,000 1 Jan 16–31 Dec 18 May 19–Dec 25
Adrian Hennah 2 December 2015 90,000 £64.15 £63.25 £81,000 1 Jan 16–31 Dec 18 May 19–Dec 25
1. The market price on the date of award is the closing share price on the date of grant. 
2. The exercise price is based on the average closing share price over the five business days prior to the date of grant. 
3. For performance shares based on the market price at the date of award and assumes the stretching performance criteria are met in order to achieve full vesting. For share options based on 
the face value of the potential gain at award assuming full vesting, calculated as the difference between market price and exercise price. The face value of shares under option is £25.66 
million for Rakesh Kapoor and £5.77 million for Adrian Hennah if calculated as the number of shares multiplied by the market price at date of award. 
In line with the RB’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy, vesting of the LTIP awards is dependent on the achievement of targets relating to growth  
in EPS over a three-year period. EPS is measured on an adjusted diluted basis, as shown in the Group’s Financial Statements, as this provides an 
independently verifiable measure of performance. However, the Remuneration Committee maintains the discretion to make adjustments to the 
measure if this is considered to be appropriate. Any adjustments will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
There is no retesting. Awards granted in December 2015 will vest on the following schedule, which requires significant compound annual growth in 
EPS in order for the awards to vest, as follows:
EPS CAAG <6% 6% Between 6% and 10% ≥10%
Equivalent to three year EPS growth of <19.1% 19.1% ≥33.1%
Proportion of awards vesting (%) Nil 20% Straight-line vesting between 20% and 100% 100%
Adrian Hennah also received an award of share options under the all employee sharesave scheme. Details are set out on page 77. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 74
Exit payments made in the year (Audited)
No exit payments were made to Executive Directors during the year.
Payments to past Directors (Audited)
No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors (Audited)
The following Non-Executive Director fee policy was in place for the year ended 31 December 2015:
Role
Cash
fee
Fee delivered
in RB shares
Base fees
Chairman £316,000 £69,000
Deputy Chairman £88,150 £19,350
Non-Executive Director £71,750 £15,750
Additional fees
Chair of Audit Committee £30,000 –
Chair of Remuneration Committee £30,000 –
Member of Audit Committee £15,000 –
Member of Remuneration Committee £15,000 –
Senior Independent Director £20,000 –
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 
and the prior year:
2015 fees (£) 2014 fees (£)
Cash Shares
2015
Total Cash Shares
2014
Total
Adrian Bellamy £316,000 £69,000 £385,000 £308,000 £67,000 £375,000
Jaspal Bindra £86,750 £15,750 £102,500 £42,500 £6,250 £48,750
Nicandro Durante £86,750 £15,750 £102,500 £85,000 £6,250 £91,250
Peter Harf
1
£103,150 £19,350 £122,500 £97,000 £18,000 £115,000
Mary Harris
2
£63,977 £14,016 £77,993 – – –
Ken Hydon £101,750 £15,750 £117,500 £100,000 £15,000 £115,000
Pamela Kirby
2
£63,977 £14,016 £77,993 – – –
André Lacroix £106,750 £15,750 £122,500 £97,000 £15,000 £112,000
Sue Shim £86,750 £15,750 £102,500 £42,500 £6,250 £48,750
Christopher Sinclair
2
£63,977 £14,016 £77,993 – – –
Judy Sprieser £101,750 £15,750 £117,500 £100,000 £15,000 £115,000
Doug Tough £86,750 £15,750 £102,500 £14,167 £2,500 £16,667
Warren Tucker £86,750 £15,750 £102,500 £85,000 £15,000 £100,000
1. Peter Harf resigned on 21 December 2015. The table above sets out fees paid to 31 December 2015.
2. Mary Harris, Pamela Kirby and Christopher Sinclair were appointed on 10 February 2015.
Annual Report on
Remuneration continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 75
Performance graph
The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the UK FTSE 100 Index over the period since 1 January 2000, representing the period of full 
financial years since the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N.V. and the listing on the London Stock Exchange of Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc. This shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical holding of £100 invested on 31 December 1999. We have also shown the growth 
in value of a holding of £100 invested on 31 December 2008, as required by disclosure regulations. The FTSE 100 index was selected on the basis of 
companies of a comparable size in the absence of an appropriate industry peer group in the UK.
Total Shareholder Return since 1 January 2000 
0
225
450
675
900
1125
1350
1575
1800
Value of £100 invested at 1 January 2000
1 Jan 00
1 Jan 01
1 Jan 02
1 Jan 03
1 Jan 04
1 Jan 05
1 Jan 06
1 Jan 07
1 Jan 08
1 Jan 09
1 Jan 10
1 Jan 11
1 Jan 12
1 Jan 13
1 Jan 14
1 Jan 15
1 Jan 16
FTSE 100 RB 
£1,721
£156
Total Shareholder Return since 1 January 2009
90
110
130
150
170
190
210
230
250
270
290
310
1 Jan 15 1 Jan 14 1 Jan 13 1 Jan 12 1 Jan 11 1 Jan 10 1 Jan 09
FTSE 100 RB 
Value of £100 invested at 1 January 2009
1 Jan 16
£309
£182
The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration received by the previous CEO (Bart Becht) between 2009 and 2011:
Year
Single figure 
(£’000)
Annual 
bonus
LTIP 
vesting
2009 £28,881 100% 100%
2010 £17,150 76% 100%
2011 £18,076 31% 100%
Directors’ service contracts
Non-Executive Directors have letters of engagement which set out their duties and time commitment expected. They are appointed for an initial 
three-year term, subject to election and annual re-election by Shareholders. Appointments are renewable for subsequent three-year terms by 
mutual consent. Details are set out below:
Name Date of Appointment
Length of Service at 31 Dec 2015
Years Months
Adrian Bellamy 3 December 1999 16 years 1 month
(Chairman from 7 May 2003)
Jaspal Bindra 1 July 2014 1 years 6 months
Nicandro Durante 1 December 2013 2 years 1 month
Mary Harris 10 February 2015 0 years 11 months
Ken Hydon 1 December 2003 12 years 1 month
Pamela Kirby 10 February 2015 0 years 11 months
André Lacroix 1 October 2008 7 years 3 months
Sue Shim 1 July 2014 1 years 6 months
Christopher Sinclair 10 February 2015 0 years 11 months
Judy Sprieser 21 August 2003 12 years 4 months
Doug Tough 1 November 2014 1 years 2 months
Warren Tucker 24 February 2010 5 years 10 months
Executive Directors’ service contracts contain a 12 month notice period, as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The date of appointment 
to the Board for Rakesh Kapoor was 1 September 2011 and for Adrian Hennah was 12 February 2013.
Directors’ service contracts and letters of engagement are available for inspection at the registered office. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 76
External appointments
With the approval of the Board of Directors in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Company, Executive Directors may 
accept external appointments as a Non-Executive Director of another company and retain any fees received. Adrian Hennah received fees and 
benefits of £78,280 during the year in respect of his directorship of RELX Group PLC (previously known as Reed Elsevier PLC) and £65,000 in 
respect of his directorship of Indivior PLC.
Summary of Shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM
The following table shows the results of the voting on the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report, at the 2015 AGM, and the remuneration policy 
report most recently put to Shareholders, at the 2014 AGM:
Votes for For % Votes against Against % Total Votes withheld
Approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 406,176,557 80% 100,609,327 20% 506,785,884 13,393,177
Approve the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report 435,838,483 83% 90,368,575 17% 526,207,058 1,216,425
The level of support for the Directors’ Remuneration Report increased significantly amongst our Shareholders following consultation with our major 
Shareholders on remuneration decisions and changes subsequently made to the 2014 Remuneration Report. This saw the vote in favour of the 
Remuneration Report increase from 69% at the 2014 AGM to 83% last year.
The Committee continues to have ongoing dialogue with Shareholders with a view to obtaining further Shareholder support for our remuneration 
arrangements. In particular we consulted our major Shareholders, and taking into account feedback provided, are proposing changes to the 
Remuneration Policy, to further align executives with Shareholders.
The Committee believes our remuneration packages are simple, reinforce our remuneration philosophy and drive a strong alignment between 
executives and the interests of our Shareholders. The requirement for Senior Executives to build up significant shareholdings in the Company 
ensures this alignment with Shareholders, which is being further strengthened with the proposed changes to the Policy to require a two year 
holding period on LTIP awards after leaving the Company.
Advisors
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) was appointed by the Remuneration Committee as independent advisor effective from 1 January 2014 following a review of 
the advisors in late 2013. The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Deloitte remains independent of the Company and 
that the advice provided is impartial and objective. Deloitte is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration 
Consultants, details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. During 2015, Deloitte provided support to the Committee 
in relation to benchmarking executive remuneration structure and levels, remuneration related matters in respect of the demerger of Indivior PLC 
and the consultation of Shareholders on remuneration matters. Deloitte also provided the Group with financial advisory support, international 
transfer tax compliance, global mobility services, ad-hoc advice on employment/share schemes matters as well as international corporate and 
indirect tax advisory services during 2015. These services are provided under separate engagement terms and the Committee is satisfied that the 
provision of these services did not impair Deloitte’s ability to advise the Committee independently. Their total fees for the provision of remuneration 
services to the Committee in 2015 were £140,950 on the basis of time and materials.
Implementation of Executive Director remuneration policy for 2016 
Base salary
Base salaries are reviewed taking into account the salary increases for the wider workforce, as well as competitive practice for similar roles in the 
Company’s remuneration peer group, comprising 19 international companies, and individual performance. Following its review of salary levels in 
late 2015, the Committee approved the following base salary increases with effect from 1 January 2016:
Executive Director
Base salary at  
1 January 2015
Base salary from  
1 January 2016
Percentage 
increase
Rakesh Kapoor £890,950 £917,679 3%
Adrian Hennah £577,830 £595,165 3%
The base salary increases for Executive Directors take into account performance and follows the same base salary merit increase guidelines as other 
UK employees. The average salary increase was c.3%, effective 1 January 2016.
Pension
The CEO and CFO are eligible to receive pension contributions, or equivalent cash allowances, of 30% and 25% of pensionable salary, respectively.
Annual bonus in respect of 2016 performance
For 2016, there will be no changes to the annual bonus opportunities for Executive Directors. Bonuses will continue to be based on RB’s Net 
Revenue growth and Adjusted Net Income growth, measured in GBP at a constant exchange rate, with the outcome under each of the measures 
combined multiplicatively to give a maximum bonus outcome of 3.57x the target bonus opportunity if both stretch targets are met.
We have not disclosed the performance targets for 2016 as we consider them to be commercially sensitive. However, we commit to retrospectively 
disclosing the performance ranges in the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ending December 2016.
LTIP
LTIP awards for FY 2016 were granted in December 2015. Details of these awards, including the stretching performance conditions that must be 
met, are detailed in full on page 73. Awards to be made in December 2016 will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration in next year’s 
Remuneration Report.
Annual Report on
Remuneration continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 77
Implementation of Non-Executive Director remuneration policy for 2016
With effect from 1 January 2016, the fees payable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Non-Executive Directors are as set out in the  
table below:
Role
2015 Fees 2016 Fees
Cash fee
Fee delivered  
in RB shares Cash fee
Fee delivered  
in RB shares
Base fees
Chairman £316,000 £69,000 £324,000 £71,000
Deputy Chairman £88,150 £19,350 £90,150 £19,850
Non-Executive Director £71,750 £15,750 £73,750 £16,250
Additional fees
Chairman of Audit Committee £30,000 – £30,000 –
Chairman of Remuneration Committee £30,000 – £30,000 –
Member of Audit Committee £15,000 – £15,000 –
Member of Remuneration Committee £15,000 – £15,000 –
Senior Independent Director £20,000 – £20,000 –
Directors’ interests in shares and options under the LTIP (Audited)
LTIP1 Notes
Grant
date
At
1.1.15
Granted
during the
year
Exercised/
vested
during the
year
Lapsed
during the
year
At
31.12.15
Option price
(£)
Market price
at date of
award
(£)
Market price
at date of
exercise/
vesting
(£)
Exercise/vesting
period
Adrian Hennah
Options 1 13.2.13 704 704 42.61 May 16–Feb 23
1 13.2.13 91,816 91,816 41.44 May 16–Feb 23
2 11.12.13 92,540 92,540 46.51 May 17–Dec 23
2 1.12.14 90,000 90,000 50.57 May 18–Dec 24
2 2.12.15 – 90,000 90,000 63.25 May 19–Dec 25
Performance-based
restricted shares 2 13.2.13 46,270 46,270 44.19 May 16
2 11.12.13 46,270 46,270 46.69 May 17
2 1.12.14 45,000 45,000 52.40 May 18
2 2.12.15 – 45,000 45,000 64.15 May 19
Rakesh Kapoor
Options 3 5.12.11 411,286 246,772 164,514 31.20 May 15–Dec 21
1 3.12.12 411,286 411,286 38.06 May 16–Dec 22
2 11.12.13 627 627 47.83 May 17–Dec 23
2 11.12.13 410,642 410,642 46.51 May 17–Dec 23
2 1.12.14 400,000 400,000 50.57 May 18–Dec 24
2 2.12.15 – 400,000 400,000 63.25 May 19–Dec 25
Performance-based
restricted shares 3 5.12.11 205,643 82,258 123,385 – 32.19 57.03 May 15
1 3.12.12 205,643 205,643 39.66 May 16
2 11.12.13 246,772 246,772 46.69 May 17
2 1.12.14 240,000 240,000 52.40 May 18
2 2.12.15 – 240,000 240,000 64.15 May 19
Sharesave Scheme
Grant
date
At
1.1.15
Granted
during the
year
Exercised
during the
year
Lapsed
during the
year
At
31.12.15
Option price
(£)
Market price
at exercise
(£)
Exercise
period
Rakesh Kapoor 8.9.08 796 796 21.92 Feb 16–July 16
Adrian Hennah 4.9.13 403 403 37.20 Feb 19–July 19
1.9.15 307 307 48.71 Feb 21-Jul 21
Notes
1. Vesting of LTIP is subject to the achievement of the following compound average annual growth (CAAG) in adjusted EPS over a three-year period: 
EPS CAAG for awards granted in December 2012 / February 2013 <6% 6% 7% 8% ≥9%
Proportion of awards vesting (%) Nil 40% 60% 80% 100%
2. Vesting of LTIP is subject to the achievement of the following compound average annual growth (CAAG) in adjusted EPS over a three-year period:
EPS CAAG for awards granted in December 2013-2015 <6% 6% Between 6% and 10% ≥10%
Proportion of awards vesting (%) Nil 20% Straight-line vesting between 20% and 100% 100%
3. As disclosed in last year’s report, 40% of the LTIP awarded in December 2011 vested following the AGM in May 2015. The remainder of the award lapsed.  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 78
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company (Audited)
The Directors in office at the end of the year and those in office at 22 March 2016 had the following beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of 
the Company:
22 March
2016
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
Adrian Bellamy 24,299 24,299 23,599
Jaspal Bindra 216 216 65
Nicandro Durante 199 199 59
Adrian Hennah 36,851 36,851 26,851
Mary Harris 137 137 n/a
Ken Hydon 5,817 5,817 5,671
Rakesh Kapoor 475,013 474,217 426,034
Pamela Kirby 3,066 3,066 n/a
André Lacroix 2,548 2,548 2,408
Sue Shim 213 213 64
Christopher Sinclair 136 136 n/a
Judy Sprieser 4,133 4,133 3,979
Doug Tough 195 195 39
Warren Tucker 2,017 2,017 1,863
Notes
1. No person who was a Director (or a Director’s connected person) on 31 December 2015 and at 22 March 2016 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary. 
2. The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of Directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe. 
Annual Report on
Remuneration continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 79
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which Shareholders will be asked 
to approve at the 2016 AGM on 5 May 2016 and will apply to payments made from this date. Until this time the Policy approved by Shareholders 
on 7 May 2014 will continue to apply. 
Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table
Fixed pay policy for Executive Directors
Component purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity
Base salary
To enable the total package to support 
recruitment and retention
Base salaries are reviewed annually, typically 
with effect from 1 January.
Salary levels/increases take account of:
• salary increases awarded across the Group 
as a whole; and
• individual performance.
The Committee also reviews market data for 
the Company’s remuneration peer group, 
comprising international companies of a 
similar size and scope of operations. 
Salary increases for Executive Directors will be 
aligned with those of the wider workforce, 
which take into account performance. 
Increases may be made above this level to 
take account of individual circumstances, 
which may include:
• Increase in the size or scope of the role or 
responsibilities. 
• Increase to reflect the individual’s 
development and performance in role.  
For example, where a new incumbent is 
appointed on a below-market salary.
Salaries in respect of the year under review 
(and for the following year) are disclosed in 
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
To avoid setting expectations of Executive 
Directors and other employees, no maximum 
salary is set under the remuneration policy. 
Salaries for Executive Directors should 
typically be around the median for 
competitors.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the 
wider employee population, the Committee 
will provide rationale in the relevant year’s 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension
To provide appropriate levels of retirement 
benefit
Executive Directors may receive contributions 
into the RB Executive Pension Scheme,  
a defined contribution scheme, a cash 
allowance or a combination thereof.
Base salary is the only element of 
remuneration that is pensionable.
CEO: 30% of pensionable pay.
CFO: 25% of pensionable pay.
Benefits
To provide benefits comparable to those that 
would be provided for an equivalent position 
elsewhere
Executive Directors receive benefits which 
consist primarily of the provision of a 
company car/allowance and healthcare, 
although can include other benefits that the 
Committee deems appropriate, for example 
the cost of preparing tax returns or home 
leave.
Relocation allowances and international 
transfer-related benefits may also be paid, 
where required.
Executive Directors are also eligible to 
participate in all employee share schemes on 
the same basis as all employees. 
None of the existing Executive Directors 
received total taxable benefits exceeding 
10% of salary during the last three financial 
years, and it is not anticipated that the cost of 
benefits provided will exceed this level in the 
financial years over which this policy will 
apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to 
approve a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation) or in 
circumstances where factors outside the 
Company’s control have changed materially 
(e.g. increases in medical coverage inflation).
Benefits in respect of the year under review, 
and participation in all employee share 
schemes, are disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 80
Variable pay policy for Executive Directors
Component purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Annual bonus
To drive strong financial 
performance with 
significant reward for 
over-achievement of 
annual targets
Financial targets are set by the Committee at 
the start of the year. At the end of the year, 
the Committee determines the extent to 
which these have been achieved.
Performance is assessed on an annual basis, 
using a multiplicative combination of the 
payouts for performance against each of the 
financial targets. 
Bonus pay-outs are in cash.
Under the terms and conditions of the plan, 
the Company has the right to seek redress and 
damages from any individual who has been 
found to have breached the Company’s Code 
of Conduct. This includes the Company’s right 
to require an individual to repay any costs 
incurred through a breach of the Code of 
Conduct from any bonus payment made in 
the year the breach/costs were incurred.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the 
formulaic bonus outcomes both upwards and 
downwards (including to zero) to ensure 
alignment of pay with performance, e.g. in the 
event performance is impacted by unforeseen 
circumstances outside of management control.
Target opportunity:
CEO: 120% of salary.
CFO: 90% of salary. 
Maximum opportunity:
3.57x Target
(CEO: 428% of salary)
(CFO: 321% of salary)
Performance will be assessed 
against the growth in one or 
more key financial metrics of 
the business determined on 
an annual basis.
The weighting between 
different financial metrics will 
be determined each year 
according to business 
priorities.
 
For threshold performance, 
the bonus pay-out will be nil.
Further details, including the 
performance measures for the 
current financial year, are 
disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
LTIP1
(share options and 
performance shares)
To incentivise and reward 
long-term performance, 
and align the interests of 
Executive Directors with 
those of Shareholders
The LTIP comprises grants of share options 
and awards of performance shares (based 
on a fixed number), which vest subject 
to the achievement of stretching 
performance targets.
The LTIP has a performance period of at least 
three years and a minimum vesting period of 
three years. 
The LTIP opportunity and the combination of 
share options and performance shares are 
reviewed annually with reference to market 
data and the associated cost to the Company, 
calculated using an expected value 
methodology.
The performance condition is reviewed before 
each award cycle to ensure it remains 
appropriately stretching.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the 
formulaic LTIP outcomes to improve the 
alignment of pay with value creation for 
Shareholders to ensure the outcome is a fair 
reflection of the performance of the Company. 
Awards granted under the 2015 LTIP are also 
subject to malus and clawback provisions.
 
If an Executive Director ceases to be employed, 
any outstanding performance shares or share 
option awards granted on or after 5 May 2016 
will vest in accordance with the Plan Rules but be 
subject to an additional two year holding period 
commencing on end of the performance period. 
During this period options cannot be exercised.
The Committee calibrates LTIP 
share award and option grant 
sizes as a fixed number, with 
periodic adjustments to ensure 
that the fair value of an 
Executive Director’s total 
remuneration is appropriately 
positioned relative to peers. 
The maximum award to any 
individual in respect of one year 
will be 275,000 shares and 
500,000 options.
Details of the LTIP opportunity 
in respect of each year will be 
disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Dividends do not accrue on 
unvested share awards or on 
shares underlying options 
before they are exercised.
Vesting of the LTIP is subject 
to continued employment 
and the achievement of 
stretching adjusted diluted 
EPS growth targets.
Threshold performance will 
result in 20% of maximum 
vesting. The vesting level will 
increase on a sliding scale 
from this threshold to 100% 
vesting for stretch levels of 
performance.
Further details, including the 
performance targets attached 
to the LTIP in respect of each 
year, are disclosed in the 
Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
1. LTIP awards have been granted under the 2007 and 2015 LTIPs, whose rules are substantially the same as summarised in the table except for the changes noted in the ‘Changes to Policy’ 
section below.
Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 81
Notes to the Policy Table
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting
The measures used under the annual bonus are selected to reflect the Group’s main financial priorities for any given financial year. With regard to 
the LTIP, the Committee regularly reviews the performance measure to ensure that it aligns well with the Company’s strategy and with our 
Shareholders’ interests. EPS is considered the most appropriate LTIP performance measure for a number of reasons:
• It focuses executives on real profit growth which is strongly aligned with value creation at RB;
• It provides a well-recognised and accepted measure of the Company’s underlying financial performance; and
• It is a measure that the plan participants can directly impact and easily measurable from time to time.
EPS is measured on an adjusted diluted basis. However, the Remuneration Committee maintains the discretion to make adjustments to the measure 
if this is considered to be appropriate. Any adjustments will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Targets applying to the bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and external reference points. Bonus targets take into 
account prevailing growth rates in RB’s peer group, and across the healthcare and FMCG industries more broadly. LTIP targets reflect industry 
context, expectations of what will constitute performance at the top of the peer group, and factors specific to the Company.
Malus and clawback
For awards granted under the LTIP adopted in 2015, the Committee has the discretion to scale back awards prior to vesting in the event of the 
following circumstances:
• A material misstatement of the Company’s financial results; and/or
• Gross misconduct by a Participant.
Where awards granted under the 2015 LTIP have vested, the Committee has the discretion to claw back awards at any time before the later of (i) 
the second anniversary of the vesting date and (ii) the fifth anniversary of the date of grant in the following circumstances:
• A material misstatement of the Company’s financial results; 
• Gross misconduct by a Participant; and/or
• An erroneous calculation in the assessment of the extent to which the award is vested. 
Shareholder alignment
The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors’ and Shareholders’ interests through executives building up significant 
shareholdings in the Company. Executive Directors are expected to acquire a significant number of shares over a period of eight years and retain 
these until retirement from the Board of Directors. The shareholding requirement for the CEO is 600,000 shares and for the CFO is 200,000 shares. 
Details of the Executive Directors’ personal shareholdings will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration policy for other employees
RB’s approach to setting remuneration is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of experience, responsibility, individual 
performance and remuneration paid for comparable roles in comparable companies. 
The principles that apply to Executive Directors are cascaded to other employees. Senior employees are eligible to participate in an annual bonus 
scheme with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors. Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational 
level, with business area specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior managers, who comprise the “Top400” employees, are eligible to participate in the LTIP on broadly similar terms to the Executive Directors, 
although award sizes vary by organisational level. In addition, senior executives who comprise the “Top40” employees are also required to build up 
significant shareholdings in RB. The current level is between 30,000 and 50,000 shares, on average, representing 10x base salary. 
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Company’s Sharesave plan on identical terms, with similar plans also operated for employees 
working outside of the UK.
Changes to Policy
This Policy is intended to apply with effect from 5 May 2016, subject to Shareholder approval at the AGM. Following consultation with our major 
Shareholders, the Policy has been reviewed to reduce the maximum award that can be made under the LTIP and to include an additional two year 
holding period in respect of unvested share option and performance share awards for Executive Directors who cease employment with the 
Company. The Policy has also been updated to include malus and clawback provisions which were included in the rules of the LTIP approved by 
Shareholders at the 2015 AGM and are detailed above. Awards remain outstanding under the 2007 LTIP, which is similar to the 2015 LTIP except for 
the terms summarised in this paragraph.
 
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including exercising any discretions available 
to it in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out in this report where the terms of the 
payment were agreed (i) before the Policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in 
the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes 
‘payments’ includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an award over shares is ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
In the event of a variation of capital in the Company which impacts the value of a share, which may include, but is not limited to, a capitalisation or 
rights issue, consolidation, subdivision or reduction of capital, stock-split or de-merger, then the maximum number of shares and options which 
may be awarded under the LTIP may be adjusted to ensure that the overall maximum value of awards would be the same immediately before and 
after any such event. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 82
Non-Executive Director remuneration
Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, but are engaged on the basis of a letter of appointment. In line with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2014) guidelines, all Directors are subject to re-election annually at the AGM.
It is the policy of the Board of Directors that Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s bonus, share option, 
long-term incentive or pension schemes. An element of the basic fee is, however, paid in RB shares.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below:
Component and objective Approach of the Company
Fees (cash and shares)
To attract and retain 
Non-Executive Directors 
of the highest calibre 
with broad commercial 
experience relevant to 
the Company
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board of Directors, with recommendations 
provided by the Chairman and CEO. The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and as 
Chairman of the Committees. Members of the Committees are also eligible to receive an additional fee.
Fee levels may be reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective from 1 January. Fees are reviewed by taking 
into account external advice on best practice and competitive levels, in particular at FTSE 30 and FTSE 100 
companies. Time commitment and responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees are delivered partly in cash and partly in RB shares which must be held 
until retirement from the Company. 
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under review (and for the 
following year), including the split between cash and shares, are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Aggregate fees are limited by the Company’s Articles of Association.
Travel and expenses for Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) are incurred in the normal course of 
business, for example in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings. The costs associated with these 
are all met by the Company.
Scenarios of total remuneration
The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future total remuneration for the Executive Directors. Three scenarios of potential outcomes are 
provided based on underlying assumptions shown in the notes to the chart. It should be noted that the LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally 
vest until the date of the AGM which follows the third anniversary of grant and the projected values exclude the impact of share price movement. 
Notes
The scenarios in the chart above have been calculated on the following assumptions:
The ‘Minimum’ scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits (i.e. fixed remuneration), being the only elements of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration package not linked to performance. This is based on the base salary and pension allowance as at 1 January 2016 and an estimated 
value of the benefits, based on amounts paid in 2015.
The ‘On-target’ scenario illustrates fixed remuneration as above, plus target pay-out of annual bonus and threshold vesting of the LTIP.
The ‘Maximum’ scenario sets out fixed remuneration, plus full maximum pay-out of the annual bonus and full vesting of the LTIP awards. 
As LTIP awards are set as a fixed number of shares and options, the LTIP value is based on the number of shares and share options last granted to 
the Executive Directors, in December 2015. The value has been calculated assuming a price at grant of £53.44, being the average share price at 
grant over the last three LTIP awards. Under the disclosure requirements the scenarios above exclude share price appreciation; share options have 
therefore been valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and assumptions aligned to the three-year performance period, at 10% of the 
assumed face value. It should be noted that if the share price appreciation over the performance period is greater than that assumed then the 
actual total remuneration may be more than that shown in the above charts.
Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy continued
CEO
£0m £10m £5m £15m £20m
Salary, pension and beneﬁts Annual bonus
Long-term incentives (Share options and performance shares)
£20.1m 74% 20% 6%
23% 21% 56%
100%
£5.3m
£1.2m
Maximum
On-target
Minimum
Maximum
On-target
Minimum
CFO
£0m £2m £4m £6m
Salary, pension and beneﬁts Annual bonus
Long-term incentives (Share options and performance shares)
£5.6m
£1.9m
£0.8m
52% 34% 14%
41% 28% 31%
100%
Rakesh Kapoor / CEO Adrian Hennah / CFO Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 83
External appointments 
With the approval of the Board of Directors in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Company, Executive Directors may 
accept external appointments as a Non-Executive Director of another company and retain any fees received. Details of external appointments and 
the associated fees received are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
 Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company
Across RB, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and 
given their role, experience and performance. The Committee does not consult with employees specifically on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
However, the Company seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies – including trade unions and works 
councils – as part of its employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each 
case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although the Company does not consult employees on executive 
remuneration, the Committee is mindful of the salary increases applying across the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering 
salaries for Executive Directors. As the Company encourages share ownership amongst employees, those who hold shares will be able to participate 
in the vote on the Remuneration Policy at the AGM.
 Consideration of Shareholder views 
The Committee considers Shareholder views received during the year and at the Annual General Meeting each year, as well as guidance from 
Shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping Remuneration Policy. The Committee Chair speaks with a number of the Company’s 
largest Shareholders on the subject of executive remuneration at least on an annual basis and the Committee is grateful for all of the feedback 
which is provided. The majority of Shareholders are supportive of the Company’s philosophy and policy on remuneration, and the Committee will 
continue to keep its Remuneration Policy under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the Company’s long-term strategy and aligns 
closely with Shareholders’ interests. The Committee will continue to consult our major Shareholders before making any significant changes to our 
Remuneration Policy.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
External appointment
In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all existing 
components of remuneration, as follows:
Component Approach Maximum annual grant
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant 
market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their 
current basic salary. Where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, 
the shortfall to median may be managed with phased increases over a period of two 
or three years subject to their development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions and/or an equivalent cash 
supplement in line with existing executives as set out in the ongoing remuneration 
policy.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include (but are not 
limited to) the provision of a car allowance, or car, healthcare and any necessary 
relocation expenses in line with ongoing remuneration policy.
Annual bonus The structure described in the Policy Table will apply to new appointees with the 
relevant maximum opportunity. 
Target: 120% of salary
Multiple: 3.57x Target
LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as other 
executives, as described in the Policy Table. LTIP grants can take the form of 
performance shares, share options or a combination of the two.
275,000 performance shares
500,000 share options
The overall limit of variable remuneration will be as set out in the Policy Table taking into account the maximum value of the annual bonus and the 
maximum awards of options and shares under the LTIP.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, 
i.e. over and above the approach outlined in the table above. In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance 
conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met with the intention that the value awarded would be no 
higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements and made on a like-for-like basis. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 84
Internal promotion
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees,  
as detailed above, except that where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the 
Company will continue to honour these arrangements even in instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment.
Recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director 
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page 82. A base fee in  
line with the prevailing fee schedule will be payable for membership of the Board of Directors, with additional fees payable for acting as Deputy 
Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and for being a member of a 
Committee. Fees will be delivered partly in cash and partly in RB shares to be held until retirement from the Company.
The fee for a new Non-Executive Chairman will be set with reference to the time commitment and other requirements of the role and the 
experience of the candidate. To provide context for this decision, appropriate market data would also be referenced.
Service contracts and exit payment policy
Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee. In accordance with 
general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a rolling service contract which is terminable on 12 months’ notice and this practice will 
also apply for any new Executive Directors. In such an event, the compensation commitments in respect of their contracts could amount to one 
year’s remuneration based on base salary and benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period. Termination payments may take the 
form of payments in lieu of notice. Copies of Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Company’s registered office.
The Company’s policy on any termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant 
contractual terms in the executive’s service contract and the circumstances of the termination. The table below summarises how awards under the 
annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s discretion as 
provided under the rules of the plan:
Reason for cessation Timing of vesting/payment Calculation of vesting/payment
Annual bonus
Voluntary resignation or termination  
with ‘cause’
Not applicable No bonus to be paid for the financial year.
All other circumstances At the end of the financial year. Bonuses will be paid only to the extent that 
objectives set at the beginning of the plan year have 
been met. Any such bonus will be paid on a pro-rata 
basis up to the termination date.
LTIP
Voluntary resignation or termination  
with ‘cause’
Not applicable Unvested awards lapse.
Ill-health, injury, permanent disability, 
retirement with the agreement of the 
Company, the participant’s employing ceasing 
to be under the control of the Company, 
transfer of the undertaking in which the 
participant works outside the Group, 
redundancy or any other reason that the 
Committee determines in its absolute 
discretion.
Awards will vest after the end of the 
financial year in which the cessation 
of employment occurs; or at the 
discretion of the Committee, after the 
end of the relevant performance 
period.
Outstanding options and performance 
share awards granted on or after 
5 May 2016 will be subject to an 
additional two year holding period, 
commencing on the end of the 
performance period. Options cannot 
be exercised during this period.
The Committee determines whether and to what 
extent outstanding awards vest based on the extent 
to which performance conditions have been achieved 
(either to the end of the financial year in which 
cessation of employment occurs, or over the full 
performance period) and the proportion of the 
performance period worked.
Death As soon as possible after date of 
death
The Committee may disapply performance conditions 
but will reduce awards to reflect the proportion of 
the performance period worked.
Change of control On change of control Awards will vest to the extent that any performance 
conditions have been satisfied (unless the Committee 
determines that the performance conditions should 
not apply). Awards will also be reduced pro-rata to 
take into account the proportion of the performance 
period not completed, unless the Committee decides 
otherwise. 
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for new 
equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate.
Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 85
The Directors submit their Annual Report and audited Financial 
Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 to the 
members of the Company.
Directors
The Directors who held office during the year and those serving at the 
date of this report are:
Name
Adrian Bellamy
Jaspal Bindra
Nicandro Durante
Peter Harf (resigned 21 December 2015)
Mary Harris (appointed 10 February 2015)
Adrian Hennah
Ken Hydon
Rakesh Kapoor
Pamela Kirby (appointed 10 February 2015)
André Lacroix
Sue Shim
Christopher Sinclair (appointed 10 February 2015)
Judy Sprieser
Doug Tough
Warren Tucker
Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages  
46 to 49.
A statement of Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company 
is shown on page 78.
Details of Executive Directors’ options to subscribe for shares in the 
Company are included on page 77 in the audited part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in any 
derivative or financial instrument relating to the Company’s shares. 
The details of the Directors’ remuneration and service agreements are 
set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 84.
No Director has a material interest in any ‘contract of significance’ 
(as that term is defined by the FCA) to which the Company, or any 
of its subsidiary undertakings is a party.
Takeover directive
The Company is required to disclose certain additional information 
required by s.992 of CA 2006 which implemented the EU Takeover 
Directive. The following sets out disclosures not covered elsewhere 
in this Annual Report.
The Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles) give the 
Board power to appoint Directors, but also require Directors to 
submit themselves for election at the first AGM following their 
appointment. Under the Articles, all Directors are required to 
offer themselves for re-election every three years. However, in 
accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code), Directors submit themselves annually. 
The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the 
Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject 
to the provisions of the Company’s Articles.
The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the 
Company’s power to borrow money. Powers relating to the alteration 
of share capital are also included in the Articles and Shareholders are 
asked to renew such authorities each year at the AGM. A copy of the 
Articles is available from the Company’s website at www.rb.com or can 
be obtained on written request from the Company Secretary or from 
the UK Registrar of Companies.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the  
Company’s Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s Shareholders.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover, such as 
commercial contracts, bank agreements, property lease arrangements 
and employee share plans. None of these are deemed to be significant in 
terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
There are no significant agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office  
or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except that 
provisions of the Company’s share plans may cause options and awards 
granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
There is no information that the Company would be required to 
disclose about persons with whom it has contractual or other 
arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company.
Dividend
In July 2015, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of 50.3p 
per ordinary share (2014: 60p). The dividend was paid on 25 September 
2015. The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 88.7p 
per share (2014: 79p) which, together with the interim dividend, makes 
a total for the year of 139p per share (2014: 139p). The final dividend,  
if approved by the Shareholders, will be paid on 26 May 2016 to 
Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 April 2016.
Share capital
As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s issued share capital consisted 
of 736,535,179 ordinary shares of 10p each, of which 708,073,029 
were with voting rights and 28,462,150 ordinary shares were held in 
Treasury. Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued and of 
options and awards granted during the year are set out in Notes 23 and 
24 to the Financial Statements.
The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s ordinary shares 
are set out in the Articles.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the 
Company’s ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company 
except, in the case of transfers of securities:
• that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws 
and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and 
• pursuant to the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing 
Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the 
approval of the Company to deal in the Company’s ordinary shares. 
No person holds securities in the Company which carry special voting 
rights with regard to control of the Company. The Company is not 
aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Allotment of shares
Under the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006 or the Act), Directors may 
only allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security 
into, shares if authorised to do so by Shareholders in general meeting. 
The authority conferred on the Directors at the 2015 AGM under s.551 
CA 2006 will expire at the conclusion of this year’s AGM. At the AGM, 
Directors will ask Shareholders to renew their authority to allot equity 
shares representing approximately one-third of the Company’s issued 
share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of 
the Notice of AGM. In accordance with the Investment Association 
Share Capital Management Guidelines, Directors will once again seek 
authority to allot further ordinary shares, in connection with a 
pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, up to a further one-third of 
the Company’s existing issued share capital on the same date. The 
authorities sought would, if granted, expire at the earlier of 15 months 
from the date on which the resolution is passed, or at the conclusion of 
the AGM of the Company held in 2017, whichever is the sooner. 
Report of the Directors RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 86
Under s.561 CA 2006, Shareholders have a right of first refusal in 
relation to certain issues of new shares. A special resolution will also 
be proposed to renew the Directors’ power to make non-pre-emptive 
issues for cash up to a nominal amount representing less than 10% 
of the Company’s issued share capital as at the latest practicable 
date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM. The resolution 
would also permit Directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell 
for cash, shares that may be held by the Company in treasury. In 
accordance with the Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of Principles and 
the Investment Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings 
Associations’ supporting guidelines, the Directors confirm their 
intention that, other than in relation to a rights issue, no more than 
5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of 
treasury shares, will be issued for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis 
and no more than 7.5% of the share capital of the Company, exclusive 
of treasury shares, will be allotted for cash under a non-pre-emptive 
basis over a rolling three-year period without prior consultation with 
Shareholders, in each case other than in connection with an acquisition 
or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously 
with the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding six-
month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment. 
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority 
sought under the resolutions other than to fulfil the Company’s 
obligations under its executive and employee share plans, and this 
authority will maintain the Company’s flexibility in relation to future 
share issues, including issues required to finance business opportunities, 
should appropriate circumstances arise. 
Authority to purchase own shares
Following the Company’s announcement on 12 December 2014 
of its intention to commence a share repurchase programme for 
2015 to offset the dilutive impact of employee share schemes, on 
11 February 2015 the Company confirmed that the 2015 £300 
million repurchase programme would be supplemented by an 
additional repurchase programme of up to £500 million of ordinary 
shares during the year. In accordance with those announcements 
and subsequent announcements made on 30 April 2015, 30 June 
2015 and 30 September 2015, during the period from 2 January 
2015 to 25 November 2015, a total of 13,615,832 ordinary shares 
of 10 pence (representing 1.8% of the ordinary shares in issue on 
31 December 2015) were repurchased for a consideration of £802 
million, including expenses, and subsequently transferred to be held 
in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the Company’s obligations 
under employee equity incentive schemes. On 30 December 2015 
the Company announced its intention to commence a 2016 ordinary 
share repurchase programme for up to a maximum consideration 
of £800 million in order to offset the dilutive impact of employee 
schemes and to maintain borrowings at around current levels. 
The authority granted to Directors at the 2015 AGM to repurchase 
shares in the market remains valid until the conclusion of this year’s 
AGM. At the 2016 AGM Directors will seek to renew the authority 
granted to them. Such authority, if approved, will be limited to a 
maximum of 69 million ordinary shares, representing less than 10% of 
the Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) 
calculated as at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the 
Notice of AGM, and sets the minimum and maximum prices which may 
be paid. The Company’s present intention is to hold shares acquired 
under such authority in treasury to satisfy outstanding awards under 
employee share incentive plans.
Employees
During 2015, the Group employed an average of 34,700 (2014: 
37,200) employees worldwide, of whom 3,176 (2014: 3,400) were 
employed in the UK. The Group is committed to the principle of equal 
opportunity in employment: no applicant or employee receives less 
favourable treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, 
religion, race, ethnicity or disability. The Group recognises its 
responsibilities to disabled persons and endeavours to assist them 
to make their full contribution at work. Where employees become 
disabled, every practical effort is made to allow them to continue in 
their jobs or to provide retraining in suitable alternative work. It is 
essential to the continued improvement in efficiency and productivity 
throughout the Group that each employee understands the Group’s 
strategies, policies and procedures. Open and regular communication 
with employees at all levels is an essential part of the management 
process. A continuing programme of training and development 
reinforces the Group’s commitment to employee development.
Regular departmental meetings are held where opinions of employees 
are sought on a variety of issues. The Group operates multi-dimensional 
internal communications programmes which include the provision of a 
Group intranet and the publication of regular Group newsletters.
Group incentive schemes reinforce financial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of the business. Employees typically have 
three to five performance objectives which are directly linked to their 
job and their specific contribution to the overall performance of the 
Group. In addition, presentations and videos are given to employees 
around the Group on publication of the Group’s financial results.
The Board encourages employees to become Shareholders and to 
participate in the Group’s employee share ownership schemes, should 
they so wish. Savings-related share plans covering most of the world 
give employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company by 
means of regular savings.
Political donations
Authority is sought each year from Shareholders, on a precautionary 
basis, to approve political donations and incur political expenditures in 
accordance with the requirements of Part 14 CA 2006 as the definitions 
in the Act are broad. No political donations or expenditure of the type 
requiring disclosure under s.366 and s.367 of CA 2006 were made in 
the year ended 31 December 2015 nor are any contemplated. 
Independent Auditor
The External Auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), has indicated 
its willingness to continue in office and a resolution that PwC be 
reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Further disclosures
Further information, including information fulfilling the further 
disclosure requirements contained in the Companies Act 2006, 
Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the FCA’s Listing Rules 
and Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in the following 
sections of the Annual Report for the period ended 31 December 2015 
which are incorporated into the Report of the Directors by reference:
 
Page
Acquisitions and disposals 135
Awards under employee share schemes 131-134
Corporate Governance Report including internal control and risk 
management statements 52-58
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company 78
Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities, including disclosure of 
information to the Auditor 88
Disclosure of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 27
Employment policy and employee involvement 24-25
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters 24-29
Financial risk management and financial instruments 119-123
Future developments in the business 35
Post Balance Sheet events 137
Research and development activities 103
Shareholder information 166
Sustainability and corporate responsibility 165
There is no additional information requiring disclosure under Listing 
Rule 9.8.4R.
Report of the Directors continued  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 87
Substantial shareholdings
As at 22 March 2016, pursuant to DTR5 of the FCA’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, the Company had received the following notices 
of substantial interests (3% or more) in the total voting rights of 
the Company:
Holder Date of last TR-1 notification
Nature of 
interest
% of voting 
rights
JAB Holdings B.V. 27 January 2016 Direct 8.93
Massachusetts Financial 
Services Company and/or 
its subsidiaries 16 January 2013
1
Indirect 5.00
1. Under a s.793 CA 2006 request Massachusetts Financial Services Company confirmed on 
13 January 2016 that their holding had increased to 7.48%, of which they had the ability 
to vote 6.18%. 
Corporate Governance Statement
In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR) 7.2.1, 
the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.2 to 7.2.7 are set out in this Report 
of the Directors and in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 
52 to 59 which together with the Directors’ Statement of 
Responsibilities are incorporated by reference into this Report of  
the Directors.
Annual General Meeting
The ninth AGM of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc will be held on Thursday 
5 May 2016 at 11.15 am at No. 11 Cavendish Square, London 
W1G 0AN. The Notice of Meeting, setting out the resolutions to be 
proposed, is contained in a separate document for Shareholders and is 
also available at www.rb.com. The Board considers that each of the 
resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the Shareholders 
as a whole. The Directors unanimously recommend that Shareholders 
vote in favour of all the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of 
their own beneficial holdings. 
By Order of the Board
Christine Logan / Company Secretary
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
103-105 Bath Road 
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH
Company registration number: 6270876
22 March 2016 RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 88
Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the 
Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and the 
Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). In preparing the Group Financial 
Statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Group for that period. In preparing these Financial Statements, the 
Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
• state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs 
issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Group and Company Financial Statements respectively; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will 
continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
Financial Statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial 
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 
46 to 49 confirms that, to the best of his/her knowledge:
• the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by 
the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group; and 
• the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces. 
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45. The financial position of the Group 
and Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, 
as well as the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit 
risk and liquidity risk are described in the Strategic Report on pages 36 
to 45 and in Note 14 to the Group Financial Statements.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a diverse 
customer and supplier base across different geographical areas and 
categories. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group and 
Company are well placed to manage their business risks successfully 
despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and 
Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial 
Statements in accordance with the FRC’s ‘Guidance on risk 
management, internal control and related financial business reporting.’ 
This statement is also made to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules 
9.8.6R(3) and 9.8.10R(1) and C.1.3 of the Code.
Disclosure of information to Auditor
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, state that:
1) so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Auditor is unaware; and 
2) each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have 
taken as a Director to make him/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware of 
that information. 
By Order of the Board
Christine Logan / Company Secretary
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
103–105 Bath Road 
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH
Company registration number: 6270876 
22 March 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 89
Contents
Financial Statements
90   Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
97  Group Income Statement
98  Group Statement of  
Comprehensive Income
99  Group Balance Sheet
100  Group Statement of Changes in Equity
101 Group Cash Flow Statement
102  Notes to the Financial Statements
138  Five Year Summary
139  Parent Company – Independent Auditors’ 
Report to the members of Reckitt  
Benckiser Group plc
141 Parent Company Balance Sheet
142 Parent Company Statement of Changes  
in Equity
143 Notes to the Parent Company  
Financial Statements
Other Information
158 Our Principal Operating Risks
165 Management of Sustainability
166 Shareholder Information RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 90
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
Report on the Group Financial Statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Group Financial Statements (the “Financial Statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied 
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion, the Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited
The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
• the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015;
• the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
• the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended;
• the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
• the Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the Financial Statements. These are 
cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview
• Overall Group materiality was £117 million which represented 5% of Group profit before income tax, adjusted for 
non-recurring exceptional items.
• We conducted audit work in 18 countries in which the Group has significant operations.
• The reporting units where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted for 76% of Group 
revenue and 79% of Group profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
• The Group engagement team visited 15 of the 18 component audit teams to attend audit clearance meetings and 
discuss the audit approach and findings with those local teams.
• For those countries not visited we maintained regular contact with the local team and evaluated the outcome of their 
audit work.
• Accounting for customer trade spend.
• Provisions for uncertain tax exposures.
• Valuation of provisions for liabilities arising from regulatory investigations.
• Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
• The classification of exceptional items.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements. In particular,  
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making 
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override 
of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due 
to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as 
‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on 
the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a 
complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 91
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for customer trade spend
Refer to page 63 (Audit Committee review of areas of significant judgement) 
and page 106 (accounting policies).
As is industry practice, in each country in which the Group operates there are 
numerous types of complex commercial arrangements with retailers and other 
customers that have a range of terms (for example promotions, rebates and 
discounts). 
Trade spend arrangements have varying terms, some of which are supported by 
annual contracts or joint business plans, whilst others are based on shorter term 
agreements entered into during the year. In addition, the level and timing of 
promotions for individual products or ranges varies from period to period, and 
activity can span over a year end. These judgements impact the reported results 
of the country, segment and the Group and in particular influence the 
calculation of net revenue and country operating profit, both of which are key 
performance indicators for management incentive schemes.
We consider there to be a specific risk associated with the accuracy of the trade 
spend that has been incurred during the year as this is material and can be 
complex and judgemental. In particular we focused on the approval of the 
arrangements, the period to which the spend relates and whether balances had 
been settled. In addition, we focused on estimates of the obligations at the 
reporting date in respect of all trade spend arrangements (“trade spend 
accruals”). We focused on this area due to the complexity and level of 
judgement required in making the key assumptions underpinning the estimates. 
For example: 
• the date of shipment to the retailer and the period over which the promotion 
will run may differ;
• details of the retailers’ EPOS data may be required to determine the accuracy 
of trade spend committed at the reporting date; and 
• promotions may span over the year end and therefore estimation of the 
future volume or margin levels of the retailer must be forecast to determine 
the level of the accrual required. 
Therefore, our areas of focus included whether the accruals were understated 
and appropriately valued, whether trade spend was recorded in the correct 
period and whether the significant one-off transactions had been accurately 
recorded in the income statement.
Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating 
the controls and systems related to the trade spend process, 
and where appropriate obtaining audit evidence through 
testing operating effectiveness of relevant controls together 
with substantive audit procedures.
Testing of controls included examining appropriate 
authorisation for trade spend agreements and contracts, 
considering segregation of duties over the creation and 
approval of the accruals and testing the resolution of variations 
between actual and expected trade spend. 
The substantive audit procedures performed for each individual 
component varied depending upon the nature of the trade 
spend and type of agreement but included the following tests, 
on a sample basis:
• Agreeing costs incurred during the year to invoices and 
other correspondence from the customers and subsequent 
settlement;
• Agreeing key elements of the estimates to supporting 
documentation such as joint business plans, contracts and 
EPOS data;
• Circularising external confirmations to the customers to 
confirm the existence of specific promotions and the 
underlying key assumptions of the accrual calculation;
• Recalculating management’s estimates;
• Evaluating the accuracy of the prior year trade spend 
balance by comparing the historic accruals to actual spend 
incurred; and 
• Testing trade spend transactions around the year end to 
determine whether they had been recognised in the 
appropriate period.
As the Group engagement team, we were specifically involved 
in determining and assessing the appropriateness of the audit 
approach for each component in this area. This satisfied us that 
sufficient focus was placed on the more judgemental areas and 
that, whilst complex, the area was well understood and 
sufficient focus was placed on this risk area. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 92
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Provision for uncertain tax exposures
Refer to page 44 (Strategic risks) and page 63 (Audit Committee review of areas 
of significant judgement).
Due to the Group operating across a number of different tax jurisdictions it is 
subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters 
during the normal course of business. These challenges include transaction 
related tax matters, financing and transfer pricing arrangements arising from 
centralised functions that drive value across a number of different countries.
Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions 
based on management’s judgement of the probable amount of the liability.
We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing the 
quantification and likelihood of certain potential exposures and therefore the 
level of provision required for specific cases. In particular, we focused on the 
impact of changes in transfer pricing methodologies impacting tax returns in 
certain territories, which could materially impact the amounts recorded in the 
Financial Statements. 
We updated our detailed understanding of the Group’s tax 
strategy and Group transfer pricing policy, particularly in 
relation to any changes implemented during 2015, and 
assessed key technical tax issues and risks related to business 
and legislative developments using, where applicable, our local 
and international tax specialists.
We obtained explanations from management and 
corroborative evidence including, communication with local  
tax authorities, details of progress with Advanced Pricing 
Agreements and copies of external tax advice reports  
relating to tax treatments applied and the corresponding 
provisions recorded.
We challenged management’s key assumptions, in particular 
on cases where there had been significant developments with 
local tax authorities, noting no significant deviations from  
our expectations. 
We also evaluated whether the liabilities and potential 
exposures were appropriately disclosed in the  
Financial Statements.
Valuation of provisions for liabilities arising from  
regulatory investigations
Refer to page 44 (Strategic risks) and Note 17 on page 125 (Provisions for 
liabilities and charges).
The Group has been subject to a number of regulatory investigations, for 
example in respect of violations of antitrust and competition laws, and has 
recorded a provision for legal claims on the balance sheet amounting to 
£141 million. There is a high level of management judgement associated with 
determining the need for, and the magnitude of, provisions for any liabilities 
arising from these investigations.
Therefore, we consider there to be a risk that the provisions may be held at the 
incorrect value on the balance sheet and that disclosure within the Annual 
Report in respect of the cases and their potential impact on the Financial 
Statements may not be sufficient.
Our audit procedures focused on the assumptions and 
judgements made by management in determining the 
recognition and valuation of associated provisions. 
We confirmed that, where applicable, discussions took place 
with in-country legal teams and sought audit evidence in that 
location, such as obtaining external confirmations. This 
evidence was also corroborated by the Group engagement 
team with the Head of Group Legal to understand the status  
of any investigations or litigation, the associated risks and the 
basis for any provisions recorded.
We obtained and read notifications from the relevant 
regulatory bodies and examined relevant legal documents  
that confirmed the existence of each case and quantified 
expected liabilities.
We obtained confirmations from the Group’s external legal 
counsel and compared their description and assessment of  
the facts and circumstances of the cases and, where applicable,  
the potential outcome against management’s and the  
internal legal team’s assessment. We did not identify any 
significant inconsistencies.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 93
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment
Refer to page 63 (Audit Committee review of areas of significant judgement) 
and pages 114 to 116 (Goodwill and other intangible assets Note).
The Group has goodwill of £3,282 million and other indefinite lived intangible 
assets of £7,897 million as at 31 December 2015 which are required to be tested 
for impairment on an annual basis. Management has allocated these assets to 
individual cash generating units (CGUs) and groups of CGUs (GCGUs) and there 
is judgement around how these are determined, specifically in respect of 
changes in the year. In 2015 management has brought the production of K-Y 
in-house and has aligned the ‘go to market’ strategy and operating functions 
with those of Sexual Wellbeing. This has resulted in the indefinite lived K-Y 
brand being assessed as part of the Sexual Wellbeing CGU.
There is further judgement around the determination of the recoverable 
amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal. 
Recoverable amounts are based on management’s view of the future results and 
prospects of the business, the appropriate discount rates to be applied and 
specific risk factors applied to the GCGU’s and CGU’s.
Due to VMS and Oriental Pharma being recent acquisitions, the brands remain 
sensitive to impairment. The VMS and Oriental Pharma indefinite life CGUs are 
primarily concentrated in single markets, the US and China respectively, although 
the launch of VMS brands within Europe and now Asia has continued during the 
year. The key judgements in determining the recoverable amount of these CGUs 
are in respect of the forecast cash flows within these primary markets and the 
penetration of VMS outside of the US, the use of appropriate discount rates and 
the long-term growth rates applied.
We considered management’s integration of the K-Y CGU into 
the Sexual Wellbeing CGU and assessed this to be appropriate 
due to the alignment of production, strategy and marketing. 
We evaluated the process by which management prepared its 
cash flow forecasts and compared them against the latest 
Board approved plans and management approved forecasts. 
We evaluated the historical accuracy of the plans and forecasts, 
for example by comparing the forecasts used in the prior year 
model to the actual performance of the business in the current 
year. These procedures enabled us to determine the accuracy 
of the forecasting process and apply appropriate sensitivities to 
the cash flows. 
We assessed the appropriateness of management’s discount 
rates, future cash flows and long-term growth rates, specifically 
focusing on the VMS and Oriental Pharma CGUs. We 
benchmarked assumptions against industry and peer group 
comparators and metrics such as country inflation rates. 
Based upon our assessments described above, we challenged 
management on the appropriateness of its sensitivity 
calculations by applying our own sensitivity analysis to the 
forecast cash flows, long-term growth rates and discount rates 
to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes 
would, either individually or in aggregate require an 
impairment of either the goodwill or indefinite life assets.
We determined that no impairment charges were required, 
based on the results of our work. We identified that the 
indefinite lived brands acquired with VMS and Oriental Pharma 
are most sensitive to changes in key assumptions. Management 
has described these sensitivities in the ‘Goodwill and other 
intangible assets’ Note to the Group Financial Statements.
The classification of exceptional items
Refer to page 103 (accounting policies) and page 110 (Analysis of net operating 
expenses Note) for further details.
In the past few years the Group has had significant levels of ‘exceptional items’ 
which are disclosed separately within the Income Statement and are excluded 
from management’s reporting of the underlying results of the business.
The nature of these ‘exceptional items’ are explained within the Group 
accounting policy and includes restructuring costs, gains or losses arising on 
acquisitions or disposals and costs resulting from non-recurring legal or 
regulatory matters.
This year the Group has identified £133 million of net exceptional items which 
relate primarily to the loss recognised on the disposal of the Medcom medical 
business and ‘Group-led’ restructuring programmes associated with  
Project Supercharge.
Our specific area of focus was to assess whether the items identified by 
management met the definition within the Group’s accounting policy and have 
been treated consistently, as the identification of such items requires judgement 
by management. Consistency in the identification and presentation of these 
items is important to ensure comparability of year on year reporting within the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements.
We obtained corroborative evidence for the items presented 
within ‘exceptional items’.
We challenged management’s rationale for the designation of 
certain items as ‘exceptional’ and assessed such items against 
the Group’s accounting policy and the consistency of treatment 
with prior periods. 
We also considered whether there were items that were 
recorded within underlying profit that we determined to be 
‘exceptional’ in nature and should have been included within 
‘exceptional items’. No such items were identified.  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 94
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements 
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, 
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates. 
In 2015, the Group reorganised into two geographical regions being 
DvM (Developing Markets including North Africa, Middle East 
(excluding Israel), and Turkey, Africa, South Asia, North Asia, Latin 
America, Japan, Korea and ASEAN) and ENA (Europe, Russia/CIS, Israel, 
North America, Australia and New Zealand). There is also  
a separate segment for the Food business. Following the demerger of 
the RB Pharmaceuticals business in December 2014 there is no longer  
a separate segment for this business which was presented as  
a discontinued operation in the prior year.
Each country within the aforementioned geographical regions and food 
business consists of a number of management reporting entities which 
are consolidated by Group management. The Group Financial 
Statements are a consolidation of 696 reporting units representing  
the operating businesses within these geographical-based divisions  
and the centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 56 reporting units 
from across the two geographic regions and food business that 
required an audit of their complete financial information due to their 
individual size or risk characteristics. The reporting units where we 
performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted 
for 79% of the Group’s profit before income tax, adjusted for 
non-recurring exceptional items and 76% of the Group’s revenue. 
Included within these 56 reporting units were three reporting units that 
were audited by the Group engagement team, including the Group’s 
treasury company and the Parent Company.
Audits of the revenue financial statement line item were performed in  
a further two reporting units and specified procedures were performed 
in respect of tax associated with the reduction of the geographic 
structure from three regions to two.
The 53 reporting units, excluding those audited by the Group 
engagement team, are audited by 18 component auditor teams. The 
Group engagement team visited 15 of the 18 local component teams  
to meet with local management, attend audit clearance meetings and 
discuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit teams.  
For those countries not visited we had regular communication with  
the local teams, both before and after their audit. Our attendance at 
the clearance meetings, review and discussion of the audit results at 
overseas locations, together with the additional procedures performed 
at a Group level described below, gave us the evidence we needed for 
our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
Our audit procedures at the Group level included the audit of the 
consolidation, the UK and Group pension schemes (due to their size) 
and certain tax procedures.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. 
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of 
our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on 
the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in 
evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the 
Financial Statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for 
the Financial Statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality
£117 million (2014: £107 million).
How we determined it
5% of Group profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring 
exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied
Profit before income tax, adjusted for the impact of non-recurring 
exceptional items, provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for 
determining materiality and is, we believe, the metric most commonly 
used by the Shareholders as a body in assessing the Group’s 
performance.
Component materiality
For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that 
is less than our overall Group materiality. The range of materiality 
allocated across components was between £6 million and £70 million. 
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality 
that was lower than the allocated amount.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £6 million (2014: £6 
million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement, set out on page 88, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have 
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the 
directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements. 
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that 
it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Financial Statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group 
has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors 
intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial 
Statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that 
the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, 
because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these 
statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as 
a going concern. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 95
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Financial 
Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
Financial Statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
• the statement given by the directors on page 88, in accordance with 
provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code’), 
that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent 
with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
• the section of the Annual Report on page 62, as required by 
provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit 
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee. 
We have no exceptions to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of 
the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity 
of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have 
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation on page 58 of the Annual Report, in 
accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried 
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and 
explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
• the directors’ explanation on page 40 of the Annual Report, in 
accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have 
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and 
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation 
to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially 
less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and 
considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; 
checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant 
provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements  
are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of 
performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed  
our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of 
the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 96
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities 
set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Parent Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the Financial Statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or 
a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial 
Statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended 
31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Gill (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
22 March 2016
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 97
For the year ended 31 December Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Net revenue 2 8,874 8,836
Cost of sales (3,628) (3,740)
Gross profit 5,246 5,096
Net operating expenses 3 (3,005) (2,932)
Operating profit 2 2,241 2,164
Adjusted operating profit 2,374 2,185
Exceptional items 3 (133) (21)
Operating profit 2,241 2,164
Finance income 6 21 27
Finance expense 6 (54) (65)
Net finance expense (33) (38)
Profit before income tax 2,208 2,126
Income tax expense 7 (463) (462)
Net income from continuing operations 1,745 1,664
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Net income from discontinued operations 28 – 278
Exceptional gain on non-cash dividend distributed 28 – 1,282
Net income from discontinued operations – 1,560
Net income 1,745 3,224
Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 1
Attributable to owners of the parent 1,743 3,223
Net income 1,745 3,224
Basic earnings per ordinary share
From continuing operations (pence) 8 244.4 230.7
From discontinued operations (pence) 8 – 216.4
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
From continuing operations (pence) 8 240.9 227.6
From discontinued operations (pence) 8 – 213.5
Group Income Statement RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 98
For the year ended 31 December Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net income 1,745 3,224
Other comprehensive expense
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years
Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax 7 (124) (191)
Losses on net investment hedges, net of tax 7 (49) (137)
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7 14 (11)
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of foreign operations/demerger, net of tax 7 33 (3)
(126) (342)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans, net of tax 7 46 (75)
46 (75)
Other comprehensive expense, net of tax (80) (417)
Total comprehensive income 1,665 2,807
Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 –
Attributable to owners of the parent 1,663 2,807
Total comprehensive income 1,665 2,807
Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent arising from:
Continuing operations 1,663 1,247
Discontinued operations – 1,560
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 99
As at 31 December Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets 9 11,296 11,252
Property, plant and equipment 10 730 757
Deferred tax assets 11 57 61
Retirement benefit surplus 22 63 26
Other non-current receivables 13 240 240
12,386 12,336
Current assets
Inventories 12 681 745
Trade and other receivables 13 1,331 1,307
Derivative financial instruments 14 121 130
Current tax recoverable 9 60
Available for sale financial assets 14 – 1
Cash and cash equivalents 15 740 917
2,882 3,160
Total assets 15,268 15,496
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 16 (1,749) (1,936)
Short-term provisions for liabilities and charges 17 (229) (317)
Trade and other payables 20 (2,948) (2,883)
Derivative financial instruments 14 (22) (29)
Current tax liabilities 21 (91) (124)
(5,039) (5,289)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 16 (671) (636)
Deferred tax liabilities 11 (1,692) (1,749)
Retirement benefit obligations 22 (257) (338)
Other provisions 17 (115) (73)
Non-current tax liabilities 21 (559) (500)
Other non-current liabilities 20 (29) (77)
(3,323) (3,373)
Total liabilities (8,362) (8,662)
Net assets 6,906 6,834
EQUITY
Capital and reserves
Share capital 23 74 74
Share premium 243 243
Merger reserve (14,229) (14,229)
Hedging reserve 25 18 4
Foreign currency translation reserve 25 (964) (824)
Retained earnings 21,762 21,564
Attributable to owners of the parent 6,904 6,832
Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 2
Total equity 6,906 6,834
The Financial Statements on pages 97 to 137 were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 22 March 2016 by:
ADRIAN BELLAMY  RAKESH KAPOOR
Director   Director
Group Balance Sheet RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 100
Notes
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Merger
reserves
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
attributable
to owners
of the
parent
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 74 243 (14,229) (479) 20,725 6,334 2 6,336
Comprehensive income/(expense)
Net income – – – – 3,223 3,223 1 3,224
Other comprehensive expense for the year – – – (341) (75) (416) (1) (417)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) – – – (341) 3,148 2,807 – 2,807
Transactions with owners
Treasury shares reissued 23 – – – – 112 112 – 112
Share-based payments 24 – – – – 55 55 – 55
Current tax on share awards 7 – – – – 14 14 – 14
Deferred tax on share awards 7 – – – – (43) (43) – (43)
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 17, 23 – – – – (413) (413) – (413)
Cash dividends 29 – – – – (988) (988) – (988)
Non-cash dividends 29 – – – – (1,046) (1,046) – (1,046)
Total transactions with owners – – – – (2,309) (2,309) – (2,309)
Balance at 31 December 2014 74 243 (14,229) (820) 21,564 6,832 2 6,834
Comprehensive income
Net income – – – – 1,743 1,743 2 1,745
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for 
the year – – – (126) 46 (80) – (80)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) – – – (126) 1,789 1,663 2 1,665
Transactions with owners
Treasury shares reissued 23 – – – – 74 74 – 74
Share-based payments 24 – – – – 50 50 – 50
Current tax on share awards 7 – – – – 5 5 – 5
Deferred tax on share awards 7 – – – – 8 8 – 8
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 17, 23 – – – – (804) (804) – (804)
Cash dividends 29 – – – – (924) (924) (2) (926)
Total transactions with owners – – – – (1,591) (1,591) (2) (1,593)
Balance at 31 December 2015 74 243 (14,229) (946) 21,762 6,904 2 6,906
The merger reserve relates to the 1999 combination of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N.V. and a Group reconstruction in 2007 treated as a 
merger under Part 27 of the Companies Act 2006.
Refer to Note 25 for an explanation of other reserves.
Group Statement of Changes in Equity Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 101
For the year ended 31 December Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating profit from continuing operations 2,241 2,164
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 171 161
Fair value gains (33) (1)
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment assets – (41)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 22 (44)
Increase in trade and other receivables (218) (168)
(Decrease)/increase in payables and provisions (23) 179
Non-cash exceptional items 85 21
Share-based payments 50 53
Cash generated from operations 2,295 2,324
Interest paid (54) (58)
Interest received 23 26
Tax paid (480) (416)
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations – 223
Net cash generated from operating activities 1,784 2,099
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (154) (157)
Purchase of intangible assets (25) (27)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 51 19
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (10) (340)
Maturity of short-term investments 3 1
Net cash transferred on demerger of RBP – (195)
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries   1 –
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations – (16)
Net cash used in investing activities (134) (715)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 23 (804) (313)
Treasury shares reissued 23 74 112
Proceeds from borrowings 23 –
Repayment of borrowings (165) (485)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent 29 (924) (988)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (2) (1)
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations – 481
Net cash used in financing activities (1,798) (1,194)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (148) 190
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 913 805
Exchange losses (28) (82)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 737 913
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 15 740 917
Overdrafts 16 (3) (4)
737 913
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS
Net cash generated from operating activities 1,784 2,099
Net purchases of property, plant and equipment (103) (138)
Net cash flow from operations 1,681 1,961
Group Cash Flow Statement RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 102
1 Accounting Policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these 
Financial Statements are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, these 
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
Basis of Preparation
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with EU 
endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRS 
Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations, and with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS. The Financial Statements are also in compliance with IFRSs 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. 
These Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial 
assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value 
through profit and loss. A summary of the Group’s key accounting 
policies is set out below. Historical cost is generally based on the fair 
value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly 
observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In 
estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into 
account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants 
would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or 
liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or 
disclosure purposes in these Consolidated Financial Statements is 
determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment 
transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions 
that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some 
similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable 
value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
The preparation of Financial Statements that conform to IFRSs requires 
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and 
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Although these 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge at the time, 
actual amounts may ultimately differ from those estimates.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards
There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations which 
have been adopted for the first time and have a significant impact on 
the accounting policies applied in preparing the annual Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Group.
Management is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 15 
Revenue from Contracts with Customers which will be effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, IFRS 16 Leases 
which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2019 and the revised issuance of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2018.
A number of other new standards, amendments and interpretations are 
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and 
have not yet been applied in preparing these Financial Statements. 
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the Financial 
Statements of the Group.
Going Concern
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in 
connection with the Viability Statement, the Directors considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Further detail is 
contained in the Strategic Report on pages 40 to 45.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Reckitt 
Benckiser Group plc, a company registered in the UK, and all its 
subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date. 
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by Reckitt 
Benckiser Group plc. Control exists where the Group is exposed to, or 
has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee 
and has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect  
its returns.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies have been eliminated on 
consolidation. Unrealised losses have also been eliminated to the extent 
that they do not represent an impairment of a transferred asset. 
Subsidiaries’ accounting policies have been changed where necessary 
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Foreign Currency Translation
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Group’s 
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency).  
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which 
is the Group’s presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign 
currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange 
rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are recognised in the Income Statement, except where 
hedge accounting is applied.
The Financial Statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are 
translated into Sterling on the following basis:
• Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year  
end date. 
• Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for  
the year. 
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment 
in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments 
designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity on 
consolidation.
Business Combinations
The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries. Identifiable net assets acquired (including intangibles) in  
a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the 
acquisition date.
Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets 
acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the 
combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values. Final 
fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date and 
retrospectively applied.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-
controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets 
(including intangibles), liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is 
recorded as goodwill.
The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets 
given, equity instruments issued (if any), and liabilities assumed or 
incurred at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated 
Financial Statements from the acquisition date. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 103
For acquisitions before 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess 
of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities with acquisition related costs 
capitalised as part of the cost of acquisition.
Disposal of Subsidiaries
The financial performance of subsidiaries is included in the Group 
results up to the point the Group ceases to have control over that 
subsidiary. Any amounts previously recognised in Other Comprehensive 
Income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had 
directly disposed of related assets and liabilities. This may mean 
amounts previously recognised in Other Comprehensive Income are 
reclassified to the Income Statement.
Non-Controlling Interests
On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis the non-controlling interest is 
measured at either fair value or a proportionate share of the acquiree’s 
net assets.
Purchases from non-controlling interests are accounted for as 
transactions with the owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised 
as a result of such transactions.
Revenue
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the Income 
Statement when the risks and rewards of ownership of the products 
are passed to the customer.
Net Revenue is defined as the amount invoiced to external customers 
during the year and comprises gross sales net of trade spend, customer 
allowances for credit notes, returns and consumer coupons. The 
methodology and assumptions used to estimate credit notes, returns 
and consumer coupons are monitored and adjusted regularly in light of 
contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and 
projected market conditions.
Trade spend, which consists primarily of customer pricing allowances, 
placement/listing fees and promotional allowances, is governed by sales 
agreements with our trade customers (retailers and distributors). 
Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect 
the expected promotional activity and our historical experience. These 
accruals are reported within Trade and Other Payables.
Net Revenue also includes royalty income arising from the licensed use 
of our brands recognised on an accruals basis.
Value Added Tax and other sales taxes are excluded from Net Revenue.
Operating Segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the 
internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision-Maker 
(CODM). The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and 
assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified 
as the Executive Committee.
Exceptional Items
Where material, non-recurring expenses or income are incurred during 
a period, these items are disclosed as exceptional items in the Income 
Statement. Examples of such items are:
• Restructuring and other expenses relating to the integration of an 
acquired business and related expenses for reconfiguration of the 
Group’s activities. 
• Impairments of current and non-current assets. 
• Gains/losses on disposal of businesses. 
• Acquisition-related costs. 
• Costs arising as a result of material and non-recurring regulatory 
and litigation matters. 
The Group also presents an alternative adjusted earnings per share 
calculation to exclude the impact of the exceptional items.
Management believes that the use of adjusted measures such as 
adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income and adjusted earnings 
per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends to 
Shareholders.
Research and Development
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is 
incurred, unless it meets the requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised 
and then amortised over the useful life of the developed product.
Income Tax
Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred 
tax. Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised in Other Comprehensive 
Income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in 
Other Comprehensive Income or directly in equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the 
year, using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction, or substantively 
enacted, at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable 
in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 
deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition 
of an asset or liability in a transaction (other than a business 
combination) that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss 
at that time. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date 
and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset or liability is 
settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries except where the investor is able to control 
the timing of temporary differences and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction are 
offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and where there is an intention to 
settle these balances on a net basis.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries since 4 January 1998 is 
included in intangible assets. Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 
this date has not been reinstated. Goodwill is allocated to the cash 
generating unit (CGU), or group of CGUs, to which it relates and is 
tested annually for impairment. Goodwill is carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses.
(ii) Brands
Separately acquired brands are shown at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment. Brands acquired as part of a business 
combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date, where 
they are separately identifiable. Brands are amortised over their useful 
economic life, except when their life is determined as being indefinite.
1 Accounting Policies continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 104
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due 
to the stable long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature 
of the brands. A core element of the Group’s strategy is to invest in 
building its brands through an ongoing programme of product 
innovation and increasing marketing investment. Within the Group,  
a brand typically comprises an assortment of base products and more 
innovative products. Both contribute to the enduring nature of the 
brand. The base products establish the long-term positioning of the 
brand while a succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer 
interest and attention. Indefinite life brands are allocated to the cash 
generating units to which they relate and are tested annually  
for impairment.
A review of the useful economic life of brands is performed annually, to 
ensure that these lives are still appropriate. If a brand is considered to 
have a finite life, its carrying value is amortised over that period.
(iii) Distribution Rights
Payments made in respect of product registration, acquired and 
reacquired distribution rights are capitalised where the rights comply 
with the above requirements for recognition of acquired brands. If the 
registration or distribution rights are for a defined time period, the 
intangible asset is amortised over that period. If no time period  
is defined, the intangible asset is treated in the same way as  
acquired brands.
(iv) Software
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised at cost. These 
costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of seven years 
for Enterprise Resource Planning systems and five years or less for all 
other software licences.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment, with the exception of freehold land, 
which is shown at cost less impairment. Cost includes expenditure that 
is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Except for 
freehold land and assets under construction, the cost of property, plant 
and equipment is written off on a straight-line basis over the period of 
the expected useful life of the asset. For this purpose, expected lives are 
determined within the following limits:
• Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years; 
• Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of the 
lease; and 
• Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years (except for 
environmental assets which are not more than 20 years). 
In general, production plant and equipment and office equipment are 
written off over ten years or less; motor vehicles and computer 
equipment over five years or less.
Assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if 
necessary, at each Balance Sheet date. Property, plant and equipment 
are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be appropriate. Freehold 
land is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are 
determined by comparing the asset’s carrying value with any sale 
proceeds, and are included in the Income Statement.
Leases
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as 
finance leases. Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at lease 
inception at the lower of the asset’s fair value and the present value of 
the minimum lease payments. Obligations related to finance leases, net 
of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as 
appropriate within borrowings. The interest element of the finance cost 
is charged to the Income Statement over the life of the lease so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability for each period. Leased property, plant and equipment 
are depreciated on the same basis as owned plant and equipment or 
over the life of the lease, if shorter.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership are classified as operating leases. Operating lease rentals 
(net of any related lease incentives) are charged against profit on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Impairment of Assets
Assets that have indefinite lives, including goodwill, are tested annually 
for impairment at the level where cash flows are considered to be 
largely independent. This is at either a CGU level, or as a group of 
CGUs. All assets are tested for impairment if there is an event or 
circumstance that indicates that their carrying value may not be 
recoverable. If an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount 
an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement. The 
recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs  
of disposal and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated with reference to the future cash flows 
expected to be generated by an asset (or group of assets where cash 
flows are not identifiable to specific assets). The pre-tax discount rate 
used in asset impairment reviews is based on a weighted average cost 
of capital for comparable companies operating in similar markets and 
geographies as the Group including, where appropriate, an adjustment 
for the specific risks associated with the relevant CGU.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of 
overhead expenses (based on normal operating capacity) required to 
get the inventory to its present location and condition. Inventory 
valuation is determined on a first in, first out (FIFO) basis. Net realisable 
value represents the estimated selling price less applicable selling 
expenses.
Trade Receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently 
held at amortised cost, less provision for impairment. If there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the full 
amount of the receivable, an impairment is recognised through the 
Income Statement. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, 
probability that a debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial 
reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered 
indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The impairment is 
calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the 
receivable and the present value of the related estimated future cash 
flows, discounted at the original interest rate.
1 Accounting Policies continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 105
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and other deposits 
with a maturity of less than three months when deposited.
For the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement, bank overdrafts that form 
an integral part of the Group’s cash management, and are repayable on 
demand, are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Other bank overdrafts are included within short-term borrowings in the 
Balance Sheet.
Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less 
attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the 
Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective 
interest basis.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activity
The Group may use derivatives to manage its exposures to fluctuating 
interest and foreign exchange rates. These instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising 
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is 
designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item 
being hedged. Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are treated 
as a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge).
At inception the relationship between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item is documented, as is an assessment of the effectiveness of 
the derivative instrument used in the hedging transaction in offsetting 
changes in the cash flow of the hedged item. This effectiveness 
assessment is repeated on an ongoing basis during the life of the 
hedging instrument to ensure that the instrument remains an effective 
hedge of the transaction.
1. Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the effective portion of 
changes in the fair value is recognised in Other Comprehensive 
Income. Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the Income Statement. 
 Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income are recycled 
to the Income Statement in the period when the hedged item will 
affect profit or loss. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or 
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
gain or loss existing in Other Comprehensive Income at that time 
remains in Other Comprehensive Income, and is recognised when 
the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income 
Statement. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the cumulative gain or loss in Other Comprehensive Income  
is immediately transferred to the Income Statement. 
2. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are 
classified at fair value through profit or loss. All changes in fair value 
of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. 
Net Investment Hedges
Gains and losses on those hedging instruments designated as hedges 
of the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income to the extent that the hedging relationship is 
effective. Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency 
translation reserve are included in the Income Statement when the 
foreign operation is disposed of.
Employee Share Schemes
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share 
option and restricted share schemes which vest in accordance with 
non-market conditions. 
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled 
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments 
that will eventually vest. At each Balance Sheet date, the Group revises 
its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The 
impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in 
profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised 
estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are 
charged, including social security taxes, to the Income Statement over 
the same period with a corresponding liability recognised. 
The proceeds received from the exercise of share options, net of any 
directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and 
share premium when the options are exercised.
Pension Commitments
Group companies operate defined contribution and (funded and 
unfunded) defined benefit pension plans.
The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members of 
defined contribution plans is charged to the Income Statement as 
contributions are made. The Group has no further payment obligations 
once the contributions have been paid.
The deficit or surplus recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of 
defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date, less the fair value of the 
plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The 
present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash flows by the yield on high-quality 
corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid, and that have a maturity approximating to the terms of the 
pension obligations. The costs of providing these defined benefit plans 
are accrued over the period of employment. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised immediately in Other Comprehensive Income.
Where individual pension schemes have an IAS19 surplus this has been 
recognised as an asset based on an assessment of the likelihood of 
recovery of the pension asset.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The net interest amount is calculated by applying the discounted rate 
used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the 
period to the net defined benefit liability/asset.
The net pension plan interest is presented as finance income/expense.
Post-Retirement Benefits Other than Pensions
Some Group companies provide post-retirement medical care to their 
retirees. The costs of providing these benefits are accrued over the 
period of employment and the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 
is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted 
to its present value and the fair value of any related asset is deducted.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is more likely than 
not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation; 
and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are valued at the 
present value of the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date.
1 Accounting Policies continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 106
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Share Capital Transactions
When the Group purchases equity share capital, the amount of the 
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as 
a change in equity. Purchased shares are either held in Treasury, in 
order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to 
maintain capital, an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the 
shares cancelled would be transferred from retained earnings to the 
capital redemption reserve.
Dividend Distribution
Dividends to owners of the Parent Company are recognised as a liability 
in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s 
Shareholders. Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which 
they are approved and paid.
Dividend payments are recorded at fair value. Where non-cash dividend 
payments are made, gains or losses arising as a result of fair value 
remeasurements are recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
Accounting Estimates and Judgements
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies the Directors are 
required to make a number of judgements, estimates and assumptions 
about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered 
to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing 
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or 
in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods. Where there are estimates and 
judgements disclosed together these have been included in the critical 
judgements section below.
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies 
The following are the critical judgements, that the Directors have made 
in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, that have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group’s 
Financial Statements. 
• The Group recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the 
Group’s provisions policy. The level of provisioning for regulatory 
civil and/or criminal investigation is an issue where management and 
legal judgement is important (Note 17). These are valued based on 
the Directors’ best estimates taking into account all available 
information, external advice and historical experience. 
• The Group has identified matters which may incur liabilities in the 
future, but do not recognise these where it is too early to determine 
the likely outcome or make a reliable estimate.
• The continuing enduring nature of the Group’s brands supports the 
indefinite life assumption of these assets (refer to Note 9). 
• The actual tax paid on profits is determined based on tax laws and 
regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates. Assumptions are made in applying these laws to 
the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax 
charge for that period. Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is 
different to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be 
charged or credited to the income statement in the period in which 
it is determined (refer to Note 7). 
• Assumptions are made as to the recoverability of tax assets 
especially as to whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits 
in the same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in future years (refer to 
Note 11). 
• The Group is subject to tax audits and uncertainties in a number of 
jurisdictions. The issues involved can be complex and disputes may 
take a number of years to resolve. Each uncertainty is separately 
assessed and the provision recognised depends on the specific 
context of each case. The accounting estimates and judgements 
considered include: 
 – Status of the unresolved matter; 
 – Strength of technical argument and clarity of legislation; 
 – External advice; 
 – Resolution process, past experience and precedence set with the 
particular taxing authority; 
 – Agreements previously reached in other jurisdictions on 
comparable issues; and 
 – Statute of limitations. 
Management is of the opinion that the carrying values of the liabilities 
recognised in respect of these matters represent the most accurate 
measurement once all facts and circumstances have been taken into 
account. The liabilities are included in amounts disclosed in Note 21. 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that may have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are 
discussed below: 
• Estimates of future business performance and cash generation, 
discount rates and long-term growth rates supporting the net book 
amount of indefinite life intangible assets at the balance sheet date 
(refer to Note 9). If the actual results should differ, or changes in 
expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which 
would adversely impact operating results. 
• Measurement of intangible assets both in business combinations 
and other asset acquisitions requires the Group to identify such 
assets. Assumptions and estimates are made about future cash 
flows and appropriate discount rates to value identified intangible 
assets (refer to Note 27). 
• The Group provides for amounts payable to our trade customers for 
promotional activity. Where a promotional activity spans across the 
year end, an accrual is reflected in the consolidated Financial 
Statements based on our estimation of customer and consumer 
uptake during the promotional period and the extent to which 
temporary promotional activity has occurred. Details of trade spend 
accrued as at year end are provided in Note 20. 
• The value of the Group’s defined benefit pension plan obligations 
are dependent on a number of key assumptions. These include 
assumptions over the rate of increase in pensionable salaries, the 
discount rate to be applied, the level of inflation and the life 
expectancy of the schemes members. Details of the key assumptions 
and the sensitivity of the principal schemes carrying value to 
changes in the assumptions are set out in Note 22. 
1 Accounting Policies continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 107
2 Operating Segments
The Executive Committee is the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’). Management has determined the operating segments based on 
the reports reviewed by the Executive Committee for the purposes of making strategic decisions and assessing performance. The Executive 
Committee considers the business principally from a geographical perspective, but with Food being managed separately given the significantly 
different nature of this business and the associated risks and rewards.
In February 2015, the Group announced the reorganisation of its geographical segments into a revised ENA and DvM. ENA comprises Europe, 
Russia/CIS, Israel, North America, Australia and New Zealand. DvM principally comprises North Africa, Middle East (excluding Israel) and Turkey, 
Africa, South Asia, North Asia, Latin America, Japan, Korea and ASEAN. Comparative information has been restated on a consistent basis.
The geographical segments derive their revenue primarily from the sale of branded products in the Health, Hygiene and Home categories. Food 
derives its revenue from food products primarily sold in ENA countries.
The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on Net Revenue from external customers and Adjusted 
operating profit. Intercompany transactions between operating segments are eliminated. Finance income and expense are not allocated to 
segments, as they are managed on a central Group basis.
The segment information provided to the Executive Committee for the operating segments for the year ended 31 December is as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2015
ENA
£m
DvM
£m
Food
£m
Total
£m
Net Revenue 5,830 2,695 349 8,874
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 104 62 5 171
Adjusted operating profit 1,744 528 102 2,374
Exceptional items (133)
Operating profit 2,241
Net finance expense (33)
Profit before income tax 2,208
Year ended 31 December 2014
1
ENA
£m
DvM
£m
Food
£m
Total
£m
Net Revenue 5,891 2,629 316 8,836
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 96 61 4 161
Adjusted operating profit 1,640 460 85 2,185
Exceptional items (21)
Operating profit 2,164
Net finance expense (38)
Profit before income tax 2,126
1. As a result of the Group reorganisation, the Group has restated comparative information to reflect results under the new operating structure consistent with reporting to the  
Executive Committee. 
The Executive Committee reviews net working capital by segment and other assets and liabilities on a Group basis. The split of assets and liabilities 
by segment provided to the Executive Committee is shown below. Assets and liabilities not presented to the Executive Committee are shown below 
as a reconciling item.
2015
ENA
£m
DvM
£m
Food
£m
Total
£m
Inventories 491 208 22 721
Trade and other receivables 785 474 29 1,288
Total segment assets 1,276 682 51 2,009
Trade and other payables (1,745) (912) (58) (2,715)
2014
1
ENA
£m
DvM
£m
Food
£m
Total
£m
Inventories 494 252 20 766
Trade and other receivables 821 448 25 1,294
Total segment assets 1,315 700 45 2,060
Trade and other payables (1,754) (812) (64) (2,630)
1. As a result of the Group reorganisation, the Group has restated comparative information to reflect results under the new operating structure consistent with reporting to the  
Executive Committee. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 108
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
The assets and liabilities are reported based upon the operations of the segment and the physical location of the asset or liability. There are a 
number of Group assets and liabilities that are not specifically attributable to one segment. Reconciliation of these assets and liabilities to total 
assets or liabilities in the Balance Sheet is shown below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Inventories for operating segments 721 766
Unallocated:
Group adjustments (40) (21)
Total inventories per the Balance Sheet 681 745
Trade and other receivables for operating segments 1,288 1,294
Unallocated:
Group items 43 13
Total trade and other receivables per the Balance Sheet 1,331 1,307
Total inventories and trade and other receivables per the Balance Sheet 2,012 2,052
Other unallocated assets 13,256 13,444
Total assets per the Balance Sheet 15,268 15,496
Trade and other payables for operating segments (2,715) (2,630)
Unallocated:
Group items (233) (253)
Total trade and other payables per the Balance Sheet (2,948) (2,883)
Other unallocated liabilities (5,414) (5,779)
Total liabilities per the Balance Sheet (8,362) (8,662)
Group adjustments to inventory relate to the elimination of intercompany profit on inventory.
Unallocated assets include goodwill and intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred and current tax, available for sale assets, 
retirement benefit surplus, other receivables, derivative financial assets, and cash and cash equivalents. Unallocated liabilities include borrowings, 
provisions for liabilities and charges, current and deferred tax liabilities, other liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
2 Operating Segments continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 109
The Company is domiciled in the UK. The split of Net Revenue from external customers and Non-Current Assets (other than financial instruments, 
deferred tax assets and retirement benefit surplus assets) between the UK, the US (being the single biggest country outside the country of domicile) 
and that from all other countries is:
2015
UK
£m
US
£m
All other
countries
£m
Total
£m
Net revenue from continuing operations 729 2,338 5,807 8,874
Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,916 4,710 4,670 11,296
Property, plant and equipment 143 153 434 730
Other non-current receivables 12 38 190 240
2014
UK
£m
US
£m
All other
countries
£m
Total
£m
Net revenue from continuing operations 691 2,089 6,056 8,836
Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,823 4,455 4,974 11,252
Property, plant and equipment 140 147 470 757
Other non-current receivables 2 32 206 240
The Net Revenue from external customers reported on a geographical basis above is measured consistently with that in the operating segments. 
Major customers are typically large grocery chains, mass markets and multiple retailers. The Group’s customer base is diverse with no single 
external customer accounting for more than 10% of Net Revenue.
Analysis of Categories
The primary analysis within the information provided to the Executive Committee is based on geographical areas above. An analysis of Net Revenue 
by category is given below. 
Net Revenue
2015
£m
2014
£m
Continuing Operations
Health 2,942 2,701
Hygiene 3,589 3,627
Home 1,715 1,810
Portfolio Brands (including Food) 628 698
8,874 8,836
Health, Hygiene, Home and Portfolio Brands categories are all split across the two geographical segments of ENA and DvM. Food is sold primarily in 
ENA but is recognised within a separate operating segment.
2 Operating Segments continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 110
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses
2015
£m
2014
£m
Distribution costs (2,165) (2,251)
Research and development (140) (146)
Other (575) (528)
Total administrative expenses (715) (674)
Other net operating income 8 14
Exceptional items (133) (21)
Net operating expenses (3,005) (2,932)
Net foreign exchange losses of £7 million (2014: £8 million) have been recognised through the Income Statement. These amounts exclude foreign 
exchange gains and losses recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Exceptional Items
2015
£m
2014
£m
Acquisition, integration and restructuring costs 76 62
Loss on disposal of subsidiary 57 –
Gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment – (41)
Total exceptional items 133 21
During the year, the Group incurred an exceptional charge of £133 million (2014: £21 million) included within operating expenses, in respect of  
the following:
• £76 million (2014: £62 million) of costs in relation to the ongoing restructuring of the Group’s operations, and the integration of recent 
acquisitions. Costs incurred in both the current and prior year consist primarily of redundancy, legal and professional fees and business 
integration costs.
• £57 million (2014: £nil) loss on disposal of Medcom-MP, the entity owning the Russian hospital business. This included a loss of £33 million 
arising from the recycling, from equity, of previous exchange losses arising on consolidation of the legal entity sold (Note 27).
• £nil (2014: £41 million) a one-off gain arising on a material disposal of fixed assets in relation to Group restructuring. 
4 Auditors’ Remuneration
During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s Auditor and its associates.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Audit services pursuant to legislation:
Audit of the Group’s Annual Report and Financial Statements 2.0 1.7
Audit of the Financial Statements of the Group’s subsidiaries 3.6 4.1
Audit related assurance services 0.2 2.7
Total audit and audit related services 5.8 8.5
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and its associates for other services:
Taxation compliance services 0.1 0.2
Taxation advisory services 1.2 2.1
Other assurance services 0.1 –
All other non-audit services – –
Total non-audit services 1.4 2.3
7.2 10.8
Included within Audit of the Financial Statements of the Group’s subsidiaries is £0.2 million (2014: £0.2 million) in relation to the audit of the 
Financial Statements of associated pension plans of the Group. In 2014, £0.1 million related to the audit of RB Pharmaceuticals and a further £2.3 
million audit-related assurance services for the demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 111
5 Employees
Staff Costs
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
The total employment costs, including Directors, were:
Wages and salaries 923 966
Social security costs 158 178
Other pension costs 22 27 46
Share-based payments 24 50 55
1,158 1,245
In 2014, included within staff costs is £86 million incurred in respect of the pharmaceutical business. This amount is included within Net Income 
from discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement.
Details of Directors’ Emoluments are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 84, which forms part of the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements.
Compensation awarded to key management (the Executive Committee) was:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 17 12
Post-employment benefits 1 1
Share-based payments 22 20
Termination benefits – 1
40 34
Termination benefits and share-based payments include contractual commitments made to key management in 2015, comprising cash payments 
and share awards.
 
Staff Numbers
The monthly average number of people employed by the Group, including Directors, during the year was:
2015
‘000
2014
1
‘000
Continuing operations
ENA 15.5 17.6
DvM 18.0 17.7
Other 1.2 1.2
Discontinued operations
RB Pharmaceuticals – 0.7
34.7 37.2
1 2014 restated for new operating segments. 
6 Net Finance Expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finance income
Interest income on cash and cash equivalents 21 27
Total finance income 21 27
Finance expense
Interest payable on borrowings (36) (38)
Net pension plan interest (8) (8)
Amortisation of issue costs of bank loans (5) (8)
Other finance expense (5) (11)
Total finance expense (54) (65)
Net finance expense (33) (38) RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 112
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
7 Income Tax Expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax 483 549
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 92 (22)
Total current tax 575 527
Origination and reversal of temporary differences and adjustments in respect of prior periods (48) (65)
Impact of changes in tax rates (64) –
Total deferred tax (Note 11) (112) (65)
Income tax expense 463 462
Current tax includes tax incurred by UK entities of £75 million (2014: £73 million). This is comprised of UK corporation tax of £53 million (2014:  
£37 million) and overseas tax suffered of £22 million (2014: £36 million). UK current tax is calculated at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) of the estimated 
assessable profit for the year, net of relief for overseas taxes where available. Taxation in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the 
relevant jurisdictions.
The deferred tax impact of changes in tax rates of £64 million primarily relates to the enactment of reductions in the future UK corporation rate 
from 20% to 18%. This results in a reduction in closing deferred tax liabilities.
Origination and reversal of temporary differences and adjustments in respect of prior periods includes adjustments in respect of prior periods of 
£14 million (2014: £29 million).
The total tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit before income tax 2,208 2,126
Tax at the notional UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 447 457
Effects of:
Tax at rates other than the UK corporation tax rate (145) (177)
Adjustments to amounts carried in respect of unresolved tax matters 51 126
Incurrence of tax losses 5 1
Withholding and local taxes 13 22
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 106 7
Impact of changes in tax rates (64) –
Exceptional items 19 (3)
Other permanent differences 31 29
Income tax expense 463 462
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for the 
year ended 31 December 2015 are reconciled to an effective UK rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%).
The tax charge is expected to be impacted by items in the nature of those listed above for the foreseeable future.
The tax (charge)/credit relating to components of other comprehensive (expense)/income is as follows:
2015 2014
Before tax
£m
Tax credit/
(charge)
£m
After tax
£m
Before tax
£m
Tax credit
£m
After tax
£m
Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation (124) – (124) (191) – (191)
Gains/(losses) on cash flow and net investment hedges (34) (1) (35) (148) – (148)
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on demerger or 
disposal of foreign operations (Note 3) 33 – 33 (3) – (3)
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans (Note 22) 63 (17) 46 (105) 30 (75)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income (62) (18) (80) (447) 30 (417)
Current tax 4 –
Deferred tax (Note 11) (22) 30
(18) 30
The tax related to share-based payments credited/(charged) directly to the Statement of Changes in Equity during the year is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax 5 14
Deferred tax (Note 11) 8 (43)
13 (29) Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 113
8 Earnings per Share
2015
pence
2014
pence
Basic earnings per share
From continuing operations 244.4 230.7
From discontinued operations – 216.4
Total basic earnings per share 244.4 447.1
Diluted earnings per share
From continuing operations 240.9 227.6
From discontinued operations – 213.5
Total diluted earnings per share 240.9 441.1
Adjusted basic earnings per share
From continuing operations 262.4 233.6
From discontinued operations – 38.6
Total adjusted basic earnings per share 262.4 272.2
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
From continuing operations 258.6 230.5
From discontinued operations – 38.0
Total adjusted diluted earnings per share 258.6 268.5
Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations (2015: £1,743 
million; 2014: £1,663 million) and discontinued operations (2015: £nil; 2014: £1,560 million) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in 
issue during the year (2015: 713,063,230; 2014: 720,823,744).
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potentially 
dilutive ordinary shares. The Company has the following categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: Executive Share Awards (including 
Executive Share Options and Executive Restricted Share Scheme Awards) and Employee Sharesave Scheme Options. The options only dilute earnings 
when they result in the issue of shares at a value below the market price of the share and when all performance criteria (if applicable) have been 
met. As at 31 December 2015, there were 4 million (2014: 4 million) Executive Share Awards excluded from the dilution because the exercise price 
for the options was greater than the average share price for the year.
2015
Average
number of
shares
2014
Average
number of
shares
On a basic basis 713,063,230 720,823,744
Dilution for Executive Share Awards 9,680,716 9,035,862
Dilution for Employee Sharesave Scheme Options outstanding 802,516 880,704
On a diluted basis 723,546,462 730,740,310
Adjusted Earnings
The Directors believe that diluted earnings per ordinary share, adjusted for the impact of exceptional items after the appropriate tax amount, 
provides additional useful information on underlying trends to Shareholders in respect of earnings per ordinary share.
Details of the Adjusted Net Income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing and discontinued operations are as follows:
Continuing operations
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 1,743 1,663
Exceptional items 133 21
Tax effect of exceptional items (5) –
Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 1,871 1,684
Discontinued operations
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net income attributable to owners of the parent from discontinued operations – 1,560
Exceptional gain on non-cash dividend – (1,282)
Tax effect of exceptional items – –
Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent from discontinued operations – 278 RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 114
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Brands
£m
Goodwill
£m
Software
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 7,717 3,312 76 283 11,388
Additions 1 – 26 15 42
Arising on business combinations 304 23 – – 327
Disposals (33) – (4) – (37)
Divested upon demerger – – – (179) (179)
Exchange adjustments (51) (53) (1) (4) (109)
At 31 December 2014 7,938 3,282 97 115 11,432
Additions – – 25 – 25
Arising on business combinations – 6 – – 6
Disposals – – (1) – (1)
Exchange adjustments 31 15 – (8) 38
At 31 December 2015 7,969 3,303 121 107 11,500
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 86 27 20 114 247
Amortisation and impairment charge 3 – 8 33 44
Disposals – – (4) – (4)
Divested upon demerger – – – (102) (102)
Exchange adjustments – (3) (1) (1) (5)
At 31 December 2014 89 24 23 44 180
Amortisation and impairment charge 3 – 15 15 33
Disposals – – (1) – (1)
Exchange adjustments – (3) – (5) (8)
At 31 December 2015 92 21 37 54 204
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 7,849 3,258 74 71 11,252
At 31 December 2015 7,877 3,282 84 53 11,296
The amount stated for brands represents the fair value of brands acquired since 1985 at the date of acquisition. Other includes product registration, 
and distribution rights.
Software includes intangible assets under construction of £14 million (2014: £7 million).
Included within the 2014 amortisation and impairment charge for the year is £15 million relating to the pharmaceutical business. These amounts 
are included within Net Income from discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement.
The majority of brands, all of goodwill and certain other intangibles are considered to have indefinite lives for the reasons noted in the Accounting 
Policies and therefore are subject to an annual impairment review. A number of small non-core brands are deemed to have a finite life and are 
amortised accordingly.
The net book amounts of indefinite and finite life intangible assets are as follows:
Net book amount
2015
£m
2014
£m
Indefinite life assets:
Brands 7,857 7,826
Goodwill 3,282 3,258
Other 40 40
Total indefinite life assets 11,179 11,124
Finite life assets:
Brands 20 23
Software 84 74
Other 13 31
Total finite life assets 117 128
Total net book amount of intangible assets 11,296 11,252
Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are allocated to either individual cash generating units (‘CGUs’), or groups of cash 
generating units (together ‘GCGUs’). The goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at the level at which 
identifiable cash inflows are largely independent. Generally this is at a GCGU level, but for certain intangible assets this is at a CGU level. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 115
Cash Generating Units
After considering all the evidence available, including how brand and production assets generate cash inflows and how management monitors the 
business, the Directors have concluded that for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets, the Group’s GCGUs are as 
follows: Health, Hygiene, Home, and Food.
During the year, the integration of K-Y into the Sexual Wellbeing CGU has largely been completed. As a result, K-Y is tested as part of this CGU. 
Separate impairment testing was performed immediately prior to integration, at which point it was demonstrated that each CGU held a value in use 
in excess of its carrying value. 
An analysis of the net book value of indefinite life assets and goodwill by GCGU is shown below:
GCGU Powerbrands
2015 2014
Indefinite
life assets
£m
Goodwill
£m
Total
£m
Indefinite
life assets
£m
Goodwill
£m
Total
£m
Health
1
Durex, Gaviscon, Mucinex, Nurofen, Scholl, Strepsils 5,937 3,091 9,028 5,928 3,066 8,994
Hygiene Bang, Clearasil, Dettol, Finish, Harpic, Lysol, Mortein, 
Veet 1,175 146 1,321 1,156 147 1,303
Home
2
Air Wick, Calgon, Vanish, Woolite 751 45 796 750 45 795
Food French’s 34 – 34 32 – 32
7,897 3,282 11,179 7,866 3,258 11,124
1. Within the Health GCGU, the cash flows in relation to certain groups of brands are separately identifiable. As a result, the carrying value of these brand-related intangible assets, in 
conjunction with associated property, plant and equipment, have been tested for impairment as CGUs. This is in addition to the impairment testing over goodwill and indefinite life assets for 
the wider GCGU. The CGUs tested separately are shown below, all of which fall under the Health GCGU in the above table. 
2. Includes Portfolio Brands.
Carrying Value of CGU
2015
£m
2014
£m
Sexual Wellbeing 2,041 1,793
K–Y – 304
Oriental Pharma 118 117
VMS 892 844
Indefinite life assets relating to the Food GCGU are not considered significant relative to the Group’s total indefinite life assets. As such the 
disclosures below do not include discussion on the assumptions specific to Food.
Annual Impairment Review
The annual impairment review of goodwill and indefinite life assets is based on an assessment of each GCGU’s or CGU’s value in use. Value in use is 
calculated from cash flow projections, based on historical operating results, short-term budgets, and medium-term business plans, which have each 
been approved by management and covers a five-year period. These projections exclude any estimated future cash inflows or outflows expected to 
arise from restructuring not yet implemented.
The value in use calculation is based on the following key assumptions used in the cash flow projections:
• Net Revenue growth based upon forecast future sales volumes and prices, which take account of the expected impact from committed new 
product initiatives, geographical expansion and the maturity of the markets in which each GCGU or CGU operates; 
• Gross Margin based on historical experience adjusted for the impact of forecast production costs, cost optimisation initiatives and changes in 
product mix; and 
• Marketing and other expenditure, reflecting historical experience, expected levels of cost inflation, committed cost saving initiatives and future 
levels of marketing support required to sustain, grow and further innovate brands. 
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rates stated below. The long-term growth rates 
applied do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the products and markets in which the GCGU or CGU operates.
Management has assessed the appropriate discount rate to apply to the cash flow projections for each individual GCGU and CGU. This has been 
done using a Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) for comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as the Group, 
adjusted for risks specific to each GCGU and CGU.
Due to the wide geographic and product diversification of their respective markets, and the diverse risks associated with a number of GCGUs and 
CGUs, a pre-tax discount rate of 10% was determined for each of the Health, Hygiene and Home GCGUs as well as the Sexual Wellbeing CGU 
(2014: 11%).
The VMS and Oriental Pharma CGUs are predominantly concentrated in single markets, being the US and China respectively. A pre-tax discount 
rate of 13% (2014: 14%) was therefore applied to VMS and 12% (2014: 14%) was applied to Oriental Pharma, to reflect the risks specific to  
these businesses.
9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 116
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
2015 2014
GCGU/CGU
Terminal 
growth rate %
Pre-tax 
discount 
rate %
Terminal growth 
rate %
Pre-tax discount 
rate %
Health 1–4 10 0–4 11
Hygiene 0–4 10 0–4 11
Home 0–2 10 0–2 11
Sexual Wellbeing 4 10 4 11
Oriental Pharma 4 12 4 14
VMS 3 13 3 14
Following the Group’s annual impairment review, no impairments have been identified.
Any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts of the Health, Hygiene and Home GCGUs, or the 
Sexual Wellbeing CGU, are based would not imply possible impairments.
With a value in use exceeding its carrying value by £106 million (12%) (2014: £116 million, 14%), the VMS CGU is sensitive to reasonably possible 
changes in key assumptions. The sensitivity of the recoverable amount has been assessed to identify the impact of reasonably possible changes in 
assumptions. If all other assumptions were held constant, a reduction in assumed growth rates in the first five years by 20% of those forecast 
would lead to a reduction in the value in use of this CGU of £61 million. In addition, a further reduction of 100 bps in the terminal growth rate 
would result in an additional reduction in the value in use of £67 million. Applying these sensitivities together would result in the carrying value  
of this CGU exceeding its value in use by £22 million.
The value in use of the Oriental Pharma CGU is equal to its carrying value, and as such is also sensitive to changes in key assumptions. If all other 
assumptions were held constant, a reduction in assumed growth rates in the first five years by 20% of that forecast would lead to a reduction in 
the value in use of this CGU of £19 million. In addition, a further reduction of 100 bps in the terminal growth rate would result in an additional 
reduction in the value in use of £9 million. Applying these sensitivities together would result in the carrying value of this CGU exceeding its value  
in use by £28 million.
10 Property, Plant and Equipment
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 576 1,322 1,898
Additions 7 151 158
Disposals (30) (50) (80)
Divested upon demerger – (18) (18)
Reclassifications 22 (22) –
Exchange adjustments (44) (193) (237)
At 31 December 2014 531 1,190 1,721
Additions 15 139 154
Disposals (10) (60) (70)
Reclassifications 39 (39) –
Exchange adjustments (17) (64) (81)
At 31 December 2015 558 1,166 1,724
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 224 913 1,137
Charge for the year 26 107 133
Disposals (20) (41) (61)
Divested upon demerger – (14) (14)
Exchange adjustments (39) (192) (231)
At 31 December 2014 191 773 964
Charge for the year 30 107 137
Disposals (8) (50) (58)
Impairment losses 5 5 10
Exchange adjustments (8) (51) (59)
At 31 December 2015 210 784 994
Net book value
As at 31 December 2014 340 417 757
As at 31 December 2015 348 382 730
The net book amount of assets under construction is £57 million (2014: £78 million). Assets under construction are included within plant and 
equipment and are not depreciated.
9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 117
The reclassification from plant and equipment to land and buildings of £39 million (2014: £22 million) shows the transfer of completed assets.
Impairment losses of £10 million (2014: £nil) have been charged to exceptional items as they relate to ongoing restructuring of the  
Group’s operations.
Capital expenditure which was contracted but not capitalised at 31 December 2015 was £44 million (2014: £27 million).
11 Deferred Tax
Deferred tax assets
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m
Intangible
assets
£m
Short-term
temporary
differences
£m
Tax losses
£m
Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 9 (13) 43 – 8 47
(Charged)/credited to the Income Statement (1) 4 11 – – 14
Credited to Other Comprehensive Income – – – – 4 4
Exchange differences (1) (1) (2) – – (4)
At 31 December 2014 7 (10) 52 – 12 61
(Charged)/credited to the Income Statement – (13) 22 – – 9
Charged to Other Comprehensive Income – – (6) – – (6)
Exchange differences – 3 (9) – (1) (7)
At 31 December 2015 7 (20) 59 – 11 57
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m
Intangible
assets
£m
Short-term
temporary
differences
£m
Tax losses
£m
Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 20 2,024 (276) (10) (56) 1,702
(Credited)/charged to the Income Statement (6) (1) (55) – 14 (48)
Credited to Other Comprehensive Income – – – – (26) (26)
Charged directly to equity – – 43 – – 43
Arising on demerger – (4) 54 – – 50
Exchange differences 1 21 8 – (2) 28
At 31 December 2014 15 2,040 (226) (10) (70) 1,749
(Credited)/charged to the Income Statement (1) (66) (45) (1) 10 (103)
(Credited)/charged to Other Comprehensive Income – – (3) – 19 16
Credited directly to equity – – (8) – – (8)
Arising on acquisition – 6 – – – 6
Exchange differences – 37 (2) – (3) 32
At 31 December 2015 14 2,017 (284) (11) (44) 1,692
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Certain deferred tax assets in respect of corporation tax losses and other temporary differences totalling £98 million (2014: £137 million) have not 
been recognised at 31 December 2015 as the likelihood of future economic benefit is not sufficiently assured. These assets will be recognised if 
utilisation of the losses and other temporary differences becomes sufficiently probable.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as no tax is expected to be payable on them in the 
foreseeable future based on the current repatriation policy of the Group.
12 Inventories
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 144 157
Work in progress 23 28
Finished goods and goods held for resale 514 560
Total inventories 681 745
The total cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £3,431 million (2014: £3,526 million). This includes 
inventory write offs and losses of £51 million (2014: £58 million).
The Group inventory provision at 31 December 2015 was £63 million (2014: £81 million).
10 Property, Plant and Equipment continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 118
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
13 Trade and Other Receivables
Amounts falling due within one year
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 1,190 1,069
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (26) (33)
Trade receivables – net 1,164 1,036
Other receivables 129 233
Prepayments and accrued income 38 38
1,331 1,307
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Sterling 109 167
Euro 248 261
US dollar 359 236
Brazil real 89 95
Other currencies 526 548
1,331 1,307
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold 
any collateral as security.
a Trade Receivables
Trade receivables consist of a broad cross-section of our international customer base for whom there is no significant history of default. The credit 
risk of customers is assessed at a subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant 
factors. Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £126 million (2014: £72 million) were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis of trade 
receivables past due but not impaired is as follows:
Amounts past due but not impaired
2015
£m
2014
£m
Up to 3 months 126 72
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £55 million (2014: £70 million) were considered to be partially impaired. The amount of provision at 
31 December 2015 was £26 million (2014: £33 million). It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered due to the 
nature and historical collection of trade receivables. The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows:
Ageing analysis of amounts impaired
2015
£m
2014
£m
Up to 3 months 34 50
Over 3 months 21 20
55 70
The movement in the provision for impaired receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and unused 
provision released back to the Income Statement. The gross movements in the provision are considered to be insignificant.
b Other Receivables
Other Receivables include recoverable sales tax of £59 million (2014: £121 million). This contains £5 million (2014: £6 million) of impaired assets all 
aged over three months from a broad range of countries within the Group.
Other Non-Current Receivables
Non-current other receivables at 31 December 2015 were £240 million (2014: £240 million). This includes a prepayment of £143 million (2014: £194 
million) for an option to acquire legal title to intellectual property relating to our three year collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb entered into in 
May 2013 and exercisable at the end of the collaboration period in 2016, subject to certain payments. This is in addition to the £311 million upfront 
payment paid in 2013.
In addition, the balance includes an insurance receivable of £36 million (2014: £nil) in respect of a legal provision held by the Group (Note 17). The 
remaining balance relates to other non-current prepayments, and receivables due after one year. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 119
14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management
Financial Instruments by Category
At 31 December 2015
Loans and
receivables
£m
Derivatives
used for
hedging
£m
Fair value
through the
P&L
£m
Available
for sale
£m
Carrying
value
total
£m
Fair value
total
£m
Assets as per the Balance Sheet
Short-term deposits
1
– – – – – –
Trade and other receivables
2
1,328 – – – 1,328 1,328
Derivative financial instruments – FX forward exchange contracts – 38 83 – 121 121
Cash and cash equivalents 740 – – – 740 740
Derivatives
used for
hedging
£m
Fair value
through the
P&L
£m
Other financial
liabilities at
amortised cost
£m
Carrying
value
total
£m
Fair value
total
£m
Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet
Borrowings (excluding finance lease obligations and bond)
3
– – 1,748 1,748 1,748
US$1 billion bond (two tranches of US$500 million at 2.125% and 3.625% respectively)
4
– – 671 671 683
Finance lease obligations
3
– – 1 1 1
Derivative financial instruments – FX forward exchange contracts 19 3 – 22 22
Trade and other payables
5,6
– – 2,801 2,801 2,801
Other non-current liabilities
5
– – 2 2 2
At 31 December 2014
Loans and
receivables
£m
Derivatives
used for
hedging
£m
Fair value
through the
P&L
£m
Available
for sale
£m
Carrying
value
total
£m
Fair value
total
£m
Assets as per the Balance Sheet
Short-term deposits
1
– – – 1 1 1
Trade and other receivables
2
1,288 – – – 1,288 1,288
Derivative financial instruments – FX forward exchange contracts – 15 115 – 130 130
Cash and cash equivalents 917 – – – 917 917
Derivatives
used for
hedging
£m
Fair value
through the
P&L
£m
Other financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost
£m
Carrying
value
total
£m
Fair value
total
£m
Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet
Borrowings (excluding finance lease obligations and bond)
3
– – 1,934 1,934 1,934
US$1 billion bond (two tranches of US$500 million at 2.125% and 3.625% respectively)
4
– – 634 634 660
Finance lease obligations
3
– – 4 4 4
Derivative financial instruments – FX forward exchange contracts 11 18 – 29 29
Trade and other payables
5
– – 2,675 2,675 2,675
Other non-current liabilities
5, 6
– – 44 44 44
1. These short-term deposits do not meet the requirements to be classified as cash equivalents as they have maturities greater than three months. They are however highly liquid assets. 
2. Prepayments and employee benefit assets are excluded from the trade and other receivables balance as the analysis above is required only for financial instruments. 
3. The categories in this disclosure are determined by IAS 39. Borrowings largely relate to Commercial Paper. As at 31 December 2015 the Group had Commercial Paper in issue amounting to 
US$2,522 million (nominal values) at rates of between 0.23% and 0.92% with maturities ranging from 11 January 2016 to 10 November 2016. Finance leases are outside the scope of IAS 39, 
but they remain within the scope of IFRS 7. Therefore finance leases have been shown separately. 
4. The fair value of bonds at 31 December 2015 is a liability of £683 million (2014: £660 million). This value is derived using a quoted market rate in an active market (level 1 classification). 
5. Social security liabilities and other employee benefit liabilities are excluded as the analysis above is required only for financial instruments. 
6. Included in trade and other payables is £25 million (2014: £28 million – other non-current liabilities) relating to the acquisition of the remaining shareholding of RB and Manon Business Co. Ltd. 
All material financial instruments, with the exception of the bond, are in level 2 of the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy. Fair value for financial 
instruments held at amortised cost has been estimated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange 
rates. The fair value measurement hierarchy levels have been defined as follows:
1.  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
2.  Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. 
derived from prices) (level 2). If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
3. Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs) (level 3).
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2015 is a liability of £22 million (2014: £29 million) and an asset of £121 
million (2014: £130 million). This value is determined using forward exchange rates derived from market sourced data at the balance sheet date, 
with the resulting value discounted back to present value (level 2 classification).
As the value of level 3 instruments at 31 December 2015 is not material (2014: not material), no further level 3 disclosures have been made. There 
have been no movements of financial instruments between levels (2014: nil). RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 120
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts and cash that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements.
(a) Financial assets
As at 31 December 2015
Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
assets
£m
Gross amounts
of recognised
financial
liabilities set
off in the
balance
sheet
£m
Net amounts
of financial
assets
presented in
the balance
sheet
£m
Financial
instruments
not set off in
the balance
sheet
£m
Net
amount
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts 121 – 121 (22) 99
Cash and cash equivalents 740 – 740 – 740
861 – 861 (22) 839
As at 31 December 2014
Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
assets
£m
Gross amounts
of recognised
financial
liabilities set
off in the
balance
sheet
£m
Net amounts
of financial
assets
presented in
the balance
sheet
£m
Financial
instruments
not set off in
the balance
sheet
£m
Net
amount
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts 130 – 130 (24) 106
Cash and cash equivalents 917 – 917 – 917
1,047 – 1,047 (24) 1,023
(b) Financial liabilities
As at 31 December 2015
Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
liabilities
£m
Gross amounts
of recognised
financial
assets set
off in the
balance
sheet
£m
Net amounts
of financial
liabilities
presented in
the balance
sheet
£m
Financial
instruments
not set off in
the balance
sheet
£m
Net
amount
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts (22) – (22) 22 –
Bank overdrafts (3) – (3) – (3)
(25) – (25) 22 (3)
As at 31 December 2014
Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
liabilities
£m
Gross amounts
of recognised
financial
assets set
off in the
balance
sheet
£m
Net amounts
of financial
liabilities
presented in
the balance
sheet
£m
Financial
instruments
not set off in
the balance
sheet
£m
Net
amount
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts (29) – (29) 24 (5)
Bank overdrafts (4) – (4) – (4)
(33) – (33) 24 (9)
Financial Risk Management
The Group’s multinational operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates 
(foreign exchange risk), market prices, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity. The Group has in place a risk management programme that uses 
foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, and other instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the financial performance of 
the Group.
The Group’s financing and financial risk management activities are centralised into Group Treasury (GT) to achieve benefits of scale and control.  
GT manages financial exposures of the Group centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks. GT manages only those risks and 
flows generated by the underlying commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies, guidelines and authority levels for all areas of Treasury activity and individually approves 
significant activities. GT operates under the close control of the CFO and is subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal 
and external.
14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 121
1. Market Risk
(a) Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. Foreign exchange risk arises 
from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Group’s policy is to align interest costs and operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide some protection against the translation 
exposure on foreign currency profits after tax. The Group may undertake borrowings and other hedging methods in the currencies of the countries 
where most of its assets are located.
It is the Group’s policy to monitor and only where appropriate hedge its foreign currency transaction exposure. These transaction exposures arise 
mainly from foreign currency receipts and payments for goods and services and from the remittances of foreign currency dividends and loans.
The local business units enter into forward foreign exchange contracts with GT to manage these exposures where practical and allowed by local 
regulations. GT matches the Group exposures, and hedges the position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2015 was £5,606 million payable (2014: 
£4,337 million payable).
As at 31 December 2015, the Group designated bonds totalling US$1,000 million (£671 million) as the hedging instrument in a net investment 
hedge relationship. The hedged risk is the foreign exchange currency risk on the value of the Group’s net investment in assets and liabilities 
denominated in US dollars. The net gain or loss under this arrangement is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income. The net effect on Other 
Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015 was a £49 million loss (2014: £137 million loss). If Sterling strengthens/weakens by 
5% against the US dollar, the impact on Shareholders’ equity due to net investment hedging would be £36 million. The Group’s strategy is to 
minimise Income Statement volatility by monitoring foreign currency exposures arising on intercompany balances, external financing, and external 
hedging arrangements. The Group’s hedging profile is regularly reviewed to ensure it is appropriate and to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
The Group held forward foreign exchange contracts denominated as cash flow hedges primarily in Euro, US dollars, Sterling, Australian dollars, 
Canadian dollars and Brazilian real. Notional value of the payable leg resulting from these financial instruments was as follows:
Cash Flow Hedge Profile
2015
£m
2014
£m
Euro 597 432
US dollars 396 154
Sterling 163 153
Australian dollars 118 73
Canadian dollars 74 15
Brazilian real 70 17
Other 405 511
1,823 1,355
These forward foreign exchange contracts are expected to mature over the period January 2016 to March 2017 (2014: January 2015 to  
February 2016).
The ineffective portion recognised in the Income Statement arising from cash flow hedges is immaterial (2014: immaterial).
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in Other Comprehensive Income on forward exchange contracts in 2015 of £14 million gain 
(2014: £11 million loss) are recognised in the Income Statement in the year or years during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the 
Income Statement, which is generally within 12 months from the Balance Sheet date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the Balance Sheet.
In the case of cash flow hedges, these are denominated in a diverse range of currencies, where a fluctuation in one individual currency relationship, 
with all others held constant, does not have a significant effect on the Income Statement or Shareholders’ equity. A fluctuation analysis has been 
performed for all currencies. The four largest currency pairs and their potential fluctuations are as Euro/US dollar, Euro/Sterling, Euro/Polish zloty 
and Euro/Australian dollar. If the Euro had strengthened/weakened by 5% against any of the stated currencies, with all other variables held 
constant, the impact on Shareholders’ equity would have been a maximum of £31 million (2014: £2 million). As at 31 December 2015 if all other 
currencies had strengthened/weakened by 5% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, this would have had an immaterial effect on 
the Income Statement or Shareholders’ equity (2014: immaterial).
The remaining major monetary financial instruments (liquid assets, receivables, interest and non-interest bearing liabilities) are directly denominated 
in the functional currency of the Group or are transferred to the functional currency of the local entity through the use of derivatives.
The gains and losses from fair value movements on derivatives held at fair value through the profit and loss, recognised in the Income Statement 
was a £75 million gain (2014: £116 million gain).
(b) Price risk
Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk related to the production or packaging of finished goods, such as oil 
related, and a diverse range of other raw materials. This risk is, however, managed primarily through medium-term contracts with certain key 
suppliers and is not therefore viewed as being a material risk.
14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 122
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
(c) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group has both interest-bearing and non interest-bearing assets and liabilities. The Group monitors its interest income and expense rate 
exposure on a regular basis. The Group manages its interest income rate exposure on its gross financial assets by using a combination of fixed rate 
term deposits.
Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging. Based on 
these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the Income Statement of a defined interest rate shift. For each simulation, the same interest 
rate shift is used for all currencies, calculated on a full year and pre-tax basis.
The scenarios are only run for liabilities that represent the major interest-bearing positions. Based on the simulations performed, the impact on the 
Income Statement of a 50 basis-point shift in interest rates would be a maximum increase of £5 million (2014: £7 million) or decrease of £5 million 
(2014: £7 million) respectively for the liabilities covered. The simulation is done on a periodic basis to verify that the maximum loss simulated is 
within the limit given by management.
2. Credit Risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, 
deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers. The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed 
in Note 13. Financial institution counterparties are subject to approval under the Group’s counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to 
financial institutions with a BBB rating or above. The Group uses BBB and higher rated counterparties to manage risk, and operationally only uses 
sub BBB rated counterparties by exception. The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within the 
counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board of Directors. Derivative financial instruments are only traded with counterparties 
approved in accordance with the approved policy. Derivative risk is measured using a risk weighting method.
The table below summarises the Group’s major financial institution counterparties by credit rating (lower of S&P and Moody’s) and balances (cash 
and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits) at the balance sheet date.
Counterparty
2015 2014
Credit
rating
Limit
£m
Exposure
£m
Credit
rating
Limit
£m
Exposure
£m
Bank A AA– 200 150 AA– 200 139
Bank B AAA 300 133 AAA 300 199
Bank C A+ 150 117 A+ 150 77
Bank D A 125 118 A 125 111
Bank E A– 75 93 A– 75 43
Bank F A 125 93 A+ 150 102
Bank G A– 75 58 A 125 55
Bank H A+ 150 44 A+ 150 117
Bank I BBB+ 50 36 A– 75 10
Bank J A 125 24 A+ 150 32
3. Liquidity Risk
Cash flow forecasting is performed by the local business units and on an aggregated basis by GT. GT monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s 
liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed 
borrowing facilities. Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the local businesses are generally remitted to 
GT. The Group uses the remittances to settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued by 
institutions with a BBB rating or better.
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it. The Group has bilateral credit facilities with high-quality international banks. All of these 
facilities have similar or equivalent terms and conditions, and have a financial covenant, which is not expected to restrict the Group’s future 
operations.
At the end of 2015, the Group had, in addition to its long-term debt of £671 million (2014: £636 million), committed borrowing facilities totalling 
£3,500 million (2014: £3,500 million), of which £3,500 million exceeded 12 months’ maturity (2014: £3,500 million). Of the total facilities at the 
year end, £nil (2014: £nil) was utilised. The committed borrowing facilities, together with available uncommitted facilities and central cash and 
investments, are considered sufficient to meet the Group’s projected cash requirements.
The undrawn committed facilities available, in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met at the balance sheet date, were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities:
Expiring within one year – –
Expiring between one and two years – –
Expiring after more than two years 3,500 3,500
3,500 3,500
All borrowing facilities are at floating rates of interest.
The facilities have been arranged to cover general corporate purposes including support for commercial paper issuance. All facilities incur 
commitment fees at market rates.
14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 123
Headroom between net debt and available facilities at 31 December 2015 was £1,880 million (2014: £1,957 million).
The Group’s borrowing limit at 31 December 2015 calculated in accordance with the Articles of Association was £63,399 million  
(2014: £63,186 million).
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and the derivatives which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the remaining period at the Balance Sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date, including interest to be paid.
At 31 December 2015
Total
£m
Less than 1
year
£m
Between 1
and 2 years
£m
Between 2
and 5 years
£m
Over
5 years
£m
Commercial paper (1,712) (1,712) – – –
Bonds (799) (20) (20) (383) (376)
Other borrowings (43) (43) – – –
Trade payables (981) (981) – – –
Other payables (1,822) (1,820) (2) – –
At 31 December 2014
Total
£m
Less than 1
year
£m
Between 1
and 2 years
£m
Between 2
and 5 years
£m
Over
5 years
£m
Commercial paper (1,926) (1,926) – – –
Bonds (774) (18) (18) (370) (368)
Other borrowings (17) (15) – (2) –
Trade payables (990) (990) – – –
Other payables (1,735) (1,685) (50) – –
The table below analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based 
on the remaining period between the Balance Sheet and the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date.
At 31 December 2015
Less than 1
year
£m
Between 1
and 2 years
£m
Between 2
and 5 years
£m
Over
5 years
£m
Forward exchange contracts
Outflow (5,602) (4) – –
Inflow 5,693 4 – –
At 31 December 2014
Less than 1
year
£m
Between 1
and 2 years
£m
Between 2
and 5 years
£m
Over
5 years
£m
Forward exchange contracts
Outflow (4,328) (9) – –
Inflow 4,424 9 – –
4. Capital Management
The Group considers capital to be net debt plus total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, short-term 
available for sale financial assets and financing derivative financial instruments (Note 16). Total equity includes share capital, reserves and retained 
earnings as shown in the Group Balance Sheet.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net debt (Note 16) 1,620 1,543
Total equity 6,906 6,834
8,526 8,377
The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for Shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In maintaining an appropriate capital structure and providing returns for Shareholders, the Company provided returns to Shareholders in 2015 in 
the form of dividends and the buy back of shares. Refer to Notes 29 and 23 respectively.
The Group monitors net debt and at year end the Group had net debt of £1,620 million (2014: £1,543 million). The Group seeks to pay down net 
debt using cash generated by the business to maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 124
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
15 Cash and Cash Equivalents
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 334 329
Short-term bank deposits 406 588
Cash and cash equivalents 740 917
The Group operates in a number of territories where there are either foreign currency exchange restrictions, or where it is difficult for the Group to 
extract cash readily and easily in the short-term. As a result, £65 million (2014: £89 million) of cash included in cash and cash equivalents is 
restricted for use by the Group.
16 Financial Liabilities – Borrowings
Current
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts
1
42 13
Commercial paper
2
1,706 1,921
Finance lease obligations 1 2
1,749 1,936
Non-current
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bonds 671 634
Finance lease obligations – 2
671 636
1. Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies: all are unsecured and bear interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalent. 
2. Commercial paper was issued in US dollars, is unsecured and bears interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalent. 
Maturity of debt
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable:
Within one year or on demand 42 13
Other borrowings repayable:
Within one year:
Commercial paper 1,706 1,921
Finance leases 1 2
Between two and five years:
Bonds 337 318
Finance leases (payable by instalments) – 2
Over five years:
Bonds 334 316
2,378 2,559
Gross borrowings (unsecured) 2,420 2,572
Analysis of net debt
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 740 917
Overdrafts (3) (4)
Borrowings (excluding overdrafts) (2,417) (2,568)
Current available for sale financial assets – 1
Derivative financial instruments 60 111
Net debt at end of year (1,620) (1,543)
Reconciliation of net debt
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net debt at beginning of year (1,543) (2,096)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (148) 190
Proceeds from borrowings (23) –
Repayment of borrowings 165 485
Proceeds from borrowings attributable to discontinued operations – (481)
Borrowings divested upon demerger – 467
Exchange and other movements (71) (108)
Net debt at end of year (1,620) (1,543) Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 125
17 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges
Legal
provisions
£m
Restructuring
provisions
£m
Other
provisions
£m
Total
provisions
£m
At 1 January 2014 286 24 61 371
Charged to the Income Statement 10 4 24 38
Charged to equity – – 413 413
Arising on business combination – – 5 5
Utilised during the year (53) (14) (325) (392)
Released to the Income Statement (15) – (4) (19)
Divested upon demerger (25) – – (25)
Exchange adjustments (2) (1) 2 (1)
At 31 December 2014 201 13 176 390
Charged to the Income Statement 18 33 24 75
Charged to equity – – 800 800
Separate recognition of related insurance receivable 36 – – 36
Utilised during the year (95) (13) (815) (923)
Released to the Income Statement (18) – (16) (34)
Exchange adjustments (1) – 1 –
At 31 December 2015 141 33 170 344
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current 229 317
Non-current 115 73
344 390
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will 
be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Legal provisions of £141 million (2014: £201 million) include exceptional legal provisions of £116 million (2014: £158 million) in relation to a number 
of historic regulatory investigations, predominantly competition law inquiries, by various government authorities in a number of markets. Amounts 
utilised during the year primarily relate to cases that were settled with government authorities, subject to appeal. 
The restructuring provision relates principally to redundancies, the majority of which is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include obligations of the Group to acquire its own equity ordinary shares of £100 million (2014: £100 million) within one year, 
onerous lease provisions expiring between 2016 and 2018 and environmental and other obligations throughout the Group, the majority of which 
are expected to be used within five years. Provisions to acquire equity ordinary shares are charged to equity.
During the year the Group concluded it would be more appropriate to present the amount recoverable from insurers separately from the related 
obligation. Accordingly a non-current receivable of £36 million has been recognised (Note 13), with an equal increase in the related provision. 
18 Operating Lease Commitments
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases due
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 49 59
Later than one and less than five years 95 79
After five years 9 13
153 151
Operating lease rentals charged to the Income Statement in 2015 were £60 million (2014: £69 million).
As at 31 December 2015, total amounts expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-lease arrangements were £1 million (2014: £2 million).
Amounts credited to the Income Statement in respect of sub-lease arrangements were £1 million (2014: £1 million). RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 126
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
19 Contingent Liabilities
The Group is involved in a number of civil and/or criminal investigations by government authorities as well as litigation proceedings and has made 
provisions for such matters where appropriate. Where it is too early to determine the likely outcome of such matters, or to make a reliable estimate, 
the Directors have made no provision for such potential liabilities. Matters in relation to which the Group may incur liabilities include ongoing 
investigations by the US Department of Justice and the US Federal Trade Commission and others in relation to certain matters relating to the RB 
Pharmaceuticals business prior to its demerger in December 2014 to form Indivior PLC.
The Group from time to time is involved in disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world. Where 
appropriate, the Directors make provisions based on their assessment of each case.
20 Trade and Other Payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables 981 990
Other payables 159 121
Other tax and social security payable 97 164
Accruals 1,711 1,608
2,948 2,883
Other payables include £39 million (2014:£nil) primarily relating to the acquisition of the remaining shareholding of RB and Manon Business Co. Ltd.
Included within accruals is £526 million (2014: £467 million) in respect of amounts payable to our trade customers for trade spend.
Other non-current liabilities relate primarily to US employee related payables of £25 million (2014: £32 million) and consideration for the acquisition 
of businesses of £nil (2014: £39 million).
21 Current and Non-Current Tax Liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax liabilities (91) (124)
Non-current tax liabilities (559) (500)
Total current and non-current tax liabilities (650) (624)
Included in total current and non-current tax liabilities is an amount of £619 million (2014: £611 million) which relates to tax contingencies primarily 
arising in relation to transfer pricing and financing. These balances are subject to significant management judgement. The operating risk in relation 
to tax laws and regulations is discussed on pages 160 to 161.
The Accounting Estimates and Judgements on page 106 describe the significant judgements made in estimating the impact of uncertain tax positions.
22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments
Plan Details
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans around the world covering many of its employees, which 
are principally funded. The Group’s most significant defined benefit pension plan (the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund) is a final salary plan, which 
closed to new entrants in 2005. Trustees of the plan are appointed by the Group, active members and pensioner membership, and are responsible 
for the governance of the plan, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations. The plan is funded by the payment of 
contributions to the plan’s Trust, which is a separate entity from the rest of the Group.
The Group also operates a number of other post-retirement plans in certain countries. The major plan is in the US (US Retiree Health Care Plan), 
where salaried participants become eligible for retiree health care benefits after they reach a combined ‘age and years of service rendered’ figure 
of 70, although the age must be a minimum of 55. This plan closed to new members in 2009. A Benefits Committee of the plan is appointed by 
the Group, and is responsible for the governance of the plan, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations. This plan 
is unfunded.
The following table provides details of membership for all plans in the two principal territories:
Plan details at last valuation date UK US
Active Participants:
Number of members 365 1,878
Proportion of funding liability 13% 32%
Total pensionable salary roll £15.3m £50.5m
Participants with deferred benefits:
Number of members 5,510 2,759
Proportion of funding liability 37% 24%
Total deferred pensions (at date of leaving plan) £17.9m £2.7m
Participants receiving benefits:
Number of members 6,876 3,895
Proportion of funding liability 50% 44%
Total pensions in payment £42.5m £7.3m Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 127
For the principal UK plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on a triennial basis. The most recent valuation was carried out at 
5 April 2013 and as a result of this the Group agreed that it would aim to eliminate the pension plan Technical Provisions deficit in the UK by the 
end of 2016. In between valuations, the funding levels are monitored on an annual basis. The current agreed contribution rate for future benefit 
build up in the principal UK Plan is 19.5% of pensionable salaries. It is expected that contributions in 2016 will be £27 million to the principal UK 
Plan. The Group will review expected contributions once the 5 April 2016 actuarial valuation is signed off by the Group and Trustees.
For the US Retiree Health Care Plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on an annual basis. The most recent valuation was carried 
out at 1 January 2015. Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis with contributions made equal to the claims made each year. It is expected 
that contributions in 2016 will be £6 million to the Plan.
For the purpose of IAS 19 the projected unit valuation method was used for the UK and US plans, rolling forward the UK plan triennial valuation 
results (at 5 April 2013) and the 1 January 2015 US plan valuation to 31 December 2015. The UK plans have a weighted average duration of the 
deferred benefit obligation of 17.6 years (2014: 17.9 years).
Significant Actuarial Assumptions
The significant actuarial assumptions used in determining the Group’s net liability for the two major plans as at 31 December were:
2015 2014
UK
%
US (Medical)
%
UK
%
US (Medical)
%
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.3 – 3.3 –
Rate of increase in deferred pensions during deferment 3.1 – 3.1 –
Rate of increase in pension payments 2.9 – 2.9 –
Discount rate 3.8 4.2 3.5 3.9
Inflation assumption – RPI 3.3 – 3.3 –
Annual medical cost inflation – 5.0–8.5 – 5.0–9.0
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory. The expected 
lifetime of a participant aged 60 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 60 in 15 years (20 years in the US) are detailed below:
2015 2014
UK
years
US
years
UK
years
US
years
Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond 60:
Male 28.6 25.7 28.5 26.1
Female 30.6 27.9 30.5 28.6
Number of years a future pensioner is expected to live beyond 60:
Male 30.4 27.5 30.3 27.9
Female 32.4 29.7 32.3 30.3
For the UK plan, the mortality assumptions were based on the standard SAPS mortality table with medium cohort improvements to 2009 (scaled by 
90% for males and 100% for females). Allowance for future improvements is made by adopting the 2012 edition of the CMI series with a 
long-term trend of 1.5% per annum. For the US plan the mortality assumptions were determined using the RP-2014 Total Employee and Health 
Annuitant Mortality Tables rolled back to 2006 and projected with Mortality Improvement Scale MP-2015.
22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 128
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Amounts Recognised on the Balance Sheet
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Balance Sheet obligations for:
UK – (61)
US (Medical) (122) (145)
Other (135) (132)
Liability in Balance Sheet (257) (338)
Balance Sheet assets for:
UK 33 –
Other 30 26
Asset in Balance Sheet 63 26
Net pension liability (194) (312)
Where individual pension schemes have an IAS 19 surplus this has been recognised as an asset based on an assessment of the likelihood of recovery 
of the pension asset.
The funded and unfunded amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
2015 2014
UK
£m
US (Medical)
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
US (Medical)
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Present value of funded obligations (1,322) – (302) (1,624) (1,400) – (293) (1,693)
Fair value of plan assets 1,355 – 321 1,676 1,339 – 311 1,650
Surplus/(deficit) of funded plans 33 – 19 52 (61) – 18 (43)
Present value of unfunded obligations – (122) (124) (246) – (145) (124) (269)
Net pension asset/(liability) 33 (122) (105) (194) (61) (145) (106) (312)
Group plan assets are comprised as follows:
2015 2014
UK
£m
US (Medical)
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
US (Medical)
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Equities – quoted 407 – 166 573 393 – 177 570
Government bonds 521 – 21 542 531 – 7 538
Corporate bonds 266 – 57 323 261 – 63 324
Real Estate/property – unquoted 150 – 1 151 138 – 10 148
Other assets – unquoted 11 – 76 87 16 – 54 70
Fair value of plan assets 1,355 – 321 1,676 1,339 – 311 1,650
22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 129
The movement in the Group’s net liability is as follows:
Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets
UK
£m
US (Medical)
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
US (Medical)
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 1,223 117 369 1,709 (1,155) – (303) (1,458)
Current service cost 9 2 7 18 – – – –
Interest expense/(income) 53 6 12 71 (51) – (12) (63)
62 8 19 89 (51) – (12) (63)
Remeasurements:
Return  on plan assets, excluding 
amounts included in interest income – – – – (124) – 4 (120)
Loss from changes in demographic 
assumptions 11 – 5 16 – – – –
Loss from change in financial 
assumptions 155 20 29 204 – – – –
Experience losses – 2 3 5 – – – –
166 22 37 225 (124) – 4 (120)
Exchange differences – 5 – 5 – – (4) (4)
Contributions – employees 1 – – 1 (1) – – (1)
Contributions – employers – – – – (60) (7) (4) (71)
Payments from plans:
Benefit payments (52) (7) (8) (67) 52 7 8 67
At 1 January 2015 1,400 145 417 1,962 (1,339) – (311) (1,650)
Current service cost 8 2 12 22 – – – –
Curtailment (gains)/losses – (19) – (19) – – – –
Interest expense/(income) 48 6 10 64 (46) – (10) (56)
56 (11) 22 67 (46) – (10) (56)
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding 
amounts included in interest income – – – – 35 – (6) 29
(Gain)/loss from changes in 
demographic assumptions – (9) 2 (7) – – – –
(Gain)/loss from change in financial 
assumptions (75) (5) (1) (81) – – – –
Experience (gains)/losses (5) (1) 2 (4) – – – –
(80) (15) 3 (92) 35 – (6) 29
Exchange differences – 10 2 12 – – (8) (8)
Contributions – employees – – – – – – – –
Contributions – employers – – – – (59) (7) (4) (70)
Payments from plans:
Benefit payments (54) (7) (18) (79) 54 7 18 79
As at 31 December 2015 1,322 122 426 1,870 (1,355) – (321) (1,676)
The curtailment gain arose on the Group making certain amendments during the year to the US Medical Plan.
22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 130
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Amounts Recognised in the Income Statement
The charge for the year ended 31 December is shown below:
Income statement charge/(credit) included in operating profit for
1
:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Defined contribution plans 24 28
Defined benefit plans (net charge/(credit) excluding interest)
UK 8 9
US (Medical) (17) 2
Other 12 7
Total pension costs recognised in operating profit (Note 5) 27 46
Income statement charge included in finance expense (Note 6) 8 8
Income statement charge included in profit before income tax 35 54
Remeasurement (gains)/losses for:
UK (45) 42
US (Medical) (15) 22
Other (3) 41
(63) 105
1 The Income Statement charge included within operating profit includes current service cost, past service costs and gains and losses on settlement and curtailment. 
Sensitivity of Significant Actuarial Assumptions
The sensitivity of the UK defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is shown below:
2015 Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation
Discount rate Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.8%
RPI increase Increase 0.1% Increase by 1.4%
Life expectancy Members younger by 1 year Increase by 2.3%
2014 Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation
Discount rate Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.8%
RPI increase Increase 0.1% Increase by 1.4%
Life expectancy Members younger by 1 year Increase by 2.3%
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to 
occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Impact of Medical Cost Trend Rates
A 1% change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
Impact on defined benefit obligation
2015 2014
+1%
£m
–1%
£m
+1%
£m
–1%
£m
Effect on service cost and interest cost 1 (1) 2 (1)
Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 19 (15) 25 (20)
Risk and Risk Management
Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of 
which are detailed below:
Asset Volatility: The plan obligations are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields. If plan assets underperform 
this yield, this will create a deficit. Both the UK and US plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate 
bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term. As the plans mature, the Group intends to reduce the level of 
investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the obligations. All the UK plans have agreed with the Company a plan to de-risk the 
investment strategy of the plans at a pace that is commensurate with a planned return to full funding over a reasonable time scale. The de-risking 
plan provides for a proportion of the investment portfolio to move from equity holdings to government and corporate bonds over time. The 
corporate bonds are global securities with an emphasis on the UK and US. However, the Group believes that due to the long-term nature of the 
plan obligations and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Group’s 
long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Changes in Bond Yields: A decrease in government and corporate bond yields will increase plan obligations, although this will be partially offset 
by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings.
22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 131
Inflation Risk: Some of the Group’s pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher obligations (although, in 
most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation). The majority of the plan’s assets are 
either unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the 
deficit. In the US plans, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
Life Expectancy: The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member. Whilst the plans allow for an increase in 
life expectancy, increases above this assumption will result in an increase in the plans’ obligations. This is particularly significant in the UK plan, 
where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Change in Regulations: The Group is aware that future changes to the regulatory framework may impact the funding basis of the various plans in 
the future. The Group’s pensions department monitors the changes in legislation and analyses the risks as and when they occur.
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. A 
large portion of assets consists of quoted equities and quoted bonds, although the Group also invests in property, and cash. The Group believes 
that quoted equities offer the best returns over the long-term with an acceptable level of risk. The Trustees of all the UK funds have moved the 
overwhelming majority of their assets to low cost investment funds in consultation with the Company whilst maintaining a prudent diversification.
23 Share Capital
Issued and fully paid
Equity
ordinary
shares
number
Nominal
value
£m
Subscriber
ordinary
shares
number
Nominal
value
£m
At 1 January 2014 736,535,179 74 2 –
Cancelled – – (2) –
At 31 December 2014 736,535,179 74 – –
At 1 January 2015 736,535,179 74 – –
At 31 December 2015 736,535,179 74 – –
The holders of ordinary shares (par value 10p) are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share 
at meetings of the Parent Company.
The holders of subscriber ordinary shares (par value £1) have no entitlement to dividends. Holders have no right to attend or vote at any general 
meeting of the Company unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company or vary the rights attached to the subscriber shares. During 2014, 
all subscriber ordinary shares were cancelled.
Allotment of Ordinary Shares and Release of Treasury Shares
During the year nil ordinary shares (2014: nil ordinary shares) were allotted and 3,111,173 ordinary shares were released from Treasury (2014: 
4,775,359) to satisfy vestings/exercises under the Group’s various share schemes as follows:
Ordinary shares of 10p
Number of
shares
2015
Consideration
£m
Number of
shares
2014
Consideration
£m
Executive Share Options – exercises 1,532,150 45 3,502,236 106
Restricted Shares Awards – vesting 530,992 – 1,000,381 –
Total under Executive Share Option and Restricted Share Schemes 2,063,142 45 4,502,617 106
Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan – vesting 23,270 – 50,000 –
Savings-Related Share Option Schemes – exercises 1,024,761 29 222,742 6
Total 3,111,173 74 4,775,359 112
Market Purchases of Shares
During 2015 the Company purchased 13,615,832 equity ordinary shares in accordance with its share buyback programme (2014: 6,000,000), all of 
which are held as Treasury shares. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £800 million (£804 million including stamp duty) which has 
been deducted from Shareholders’ equity (2014: £314 million including stamp duty). 
3,111,173 Treasury shares were released in 2015 (2014: 4,775,359), leaving a balance held at 31 December 2015 of 28,462,150 (2014: 17,957,491). 
Proceeds received from the reissuance of Treasury shares to exercise share options were £74 million (2014: £112 million). In addition, a provision for 
£100 million (2014: £100 million) was created for buyback amounts committed but not transacted at year end.
24 Share-Based Payments
The Group operates a number of incentive schemes, including a share option scheme, a restricted share scheme, and other share award schemes. 
All schemes are equity settled. The charge for share-based payments for the year was £50 million (2014: £55 million).
Executive Share Awards
Executive share awards, comprising both Executive Share Options and Restricted Share Awards, are awarded to the “Top400” management group. 
Executive Share Options are awarded at an exercise price determined on grant date and become payable on exercise – following satisfaction  
of performance criteria. Restricted Share Awards entitle the recipient to receive shares at no cost following satisfaction of the following 
performance criteria:
 
22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 132
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
For awards granted before December 2012:
Adjusted earnings per share growth over three years (%) <6% 6% 7% 8% ≥9
Proportion of awards vesting (%) Nil 40% 60% 80% 100%
For awards granted in December 2013 and thereafter:
Adjusted earnings per share growth over three years (%) <6% 6% Between 6% and 10% ≥10%
Proportion of awards vesting (%) Nil 20% Straight-line vesting between 20% and 100% 100%
The cost is spread over the three years of the performance period. For Executive Committee and “Top40” members vesting conditions must be met 
over the three-year period and are not retested. For remaining “Top400” members the targets can be retested after four or five years. If any target 
has not been met any remaining shares or options which have not vested will lapse.
Other Share Awards
Other share awards represent SAYE Schemes (offered to all staff within the relevant geographic area) and a number of Senior Executive Share 
Ownership Policy Plan (SOPP) awards. Other share awards have contractual lives of between three and eight years and are generally not subject to 
any vesting criteria other than the employee’s continued employment.
Individual tranches of these other share awards are not material for detailed disclosure and therefore have been aggregated in the tables below.
Modifications to Share Awards
The Remuneration Committee approved modifications to all unexercised share schemes in December 2014 following the demerger of RB 
Pharmaceuticals to compensate for the loss of scheme value. For SAYE schemes this was in the form of a one-off cash payment. For executive share 
awards this included an adjustment to shares under the amount of each grant, and the lowering of exercise price, where applicable. There is no 
change to the IFRS fair value charge as a result of these modifications.
Summary of Shares Outstanding
All outstanding Executive and Other share awards as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are included in the tables below which analyse 
the charge for 2015 and 2014. The Group has used the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of one award on the date of the grant of 
the award.
Table 1: Fair value
The most significant awards are share options and restricted shares, details of which have been provided below. 
Award Grant date
Exercise
price at
grant
£
Modified
exercise
price
£
Performance
period
Black-Scholes model assumptions
Fair value
of one
award
£
Share price
on grant
date
£
Volatility
%
Dividend
yield
%
Life
years
Risk-free
interest
rate
%
Share options
2006 05 December 2005 18.10 17.60 2006–08 18.16 22 2.4 4 4.69 3.33
2007 08 December 2006 22.57 21.95 2007–09 23.00 20 2.2 4 4.65 4.23
2008 11 December 2007 29.44 28.63 2008–10 29.72 20 1.8 4 5.53 5.99
2009 08 December 2008 27.29 26.54 2009–11 27.80 25 3.1 4 2.78 4.69
2010 07 December 2009 31.65 30.78 2010–12 31.80 26 3.5 4 1.69 4.70
2011 01 December 2010 34.64 33.68 2011–13 34.08 26 4.3 4 2.16 4.49
2012 05 December 2011 32.09 31.20 2012–14 32.19 25 5.4 4 1.00 3.18
2013 03 December 2012 39.14 38.06 2013–15 39.66 20 4.3 4 0.61 3.29
2014 11 December 2013 47.83 46.51 2014–16 46.69 19 3.7 4 0.76 3.85
2015 01 December 2014 50.57 50.57 2015–17 52.40 17 4.0 4 1.03 4.34
2016 02 December 2015 63.25 63.25 2016–18 64.15 18 2.9 4 1.07 6.75
Restricted shares
2009 08 December 2008 – – 2009–11 27.80 25 3.1 4 2.78 24.31
2010 07 December 2009 – – 2010–12 31.80 26 3.5 4 1.69 27.23
2011 01 December 2010 – – 2011–13 34.08 26 4.3 4 2.16 28.22
2012 05 December 2011 – – 2012–14 32.19 25 5.4 4 1.00 25.30
2013 03 December 2012 – – 2013–15 39.66 20 4.3 4 0.61 32.76
2014 11 December 2013 – – 2014–16 46.69 19 3.7 4 0.76 39.80
2015 01 December 2014 – – 2015–17 52.40 17 4.0 4 1.03 43.93
2016 02 December 2015 – – 2016–18 64.15 18 2.9 4 1.07 57.13
24 Share-Based Payments continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 133
Table 2: Share awards movements 2015
Award
Movement in number of options
Options
outstanding
at 1 Jan 2015
number
Granted/
adjustments
number
Lapsed
number
Exercised
number
Options
outstanding
at 31 Dec
2015
number
Share options
1
2006 106,919 – – (106,919) –
2007 197,892 – (690) (83,856) 113,346
2008 446,292 – – (164,079) 282,213
2009 495,785 – – (176,442) 319,343
2010 843,484 – – (305,840) 537,644
2011 1,248,852 41,934 (94,797) (364,428) 831,561
2012 2,625,715 – (970,843) (291,663) 1,363,209
2013 3,050,227 – (261,506) (34,753) 2,753,968
2014 3,269,887 823 (369,912) (823) 2,899,975
2015 4,020,400 6,157 (1,133,286) – 2,893,271
2016 – 4,020,400 – – 4,020,400
Restricted shares
1
2011 99,788 – (23,952) – 75,836
2012 1,217,369 – (470,892) (487,006) 259,471
2013 1,433,769 – (136,062) (27,535) 1,270,172
2014 1,577,388 – (171,072) (16,451) 1,389,865
2015 1,985,200 42,258 (640,687) – 1,386,771
2016 – 1,985,200 – – 1,985,200
Other share awards
UK SAYE 722,696 175,344 (73,642) (136,445) 687,953
US SAYE 565,286 110,724 (118,170) (175,655) 382,185
Overseas SAYE 1,897,407 4,782 (131,371) (712,623) 1,058,195
SOPP 160,000 46,000 (10,000) (30,000) 166,000
Weighted average exercise price (share options) £40.08 £62.92 £42.27 £30.44 £46.61
1 Grant date and exercise price for each of the awards are shown in Table 1.
Table 3: Share awards movements 2014
Award
Movement in number of options
Options
outstanding
at 1 Jan 2014
number
Granted/
adjustments
number
Lapsed
number
Exercised
number
Options
outstanding
at 31 Dec
2014
number
Share options
2005 113,450 – – (113,450) –
2006 228,300 2,919 – (124,300) 106,919
2007 318,502 5,281 – (125,891) 197,892
2008 806,193 12,103 – (372,004) 446,292
2009 1,095,701 13,385 (100) (613,201) 495,785
2010 1,798,385 22,778 – (977,679) 843,484
2011 2,558,032 33,399 (356,038) (986,541) 1,248,852
2012 2,920,395 71,121 (234,021) (131,780) 2,625,715
2013 3,320,588 82,862 (295,833) (57,390) 3,050,227
2014 4,020,400 134,203 (884,716) – 3,269,887
2015 – 4,020,400 – – 4,020,400
Restricted shares
2011 1,113,496 2,858 (153,909) (862,657) 99,788
2012 1,349,448 33,645 (103,322) (62,402) 1,217,369
2013 1,617,645 39,617 (148,171) (75,322) 1,433,769
2014 1,985,200 104,048 (511,860) – 1,577,388
2015 – 1,985,200 – – 1,985,200
Other share awards
UK SAYE 605,988 286,128 (50,552) (118,868) 722,696
US SAYE 564,477 153,351 (66,851) (85,691) 565,286
Overseas SAYE 972,385 1,089,425 (146,220) (18,183) 1,897,407
SOPP 180,000 50,000 (20,000) (50,000) 160,000
Weighted average exercise price (share options) £36.57 £49.48 £41.64 £30.30 £40.08
24 Share-Based Payments continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 134
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
For options outstanding at the year end the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.54 years (2014: 5.80 years). Options outstanding at 
31 December 2015 that could have been exercised at that date were 3,826,583 (2014: 3,449,012) with a weighted average exercise price of £27.92 
(2014: £29.06).
The assumptions made within the valuation calculation with respect to the achievement of performance criteria are based on the Directors’ 
expectations in light of the Group’s business model and relevant published targets.
Under the terms of the schemes, early exercise may only be granted in exceptional circumstances and therefore the effect of early exercise is not 
incorporated into the calculation.
The calculation also assumes that there will be no leavers in the following year. No material modifications have been made to these calculations in 
2015 or 2014 for the purposes of the valuation.
An estimate of future volatility is made with reference to historical volatility over a similar time period to the performance period or the contractual 
life as appropriate. Historical volatility is calculated based on the annualised standard deviation of the Group’s daily share price movement, being an 
approximation to the continuously compounded rate of return on the share.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payment transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions. 
The contribution in 2015 was £51 million (2014: £38 million).
The weighted average share price for the year was £58.81 (2014: £50.51).
Options and Restricted Shares Granted During the Year
Options and restricted shares granted during the year which may vest or become exercisable at various dates between 2017 and 2020 are as 
follows:
Executive share option and restricted share schemes
Price to be
paid
£
Number of
shares under
option
Reckitt Benckiser 2015 Long-term Incentive Plan – share options 63.25 4,026,400
Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan – restricted shares – 2,027,400
Reckitt Benckiser Group Senior Executive 2007 Share Ownership Policy Plan – 46,000
Total 6,099,800
Savings-related share option schemes
UK Scheme 48.71 173,240
US Scheme 48.71 110,762
Overseas Scheme 41.88 –
Total 284,002
Options and Restricted Shares Outstanding at 31 December 2015
Options and restricted shares which have vested or may vest at various dates between 2016 and 2021 are as follows:
Executive share option and restricted share schemes
Price to be paid £ Number of shares under option
From To 2015 2014
Reckitt Benckiser 1999 Share Option Plan – Annual Grant 17.60 18.10 – 106,919
Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2006 – Annual Grant – options 21.95 22.57 113,346 197,892
Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 – Annual Grant – options 26.54 63.25 15,901,584 16,000,642
Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 – Annual Grant – restricted shares – – 6,369,315 6,313,514
Reckitt Benckiser Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan – – 166,000 160,000
22,550,245 22,778,967
Savings-related share option schemes
Price to be paid £ Number of shares under option
From To 2015 2014
UK Scheme 16.90 48.71 687,953 722,696
US Scheme 22.88 48.71 382,185 565,286
Overseas Scheme 21.95 41.88 1,058,195 1,897,407
Total 2,128,333 3,185,389
24 Share-Based Payments continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 135
25 Other Reserves
Hedging
reserve
£m
Foreign currency 
translation
reserve
£m
Total other
reserves
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 15 (494) (479)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax (11) – (11)
Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax – (190) (190)
Losses on net investment hedges – (137) (137)
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on demerger of subsidiary – (3) (3)
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year (11) (330) (341)
Balance at 31 December 2014 4 (824) (820)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 14 – 14
Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax – (124) (124)
Losses on net investment hedges – (49) (49)
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of subsidiary – 33 33
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 14 (140) (126)
Balance at 31 December 2015 18 (964) (946)
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedge 
transactions that are in place at year end.
The foreign currency translation reserve contains the accumulated foreign exchange differences from the translation of the Financial Statements of 
the Group’s foreign operations arising when the Group’s entities are consolidated. The reserve also contains the translation of liabilities that hedge 
the Group’s net exposure in a foreign currency.
26 Related Party Transactions
RB & Manon Business
Related to the forward contract to acquire the share capital held by the non-controlling Shareholders of RB & Manon Business Co. Ltd (‘Manon’), an 
additional settlement of £12 million was agreed during the 2015 calendar year which was conditional on completion of the new arrangements. Of 
this amount, £8 million was included within profit and loss in 2015, with the remainder deferred until 2016. See Note 30 for further details. 
Indivior
Subsequent to the demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals on 23 December 2014, the Group continues to lease a building, and provide operational 
services to Indivior PLC. The transitional services between the Group and Indivior PLC are on an arm’s length basis. The amount included in other 
operating income in respect of these services is £8 million (2014: £nil). Adrian Hennah, the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc CFO, also sits on the Board 
of Directors of Indivior PLC. It was announced on 11 March 2016 that he would step down from the Indivior Board with effect from 11 May 2016.
Other
Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 5. There are no further related party transactions.
27 Acquisitions and Disposals 
In October 2015, in line with RB’s continued focus on its core business of Health, Hygiene and Home, the Group disposed of the Medcom hospital 
business in Russia. The reported loss on sale of the entity was £57 million. This is included within exceptional items. It comprises a £24 million 
difference between the net sale proceeds and the net assets; and a recycling from reserves of previous exchange losses arising on consolidation of 
the legal entity sold. Due to the significant devaluation of the Russian rouble since acquisition, the non-cash exchange loss required to be recycled 
through the Income Statement was £33 million.
In 2014, the Group acquired the K-Y brand and related businesses. This transaction was accounted for under IFRS 3: Business Combinations. The 
fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated and disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements. In 2015, the provisional values have been finalised leading to a £6 million increase in deferred tax liabilities and a related 
£6 million increase in Goodwill, 2014 amounts have not been restated.
In 2014, the Group licensed out the Scholl brand for use within the Footwear market and disposed of certain associated operating assets.  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 136
28 Demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals
On 23 December 2014, the Group demerged the pharmaceutical business in the form of a dividend in specie. RB Pharmaceuticals was presented as 
a discontinued operation because it was no longer controlled by the Group.
The transaction was recognised and measured in accordance with IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners. This treatment resulted in a 
gain on the distribution of non-cash assets to its Shareholders.
2014 
£m
Fair value of the dividend paid 1,046
Carrying amount of the net liabilities distributed
1
292
Net realised losses in other comprehensive income reclassified to the Income Statement 3
Exceptional transaction costs deducted from gain on non-cash dividend paid, net of tax (59)
Gain on non-cash dividend paid, net of tax 1,282
1 Included within the carrying amount of the net liabilities distributed is £195 million cash and £467 million of debt held by RB Pharmaceuticals on demerger.
The fair value of the dividend was determined by reference to the average closing price of Indivior PLC over the five trading days between 
23 December 2014 and 31 December 2014.
Financial information relating to the operations of RB Pharmaceuticals for the period comparative is set out below. The Group Income Statement 
and Group Cash Flow Statement distinguish discontinued operations from continued operations. Comparative figures have been restated.
The financial performance and cash flow information presented are for the period to 23 December 2014.
For the year ended 31 December
2014
£m
Revenue 677
Expenses (308)
Profit before income tax 369
Income tax expense (91)
Net income from discontinued operations 278
The major classes of cash flows related to RB Pharmaceuticals are as follows:
For the year ended 31 December
2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities 223
Cash flows from investing activities (16)
Cash flows from financing activities 481
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 688
29 Dividends
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash dividends on equity ordinary shares:
2014 Final paid: 75p (2013: Final 77p) per share 566 554
2015 Interim paid: 50.3p (2014: Interim 60p) per share 358 434
924 988
Non-cash dividends on equity ordinary shares:
Fair value of non-cash dividend – 1,046
Total dividends for the year 924 2,034
On 23 December 2014 the pharmaceutical business was demerged by means of a non-cash dividend, granting all Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
ordinary Shareholders new shares in the newly formed Indivior PLC. The transaction was recognised and measured in accordance with IFRIC 17 – 
Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 88.7p per share which will absorb an 
estimated £628 million of Shareholders’ funds. If approved by Shareholders it will be paid on 26 May 2016 to Shareholders who are on the register 
on 15 April 2016, with an ex-dividend date of 14 April 2016.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 137
30 Post Balance Sheet Events
Purchase of Hypermarcas’ contraceptive unit
On 29 January 2016 the Group signed a definitive agreement, subject to regulatory approval, to acquire Hypermarcas’ Brazilian condom and 
lubricants business. Hypermarcas is the leading Brazilian condom manufacturer, through its three brands – Jontex, Olla and Lovetex.
RB & Manon Business
Subsequent to the year end, on 2 March 2016, the Group completed new arrangements with the non-controlling Shareholders of Manon (the 
non-controlling Shareholders), agreeing to terminate the existing arrangement, in line with the forward contract entered into in 2011, with RB 
agreeing to pay consideration totalling approximately £25 million to the non-controlling Shareholders. An additional settlement amount of £12 
million was also agreed with the non-controlling Shareholders during 2015 which was conditional on signing of the new arrangements. Of this 
amount, £8 million was included within profit and loss in 2015, with the remainder deferred until 2016.
Under the terms of the new agreements, the non-controlling Shareholders agreed to invest in two entities, RB (China Trading) Ltd and RB & Manon 
Business Ltd, thereby acquiring from RB 20% and 25% stakes in these entities respectively, whist retaining their 24.95% stake in Manon, for a 
combined consideration of approximately £25 million.
As part of the new arrangements, the parties are subject to symmetrical put and call options. Under the put option, the non-controlling 
Shareholders will have the option to require RB to purchase their shareholdings in each of Manon, RB (China Trading) Ltd and RB & Manon Business 
Ltd together, after a period of six years, with possible extensions beyond this period available at the agreement of both parties. Under the call 
option, RB will have the option to acquire each of these shareholdings together, under identical terms to the put option. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 138
The five year summary below, is presented on a statutory basis. The years ending 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 show the results for 
continuing operations and exclude the impact of RB Pharmaceuticals. The two preceding years, being the years ending 31 December 2012, and 
31 December 2011 reflect the Income Statement of the whole Group.
The balance sheet has not been restated for the impact of discontinued operations.
Income statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
3
£m
2011
3
£m
Net revenue 8,874 8,836 9,266 9,567 9,485
Operating profit 2,241 2,164 1,887 2,442 2,395
Adjusted operating profit 2,374 2,185 2,143 2,577 2,487
Exceptional Items (133) (21) (256) (135) (92)
Operating profit 2,241 2,164 1,887 2,442 2,395
Net finance (expense)/income (33) (38) (31) (34) (19)
Profit before income tax 2,208 2,126 1,856 2,408 2,376
Income tax expense (463) (462) (453) (583) (622)
Attributable to non-controlling interests (2) (1) (1) (4) (9)
Net income attributable to owners of the parent 1,743 1,663 1,402 1,821 1,745
Balance sheet
Net assets 6,906 6,834 6,336 5,922 5,781
Net Working Capital (936) (831) (863) (700) (701)
Statistics
Reported basis
Operating margin 25.3% 24.5% 20.4% 25.5% 25.3%
Total interest to operating profit (times covered) 67.9x 56.9x 60.9x 71.8x 126.1x
Tax rate 21.0% 21.7% 24.4% 24.2% 26.2%
Diluted earnings per share 240.9p 227.6p 192.3p 248.4p 237.1p
Dividend cover
1
1.7x 1.6x 1.4x 1.9x 1.9x
Declared dividends per ordinary share 139p 139p 137p 134p 125p
Adjusted basis
2
Operating margin 26.8% 24.7% 23.1% 26.9% 26.2%
Total interest to operating profit (times covered) 71.9x 57.5x 69.1x 75.8x 130.9x
Diluted earnings per share 258.6p 230.5p 222.1p 263.3p 247.1p
Dividend cover
2
1.9x 1.7x 1.6x 2.0x 2.0x
1. Dividend cover is calculated by dividing earnings/adjusted earnings per share by ordinary dividends per share relating to the year. 
2. Adjusted basis is calculated by excluding the exceptional items from net income for the year. 
3. Inclusive of RB Pharmaceuticals business.
 
Five Year Summary Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 139
Parent Company – Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Parent Company Financial 
Statements (the “Financial Statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2015;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
• the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015;
• the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year 
then ended; and
• the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice), including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting 
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Financial 
Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK 
& Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial 
Statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities 
set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Parent Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 140
What an audit of Financial Statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An 
audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the Financial Statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or 
a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Mark Gill (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
22 March 2016
Parent Company – Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 141
Parent Company Balance Sheet 
As at 31 December Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fixed Assets 
Investments 2 14,810 14,774
Current Assets
Debtors due within one year 3,6 95 131
Debtors due after one year 4,6 42 5
Cash and cash equivalents 6 1 –
  138 136
Current Liabilities
Creditors due within one year 5,6 (8,685) (6,994)
Net Current Liabilities (8,547) (6,858)
Total Assets less Current Liabilities 6,263 7,916
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges 7 (211) (165)
Net Assets 6,052 7,751
EQUITY
Capital and Reserves
Share capital 8 74 74
Share premium 243 243
Retained earnings 5,735 7,434
Total Equity 6,052 7,751
The Financial Statements on pages 141 to 157 were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
ADRIAN BELLAMY  RAKESH KAPOOR
Director   Director RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 142
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
 
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 74 243 8,586 8,903
Comprehensive income
Profit for financial year – – 1,128 1,128
Total comprehensive income – – 1,128 1,128
Transactions with owners
Treasury shares reissued – – 112 112
Share-based payments – – 10 10
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury – – (413) (413)
Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments – – 45 45
Cash dividends – – (988) (988)
Non-cash dividends – – (1,046) (1,046)
Total transactions with owners – – (2,280) (2,280)
Balance at 31 December 2014 74 243 7,434 7,751
Comprehensive expense
Loss for the financial year – – (90) (90)
Total comprehensive expense – – (90) (90)
Transactions with owners
Treasury shares reissued – – 74 74
Share-based payments – – 9 9
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury – – (804) (804)
Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments – – 36 36
Cash dividends – – (924) (924)
Total transactions with owners – – (1,609) (1,609)
Balance at 31 December 2015 74 243 5,735 6,052
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has £5,282 million (2014: £7,025 million) of its retained earnings available for distribution.
Details of Treasury shares and other equity transactions are included in Note 23 of the Group Financial Statements.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 143
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
1 Parent Company Accounting Policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
General Information and Basis of Accounting 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered office 
is given on page 166. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45. 
Statement of Compliance
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, and in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard 102 (‘FRS 102’) issued by the Financial Reporting Council and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. There 
has been no impact on the first-time adoption of FRS 102. The policies applied under FRS 102 are not materially different to the entity’s previous 
accounting framework and have not impacted on equity or comprehensive income or expense.
The functional currency of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is considered to be Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Company operates. 
As permitted by s.408 of the Companies Act 2006, a Statement of Comprehensive Income is not presented for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Going Concern
The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Company Financial Statements. 
Exemptions for qualifying entities under FRS 102
FRS 102 allows a qualifying entity certain disclosure exemptions, subject to certain conditions, which have been complied with, including 
notification of the exemptions to, and no objection to their use by, the Company’s Shareholders.
The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions:
(i) from preparing a Statement of Cash Flows, on the basis that it is a qualifying entity and the Group Cash Flow Statement, included in these 
Financial Statements, includes the Company’s cash flows;
(ii) from disclosing the Company key management personnel compensation, as required by FRS 102 paragraph 33.7.
Foreign Currency Translation
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Taxation
The tax charge/credit is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment 
of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that they are considered recoverable.
A net deferred tax asset is considered recoverable if it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against 
which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or 
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based 
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Fixed Assets
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less impairment. A review for the potential impairment of an investment is carried out if events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment may not be recoverable. Such impairment reviews are performed in 
accordance with Section 27, ’Impairment of Assets’.
Employee Share Schemes
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and restricted share schemes which vest in accordance with 
non-market conditions. 
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the 
number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in comprehensive income 
or expense such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged, including social security taxes, to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 
over the same period with a corresponding liability recognised over the same period with a corresponding liability recognised. 
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital 
contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period 
as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company Financial Statements. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 144
Financial Instruments
The Company only enters into basic financial instruments transactions that result in the recognition of financial assets and liabilities like trade and 
other accounts receivable and payable and loans to and from related parties. These transactions are initially recognised at cost and subsequently 
recognised at amortised cost.
(i) Financial Assets
At the end of each reporting period financial assets measured at amortised cost are assessed for objective evidence of impairment. If an asset is 
impaired the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the 
asset’s original effective interest rate. The impairment loss is recognised in comprehensive income or expense.
Financial assets are derecognised when (a) the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are settled, or (b) substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred to another party or (c) despite having retained some significant risks and rewards of 
ownership, control of the asset has been transferred to another party who has the practical ability to unilaterally sell the asset to an unrelated third 
party without imposing additional restrictions.
(ii) Financial Liabilities
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is when the contractual obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there 
will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Share Capital Transactions
When the Company purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a 
charge to equity. Purchased shares are either held in Treasury in order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital,  
an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled is transferred from retained earnings.
Dividends
Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a present obligation (i.e. when they have been approved).
Accounting Estimates and Judgements
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies the Directors are required to make a number of estimates and assumptions about the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based  
on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both 
current and future periods. 
The following are the significant judgements made in applying the Company’s accounting policies:
• The Company recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the Group’s provisions policy. The level of provisioning for regulatory, civil 
and/or criminal investigation is an issue where management and legal judgement is important. 
2 Fixed Asset Investments 
Shares in 
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2014 14,729
Additions during the year 554
Demerger of subsidiary during the year (509)
At 31 December 2014 14,774
Additions during the year 36
At 31 December 2015 14,810
  
Provision for impairment 
At 1 January 2014 –
Provided for during the year –
At 31 December 2014 –
Provided for during the year –
At 31 December 2015 –
  
Net book amounts  
At 31 December 2014 14,774
At 31 December 2015 14,810
1 Parent Company Accounting Policies continued
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 145
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
As part of the internal reorganisation in 2014, Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals Inc, was made a direct investment of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
prior to demerger.
The subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015, are shown in Note 15 of the Company Financial Statements.
With the exception of Reckitt Benckiser plc, none of the subsidiaries are held directly by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. All subsidiaries have a financial 
year ending 31 December with the exception of Reckitt Benckiser (India) Limited which has a year ending 31 March and Lloyds Pharmaceuticals 
which has a year ending 24 August.
3 Debtors due within one year
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 95 131
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on demand.
4 Debtors due after more than one year
2015
£m
2014
£m
Other debtors 36 –
Deferred tax assets 6 5
42 5
Other debtors includes an insurance receivable of £36 million (2014: £nil) in respect of a legal provision held by the Company in Note 7. Deferred 
tax assets consist of short-term timing differences.
5 Creditors due within one year
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 8,677 6,989
Taxation and social security 8 5
 8,685 6,994
Included in the amounts owed to Group undertakings is an amount of £8,669 million (2014: £6,989 million) which is unsecured, carries interest at 
3 month LIBOR and is repayable on demand. All other amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on 
demand.
6 Financial Instruments
2015
£m
2014
£m
Financial Assets
Financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised cost 95 131
Cash and cash equivalents 1 –
Financial Liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 8,677 6,989
7 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges
 
Legal
provisions
£m
Share
buyback
provisions
£m
Total
provisions
£m
At 1 January 2014 222 – 222
Charged to equity – 413 413
Divested upon demerger (15) – (15)
Utilised during the year – (313) (313)
Released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income (142) – (142)
At 31 December 2014 65 100 165
Charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 10 – 10
Charged to equity – 800 800
Separate recognition of related insurance receivable 36 – 36
Utilised during the year – (800) (800)
At 31 December 2015 111 100 211
2 Fixed Asset Investments continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 146
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current 155 165
Non-current 56 –
 211 165
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there 
will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Legal provisions include indemnities provided by the Company. Legal provisions released during the year relate to those for which an indemnity is 
no longer required.
For details of the share buyback provision during 2015 refer to Note 17 of the Group Financial Statements.
During the year, the Company concluded it would be more appropriate to present the amount recoverable from insurers separately from the related 
obligation. Accordingly a debtor due after more than one year of £36 million has been recognised (Note 4), with an equal increase in the related 
provision. 
8 Share Capital
Issued and fully paid
Equity
ordinary
shares
Nominal
value
£m
At 1 January 2015 736,535,179 74
Allotments – –
At 31 December 2015 736,535,179 74
Cancelled – –
At 31 December 2015 736,535,179 74
For details of the share buyback programme of ordinary shares during 2015 refer to Note 23 of the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
The holders of ordinary shares (par value 10p) are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share 
at meetings of the Parent Company.
9 Share-Based Payments
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has two employees, the Group’s CEO and CFO. The tables below include details of their share awards granted to 
individuals whilst holding these roles, and those for any individuals previously holding these roles. Details of their share awards that are not fully 
vested are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The charge for share-based payments for the year was £9 million (2014: £10 million) and 
national insurance contributions were £8 million (2014: £5 million). See page 77.
The Company is unable to directly measure the fair value of employee services received. Instead the fair value of the share options granted during 
the year is determined using the Black-Scholes model. The model is internationally recognised as being appropriate to value employee share 
schemes similar to the All employee and Key employee schemes.
The fair value of awards with options outstanding at 31 December 2015 is shown in Note 24 of the Group Financial Statements.
Table 1. Share awards movements 2015
Movement in number of options
Award Grant date
Fair value of 
one award
£
Options 
outstanding 
at 1 Jan 2015 
number
Granted/ 
adjustments 
number
Lapsed 
number
Exercised 
number
Options 
outstanding 
at 31 Dec 2015 
number
Share options
2012 05 December 2011 3.18  411,286 – (246,772) – 164,514
2013 03 December 2012 3.29  503,806 – – – 503,806
2014 11 December 2013 3.85  503,809 – – – 503,809
2015 01 December 2014 4.34  490,000 – – – 490,000
2016 02 December 2015 6.75  – 490,000 – – 490,000
Restricted shares
2012 05 December 2011 25.30  205,643 – (123,385) (82,258) –
2013 03 December 2012 32.76  251,913 – – – 251,913
2014 11 December 2013 39.80  293,042 – – – 293,042
2015 01 December 2014 43.93  285,000 – – – 285,000
2016 02 December 2015 57.13  – 285,000 – – 285,000
Other share awards
UK SAYE 04 September 2013 7.53 403 – – – 403
UK SAYE 01 September 2015 10.70 – 307 – – 307
Weighted average exercise price (share options) £39.97 £63.25 £32.09 £0.00 £48.10
7 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges continued
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 147
Table 2. Share awards movements 2014
Movement in number of options
Award Grant date
Fair value of one 
award
£
Options 
outstanding 
at 1 Jan 2014 
number
Granted/ 
adjustments 
number Lapsed number
Exercised 
number
Options 
outstanding at 
31 Dec 2014 
number
Share options
2012 05 December 2011 3.18 436,346 11,286 (36,346) – 411,286
2013 03 December 2012 3.29 490,000 13,806 – – 503,806
2014 11 December 2013 3.85 490,000 13,809 – – 503,809
2015 01 December 2014 4.34 – 490,000 – – 490,000
Restricted shares
2011 01 December 2010 28.22 18,173 – (18,173) – –
2012 05 December 2011 25.30 207,372 5,643 (4,423) (2,949) 205,643
2013 03 December 2012 32.76 245,000 6,913 – – 251,913
2014 11 December 2013 39.80 285,000 8,042 – – 293,042
2015 01 December 2014 43.93 – 285,000 – – 285,000
Other share awards
UK SAYE 04 September 2006 6.61 1,011 – – (1,011) –
UK SAYE 04 September 2013 7.53 403 – – – 403
Weighted average exercise price (share options) £39.97 £49.72 £32.09 £16.90 £42.02
Further details of the share awards relating to the relevant Directors are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 84.  
For details of the contractual life, performance criteria, valuation assumptions and volatility of the share awards, please refer to Note 24 of the 
Group Financial Statements.
For options outstanding at year end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding options is 7.21 years (2014: 6.38 years).  
The weighted average share price for the year was £58.81 (2014: £50.51).
10 Auditors’ Remuneration
The fee charged for the statutory audit of the Company was £0.05 million (2014: £0.05 million).
11 Related Party Transactions
Adrian Hennah, the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc CFO, also sits on the Board of Directors of Indivior PLC. It was announced on 11 March 2016 that 
he would step down from the Indivior Board with effect from 11 May 2016.
There were no transactions with related parties other than wholly owned companies within the Group.
The Company has taken advantage of the requirements in Section 33, ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to not disclose key management personnel 
compensation.
12 Contingent Liabilities
The Company has issued a guarantee to the Trustees of the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund covering the obligations of certain UK subsidiaries of  
the Group who are the sponsoring employers of the UK defined benefit pension fund. The guarantee covers any amounts due to the pension fund 
from these subsidiaries if they fail to meet their pension obligations.
The Company has also issued a guarantee on behalf of Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc in relation to the issuance of a US$1 billion bond  
(two tranches of US$500 million). Details are included in Note 14 of the Group Financial Statements.
The Company has also issued other guarantees relating to subsidiary undertakings amounting to £1 million (2014: £1 million).
Other contingent liabilities are disclosed in Note 19 of the Group Financial Statements.
13 Dividends
During 2015 the Directors declared an interim cash dividend of 50.3p (2014: 60p) and proposed a final cash dividend of 88.7p (2014: 79p).
For further details, refer to Note 29 of the Group Financial Statements.
14 Post Balance Sheet Events
There are no post balance sheet events to disclose.
9 Share-Based Payments continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 148
15 Subsidiary Undertakings
The subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015, all of which are included in the Group Financial Statements, are shown below.
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
0730033 BC Ltd CANADA 550 Burard Street Suite 2300, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2B5, Canada COMMON 100.00%
103-105 Bath Road Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Airwick Industrie SAS FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00%
Anhui Guilong Pharmaceutical Trading 
Company Ltd
CHINA Dangtu Economic Development Zone, Maanshan City, Anhui Province, China ORD 100.00%
Beleggingsmaatschappij Lemore BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Benckiser UK 4th Floor, 115, George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4JN, Scotland ORD 100.00%
Brevet Hospital Products (UK) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
British Surgical Industries Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/PREF 100.00%
Canterbury Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Central Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Crookes Healthcare Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00%
Crookes Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Cupal Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/PREF 100.00%
Dakin Brothers Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Dorincourt Holdings (Ireland) Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00%
Durex Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Earex Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
ERH Propack Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Fenla Industria, Comercio e 
Administracao Ltda
BRAZIL Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015, km 18, Jardim Arpoador, CEP 05577-900, 
Sao Paulo, Brazil
ORD 100.00%
Gainbridge Investments (Cyprus) Ltd CYPRUS 1 Lampousas Street, P.C. 1095, Nicosia, Cyprus ORD 100.00%
Glasgow Square Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Green, Young & Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Grosvenor Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Guilong Pharmaceutical (Anhui) Co. Ltd CHINA Dangtu Economic Development Zone, Maanshan City, Anhui Province, China ORD 100.00%
Guilong Pharmaceutical (Anhui) Co. Ltd 
– Xiamen Branch
CHINA 11F New Port Plaza, 10 Hubinbei Road, Xiamen, China – 100.00%
Hamol Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Helpcentral Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Howard Lloyd & Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
J. and J. Holdings Limited GUERNSEY Royal Chambers, St. Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4AF ORD 100.00%
Kukident GmbH GERMANY Heinestrasse 9, 69469 Weinheim, Germany ORD 100.00%
Lancaster Square Holdings SL SPAIN Carrer de Mataró, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00%
LI Pensions Trust Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Linden Germany A Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Linden Germany A Limited –  
Netherlands Branch
NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands – 100.00%
Linden Germany B Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Linden Germany B Limited –  
Netherlands Branch
NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands – 100.00%
Lloyds Pharmaceuticals UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
London International Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
London International Trading Asia Ltd HONG KONG Units 1503-7, 15th Floor, Millennium City 6, 392 Kwun Tong, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong
ORD 100.00%
LRC Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/PREF 100.00%
LRC North America Inc USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
COMMON 100.00%
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 149
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
LRC Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
LRC Products Limited – Australian  
Branch
AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia – 100.00%
LRC Secretarial Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Maddison Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Medcom LLC BELARUS 220108, Minsk, Kazintsa, 121A, app.450, Belarus ORD 100.00%
Medcom Marketing and Prodazha 
Ukraine LLC
UKRAINE 1 Block, 120 40-Richchia Zhovtnia Ave., Kiev, 03127, Ukraine ORD 100.00%
New Bridge Holdings BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
New Bridge Street Invoicing Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Norwich Square Holding SL SPAIN Carrer de Mataró, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00%
Nurofen Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Open Championship Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Optrex Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Oriental Medicine Company Limited HONG KONG Units 1503-7, 15th Floor, Millennium City 6, 392 Kwun Tong, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong
ORD 100.00%
Oxy Reckitt Benckiser LLC SOUTH KOREA 24th Floor Two IFC, 10 Gukjegeumyung-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul,  
150-945 South Korea
ORD 100.00%
Paras Global FZE DUBAI Sheikh Zayed Road, 8.5 Interchange, Dubai, United Arab Emirates ORD 100.00%
Paras Inc USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
COMMON 100.00%
Paras Overseas Holding Limited DUBAI Sheikh Zayed Road, 8.5 Interchange, Dubai, United Arab Emirates ORD 100.00%
Pharmalab Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Prebbles Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/DEF 100.00%
Propack Australia Pty Limited AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00%
Propack GmbH GERMANY Dr. Albert-Reimann-Strasse 3, 68526 Ladenburg, Germany ORD 100.00%
Pt Reckitt Benckiser (Indonesia) INDONESIA Artha Graha Building, 11th Floor, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 52-53,  
Jakarta 12190, Indonesia
ORD 100.00%
Pt Reckitt Benckiser Trading Indonesia INDONESIA Artha Graha Building, 11th Floor, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 52-53,  
Jakarta 12190, Indonesia
ORD 100.00%
Qingdao London Durex Co Ltd CHINA No.1 Shangma, Aodong Road, Qingdao City, Shandong Province, China ORD 100.00%
Qingdao New Bridge Corporate 
Management Consulting Company Ltd
CHINA No.1 Shangma, Aodong Road, Qingdao City, Shandong Province, China ORD 100.00%
R & C Nominees Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
R & C Nominees One Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
R & C Nominees Two Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
RB (China Trading) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
RB (China) Holding Co Ltd CHINA 6th Floor, Tower D, Parkview Green Fang Cao Di, No.9 Dongdaqiao Road, 
Chaoyang District, China
ORD 100.00%
RB Healthcare Pte Ltd – Malaysia Branch MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 
Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
– 100.00%
RB Healthcare Pte Ltd (in Liquidation) SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00%
RB Holding Europe Du Sud SNC FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00%
RB Holdings (Luxembourg) Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
RB Holdings (Nottingham) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
RB Manufacturing LLC USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Membership 
Shares
100.00%
RB Reigate (Ireland) IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00%
RB Reigate (UK) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
RB Square Holdings (Spain) SL SPAIN Carrer de Mataró, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00%
RB UK Commercial Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 150
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
RB Winchester (Ireland) IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00%
RBH Verwertungs GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman (Jersey) Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD/PREF 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman (Overseas) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman (UK) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/PREF 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman Capital Finance 
Limited
JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman Guangzhou Limited CHINA Economic and Technological Development Zone, Eastern, Guangzhou City, 
Guangdong Province, China
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman Holdings Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman Management Services 
(Ireland) Limited
IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman Pension Trustee 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman Sagrotan 
Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH
GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Colman Trustee Services 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt & Sons Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (2012) BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Australia) Pty Limited AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Bangladesh) Limited BANGLADESH 58/59 Nasirabad Industrial Area, Chittagong- 4209, Bangladesh ORD 82.96%
Reckitt Benckiser (Belgium) SA/NV BELGIUM Researchdreef, Allée de la Recherche 20, B-1070 Brussels, Belgium ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Brands) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Ltda BRAZIL Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015, km 18, Jardim Arpoador, CEP 05577-900, 
Sao Paulo, Brazil
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (BVI) No. 1 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN 
ISLANDS
Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (BVI) No. 1 Limited – 
UK Branch
UK Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (BVI) No. 2 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN 
ISLANDS
Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (BVI) No. 2 Limited – 
UK Branch
UK Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (BVI) No. 3 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN 
ISLANDS
Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (BVI) No. 3 Limited – 
UK Branch
UK Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (BVI) No. 4 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN 
ISLANDS
Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Canada) Inc CANADA 1680 Tech Avenue Unit 2, Mississauga, Ontario L4W 5S9, Canada NEW 
COMMON
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Cayman Islands) 
Limited
CAYMAN 
ISLANDS
PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand 
Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Centroamerica) SA COSTA RICA San José, Escazú Corporate Center, 7 Piso, Costado Sur de Multiplaza 
Escazú, San José, Costa Rica
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Channel Islands) 
Limited
GUERNSEY 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter Port, 
Guernsey, GY1 1EW
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Czech Republic) Spol 
s r o
CZECH REPUBLIC Vinohradská 2828/151, 130 00 Praha 3-Žižkov, Czech Republic ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Egypt) Limited EGYPT Polyium Building 22, Off-road 90, District 1, 5th Settlement, New Cairo, 
Egypt
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (ENA) BV NETHERLANDS Schiphol Boulevard 267, 1118 BH Schiphol, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Espana) SL SPAIN Carrer de Mataró, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00%
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 151
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
Reckitt Benckiser (Granollers) SL SPAIN Carrer de Mataró, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Grosvenor) Holdings 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (India) Limited INDIA 227, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi – 110 020, India ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Lanka) Limited SRI LANKA 41 Lauries Road, Colombo 4, Sri Lanka ORD 99.99%
Reckitt Benckiser (Latvia) SIA LATVIA Strélnieku iela 1A – 2, Riga, LV-1010, Latvia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 
Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Near East) Limited ISRAEL 6 Hangar Street, I.Z. Neve Neeman B Hod Hasharon 45250, P.O. Box 
6440., Israel
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (New Zealand) Limited NEW ZEALAND 2 Fred Thomas Dr, Takapuna, Auckland 0622, New Zealand ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Nordic) A/S DENMARK Vandtårnsvej 83 A, 2860 Søborg, Denmark ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Pars) PJSC IRAN No 67, West Taban Avenue, Africa Boulevard, Tehran, Iran ORD 99.80%
Reckitt Benckiser (Poland) SA POLAND Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwór Mazowiecki, Poland ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Portugal) SA PORTUGAL R. Dom Cristóvão da Gama 1 – 1º Andar C/D, Edifício Restelo, 1400-113 
Lisbon, Portugal
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Romania) Srl ROMANIA Floor 5, Building A, 89-97 Grigore Alexandrescu Street, Bucarest, Romania ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (RUMEA) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (RUMEA) Limited – 
Dubai Branch
DUBAI Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, PO Box 61344 Dubai, UAE – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Singapore) Pte Limited SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Slovak Republic) Spol 
s r o
SLOVAKIA Drie ňová 3, 82108 Bratislava, Slovakia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (South America) 
Holding BV
NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Spain) BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Switzerland) AG SWITZERLAND Richtistrasse 5, 8405 Wallisellen, Switzerland ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Thailand) Limited THAILAND No. 89 AIA Capital Center, Rooms 2504 – 2507, 25th Floor, Ratchadaphisek 
Rd., Dindaeng Sub-District, Dindaeng District, Bangkok 10400, Thailand
ORD 45.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (UK) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (USA) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser (Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
ZIMBABWE 3 Melbourne Road, Sutherton Road, Harare, Zimbabwe ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser AG SWITZERLAND Richtistrasse 5, 8405 Wallisellen, Switzerland ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Arabia FZE DUBAI Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, PO Box 61344 Dubai, UAE ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Argentina SA ARGENTINA Bucarelli 2608 PB A, CABA, Buenos Aires, Argentina ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific Limited – 
Japan Branch
JAPAN c/o 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Austria GmbH AUSTRIA Guglgasse 15, A-1110 Wien (Vienna), Austria ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Bahrain W.L.L BAHRAIN PO Box 50833, Hidd, Kingdom of Bahrain ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Brands Investments BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Bulgaria Eood BULGARIA 22 Zlaten Rog Str 1407 Sofia, Bulgaria ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser BY LLC BELARUS 220108, Minsk, Kazintsa, 121A, app.403, Belarus COMMON 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Calgon BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Chartres SAS FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Chile SA CHILE Av. Pdte. Kennedy Lateral 5454, Vitacura, Región Metropolitana, Chile ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Colombia SA COLOMBIA Calle 46 # 5 – 76. Cali, Colombia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Commercial (Italia) Srl ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milan, Italy ORD 100.00%
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 152
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
Reckitt Benckiser Corporate Services 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser d.o.o CROATIA Ulica grada Vukovara 269d, 10 000 Zagreb, Hrvatska, Croatia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser De Mexico, SA de CV MEXICO Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz,7 No 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, Atizapan de 
Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Detergents GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Deutschland GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser East Africa Limited KENYA Plot Lr No 209/2462, Likoni Road, Nairobi, Kenya, Africa ORD 99.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Ecuador SA ECUADOR Francisco Salazar E10-37 y Jose Luis Tamayo. Quito, Ecuador ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Employees Trustees 
(Jersey) Limited
JERSEY Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Europe General 
Partnership
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom Partnership 
Shares
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Europe General 
Partnership, Slough (UK), Wallisellen 
Branch – Swiss Branch
SWITZERLAND 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Expatriate Services 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Fabric Treatment BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Finance (2005) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Finance (2007) UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Finance (2010) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Finance Company 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Finish BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser France SAS FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser FSIA BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (Central & 
Eastern Europe) Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (CIS) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (Ireland) 
Limited
IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (Italia) SpA ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (MEMA) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
(Philippines), Inc
PHILIPPINES Unit 2202 One Global Place, 5th Ave. Corner 25th St. Bonifacio Global City, 
Taguig City 1634, Philippines
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (Russia) LLC RUSSIA Tverskaya 16/2 125009, Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (UK) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Australia 
Pty Limited
AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare France SAS FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare India 
Limited
INDIA Plot No. 48,Institutional Area, Sector-32,Gurgaon – 122 001, India ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
International Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
Manufacturing (Thailand) Limited
THAILAND 65 Moo 12 Lardkrabang-Bangplee Road, Bangplee Samutprakarn, Bangkok 
10540, Thailand
ORD/PREF 45.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Portugal 
Ltda
PORTUGAL R. Dom Cristóvão da Gama 1 – 1º Andar C/D, Edifício Restelo, 1400-113 
Lisbon, Portugal
ORD 100.00%
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 153
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare SA SPAIN Carrer de Mataró, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Hellas Chemicals SA GREECE 7 Taki Kavalieratou Street, 145 64 Kifissia, Greece ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holding (Thailand) 
Limited
THAILAND No. 89 AIA Capital Center, Rooms 2504 – 2507, 25th Floor, Ratchadaphisek 
Rd., Dindaeng Sub-District, Dindaeng District, Bangkok 10400, Thailand
ORD/PREF 45.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holding GmbH & Co 
KG
GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (Channel 
Islands) Limited
GUERNSEY 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter Port, 
Guernsey, GY1 1EW
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (Channel 
Islands) Limited – UK Branch
UK 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter Port, 
Guernsey, GY1 1EW
– 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (Italia) Srl ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milan, Italy ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (Luxembourg) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/PREF 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (Overseas) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (USA) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (USA)  
Limited – Luxembourg Branch
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Home Chemical 
Products Trading (Shanghai) Co 
Limited
CHINA C6-8 site, 6F, No.333 Futexi Road, Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, Shanghai 
City, China
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong Limited HONG KONG Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen's Road East, Hong Kong ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong Limited – 
Taiwan Branch
TAIWAN 106 94043 Charity No. 136, Sec Taiwan – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Household and 
Healthcare Ukraine LLC
UKRAINE 28A L”G”, Moscovskiy Prospekt, off.80, Kiev, Ukraine ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Household Products 
(China) Company Limited
CHINA No.34 Beijing East Road, Jingzhou City, Hubei Province, China ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser International GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments (2012) LLC USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Membership 
Shares
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 1) 
Sarl
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 2) 
Sarl
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 4) 
Sarl
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 5) 
Sarl
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 6) 
Sarl
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 7) 
Sarl
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 8) 
Sarl
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser IP LLC RUSSIA Kozhevnicheskaya str., 14, 115114 Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Italia SpA ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Japan Limited JAPAN Shinagawa-ku, 141-0022, Japan ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.1) Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.1) Limited – 
UK Branch
UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.2) Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00%
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 154
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.2) Limited – 
UK Branch
UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.3) Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.3) Limited – 
UK Branch
UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.4) Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.4) Limited – 
UK Branch
UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.5) Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.5) Limited – 
UK Branch
UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.6) Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.6) Limited – 
UK Branch
UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.7) Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD, CLASS 
A, C & D
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Kazakhstan LLC KAZAKHSTAN House 15A, Koktem 1, Bostandyksky District, Almaty, 050040, Kazakhstan ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Kereskedelmi Kft HUNGARY 134-146 ut Bocksai, 1113 Budapest, Hungary ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Laundry Detergents 
(No. 1) BV
NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Laundry Detergents 
(No. 2) BV
NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Lime-A-Way BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser LLC RUSSIA Kosmodamianskaya nab. 52/1, 115054, Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser LLC USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Membership 
Shares
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg (2010) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg (No. 1) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg (No. 2) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg (No. 3) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg (No. 4) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Management Services IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD, CLASS 
A, B, C, D, E, 
F, G, H, I, K
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Marc BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Morocco Sarl AU MOROCCO 322 Boulevard, Zerktouni, Residence Boissy Ler Etage – Bourgogne, 
Casablanca, Morocco
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Netherlands Brands BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Nigeria Limited NIGERIA 12 Montgomery Road, Yaba, Lagos, Nigeria ORD 99.53%
Reckitt Benckiser NV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser NV – Luxembourg 
Branch
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg – 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Oven Cleaners BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Pakistan Limited PAKISTAN QM Building, 9/11th Floor, Plot No BC – 15, Block 7, Clifton, Karachi, 
Pakistan
ORD 98.60%
Reckitt Benckiser Peru SA PERU Avenida República de Panamá No. 2557 Int. 202, La Victoria. Lima, Perú ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals (Pty) 
Limited
SOUTH AFRICA 8 Jet Park Road, Elandsfontein 1406, South Africa ORD 100.00%
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 155
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
Reckitt Benckiser plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Porto Alto Lda PORTUGAL Estrada Malhada dos Carrascos nr12, 2135-061, Samora Correia, Portugal ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Power Cleaners BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Production (Poland) 
Sp. Zoo
POLAND Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwór Mazowiecki, Poland ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Produktions GmbH GERMANY Dr. Albert-Reimann-Strasse 3, 68526 Ladenburg, Germany ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Scholl India Limited INDIA F73 & 74, SIPCOT Industrial Park, Irungattukottai, Sriperumbudur TK, 
Kancheepuram Distt. – 602 117, Tamilnadu, India
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Service Bureau Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Services (Kenya) 
Limited
KENYA Plot Lr No 1870/I/569, 2nd Floor Apollo Centre, Ring Road Parklands, 
Westlands, Pobox 764, 00606 Nairobi, Kenya, Africa
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Services SA de CV MEXICO Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz,7 No 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, Atizapan de 
Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser South Africa (Pty) 
Limited
SOUTH AFRICA 8 Jet Park Road, Elandsfontein 1406, South Africa ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Taiwan Limited TAIWAN 106 94043 Charity No. 136, Sec Taiwan ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Tatabanya Kft HUNGARY 134-146 ut Bocksai, 1113 Budapest, Hungary ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Temizlik Malzemesi 
San. ve Tic. A.S.
TURKEY Hakki Yeten Cad. Selenium Plaza K:7-8-9, Fulya, Besiktas, Istanbul, Turkey ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Tiret BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Treasury (2007) LimitedUK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/PREF 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA (2010) LLC USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Membership 
Shares
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA (2010) LLC –  
UK Branch
UK Suite 400, 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19808, United 
States
- 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA (2012) LLC USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Membership 
Shares
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA (2013) LLC USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Membership 
Shares
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA (2013) LLC –  
UK Branch
UK Suite 400, 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19808, United 
States
– 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance (No.1) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance (No.2) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance (No.3) 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser USA General 
Partnership
USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Partnership 
Shares
100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Vanish BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Benckiser Venezuela SA VENEZUELA Avenida Mara con Calle San José, Centro Comercial Macaracuay Plaza, Nivel 
C3, Locales 5 y 12. Urb. Colinas de la California. Caracas, Venezuela
ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Colman Chiswick (OTC) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Reckitt Piramal Private Limited INDIA 8th Floor, B-Wing, Marwah Centre, Krishanlal Marwah Marg, Saki Naka, 
Andheri East, Mumbai – 400 072, India
ORD 100.00%
Reigate Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Relcamp Aie (in liquidation) SPAIN Carrer de Fray Pau Carbó, 24, 08403, Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00%
Rivalmuster UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Scholl (Investments) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Scholl (UK) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Scholl Consumer Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 156
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
Scholl Latin America Limited (in 
liquidation)
BAHAMAS c/o 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Scholl Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/PREF 100.00%
Seton Healthcare Group No.2 Trustee 
Limited 
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Seton Healthcare No.1 Trustee Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Shanghai Manon Trading Company CHINA Room 1101, No.1033, Zhao Jia Bang Road, Shanghai, China ORD 75.05%
Simco Limited GUERNSEY Royal Chambers, St. Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4AF ORD 100.00%
Sonet Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Sonet Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Sonet Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Sonet Prebbles Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Sonet Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Sonet Scholl Healthcare International 
Limited 
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Sonet Scholl Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Sonet Scholl Overseas Investments 
Limited 
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Sonet Scholl UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
SSL (C C Manufacturing) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
SSL (C C Services) Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/PREF 100.00%
SSL (MG) Polymers Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
SSL (MG) Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
SSL (RB) Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
SSL (SD) International Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
SSL Australia Pty Ltd AUSTRALIA 225 Beach Road, Mordialloc VIC 3195, Australia ORD 100.00%
SSL Capital Ltd JERSEY 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG ORD/PREF 100.00%
SSL Healthcare (Shanghai) Ltd CHINA Room 1605, No.660 Shangcheng Road, Pudong District, Shanghai City, 
China
ORD 100.00%
SSL Healthcare Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00%
SSL Healthcare Malaysia Sdn Bhd (in 
Liquidation)
MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 
Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
ORD 100.00%
SSL Healthcare Manufacturing SA SPAIN Av. Can Fatjó, 151, 08191 Rubí, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00%
SSL Healthcare Norge AS NORWAY Vollsveien 9, 1366 Lysaker, Norway ORD 100.00%
SSL Healthcare Singapore Pte Ltd SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00%
SSL Healthcare Sverige AB SWEDEN Waterfront, Box 190, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden ORD 100.00%
SSL Holdings (USA) Inc USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
COMMON 100.00%
SSL International plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
SSL Manufacturing (Thailand) Ltd THAILAND Wellgrow Industrial Estate, 100 Moo 5, Bagna Trad Rd Km 36 Bangaamak, 
Bangpakong, Chachoengsao, Bangkok 24180, Thailand
ORD 100.00%
SSL Mexico SA de CV MEXICO Av. De los Angeles No 303 Bodega 3B-1 Col. San Matin Xochinahuac, 
Azcapotzalco, Mexico
ORD 100.00%
SSL New Zealand Limited NEW ZEALAND 2 Fred Thomas Dr, Takapuna, Auckland 0622, New Zealand ORD 100.00%
SSL Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Suffolk Finance Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD/DEF 100.00%
Suffolk Insurance Limited BERMUDA Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM DX, Bermuda ORD 100.00%
Tai He Tai Lai Culture Communication 
Co Ltd
CHINA 1-1707, No.15 Majiapu West Road, Fengtai District, Beijing City, China ORD 100.00%
The French's Food Company LLC USA c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Membership 
Shares
100.00%
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 157
Name
Country of 
incorporation Registered Office Share Class
% of  
Shares Held
The French's Food Company Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
The French's Food Company Inc CANADA 1680 Tech Avenue Unit 2, Mississauga, Ontario L4W 5S9, Canada COMMON 100.00%
The French's Food Finance Company 
Limited
UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
The French's Food Finance Company 
Limited – Luxembourg Branch
LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg – 100.00%
The R.T. French's Food Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
The R.T. French's Food Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
The RB Company (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd  
(in Liquidation)
MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 
Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
ORD 100.00%
Tubifoam Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Ultra Chemical Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Ultra Laboratories Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
W.Woodward,Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00%
Winchester Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue de la Poudrerie, L – 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00%
Xinzhou ZhongHeng Pharmaceutical 
Co Ltd
CHINA Economic Development Zone, Xinzhou City, Shanxi Province, China ORD 100.00%
Zhong Wei Guo Yuan (Beijing) Biotech 
Co Ltd
CHINA B-1201, Area 1, Fang Zhuang Fang Cheng Yuan, Fengtai District, Beijing, 
China
ORD 100.00%
Registered addresses have been included as additional information.
15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 158
A summary of Strategic Risks and Uncertainties appears on page 40 of 
this report. Following is a more expansive explanation of principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group, including risks that are not 
specified in that summary. This report, however, is not an all-inclusive 
list of risks that may affect the Group and other factors may pose a 
material risk to the business.
The following risks have been grouped and ordered to facilitate their 
being read in conjunction with the Group major risks, which are laid 
out on pages 40 to 45 of the Strategic Report.
The objective of this section is to provide a broader and deeper 
understanding of the nature of risk exposures faced by RB in the usual 
course of business. 
Product Liability 
Our business is subject to product liability claims. As a product 
manufacturer, we are subject, from time to time, to certain legal 
proceedings and claims arising out of our products, including as a result 
of unanticipated side effects or issues that become evident only after 
products are widely introduced into the marketplace. Some of our 
products present inherent dangers, including due to the presence of 
chemicals, which if mishandled or misused, could result in significant 
damage. We have paid in the past, are currently paying and may be 
required in the future to pay, compensation for losses or injuries that 
are allegedly caused by our products. Product liability claims may arise, 
among other things, from claims that our products are defective, 
contain contaminants, provide inadequate warnings or instructions, or 
cause personal injury to persons or damage to property. Product 
liability claims, if resolved unfavourably, or if settled, could result in 
injunctions and/or may require us to pay substantial damages, and 
related costs, including punitive damages, as well as result in the 
imposition of civil and criminal sanctions. If one of our products is 
found to be defective, we could be required to recall it, and/or we may 
be required to alter our trademarks, labels, or packaging, which could 
result in adverse publicity, significant expenses, potential disruptions in 
our supply chain and loss of revenue.
We have in the past voluntarily implemented, and may in the future 
face product quality concerns and voluntarily implement, product 
recalls, which could expose us to product liability claims. Additionally, 
complaints, investigations and litigation by consumers or government 
authorities relating to our products, our competitors’ products or 
individual ingredients may result in judgements that affect us and/or 
the industry in which we operate. A recall of a product that is similar to 
ours could result in confusion concerning the scope of the recall and/or 
a decline in consumer confidence about our products, which may 
consequently impact our business and results of operations. We may 
not be insured fully, or at all, in respect of such risks, and we have in 
the past faced, currently face, and may in the future face disputes with 
our insurers in the event that they refuse to cover a particular claim. In 
such instances, we may be required to bear substantial losses, which 
could adversely impact our capital expenditures, expenses and 
liabilities. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely impact our 
business, financial condition and results of operations.
Supply Chain 
We face risks of interruptions of our supply chain and disruptions in our 
production facilities, which could materially adversely affect our results 
of operations. We source our raw and packaging materials (including 
bulk chemicals, plastics, pulp and metal cans) and finished goods from 
a wide variety of predominantly international chemical and packaging 
companies and co-packers. We also outsource the manufacture of 
some of our products to third parties. Our suppliers generally are 
diversified in terms of geography and supplied items, but we may face 
risks to continuity of supply arising from certain specialised suppliers, 
both of raw materials and of third party manufactured items, including 
speciality chemicals and components. We may also incur higher prices 
for raw materials than we may otherwise have to pay if we adopted a 
more concentrated approach to obtaining supplies.
More generally, significant disruptions to our suppliers’ operations, such 
as disruptions resulting from natural catastrophes (including as a result 
of the effects of climate change), pandemics or other outbreaks of 
diseases, acts of war or terrorism, or otherwise, may affect our ability 
to source raw materials on a more global basis, and negatively impact 
our costs. The failure of a number of third party suppliers to fulfil their 
contractual obligations, in a timely manner, or at all, may result in 
delays or disruptions to our business. Replacing suppliers may require a 
new supplier to be qualified under industry, governmental or our own 
internal standards, which could require investment and may take time. 
In addition, a number of our facilities are critical to our business and 
major or prolonged disruption at those facilities, whether due to 
accidents, sabotage or otherwise could materially adversely affect our 
operations. Moreover, sites in which our products are manufactured are 
subject to supervision by regulatory agencies, on both an ongoing and 
ad hoc basis. If we are unable to obtain or produce sufficient quantities 
of a particular product, at specifically approved facilities, whether due 
to disruption to, or failure of, our manufacturing processes, or 
otherwise, we may fail to meet customer demand on a timely basis, 
which could undermine our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction 
and damage to our reputation.
In addition, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements could lead to interruption of production, product recalls, 
seizures and revocation of licences to operate at any of our facilities. 
Any interruption or disruption in our supply chain, particularly if 
significant or prolonged, could materially adversely affect our business, 
prospects, results of operations and financial condition.
Volatility in the price of commodities, energy and transportation may 
impact our profitability. Certain materials for the production or 
packaging of finished goods, such as oil-related commodities, are 
subject to fluctuating prices. Increases in the costs or decreases in the 
availability of these commodities, and increases in other costs such as 
energy and transportation, could adversely affect our profitability if we 
are unable to pass on the higher costs in the form of price increases or 
otherwise achieve cost efficiencies. Even if we were to increase the 
prices of our products, competitors may opt not to adjust their prices in 
response to increasing costs and customers may refuse to pay higher 
prices. Our inability to manage this risk effectively, or at all, could have 
a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Information Technology 
A disruption to, or failure of, our information technology systems and 
infrastructure, may adversely affect our business. We are increasingly 
dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure to 
support a wide variety of key business processes, including processing 
and storage of confidential and personal data, as well as for 
international and external communications as part of our accounting, 
logistics and distribution functions with suppliers, customers and 
consumers. Failures or disruptions to our systems or the systems of third 
parties on whom we rely, due to any number of causes, particularly if 
prolonged, or if any failure or disruption were to impact our backup or 
disaster recovery plans, could result in a loss of key data and/or affect 
our operations.
The combination of our recently initiated business reorganisation and 
continued implementation of our enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
programmes could result in sub-optimal implementations and reduced 
focus due to conflicting demands for management attention. Our 
computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to 
unauthorised access (from within our organisation or by third parties), 
computer viruses or other malicious code and other cyber threats that 
could have a security impact. The occurrence of one or more of these 
events potentially could jeopardise confidential, proprietary and other 
information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our 
computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or 
malfunctions in our operations, which could result in significant losses 
or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant 
additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate 
and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be 
subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured 
Our Principal Operating Risks Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 159
against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. 
The legislative environment has also been strengthened with substantial 
financial penalties now available in relation to data protection breaches, 
and an increased risk of civil and/or criminal proceedings and damage 
to reputation in relation to such breaches.
We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary 
information by email and other electronic means. We have discussed 
and worked with customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third 
parties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, 
and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all such third 
parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have 
appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the 
information. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, 
confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a 
consumer, customer, supplier, counterparty or other third party could 
result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.
Personnel and Management
We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, including 
key senior management. We invest in recruiting and training personnel 
and senior management. Our business depends, in part, on executive 
officers and senior management to provide uninterrupted leadership 
and direction for our business, and qualified personnel for product 
R&D. This need is all the more acute in the context of a growing 
business, and the strategic internal reorganisations and resource 
planning programmes to promote and manage such growth. The 
market for talent is intensely competitive and may become increasingly 
more competitive. We could face challenges in sourcing qualified 
personnel, with the requisite training and suitable international 
experience, particularly in countries such as China, where the 
availability of skilled employees may be limited. Further, variable pay is, 
and will continue to be, the major element of our current Executive 
Directors’ and Senior Executives’ total compensation package.
If we achieve our target levels of performance, the variable elements 
will amount to 59-77% of Executive Directors’ total remuneration. If we 
are unable to achieve our performance targets, our senior management 
would not be entitled to such variable pay, which may operate as a 
disincentive for them to continue their employment with us. The loss of 
key personnel, or our inability to recruit qualified personnel to meet our 
operational needs, may delay, or curtail the achievement of major 
strategic objectives. 
Labour disruptions may affect our results of operations. A substantial 
portion of our workforce is unionised, and our relationship with unions, 
including labour disputes or work stoppages, could have an adverse 
impact on our financial results. We are a party to collective bargaining 
agreements covering approximately one-third of our direct employees. 
If, upon the expiration of such collective bargaining agreements, we are 
unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labour unions, it could 
result in strikes by the affected workers and thereby significantly disrupt 
our operations. Further, if we are unable to control health care and 
pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreements, we 
may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on 
future results of operations. 
Overall Business Environment
We are one of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of 
branded health, hygiene and home products, selling a comprehensive 
range of products through over 60 operating companies across the 
globe. Consequently, our business and results of operations are 
affected by changes in both global economic conditions and the 
individual markets in which we operate. Global economic trends 
continue to pose challenges, and in many of our markets, austerity 
measures, constraints on consumer lending and slow or no economic 
growth continue to impede consumer purchasing power and adversely 
impact consumer confidence. Certain markets, including a number of 
emerging markets in which we plan to focus our investment and 
growth efforts, exhibit more volatile demand in reaction to macro-
economic factors than other markets. In addition, terrorist acts, civil 
unrest and other similar disturbances, as well as natural catastrophes, 
can impact economic conditions and consumer confidence, degrade 
infrastructure, disrupt supply chains and otherwise result in business 
interruption. 
A variety of factors may adversely affect our results of operations and 
financial condition during periods of economic uncertainty or instability, 
social or labour unrest or political upheaval in the markets in which we 
operate. For example, our operations and supply chains may be 
disrupted. In addition, we may face increased pricing pressure or 
competing promotional activity for lower-priced products as 
competitors seek to maintain sales volumes. Periods of economic 
upheaval may also expose us to greater counterparty risks, including 
with customers, suppliers and financial institutions, who may become 
insolvent or otherwise unable to perform their obligations. We may also 
experience greater fluctuations in foreign currency movements, 
increased commodity prices and increased transportation and energy 
costs. Periods of economic and political upheaval may also lead to 
government actions, such as imposition of martial law, trade 
restrictions, foreign ownership restrictions, capital, price or currency 
controls, nationalisation or expropriation of property or other 
resources, or changes in legal and regulatory requirements, including 
those resulting in potentially adverse tax consequences. We may also 
be unable to access credit markets, including the commercial paper 
market, on favourable terms, or at all, which could materially adversely 
affect our liquidity and capital resources or significantly increase our 
cost of capital.
Laws and Regulations
Regulatory Landscape 
Our business is subject to significant governmental regulation. Our 
business and products are heavily regulated by governments and other 
regulatory bodies in the countries in which we operate. Regulation is 
imposed in respect of, but not limited to, ingredients, manufacturing 
standards, patient safety, clinical trial standards, labour standards, 
product safety and quality, marketing, packaging, labelling, storage, 
distribution, advertising, imports and exports, data storage and 
processing, social and environmental responsibility and health and 
safety. In addition, we are required to obtain and maintain licences in 
respect of certain of our products, which must be regularly updated in 
order to improve our products and take into account any variations. If 
we are found by regulators or courts to have been non-compliant with 
applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil remedies 
such as fines, injunctions or product recalls, and/or criminal sanctions, 
any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, 
reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to the introduction of new regulations, modification of 
existing regulations or changes in interpretations of existing or new 
regulations. Changes to the laws and regulations to which we and our 
operations are subject, whether as a result of new or more stringent 
requirements, or more stringent interpretations of existing 
requirements, could impact the way we conduct our business or market 
our products (for example, up-scheduling of an OTC product would 
result in it being moved from on-the-shelf to behind the counter or 
restricted to availability only with a doctors’ prescription) and could 
impose significant compliance costs and have a material adverse effect 
on our results of operations.
The laws and regulations to which we are subject may not be 
transparent, may be difficult to interpret, and/or may be enforced 
inconsistently. In our experience, emerging markets can pose 
heightened risks with respect to laws and regulations, when compared 
with countries with more developed institutional structures. Given our 
focus on growth in developing markets, we are exposed to heightened 
regulatory risks. For example, in some emerging market countries, the 
laws and regulations to which we are subject may not always be fully 
transparent, can be difficult to interpret and may be enforced 
inconsistently. The legal systems in such countries may not be well-
established or reliable. There may be a lack of respect for the rule of 
law, a lack of enforcement of property rights, inconsistent or 
insufficient access to remedy through legal systems, lack of judicial 
independence and corruption, which could result in greater uncertainty  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 160
in enforcing contracts, difficulties in obtaining legal redress, particularly 
against the state or state-owned entities, and higher operational costs 
and risks to our business.
We have in the past been, currently are, and may in the future be, 
subject to investigations and potential enforcement action. Some such 
action could have in the past, or could in the future have a material 
adverse effect on our business. We have in the past been, currently are, 
and could in the future be subject to regulatory investigations or 
potential enforcement action that targets an industry, a set of business 
practices or our specific operations. These investigations or 
enforcement actions could be in respect of specific industry issues or 
broader business conduct issues. Moreover, these investigations or 
enforcement actions could be triggered by allegations of general 
corporate misconduct or by allegations of individual employee 
misconduct in violation of internal policies and procedures. Regulatory 
authorities and consumer groups may, from time to time, request or 
conduct reviews of the use of certain ingredients that are used in 
manufacturing our products, the results of which may have a material 
adverse effect on our business. Ingredient legislation could have a 
detrimental impact on our business, undermine our reputation and 
goodwill and affect consumer demand for products containing such 
ingredients. We may voluntarily remove, or be required to remove, 
certain ingredients from our products or any products that we may 
acquire. We may not be able to develop an alternative formulation, 
successfully modify our existing products or obtain necessary regulatory 
approvals on a timely basis or at all, which could adversely impact our 
business and results of operations.
EU Integration 
The referendum to be held regarding the UK’s membership of the EU 
heightens the potential impact of some of the principal operating risks 
described in this section, including the risks relating to the introduction 
of new regulations, modification of existing regulations or changes in 
interpretations of existing or new regulations described above. If the 
UK votes to leave the EU, it is unclear how the regulatory landscape will 
change for RB, both in the UK and in the remaining EU member states. 
Additionally, the outcome of the referendum could have wider impacts 
on the risks faced by RB. Some of the potential effects considered by 
RB include an increase in economic and operational uncertainty, a 
change in, or increase in the volatility of currency exchange, credit and 
interest rates, or that the outcome of the referendum may be a catalyst 
for further changes to the regulations and/or structure of the EU that 
will, in turn, have an impact on the business of and operating 
conditions faced by RB. 
Competition 
Any historical, current or future violations of antitrust and competition 
laws may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial 
condition and results of operations. We are subject to antitrust and 
competition laws in the vast majority of countries in which we do 
business. Failure to comply with applicable antitrust and competition 
laws, rules and regulations in any jurisdiction in which we operate may 
result in civil and/or criminal legal proceedings being brought against 
us. We have in the past been, currently are, and may in the future be, 
subject to investigations and legal proceedings with respect to antitrust 
and competition matters. Investigations and legal proceedings relating 
to competition and antitrust matters often continue for several years, 
can be subject to strict non-disclosure provisions, and, if laws are 
deemed to have been violated, can result in substantial fines, other 
sanctions or damages, which may have a material adverse effect on our 
business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Our 
strategy for growth has historically included, and continues to include, 
acquisition activities, which are subject to antitrust and competition 
laws. Such laws and regulations may impact our ability to pursue or 
delay the implementation of, strategic transactions.
Anti Bribery and Corruption Compliance
We operate in a number of countries in which bribery and corruption 
pose significant risks, and we may be exposed to liabilities under 
anti-bribery laws for any violations. Any violation of applicable money 
laundering laws could also have a negative impact on us. We are 
subject to anti-bribery laws and regulations that prohibit us and our 
intermediaries from making improper payments or offers of payments 
to foreign governments, their officials and political parties or private 
parties, for the purpose of gaining or retaining business, including the 
UK Bribery Act 2010, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as 
amended, and similar laws worldwide. Given our extensive international 
operations, particularly in emerging markets, where bribery and 
corruption may be more commonplace, we are exposed to significant 
risks, particularly with respect to parties that are not always subject to 
our direct control such as agents and joint venture partners. These risks 
may be heightened for us due to our operations in the health care 
sector, which in recent years has experienced greater compliance risks 
than other sectors. We may also be held liable for successor liability 
violations of such laws, committed by companies which we acquire, or 
in which we invest.
Acquisitions also expose us to risk of ongoing compliance issues until 
such time as we can fully integrate acquired operations into our 
compliance and control frameworks. Moreover, due to the significant 
amounts of money involved in global supply contracts, there is also 
potential for suppliers to attempt to bribe our employees. Actual or 
alleged violations of anti-bribery laws could result in severe 
consequences, including, but not limited to, civil and criminal sanctions, 
termination of contracts by our counterparties, disruptions to our 
business and reputational harm, all of which could materially and 
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We 
also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are 
subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. 
Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by us could 
have a negative effect on our results of operations.
Legal Proceedings
Legal proceedings in respect of claims outside the product liability area 
could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and 
financial condition. Outside the product liability area, we are subject to 
legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the ordinary course of 
business, and we may become involved in legal proceedings, which 
include, but are not limited to, claims alleging intellectual property 
rights infringement, breach of contract, environmental laws and health 
and safety laws, including in relation to patient safety. From time to 
time, we face consumer complaints and/or civil or criminal 
investigations in respect of our products and their alleged purposes, 
including in respect of advertising claims that we make about our 
products. Significant claims, or a substantial number of small claims, 
may be expensive to defend and may divert management time and our 
resources away from our operations.
Where appropriate, we establish provisions to cover potential litigation-
related costs. Such provisions may turn out to be insufficient, and any 
insurance coverage we maintain may not cover our losses fully, or at all. 
We cannot predict the outcome of individual legal actions. We may 
settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgement or 
determination of liability. We may do so to avoid the cost, management 
efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational consequences 
of continuing to contest liability, even when we believe we have valid 
defences to liability. We may also do so when the potential 
consequences of failing to prevail would be disproportionate to the 
costs of settlement. Substantial legal liability could materially adversely 
affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or could 
cause significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our 
business.
Tax Laws and Regulations 
Changes in tax legislation and other circumstances that affect tax 
calculations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of 
operations. We conduct business operations in a number of countries, 
and are therefore subject to tax and intercompany pricing laws in 
multiple jurisdictions, including those relating to the flow of funds 
between RB and its subsidiaries. Our effective tax rate in any given 
financial year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in 
succeeding financial years, and may be affected by changes in the tax 
laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, or the interpretation of 
Our Principal Operating Risks continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 161
such tax laws. Certain tax positions taken by us are based on industry 
practice, tax advice and drawing similarities from our facts and 
circumstances to those in case law. In particular, international transfer 
pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying 
facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of 
judgement.
Changes in tax laws, regulations and related interpretations (including 
those arising as a result of the OECD’s base erosion and profit shifting 
project and from the EU’s investigations into potential breach of State 
Aid rules in respect of tax rulings) and increased enforcement actions 
and penalties may alter the environment in which we do business, and 
tax planning arrangements are frequently scrutinised by tax authorities 
worldwide. We have in the past faced, and may in the future face, 
audits and challenges brought by tax authorities, and we are involved 
in ongoing tax investigations in a number of jurisdictions around the 
world. If material challenges were to be successful, our effective tax 
rate may increase, we may be required to modify structures at 
significant costs to us, we may also be subject to interest and penalty 
charges and we may incur costs in defending litigation or reaching a 
settlement. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect 
our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Intellectual Property 
We may be unable to secure and protect our claims to intellectual 
property rights. Our business relies on protecting our brands and our 
claims to intellectual property rights. We may not be able to 
substantiate and secure these claims and, even if registered rights are 
obtained, these may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in 
future. Third parties may challenge our rights by, for example, asserting 
prior rights in, or ownership of, certain trademarks, trade dress rights, 
designs, patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights. If we 
fail to discover any infringements of our intellectual property rights, or 
are otherwise unable to successfully defend and enforce our rights, our 
business could be materially adversely affected. Sales of counterfeits 
could be detrimental to consumers and, consequently, to corporate 
reputation. ‘Lookalike’ brands may also result in consumer confusion 
and/or dilution of our brand equity. Any failure to substantiate or 
successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less 
competitive and may have a material adverse effect on our net revenue. 
In addition, our intellectual property rights would be undermined if one 
of our trademarks or brand names were to become a generic name for, 
or synonymous with, a general class of product or service. Should any 
of our trademarks become genericised, competitors would be allowed 
to use the genericised trademark to describe their similar products. 
The loss of patent protection, ineffective protection, or expiration of 
our patents may negatively impact our financial condition and results of 
operations. Intellectual property laws and patent offices are still 
developing, particularly in emerging markets. Patent protection varies in 
different countries, and can be substantially weaker in emerging 
markets in which we operate, when compared to the United States and 
the European Union. We have in the past faced, and may in the future 
face, significant challenges in enforcing or extending our current 
intellectual property protections, or any protections we may obtain in 
future, in the same manner as in more developed regions such as the 
United States and the European Union. We have obtained patent 
protection for a variety of our intellectual property, including the 
composition of some of our products (such as detergent) and certain 
devices (such as air freshener products). Certain countries may adopt 
measures to facilitate competition within their markets from generic 
manufacturers, and refuse to recognise patent protection. Additionally, 
expiry of our patents may increase competition and pricing pressures, 
and adversely impact our sales revenue, if generic products in the same 
or similar product class were to emerge. We could be similarly impacted 
if competitors lose patent protection in a product class in which we 
compete.
We may face challenges to our intellectual property rights from third 
parties, who allege that we are infringing on their rights. If we are 
unable to successfully defend against allegations of infringement, we 
may face various sanctions, including injunctions, monetary sanctions 
for past infringement, product recalls, alterations to our intellectual 
property, products, and/or packaging, which could result in significant 
expense and negative publicity, and may have a material adverse effect 
on our financial condition and results of operations.
Sustainability and Risk Management 
The Board has identified and assessed the range of sustainability and 
associated reputational risks and concluded that there are limited 
material risks to the Group’s long and short-term value arising from 
sustainability matters, other than potential risks common to similarly 
sized businesses operating in its industry sectors and with similarly 
well-known brands.
The Group focuses on a number of sustainability topics, including but 
not limited to:
Climate Change
The effects of climate change could disrupt the Group’s supply chain by 
affecting the Group’s ability to source raw materials, manufacture 
products and distribute products. The Group has taken a leadership 
position with regard to its products’ total carbon footprint, by seeking 
to understand, measure and reduce the GHG emissions generated by 
all stages in the product lifecycle for its global product portfolio and 
including amongst other things: the raw and packaging materials 
provided by its suppliers; the Group’s own direct manufacturing and 
other operations; transportation of both raw materials and finished 
products; the retail sale of its products; consumers’ use of its products; 
and the disposal/recycling of those products and their packaging.
Due to the Group’s industry sectors and product categories the GHG 
emissions originating from energy use at its direct operations are of 
medium-to-low impact in comparison to those of other similarly sized 
companies, as assessed for example in recent reports of the 
independent Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), www.cdproject.net. 
Water Scarcity
Water is vital for the making of raw and packaging materials, 
manufacturing and use of many of our products. While water is 
plentiful in some regions, it is increasingly scarce in others. Similar to 
the effects of climate change, which are interconnected with water 
availability, water scarcity could affect the Group’s ability to source 
materials, make and deliver relevant products for our consumers. As 
with carbon, the Group has developed an industry leading approach to 
understanding the water impacts of our products’ lifecycle. Our 
approach not only looks at total water used across each lifecycle stage 
but also takes into account water availability. This helps us prioritise 
efforts to drive water use efficiency.
Restricted Substances List
RB has been monitoring and reviewing ingredients for the past 14 years 
and has been carrying out a range of ingredients removal and 
restriction programmes outlined in our Restricted Substances List 
(formerly our Global Ingredients Guidelines). Our objective is to 
continually improve the environmental, safety and sustainable profile of 
our products, by systematically removing specific ingredients from 
product formulae and packaging/device component specifications. Our 
Restricted Substances List combines regulatory, sustainability and safety 
requirements for generic ingredient groupings, plus specific directions 
on the use (or the prohibition of use) of specific raw materials/
ingredients to assist formulators and other Company employees in the 
development and marketing of products that meet these commitments. 
Supply Chain Responsibility and Human Rights
Most product, component and raw material supply chains present a 
number of potential reputational risks relating to: labour standards; 
health, safety and environmental standards; raw material sourcing; and 
the social, ethical and environmental performance of third party 
manufacturers and other suppliers. The Group’s Global Manufacturing 
Standard for responsible production (GMS) mandates minimum 
requirements regarding these issues, in line with international 
guidelines, for the Group’s own manufacturing sites, third party 
manufacturers and suppliers. In addition, the Group’s Responsible  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 162
Sourcing of Natural Raw Materials Policy outlines minimum 
requirements for natural raw materials used in RB’s products and 
packaging, in line with the Group’s policy that these materials are 
sourced responsibly and with zero deforestation. Management 
processes and controls in place include Group, area and regional 
monitoring and assessment of compliance with the GMS, natural raw 
material and other requirements.
Health & Safety
Accidents caused through a failure of the Group’s safety management 
systems could potentially lead to loss of life for one or more of the 
Group’s employees. The Group maintains an external certification to 
OHSAS 18001 for the Group’s management of health and safety issues 
and a programme covering manufacturing sites, warehouses, 
distribution centres and laboratories.
Sources of Group Revenue and Growth
Demand
Our Powerbrands collectively contribute a significant portion of our 
revenue, and any material adverse change to demand for existing 
Powerbrands or any future products we may develop, could have a 
material adverse effect on our business. Our results of operations 
depend to a significant extent on our ability to launch and sell 
products, in particular our Powerbrands, that appeal to, and are 
accepted by consumers. Consumer preferences, tastes and habits are 
constantly evolving. Various factors, some of which are beyond our 
control, may have an adverse impact on demand for our Powerbrands. 
For example, certain products within our health and hygiene categories 
have in the past exhibited, and may in the future exhibit, seasonal 
fluctuations. Launch of new products or variants of our existing 
Powerbrands may not neutralise the impact of weak performance of 
one of our Powerbrands. Similarly, our failure to differentiate our 
existing Powerbrands or future products from competitors, whether 
through quality, innovation, marketing or otherwise, may adversely 
impact consumer demand for our products. If consumer patterns 
change within the major consumer clusters that we have identified, or 
fail to react as anticipated, we may have to reassess our growth plans, 
and alter our sales strategy. Consumers may purchase less or switch to 
purchasing generic products, private label products and economy 
brands, as opposed to branded products, which could impact our sales, 
or result in a shift in our product mix from higher margin to lower 
margin product offerings. If we are unable to respond to changes in 
consumer demand in a timely or adequate manner, or at all, and/or 
accurately predict or anticipate factors that may impact demand, and if 
we are unable to differentiate our brands from competitors, our 
business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially 
and adversely affected.
Product Development
Our business, financial condition, and results of operations substantially 
depend on our ability to improve our existing products, and successfully 
develop and launch new products and technologies. Our ability to 
maintain and grow our market share depends to a large extent on our 
ability to successfully and cost-effectively introduce and market new 
products (whether variants of existing, or newly developed, products), 
and to develop equipment, technology and manufacturing processes 
for our products. If we are unable to successfully develop, launch and 
market new products that obtain consumer acceptance, in a timely 
manner, or at all, we may be unable to compete and maintain or grow 
our market share. Any new product or line extension may not generate 
sufficient consumer interest and sales levels to become a profitable 
product or to cover the costs of its development or promotion. In 
addition, if we decide to pursue growth opportunities in new 
categories and new category segments or in regions in which we have 
no prior experience or limited experience, we may become exposed to 
unexpected or greater risks and potential losses.
Product innovation and development generally involve considerable 
costs, and may demand a lengthy process. For example, research and 
development required to develop health products could take a 
significant period of time, from discovery to commercial product 
launch, and given the limited duration of patents, the longer we take to 
develop and launch a product, the less is the time for which we have 
exclusivity, in which we can recoup our development costs and seek to 
profit. We may be unable to successfully complete clinical trials and 
obtain applicable regulatory approvals in a timely manner, or at all, and 
may fail to gain market approval for our products. Additionally, we may 
encounter infringement claims by competitors, which may preclude or 
delay commercialisation of our products. Any delays could result in us 
not being the first to market, and could undermine our competitive 
advantage. If any of the products we are currently developing, or may 
develop in future, fail to become market-ready or to achieve 
commercial success at expected levels, or at all, we may incur 
substantial losses. If we fail to develop or upgrade our equipment, 
technology and manufacturing processes at least in line with our 
competitors, we may be unable to compete effectively and lose market 
share.
Reputation
Substantial harm to our reputation, or the reputation of one or more of 
our brands, may materially adversely affect our business. The majority 
of our brands have worldwide recognition. Maintaining our established 
reputation and trust with key stakeholders, including consumers, 
customers and trading partners is critical to our business. Various 
factors may adversely impact our reputation, including product quality 
inconsistencies or contamination. We have in the past faced quality-
related issues, which resulted in trade and consumer recalls and such 
recalls may have a material adverse impact on our reputation. Raw 
materials that we source for production may become contaminated 
through the supply chain, and other product defects may occur due to 
human error or equipment failure, among other things. Reputational 
risks may also arise with respect to the methods and practices of third 
parties that are part of our supply chain, including labour standards, 
health, safety and environmental standards, raw material sourcing, and 
ethical standards in the countries in which we operate. We may also be 
the victim of product tampering.
Any perceived or actual concerns related to our products, our supply 
chain, or the industry more generally, such as the long-term effects of 
household chemicals and OTC (over-the-counter) drug ingredients on 
human health and the environment, may be widely disseminated 
online, on consumer blogs or other social media sites, or via print and 
broadcast media. Similarly, any litigation that we have faced or may 
face may subject us to increasing negative attention in the press. In 
addition, companies with global operations recently have come under 
criticism for corporate tax planning, and criticism of our structures or 
those of our peers could also generate negative publicity. Any negative 
publicity could significantly undermine our reputation, and current 
methods of dissemination of information (including the ability of 
reports to ‘go viral’ online) mean that potential threats to reputation 
can occur in a very short period of time and reach a far broader 
audience than historically was the case, making it far more difficult to 
address. Moreover, third parties have sold or may sell products that are 
counterfeit or unauthorised versions of our brands, or inferior 
‘lookalike’ brands that resemble ours. Consumers may confuse our 
products with such brands.
Competition and Customers
We operate in intensely competitive industries. We face vigorous 
competition worldwide. We compete with well-established local, 
regional, national and international companies that target the same 
consumer base as we do, some of whom may have more significant 
resources with which to establish and promote their products. We also 
face competition from ‘private label’ products, and generic non-
branded products, which typically are sold at lower prices, by major 
retail companies, some of whom may be our customers. Competition 
from these sources has grown in recent years.
Consolidation of key trade customers in the sectors in which we 
operate may limit opportunities for growth, and increase competitive 
pressures further. Our products generally compete on the basis of 
product quality and performance, promotional activities, brand 
recognition, price, timely development and launch, or other benefits to 
consumers. If we are unable to offer products that consumers choose 
Our Principal Operating Risks continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 163
over our competitors’ products, our business and results of operations 
may be materially adversely affected. In addition, our products compete 
with other products for shelf space in retail stores and for marketing 
focus, such as via in-store promotional activities of our brands. Our 
competitive position, and consequently sales of our products, may be 
harmed to the extent that we are unable to successfully maintain sound 
working relationships with our trade customers, who determine access 
to shelf space and product placement on shelf, set retail prices and 
control in-store promotional activities of our brands, and can establish 
pricing differentials between similar products on shelf.
As the retail sector becomes more concentrated, retailers could impose 
downward pressure on prices and require commercial incentives before 
agreeing to offer our products for sale to consumers. Further, to the 
extent trade customers increase usage of their own distribution 
networks and private label brands, the competitive advantage we 
derive from our brand equity could be impaired. In addition, new sales 
channels have emerged, and continue to emerge, such as sales made 
through the Internet via online shopping, which may affect customer 
and consumer preferences, and competitive dynamics. If we are unable 
to effectively compete in these new channels, this could adversely 
impact our results and our prospects. Moreover, increased competition 
means that we need to spend more on promotion of our products.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our 
future sales and prospects, consequently adversely impacting our 
results of operations. Competition also extends to administrative and 
legal challenges of product claims and advertising. Responding to legal 
challenges and defending our products and intellectual property rights 
could result in significant expenses and may divert resources away from 
product and technological innovation, which may have a material 
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Acquisitions and Divestitures 
While we are principally focused on organic growth, we have grown, 
and may continue to grow, in part, through acquisitions, joint ventures 
and business alliances, which present a range of risks and uncertainties. 
Historically we have funded acquisitions through short-term 
borrowings, which we repaid through cash flow from our operations. 
We expect that future acquisitions could be funded through either 
additional borrowings or through equity, or a combination of the two. 
Our competitors may choose to target the same acquisition candidates, 
and consolidation in the industry may limit available opportunities for 
acquisitions. We may also be restricted by applicable antitrust laws, 
foreign investment laws, or other laws and regulations, from pursuing 
acquisitions. We may bear substantial out-of-pocket expenses 
associated with a failed acquisition.
We may fail to achieve projected financial results of acquisitions, 
including expected cost and revenue synergies. In making acquisitions, 
we make various assessments, including expected growth rates which 
we may fail to achieve. To the extent that economic benefits associated 
with our acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to 
record impairment charges to goodwill or other assets, which could 
affect our financial condition. Through our acquisitions, we may also 
assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory 
and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities 
or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. While we seek 
to mitigate these risks in most of our transactions through, among 
other things, due diligence processes and indemnification provisions, 
we cannot be certain that the due diligence processes we conduct are 
adequate (particularly with respect to acquisitions of privately held 
companies and in countries where legislation and transparency make 
the process more difficult) or that the indemnification provisions and 
other risk mitigation measures we put in place will be sufficient. 
 
We could also face significant risks related to integration of the 
acquired businesses into the RB Group, particularly if we attempt to 
simultaneously integrate multiple businesses. Acquisitions in emerging 
markets may impose particular risks related to integration across 
different corporate cultures, systems, languages and other market and 
regulatory risks. In addition, acquisitions in markets in which we have 
limited or no prior experience may pose a greater risk. Moreover, 
integration of acquired businesses, as well as any attendant internal 
reorganisation, can also require significant management attention, 
which may place strain on management resources and processes, and 
otherwise disrupt operations. Acquisitions can also place a strain on 
Group-wide internal control systems.
If we are unable to effectively manage risks associated with 
acquisitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations 
may be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may have entered 
into or choose to enter into joint ventures, business alliances or 
collaboration agreements, which could involve the same or similar risks 
and uncertainties as are involved in acquisitions. Joint ventures, for 
example, generally involve a lesser degree of control over business 
operations, which have in the past presented, and may in the future 
present, greater financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks.
We have also disposed of some of our businesses and may continue to 
do so even as we focus on organic growth. There are a number of risks 
associated with such divestments. These include adverse market 
reaction to such changes or the timing or terms on which such changes 
are made, commercial objectives not being achieved as expected, 
unforeseen liabilities arising from such changes to the portfolio, sales 
revenues and operational performance not meeting our expectations, 
anticipated cost savings being delayed or not being achieved, inability 
to retain key staff and transaction-related costs being more than 
anticipated. We may also remain liable for issues relating to the 
disposed businesses, whether known or unknown at the time of 
disposal.
Currency Exchange 
The Group prepares its Financial Statements in Sterling but conducts 
business in many foreign currencies. As a result, it is subject to foreign 
exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have 
on the translation of the results and the underlying net assets of its 
foreign subsidiaries. The Group’s policy is to align interest costs and 
operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide some 
protection against the translation exposure on foreign currency profits 
after tax. The Group may undertake borrowings and other hedging 
methods in the currencies of the countries where most of its assets are 
located. For transactions, it is the Group’s policy to monitor and, only 
where appropriate, hedge its foreign currency transaction exposures. 
These transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign currency receipts 
and payments for goods and services, and from the remittance of 
foreign currency dividends and loans. The local business units enter into 
forward foreign exchange contracts with Group Treasury to manage 
these exposures, where practical and allowed by local regulations. 
Group Treasury manages the Group exposures, and hedges the net 
position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency 
exchange contracts.
In FY 2015, 85% of our net revenue was derived from markets outside 
the United Kingdom. The Sterling value of our revenues, profits and 
cash flows from non-UK markets may be reduced or our supply costs, 
as measured in Sterling in those markets, may increase. Additionally, a 
number of our competitors are based in countries whose currencies 
fluctuate against Sterling, and they may benefit from having their costs 
incurred in weaker currencies relative to Sterling. We prepare our 
Financial Statements in Sterling, and our financial results are affected by 
fluctuations between the relative value of Sterling and other functional 
currencies, particularly the US dollar and Euro. For example, in FY 2015, 
we incurred a net exchange loss on foreign currency translation, net of 
tax, of £173 million in our statement of comprehensive income. Further, 
currency translations may make it more difficult for investors to 
understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying 
business on a period-to-period comparative basis. We currently hedge 
some of our currency exposures using financial instruments, and we 
seek to align our interest costs and operating profits of our major 
currencies where possible, which may not be effective. Hedging 
transactions do not eliminate the exchange rate risk entirely, and may 
not be fully, or at all, effective.  RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 164
We are subject to the risk that countries in which we operate may 
impose or increase exchange controls or devalue their currency. We 
operate in a number of countries, particularly emerging markets, which 
impose exchange controls, including, but not limited to: Argentina, 
Brazil, China, India, Russia, Egypt, Nigeria, South Africa and Venezuela. 
Such controls may restrict or make it impossible to convert local 
currency into other currencies, restrict our ability to repatriate earnings 
from a country (for example, £65 million of our cash and cash 
equivalents as at 31 December 2015 were restricted for use by us), 
borrow on the international markets to fund operations in that country 
or may limit our ability to import raw materials or finished products, any 
or all of which could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity 
and results of operations. In addition, emerging markets are prone to 
currency devaluations, such as, for example, the devaluation by the 
Russian Rouble in 2014, which tend to make our products more 
expensive in local currency terms. 
Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity 
price risk related to the production or packaging of finished goods such 
as those that are oil-related, and a diverse range of other, raw 
materials. The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk.
Credit and Interest Rates 
The Group has both interest-bearing and non interest-bearing assets 
and liabilities. The Group monitors its interest expense rate exposure  
on a regular basis. The Group manages its interest rate exposure on its 
gross financial assets by using fixed rate term deposits.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Financial 
institution counterparties are subject to approval under the Group’s 
counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial 
institutions with a BBB rating or above. The Group seeks to use higher 
rated counterparties to manage risk, and operationally, only uses BBB 
rated counterparties by exception. The amount of exposure to any 
individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within the 
counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board. 
Despite these efforts, the Group cannot ensure that counterparties  
will not default or fail and, in particular, the Group’s evaluation of 
counterparties may prove to be inadequate under exceptional 
circumstances or macroeconomic conditions.
The Group has bilateral credit facilities with high-quality international 
banks. All of these facilities have similar or equivalent terms and 
conditions, and have a financial covenant, facilities and central cash and 
investments, which are considered sufficient to meet the Group’s 
projected cash requirements, as at the date of this report. If the Group 
were to lose access to these credit facilities, whether due to 
circumstances within or beyond the Group’s control, it would have a 
material adverse effect on the Group’s operations. Funds over and 
above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the 
overseas businesses are generally remitted to Group Treasury. The 
Group uses the remittances to settle obligations, repay borrowings or, 
in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued by 
institutions with a BBB rating or above. 
Our business may be adversely affected by our funding requirements. 
Our liquidity needs are driven by our ability to generate cash from 
operations and the level of borrowings (and related levels of 
headroom), the level of acquisition, the level of share repurchases and 
dividends, dispositions, target ratings for our debt and options available 
to us in the equity and debt markets. We obtain our funding primarily 
from the commercial paper market and have benefitted from the low 
interest rate environment. We maintain committed back-up credit 
facilities, which have remained undrawn since FY 2009. At 
31 December 2015, we had £3,500 million in undrawn commitments.  
If we are not able to access the commercial paper market to the extent 
that we require, or at all, we may need to drawdown amounts under 
our committed bilateral credit facilities, which accrue interest at floating 
rates based on changes in certain published rates such as LIBOR. 
Increases in such rates could result in significantly higher interest 
expense for us, which would negatively affect our results of operations. 
As part of our strategy to maintain financial flexibility, as well as to 
procure additional funding for future acquisitions, including both 
bolt-on acquisitions as well as acquisitions that may be more material in 
size, we increased the level of medium-term funding in 2013 with the 
placement of a US$1 billion bond in the US debt market. 
The Group’s objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide 
returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to 
maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.  
In maintaining an appropriate capital structure and providing returns 
for Shareholders, in 2015 the Company has provided returns to 
Shareholders in the form of dividends, the current details of which are 
included in the Financial Review for the year on page 37, and share buy 
backs. The Group monitors net debt (total borrowings less cash and 
cash equivalents, short-term available for sale financial assets and 
financing derivative financial instruments) and at the year end the 
Group had net debt of £1,620 million (2014: £1,543 million). The Group 
seeks to pay down net debt using cash generated by the business to 
maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility. Details of numerical 
disclosures relating to the Group’s financial risk management are 
included in Note 14 to the Financial Statements on pages 119 to 123.
General Financial Risks of a Global Company 
We are subject to risks relating to estimates and assumptions that we 
are required to make, and that affect the reported amounts in our 
Financial Statements. The preparation of our Financial Statements 
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date 
and revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Although 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge at the time, 
actual amounts may ultimately differ from those estimates. The  
Group’s significant accounting estimates and judgements are shown  
on page 106.
The Group’s multinational operations have exposed, currently expose 
and may continue to expose it to a variety of financial risks that include 
the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates (foreign 
exchange risk), market prices, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity. 
Although the Group has in place a risk management programme that 
uses foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, and other 
instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the financial 
performance of the Group, there can be no certainty that these 
initiatives will prove successful under all circumstances. 
Our Principal Operating Risks continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 165
Sustainability Programme
The CEO has specific responsibility for sustainability. As part of 
established management processes, which include performance 
management systems and appropriate remuneration incentives, senior 
management reports directly to the CEO on sustainability matters on  
a regular basis. On the Executive Committee (EC), the EVP Category 
Development has operational accountability for the implementation of 
sustainability (bar charitable giving), in partnership with the EVP Supply, 
and supported by the rest of the EC within their respective areas and 
functions. In the category development organisation, the Category 
Group Director – Innovation & Sustainability manages the sustainability 
programme on a day-to-day basis. The R&D function includes the 
Global Regulatory Affairs (GRA) group, which is responsible for 
ensuring that our products meet regulatory requirements and are safe 
for their intended use. Our SVP Human Resources (HR) and the global 
HR function manage the Group’s human resources, employee 
remuneration and benefits, employment practices, organisational 
development, training and elements of health and safety (e.g. stress 
management). 
The Group has a full set of policies, Key Performance Indicators, 
targets, programmes and control arrangements, building on its central 
Code of Conduct, that address the full range of sustainability matters
1
 
and reputational risks. The sustainability and corporate responsibility 
section on the Group’s website (www.rb.com/sustainability) and its 
annual sustainability reports (available at www.rb.com) provide further 
information, including the extent to which it complies with those 
policies, systems and procedures and progress towards targets / KPIs. 
The Group reports in line with the Global Reporting Initiative’s 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – Version 4.
Key areas of sustainability internal control and performance, including 
sustainability disclosures, are independently reviewed and verified by 
both internal and external organisations, including Internal Audit, and 
their findings regularly reported to senior management, the CEO, the 
Audit Committee and the Board. In addition, selected data in the 
annual Sustainability Report are assured by external auditors.
The Group focuses on a number of sustainability topics, including but 
not limited to:
• Climate change
• Water scarcity
• Product stewardship
• Supply chain responsibility and human rights 
• Health & Safety
• For information on the Board’s assessment of the range of 
sustainability and associated reputation risk, see page 161.
Board Oversight
The Board regularly considers and takes account of the significance of 
sustainability matters, their potential risks to the business of the Group  
and the opportunities to enhance value that may arise from an  
appropriate response.
The Board undertakes a formal review of sustainability matters at least 
annually. This includes providing oversight to ensure that the Group has 
in place effective policies, systems and procedures for managing 
sustainability matters and mitigating significant sustainability risks. 
Additionally, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the arrangements 
for, and effectiveness of, risk management including the full range of 
risks facing the Group such as risks relating to sustainability matters, 
reputational risks and risks relating to employees. 
The Board believes that it receives adequate information and training 
on sustainability matters and their potential risks and opportunities to 
the business of the Group. The Board has identified and assessed the 
range of sustainability and associated reputational risks and concluded 
that there are limited material risks to the Group’s long and short-term 
value arising from sustainability matters, other than potential risks 
common to similarly sized businesses operating in its industry sectors 
and with similarly well-known brands. For more information, please see 
page 161.
1.  ‘Sustainability matters’ include environmental matters (including the impact of the 
Group’s business on the environment), its employees, and social and community issues.
Management of Sustainability RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 166
Shareholder Information
Electronic Communications
The Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2008 AGM enabling the 
Company’s website to be used as the primary means of communication 
with them. Shareholders who have positively elected, or are deemed to 
have consented, to receive electronic communications in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 will receive written notification 
whenever Shareholder documents are available to view on the 
Company’s website.
Shareholders who have received a notice of availability of a document 
on the Company’s website are entitled to request a hard copy of any 
such document at any time free of charge from the Company’s 
Registrar. Shareholders can also revoke their consent to receive 
electronic communications at any time by contacting the Registrar.
The Company’s 2015 Annual Report and Notice of the 2016 AGM are 
available to view at www.rb.com/online-annual-report-2015. The 
Investor Relations section of the website contains up-to-date 
information for Shareholders including:
• Detailed share price information;
• Financial results;
• Dividend payment dates and amounts;
• Access to Shareholder documents including the Annual Report; and
• Share capital information.
Annual General Meeting 
To be held on Thursday, 5 May 2016 at 11.15 am at No.11 Cavendish 
Square, London W1G 0AN.
Every Shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting. The 
Notice convening the meeting is contained in a separate document for 
Shareholders. Shareholders who have registered for electronic 
communication can:
• Receive an email alert when Shareholder documents are available; 
• View the Annual Report and Notice of AGM on the day they are 
published;
• Cast their AGM vote electronically; and
• Manage their shareholding quickly and securely online.
Dividends for the Year ended 31 December 2015
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 88.7p per share, 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. Subject to approval at the 2016 
AGM, payment will be on 26 May 2016 to all Shareholders on the 
register as at 15 April 2016.
Company Secretary 
Christine Logan
Registered office 
103–105 Bath Road
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH
Telephone: 01753 217800 
Facsimile: 01753 217899
Registered and domiciled in England and Wales
No. 6270876
Company status
Public Limited Company
Auditor 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Solicitor 
Slaughter and May
Registrar and Transfer Office
The Company’s Registrar, Computershare, is responsible for maintaining 
and updating the Shareholder register and making dividend payments. 
If you have any queries relating to your shareholding please write to, 
or telephone, the Company’s Registrar at the following address:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY 
Reckitt Benckiser Shareholder helpline: Tel. +44 (0)370 703 0118
Website: www.computershare.com/uk
American Depositary Receipts
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are 
traded on the over-the-counter market (OTC) under the symbol RBGLY. 
Five ADRs represent one ordinary share. J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. 
is the Depositary.
If you should have any queries, please contact:
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
PO Box 64504, St. Paul, MN 55164-0854, US
E-mail: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com
Telephone number for general queries: Tel. +1 800 990 1135
Telephone number from outside the US: Tel. +1 651 453 2128 
Key Dates
Announcement of Quarter 1 interim  
 management statement 22 April 2016
Annual General Meeting 5 May 2016
Record date for 2015 final dividend  15 April 2016
Payment of 2015 final ordinary dividend 26 May 2016
Announcement of 2016 interim results 29 July 2016
Record date for 2016 interim dividend 19 August 2016
1
Payment of interim ordinary dividend 29 September 2016
1
Announcement of Quarter 3 interim
 management statement 19 October 2016
1 Provisional dates.
Analysis of Shareholders as at 31 December 2015
Distribution of shares by type of Shareholder No. of holdings Shares
Nominees and Institutional Investors 9,635 722,270,851
Individuals 13,276 14,264,328
Total 22,911 736,535,179
Size of shareholding No. of holdings Shares
1 – 500 14,306 2,846,501
501 – 1,000 3,631 2,656,095
1,001 – 5,000 3,351 6,847,341
5,001 – 10,000 381 2,685,157
10,001 – 50,000 591 14,004,149
50,001 – 100,000 182 12,971,763
100,001 – 1,000,000 365 118,723,324
1,000,001 and above 104 575,800,849
Total 22,911 736,535,179
‘Boiler Room’ Scams
Shareholders who are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted 
shares, a premium price for shares, or free company or research 
reports, should take these steps before handing over any money:
1. Get the name of the person and organisation. 
2. Check the Financial Services Register at https://register.fca.org.uk/ 
to ensure they are authorised.
3. Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the firm.
4. Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on Tel. 0800 111 6768, if there are 
no contact details on the Register or if they are out of date.
5. Search the FCA’s list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid 
doing business with at www.fca.org.uk/scams.
6. If you are approached by fraudsters please contact the FCA using 
their helpline, or share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams.
7. Consider getting independent financial advice. 
Using an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments 
will prohibit access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things go wrong. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 167
Cautionary note concerning forward looking statements
This Annual Report and Financial Statements contains statements with 
respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of 
RB (the “Group”) and certain of the plans and objectives of the Group 
that are forward-looking statements. Words such as ‘‘intends’, ‘targets’, 
or the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future 
performance or results, and their negatives, are intended to identify 
such forward-looking statements. In particular, all statements that 
express forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to future 
matters, including targets for net revenue, operating margin and cost 
efficiency, are forward-looking statements. Such statements are not 
historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty 
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will 
occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results and developments to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including 
many factors outside the Group’s control. Among other risks and 
uncertainties, the material or principal factors which could cause actual 
results to differ materially are: the general economic, business, political 
and social conditions in the key markets in which the Group operates; 
the ability of the Group to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters, 
including changes thereto; the reliability of the Group’s technological 
infrastructure or that of third parties on which the Group relies; 
interruptions in the Group’s supply chain and disruptions to its 
production facilities; the reputation of the Group’s global brands; and 
the recruitment and retention of key management.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this 
announcement. Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, 
RB expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly 
any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained 
herein to reflect any change in the Group’s expectations with regard 
thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which 
any such statement is based.
Any information contained in the 2015 Annual Report and Financial
Statements on the price at which shares or other securities in Reckitt
Benckiser Group plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the
yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a
guide to future performance. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 168
Notes The following are trademarks of the Reckitt Benckiser group of 
companies or used under licence: 
Airborne, Air Wick, Amopé, Aqua Mist, Bang, betterbusiness, Bonjela, 
Calgon, Cherry Blossom, Clearasil, d-Con, Dermicool, Dermodex, 
Dettol, Digestive Advantage, Durex, Easywax, Filter & Fresh, Finish, Flip 
& Fresh, Frank’s Red Hot, French’s, Freshmatic, Gaviscon, Graneodin, 
Harpic, Harpic Hygienic, Healthier Lives. Happier Homes., Luftal, Lysol, 
Manyanshuning, MegaRed, Micostatin, Move Free, Mortein, Mucinex, 
Naldecon, No-Touch, Nugget, Nurofen, Our Home Our Planet, 
Performax Intense, Picot, Power Plus, Quantum, Quantumatic, Resolve, 
Sagrotan, Schiff, Schiff Vitamins, Scholl, Spray ‘n Wash, Strepsils, 
Suboxone, Subutex, Tempra, Tiger’s Milk, Vanish, Vanish Gold, Veet, 
Veja, Velvet Express Pedi, Woolite as well as Reckitt Benckiser and the 
RB kite logos. Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Turner House, 103-105 Bath Road 
Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH, UK 
