 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Renold plc 
Renold House
Styal Road
Wythenshawe
Manchester M22 5WL
Telephone: +44 (0)161 498 4500
www.renold.com
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Re-engineering  
our future.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Phase T wo – Growth
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Renold plc is an international group 
delivering high precision engineered 
and power transmission products to our 
customers worldwide.
Our market-leading products can be 
seen in diverse applications from cement 
making to chocolate manufacturing, 
subway trains to power stations, 
escalators to quarries; in fact, anywhere 
something needs to be lifted, moved, 
rotated or conveyed.
Navigating the report
For further information 
within this document and 
relevant page numbers
Additional information 
available online
Visit us online at  
www.renold.com
Read more about Our Strategy on pages 16 to 23
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015  23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
This Annual Report is printed by an FSC
®
 (Forest Stewardship Council), 
certified printer using vegetable based inks.
This report has been printed on Claro Silk, a white coated paper and 
board using 100% EFC pulp. 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
We present our Annual Report 
and Accounts for the year ended 
31 March 2015.
An overview of who we are and what 
we do can be found in the introductory 
pages of our Annual Report, including 
our Chairman’s letter. 
In our Strategic Report, we outline 
our strategy and how we are taking 
the business forward. We then give 
details of our operational and financial 
performance across the Group. We 
also outline our approach to corporate 
responsibility and talk about our people 
and why they are fundamental to  
our success. 
The Governance section follows the 
Strategic Report and includes our 
Corporate Governance Report, Audit 
and Nomination Committee Reports and 
our Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
The Directors’ Report provides other 
statutory and regulatory information.
The financial statements for the Group 
and the Company can be found at pages 
94 to 148 towards the end of the Annual 
Report and Accounts.
We use a number of technical terms 
and abbreviations within this document. 
Please refer to the Glossary on page 150 
for the definitions and other explanatory 
information.
Welcome to our Report
For full details of Group at a Glance 
For full details of Our Strategy
For full details of Our Business Model
For full details of Health and Safety
See page 02
See page 16
See page 12
See page 41
Map key
Manufacturing and 
sales company
Sales only location
 
Skills & facilities
the ability to conceive 
and deliver these solutions
Knowledge
of customer problems,
products and solutions
Logistics
the right product in the 
right place at the right time
Service
unique after-sales service 
means we continue to 
learn and deliver  
 
Overview
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
01
Contents
Welcome to our Report 01
Who We Are: Group at a Glance 02
Our Customer Journey 04
Where We Are: Highlights 06
Chairman’s Letter 08
Strategic Report 10
Our Business Model 12
Market Review 14
Our Strategy: Strategic Objectives 16
Our Strategy: Three-Phase  
Strategic Plan 17
Our Strategy: Progress Against Our  
Strategic Objectives 18
Our Strategy: Our Five 'Staircases' 22
Chief Executive’s Review 24
Our Performance: Chain  26
Our Performance: Torque Transmission 30
Finance Director’s Review 34
Corporate Social Responsibility 40
Risk 46
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 47
Governance 50
Corporate Governance Report: 
Chairman’s Letter 52
Board of Directors 54
Governance Structure and  
Board Composition 56
Audit Committee Report 62
Nomination Committee Report 68
Directors’ Remuneration Report:  
Annual Statement 70
Directors’ Remuneration Report:  
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 73
Directors’ Remuneration Report:  
Annual Report on Remuneration 81
Directors’ Report 88
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 91
Shareholder Information 93
Financial Statements 94
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Renold plc  96
Accounting Policies 100
Consolidated Income Statement 108
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 109
Consolidated Balance Sheet 110
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 111
Consolidated Statement of Cashflows 112
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 113
Group Five Year Financial Review 139
Accounting Policies 140
Company Balance Sheet 142
Company Statement of Total  
Recognisable Gains and Losses 143
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements 144
Additional Information
Corporate Information 149
Glossary 150 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Renold plc is an international group delivering high precision  
engineered products and solutions to our customers worldwide.
 Chain
A global market leading supplier of chain for many 
applications. Heavy duty, high precision, indoor or outdoor, 
high or low temperature and in clean or contaminated 
environments; these are all in a day’s work. 
We have manufacturing sites across the world including the 
USA, Germany, India, China, Malaysia and Australia in addition 
to local service capabilities in a number of other markets. We 
operate at the leading edge of technology, with innovative 
products designed to meet customers’ exacting standards.
Our vast range of roller chains means that for most 
requirements there is a Renold solution. Our premier 
brand, Renold Synergy, offers unbeatable wear and fatigue 
performance, whilst our all-purpose range of standard 
chain provides affordable reliability. Continuous research, 
development, innovation and ingenuity has led to the 
production of more specialised solutions such as Hydro-
Service with its superior corrosion-resistant coating and the 
Syno range which sets a new benchmark for chains requiring 
little or no lubrication. 
Conveyor chain applications including theme park rides, 
water treatment plants, cement mills, agricultural machinery, 
mining and sugar production all rely on the high-specification 
materials and treatment processes used by Renold. Renold 
is also a market leader in lifting chain used in many of the 
forklift trucks produced worldwide.
 T orque T ransmission
A global market leading manufacturer and developer of 
coupling and gearbox solutions, from fluid couplings to 
rubber-in-compression and rubber-in-shear couplings, and 
a complete range of worm gears, helical and bevel helical 
worm drives. We also manufacture custom gear spindles 
and gear couplings for the primary metals industry and 
we are experts in providing bespoke gear solutions across 
industries worldwide such as power generation, rail and 
escalator transit systems, metals and materials handling. 
We have manufacturing sites across the world including 
the USA, the UK, South Africa and China. We work closely 
alongside our customers to design and manufacture a 
solution to specific application needs. Our design capability 
and innovation is recognised by customers around the 
world and is utilised in customising our gearboxes and 
couplings to meet our customers’ specific requirements. 
Our solutions deliver durability, reliability and long life 
for demanding industrial applications. Renold Torque 
Transmission also provides a range of freewheel clutches 
featuring both sprag and roller ramp technology. Sprag 
clutches are used in a wide range of safety-critical 
applications such as keeping riders safe on some of the 
world’s most thrilling rollercoasters.
Adjusted 
operating profit 
£14.2m
Adjusted 
operating profit 
£6.9m
External 
revenue 
 
£138.3m
External 
revenue 
 
£43.1m
Employees at  
31 March 2015 
1,747
Employees at  
31 March 2015 
463
Read more about our performance on pages 30 to 33 Read more about our performance on pages 26 to 29
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
02
Who We Are: 
Group at a Glance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
North America
North America delivered 
1.3% growth in underlying 
revenue with both the US 
and Canada ahead of the 
prior year.
Renold Jeffrey and Renold 
Ajax have been well known 
participants in the North 
American markets for 
many years with a focus on 
engineering chain and gear 
spindles and couplings.
Europe
Europe delivered a 4.5% 
rise in underlying revenue. 
Germany, the UK and 
France all showed modest 
growth with Switzerland 
well ahead.
Renold Chain now operates 
from one major European 
manufacturing location in 
Germany. Renold Torque 
Transmission operates 
three plants in the UK 
exporting to various 
destinations worldwide.
Asia Pacific
Australasia delivered a flat 
result down 0.1%, with a 
continuing weak Australia 
market offset by South 
East Asia growth.
We operate manufacturing 
plants in Australia and 
Malaysia with additional 
sales centres in New 
Zealand and Singapore. We 
also operate a distribution 
network in Australia and 
Malaysia.
High growth economies
Our Indian business  
delivered growth in 
underlying revenue of 
10.3%, while China grew 
8.9% in underlying revenue.
Our Chinese chain plant 
primarily serves sister 
companies and has 
a smaller local focus. 
Conversely, our Indian 
chain business focuses on 
the local market.
Map key
Manufacturing and 
sales company
Sales only location
37% 
of global sales
37% 
of global sales
18% 
of global sales
8% 
of global sales
Our international network includes 13 locations where we both manufacture and sell 
and a further nine sales only companies which are strategically located to support our 
customers within our two operating divisions.
Renold employed an average of 2,277 people around the world in the last year, with 
57% of our staff engaged in direct production activities. The divisional split of staff aligns 
closely with the split of sales with 78% of staff in Chain, 21% in T orque Transmission and 
1% in our head office.
Overview
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
03 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Our activities range from diagnosing our customers' specific power 
transmission application challenges to proposing materials and their 
properties, then to cutting and treating the components and finally  
to assembly into the final product.
Our Customer Journey
Wide range of stocked 
products and daily 
shipment options.
Ongoing performance 
monitoring, ﬁeld support 
and technical advice.
After sales 
service
9
SERVICE
Shipping
8
Enhancing the customer 
experience with after sales 
service and performance monitoring
Heat treatment and 
other applications to 
optimise performance.
Automated 
assembly processes 
reduce lead times.
MANUFACTURING
Making 
components
5
Assembling 
components
7
Treating 
components
6
Deploying over 100 years 
of  manufacturing know how 
to create superior products
WAREHOUSE
ENGINEERING CENTRE
Material performance 
can be enhanced with 
the right coating.
Design
Customer issues 
are often challenging 
and sometimes unique.
Analysing 
customer 
problem
1
Coating 
speciﬁcation
2
4
Bringing our un-paralleled 
engineering capability to 
design customer solutions
Specifying the right 
grade and composition 
of metals is key.
Material 
speciﬁcation
3
Sales 
channels
10
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
04 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Wide range of stocked 
products and daily 
shipment options.
Ongoing performance 
monitoring, ﬁeld support 
and technical advice.
After sales 
service
9
SERVICE
Shipping
8
Enhancing the customer 
experience with after sales 
service and performance monitoring
Heat treatment and 
other applications to 
optimise performance.
Automated 
assembly processes 
reduce lead times.
MANUFACTURING
Making 
components
5
Assembling 
components
7
Treating 
components
6
Deploying over 100 years 
of  manufacturing know how 
to create superior products
WAREHOUSE
ENGINEERING CENTRE
Material performance 
can be enhanced with 
the right coating.
Design
Customer issues 
are often challenging 
and sometimes unique.
Analysing 
customer 
problem
1
Coating 
speciﬁcation
2
4
Bringing our un-paralleled 
engineering capability to 
design customer solutions
Specifying the right 
grade and composition 
of metals is key.
Material 
speciﬁcation
3
Sales 
channels
10
We add value during our customer journey from our unrivalled engineering 
capability, 100+ years of know how and enhanced after sales service.  
Our Business Model on pages 12 and 13 shows our value generation  
in more detail. 
Overview
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
05 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
We continue to build sustainable momentum in driving the business 
forward. We delivered a 48% increase in underlying adjusted 
operating profit and a 56% increase in adjusted earnings per share 
underpinned by Chain achieving its 10% RoS threshold target. 
The generation of £5.3m of free cash flow from organic activities 
represents a significant step change from over a decade of organic 
cash consumption. 
Financial highlights
Adjusted earnings per share
pence
2011 2012 2014 2013
5
4
3
2
1
0
2015
2.0
4.2
1.4
3.2
5.0
Underlying adjusted operating profit
1
£m
2011 2012 2014 2013
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2015
6.0
12.9
6.7
10.5
15.5
Underlying revenue
1
£m
2011 2012 2014 2013
250
200
150
100
50
0
2015
179.3
195.1
180.8
177.9 181.4
Adjusted EBITDA up 
 
26%
Cash generated  
from operations 
£14.2m
T otal operating assets 
 
£75.8m
Average working capital  
% of sales 
19.1%
Adjusted Return on Sales
%
2011 2012 2014 2013
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2015
3.7
6.7
3.8
6.0
8.5
Return on capital employed 
%
2011 2012 2014 2013
16
12
8
4
0
2015
6.1
12.2
6.5
11.1
15.6
Net debt
£m
2011 2012 2014 2013
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2015
20.0
22.9 22.8
24.8
19.5
1 
Underlying results are retranslated to current year exchange rates. Adjusted results exclude the impact of exceptional items, pension financing charges, pension 
administration costs and any tax thereon.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
06
Highlights 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Operational highlights
 Æ Delivery of Group wide health and safety 
training for managers, accompanied by the 
launch of the first Renold Health and  
Safety Awards. 
 Æ Successful completion of the Bredbury 
closure on budget and ahead of schedule to 
deliver £3.8m of annualised savings, a gain of 
£0.6m on our original estimate. 
 Æ Delivery of a revised and extended core Group 
banking facility underpinning our Strategic 
Plan and lowering our cost of finance. 
 Æ Contribution margin gains starting to be 
delivered by leveraging high quality  
product offering.
 Æ Completion of a UK pension scheme de-
risking project and termination of a US 
defined benefit pension scheme.
 Æ Graduate recruitment programme launched 
and new sales skills training being rolled out.
Executive summary 
The year was marked by a number of 
further self-help successes building on 
the significant achievements of last 
year. As a result, we have delivered a 
48% increase in underlying adjusted 
operating profit against a background 
of mixed macro-economic conditions in 
our operating geographies.
Underlying revenue increased by 2.0% 
for the Group as a whole. In Chain, 
Europe, the Americas, China and India 
all delivered growth while underlying 
Australasian revenues were marginally 
down by 0.1%. The weak commodity 
dependent Australian market was 
almost entirely offset by strong growth 
in South East Asia.
In Torque Transmission underlying 
revenue fell 1.1% although the second 
half was more encouraging with a small 
rise of 2.0%. Torque Transmission also 
contributed to lowering our breakeven 
point by cutting overheads by £0.8m. 
The complex project to reduce excess 
capacity in our Chain division saw 
completion of the closure of the 
Bredbury facility soon after the end of 
the last financial year. We successfully 
moved the production with a minimum 
of disruption for our customers and 
exceeded our business retention target 
of 90%. Offsetting this gain were 
additional transitional costs incurred in 
recipient sites for Bredbury production. 
In order to minimise disruption to 
customers, we incurred excess labour 
and freight costs which more than 
offset the gains from retaining the 
majority of our revenue. The excess 
costs were managed out of the business 
in the second half of the year and so we 
expect the lasting annual gains from 
the closure project to be approximately 
£3.8m, some £0.6m better than our 
original estimate. 
Our Strategic Plan, STEP 2020, has been 
developed to take us through the next 
five years. The origins and significance 
of STEP 2020 are discussed in more 
detail in the Q&A session with Robert 
Purcell, our Chief Executive, on pages 24 
and 25. 
In summary, adjusted operating profits 
are now 133% higher than two years 
ago when we started to implement our 
three-phase Plan. Adjusted earnings per 
share have more than trebled over the 
same period. 
This clearly emphasises the value 
generation that is available through our 
self-help measures. STEP 2020 sets 
out detailed, unit specific self-help and 
growth initiatives which will deliver 
sustainable margin gains as we move 
to deliver our new medium term goal of 
mid-teens operating margins by 2020. 
Pension deficit increase 
 
£10.8m
Biggest customer  
% of sales 
5%
T otal employees  
at 31 March 2015 
2,243
Adjusted EPS  
year on year increase 
56%
Overview
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
07 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Overview
The past year has been marked by 
a number of notable successes. We 
delivered a significant reduction in our 
breakeven point when we completed 
the closure of the Bredbury chain facility 
under budget and ahead of schedule in 
the first quarter. During the first half 
we also developed a series of five year 
action plans in each unit to advance 
the first two phases of our Strategic 
Plan. That plan is now being further 
developed and communicated to all 
of our stakeholders under the banner 
'STEP 2020'. These actions are the 
multiple individual steps that build to 
deliver our overall strategic goal of mid-
teens operating margins by 2020. 
Re-engineering our future
The successful delivery of the project 
to close the Bredbury manufacturing 
facility and transfer the production to 
three other sister sites was only one 
aspect of the many self-help initiatives 
delivered by the Group during the year. 
Most recently we have also announced 
that we are moving our head office 
to new local premises in Manchester 
which are more suited to the size of our 
business today, are a better reflection of 
the culture that we are seeking, and also 
reduce our fixed overhead base.
Elsewhere, we continue to develop 
and enhance our senior management 
team with recruitment to a number of 
posts that will support the business as 
it makes the transition into the second 
phase of the Strategic Plan, the Growth 
phase. We continue to work hard to 
improve our health and safety culture 
and performance and while this year 
has seen some disappointment in the 
accident statistics, we are confident that 
the continued drive to embed a 'safety 
first' culture will pay dividends in the 
long term.
Our balance sheet
The amendment and extension to 
our core banking facilities that was 
completed in May 2015, just after the 
end of the financial year, put in place 
an important foundation for the next 
phases of our Strategic Plan. The 
revised facilities give access to longer 
term financing that matures in 2020, a 
flexible £20.0m accordion facility that 
can be used for major investments or 
strategically aligned opportunistic bolt-
on acquisitions, and also provide a lower 
cost of financing the Group’s net debt.
De-risking our exposure to defined 
benefit pension schemes remains a key 
priority. During the year one scheme in 
the USA was terminated at minimal cost 
to the Group. Just after the year end we 
announced an insured buy in of 25% of 
the higher risk pension liabilities and 
cash flows in the UK. 
The Group is currently evaluating the 
potential impact of the recent changes 
in UK legislation on flexible retirement 
planning which may allow for further 
de-risking while allowing the members 
of the UK scheme access to the flexibility 
introduced by the Government. De-
risking projects continue to be assessed 
in various territories with open defined 
benefit pension schemes.
Positive outcomes were also delivered 
in net debt and working capital. As a 
result of strong operating cash flows, 
the Group finished the year with net 
debt £5.3m lower than the same time 
last year. 
The Board and our people
The Board continues to support the 
Executive team in reviewing and 
monitoring our continuous improvement 
initiatives. All Board members have 
given additional time and support on a 
wide range of issues during the year. The 
Board remains closely involved in the 
governance of the major projects and 
further evolution of the Strategic Plan.
Chairman’s Letter
“The Group has 
delivered a second 
consecutive year 
of significantly 
improved margins 
and earnings 
growth. We 
continue to build 
and develop our 
three-phase Plan 
to deliver mid-teens 
operating margins 
by 2020. The new 
five year financing 
facility with access 
to additional funds 
positions us well for 
the next phases of 
our strategy.”
Mark Harper
Chairman
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
08 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
In parallel with developing the detailed 
five year plan, we are also working to 
develop and embed a new Group culture 
that will support our change initiatives. 
The 'Renold Values' have been rolled 
out across all of our business units 
this year, and aim to set standards of 
behaviour and expectations for all of our 
employees that will shape and inform 
the manner in which we implement our 
Strategic Plan.
I am grateful for the continued efforts 
and new ideas that our staff are 
bringing to the table in support of our 
Strategic Plan. The pace of change 
remains unremitting and it is truly 
heartening to see the commitment of 
all of our employees in making those 
changes a success. Through our Values 
and regular communication with 
employees we aim to ensure that all 
staff are able to contribute and remain 
fully engaged, motivated and inspired.
Dividend 
The Group has an extensive series of 
planned capital investments in the new 
financial year and capital expenditure 
will increase significantly as a result. The 
new investments are aimed primarily at 
further improving our performance and 
supporting the delivery of our strategic 
objectives. Given these planned 
investments, the Board has decided 
not to recommend the payment of a 
dividend in the current financial year.  
The Board does however recognise the 
importance of dividends to shareholders 
and this will remain under active review 
as performance improves further.
Outlook
Our efforts remain focused on self-help 
initiatives. We have identified a wealth 
of internal improvement and growth 
initiatives in our detailed strategic 
planning process. These serve as a 
reminder that there remains significant 
opportunity and scope for continuous 
improvement. We will continue our 
efforts to create and embed a continuous 
improvement philosophy in all aspects 
of our business, whether front line sales 
and service, manufacturing processes or 
support functions. 
Externally, most of our end markets are 
more stable than would be suggested 
by the extreme volatility in the capital 
and foreign currency markets. The 
combination of these market conditions 
with our self-help initiatives gives 
confidence that, as we transition into 
the Growth phase of our Strategic Plan, 
we are well placed to continue to deliver 
sustainable longer term gains in adjusted 
operating profit and earnings per share.
Achievement of double digit operating 
margins is fast becoming a realistic 
short term opportunity as both 
operating divisions already achieve this 
level of profitability. Robust foundations 
for further improvements have already 
been put in place over the last year 
and we expect to accelerate our capital 
investment programme over the coming 
year. The STEP 2020 programme has 
a medium term goal of delivering mid-
teens operating margins by 2020. 
Mark Harper
Chairman
Pictured: The use of robots at our Chain 
manufacturing facility in Germany is one element 
of our Manufacturing Efficiency programme.  
For further details see page 22: Our Strategy.
Overview
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
09 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Heading One
S trategic Report
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
10 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Contents
Our Business Model 12
Market Review 14
Our Strategy: Strategic Objectives 16
Our Strategy:  
Three-Phase Strategic Plan 17
Our Strategy: Progress Against Our  
Strategic Objectives 18
Our Strategy: Our 'Staircases' 22
Chief Executive’s Review 24
Our Performance: Chain  26
Our Performance:  
Torque Transmission 30
Finance Director’s Review 34
Corporate Social Responsibility 40
Risk 46
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 47
Products
Our products may often play an invisible role in their 
operating environment. However, that role is usually 
critical in ensuring that the overall system performs 
and delivers as expected. That is one reason our 
customers keep coming back for more.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
11
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Our Business Model Our Business Model
Value generated for our customers:
 Æ Access to facilities 
and capabilities
 Æ Bespoke 
components
 Æ Meeting their own 
customer needs
 Æ Expert kno wledg e
 Æ Bespoke solutions
 Æ Unique problems 
understood  
and solved
 Æ Trust
 Æ Reliability
 Æ Access to  
further products
The Renold business model is focused on leveraging the unique knowledge 
and capabilities of our people and facilities, to generate value for our 
stakeholders. See below for our continuous value generation cycle that 
underpins STEP 2020.
18% of sales 43% of sales 39% of sales
OEMs End users Distribution
 
Skills & facilities
the ability to conceive 
and deliver these solutions
Knowledge
of customer problems,
products and solutions
Logistics
the right product in the 
right place at the right time
Service
unique after-sales service 
means we continue to 
learn and deliver  
 
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
12 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Knowledge Skills & facilities
Service
Logistics
See page 16 See page 28
See page 20 See page 32
 Æ Reviewing after-sales service means we 
continue to learn and deliver
 Æ Deep understanding of metallurgy and 
chemistry in real world scenarios
 Æ Practical application of engineering 
excellence
 Æ Bringing our unparalleled engingeering 
capability to design customer solutions
 Æ Deploying over 100 years of manufacturing 
know how to create superior products
 Æ Manufacturing capability in most  
major regions
 Æ Wide range of stocked products can 
reduce supply chain complexity
 Æ Daily shipment options respond to 
customer specific needs
 Æ Rapid response cells geared up  
for swift deliveries
 Æ Enhancing the customer experience  
with after sales service and  
performance monitoring
 Æ Rapid response offering on standard  
configured chain
 Æ Getting closer to customers in more locations
Underpinned by our:
We are re-building a 
strong, highly skilled 
team with a clear set of 
values and stretching 
targets. Our approach 
combines new skills for 
existing staff and new 
capabilities from new 
staff.
We are upgrading our 
infrastructure and 
process capability to be 
an appropriate match 
for our strategic goals. 
This will support better 
quality and service and 
also lower our break 
even point.
We work in long term 
collaboration with a 
wide range of general 
and specialist suppliers. 
This supports our ability 
to source complex 
materials for our leading 
edge solutions.
Read how we’re targeting 
efficiency in our strategy
See examples in our  
divisional case studies
Read how we maintain and 
develop the knowledge and 
skills of our people
See our service in  
action case study
People Assets Partners
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
13
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Renold manufactures and sells power transmission products and  
is configured as two separate operating divisions: Chain and T orque 
Transmission. We operate Chain production facilities in seven countries, 
strategically placed to serve large or growing local markets. In T orque 
Transmission we have a number of specialised niche businesses that 
produce a range of technical products in both the industrial couplings and 
industrial gear markets.
Market Review
Commercial overview
Renold benefits from its presence in a 
wide spread of geographic markets and 
even wider range of diverse end user 
applications across a myriad of industry 
sectors as illustrated in the charts 
opposite. Our global manufacturing and 
distribution footprint not only delivers 
operational economies of scale, but 
also the ability to meet our customers’ 
exacting delivery expectations. Our 
extensive network of local commercial 
and engineering support teams ensures 
that we are able rapidly to understand 
and provide solutions for our customers’ 
often technically challenging power 
transmission and conveying applications. 
When combined with our highly 
regarded ranges of industrial chains, 
gearboxes and couplings, this results in 
a compelling offering for our customers, 
whether they are looking for individual 
products or a fully integrated solution. 
With a very diverse and numerically 
large customer base, reliance on any 
single customer is relatively low. Our 
biggest global customer represents 5% 
of sales. Of our five largest customers, 
three are themselves distributors 
of a wide range of industrial power 
transmission equipment and thus even 
this limited concentration of our sales is 
effectively sub-segmented into a huge 
range of end customers.
Similarly, the business enjoys little 
reliance on any one particular industry 
with sales spread across most general 
industrial markets such as construction 
machinery, material handling, 
transportation, mining and quarrying, 
food processing, energy production, 
agriculture, leisure and many more. 
The fact that our largest market sector 
is 'Other' further demonstrates the 
wide spread of customers that we 
supply. Around 60% of sales are to 
OEMs and other end users, with the 
remainder channelled through an 
established distributor network, again 
covering a wide range of end industries. 
Marketing initiatives can therefore be 
tailored towards growth territories and 
industries in order to offset the impact 
of any adverse market conditions. 
As a recent example, the continued 
downturn within the Australian 
commodity market is being actively 
countered with a commercial focus in 
more buoyant areas such as agriculture 
and food processing.
Delivering exceptional service to our 
customers is a key and growing element 
of our go to market strategy. Whether 
it is in a drive system or a conveying 
application, reducing downtime and 
thus cost is vital to our customers. 
We continue to drive internal process 
improvements and investment in the 
right component and finished goods 
inventory in order to support our 
customers on a global basis with more 
rapid response times.
In re-engineering the Chain business, 
and with the appointment of a Chain 
Manufacturing Director, we are aiming 
to create an integrated production base 
that serves our customers around the 
globe in an efficient and effective way. 
The competitive landscapes in our 
markets are highly fragmented with 
a large number of small and medium 
sized manufacturers and specialist 
distributors. However, few, if any, 
have the capability to match Renold 
on a global scale and this represents a 
significant opportunity for growth.
Market outlook
Performance in the year was against 
a backdrop of mixed macroeconomic 
conditions within our core geographic 
markets. The macroeconomic 
outlook for the coming year remains 
somewhat uncertain but with 
moderately strengthening economic 
growth predicted in many of our core 
geographic markets, the business is 
well placed as we move into the Growth 
phase of our Strategic Plan. With a 
potential addressable market estimated 
in excess of £1.5 billion in industrial chain 
applications alone, the business has 
ample scope to deliver GDP plus levels 
of growth. This applies equally to the 
more mature markets like Europe, the 
US and Australasia where we have an 
established market position, in addition 
to the major growth opportunities in 
developing markets such as Asia and 
Central/South America. The addressable 
market in Torque Transmission is many
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
14 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
times larger than the Chain market and 
the capability of our core products can 
be leveraged to deliver growth in their 
markets too.
A number of recent key managerial 
appointments have significantly 
strengthened the commercial team 
across all areas of the business. Within 
Europe, our sales teams have been re-
organised with dedicated teams now in 
place adopting a more market focused 
approach. Coordinated commercial 
campaigns will be targeted at specific 
industrial applications where we have 
historically been under represented. 
Significant investment in additional 
sales resource is being made within 
higher growth Asian markets in order to 
leverage our existing positions and grow 
market share. Our local manufacturing 
in India and China, coupled with 
an excellent assembly operation in 
Malaysia, means that we are well  
placed to capitalise on these efforts  
and opportunities.
Products
Renold has built a strong reputation for 
its product range, in terms of design, 
quality and reliability. 
Similar to our geographic penetration, 
we also estimate that we have relatively 
low levels of penetration in the 
addressable end use markets for the 
majority of our products. This creates 
opportunities for growth in those 
sectors where in many cases we already 
have an established presence.
The range of Renold transmission 
chains comprises a wide range of off 
the shelf brands to suit individual 
customer requirements, combined 
with specific solution based ranges for 
applications requiring anti-corrosion, 
low maintenance or abrasion resistant 
properties. 
Our products are often used in harsh 
and demanding environments where 
reliability and performance are key 
attributes for customers. Conveyor 
chain solutions can be readily tailored 
to individual requirements with 
enhancements to our capabilities during 
the year, designed to further improve 
response times and service levels. Our 
couplings range includes fluid based 
systems, rubber-in-shear and rubber-in-
compression products and, in gears, we 
provide a complete range of speciality 
worm and helical gears and drives. 
The breadth of the overall product 
offering enables us, where appropriate, 
to take a more solution based approach. 
Summary
The business has long been at 
the forefront of engineering and 
technological developments and this is 
set to continue. Current developments 
are utilising our expert knowledge of 
metallurgy and chemical coatings to 
deliver the next generations of our 
products. These added value ranges 
are designed to offer our customers 
reduced overall cost of ownership, with 
potential benefits including increased 
service intervals and reduced downtime. 
The product management and marketing 
teams have also been strengthened in 
the year and are tasked with providing 
better tools to the customer facing 
commercial teams, re-energising the 
new product introduction process and 
supporting the Growth phase of the 
business on our STEP 2020 journey.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
15
Strategic Report
Agriculture, forestry 
and ﬁshing
Sales by end user
market
%
12.9
Construction
machinery
6.4
Energy 7.8
Environmental
Food and drink
Manufactured
  products
Material handling
1.3
5.6
7.0
Transportation
Mining and
quarrying
Other
12.1
3.9
3.8
39.2
USA
Sales by geography
>100 countries
%
32.0
UK
3.9
Australia
4.8
Germany
China
France
Canada 3.8
9.3
6.0
Switzerland
India
Other
6.5
5.2
3.9
24.6
Renold currently sells products in over 100 countries. The key regions 
and territories are represented in this chart.
This chart shows the extremely diverse markets for the approximate (61%) of 
our sales where we serve end users and OEMs directly. Distribution sales are 
excluded from this analysis as visibility of the final market is somewhat limited. 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
We aim to deliver consistently improving returns to shareholders  
by re-engineering everything we do to generate enhanced operating profits 
and margins. We will achieve this through delivery of a number of strategic 
objectives as set out below.
1 Significantly improving our health 
and safety performance
We firmly believe that a safe business is a well run and profitable business. 
By changing our health and safety culture and developing enhanced working 
practices and policies we aim to ensure everyone associated with our business 
goes home each day in the same condition as when they came to work.
2 Generating margin enhancing 
growth from our superior product 
capability
In the markets we serve, our products are among the best in the world. We are 
emphasising the value proposition in their superior performance, longevity and 
total cost of ownership. We aim to ensure that the value generated by these 
characteristics stays within the business to support re-investment, and earns a 
return for shareholders. 
As we enter the Growth phase of our Strategic Plan, we will selectively target 
those sectors and geographies where our high performance products can earn an 
appropriate return.
2 3 Enhancing customer service By streamlining our business processes and making Renold easier to do business 
with we aim to offer a seamless route to market with shorter lead times and 
improved service levels. Rapid response configured chain cells aim to bring a 
compelling new service proposition to the market. An enhanced level of customer 
service will support repeat revenues and growth in profitability.
4 Optimising business processes A Group wide programme is underway aimed at implementing standardised, 
efficient and seamless business processes. These will cover the full range of 
commercial, operational and support activities and will be underpinned by one 
global IT system. Our ultimate aim is to significantly reduce our cost to serve whilst 
also improving service levels.
4 5 Lowering our breakeven point The same streamlined business processes that enhance customer service will 
also reduce our installed fixed cost base in all of our locations. This will reduce 
the volatility of our profits in relation to changes in sales values and also serve to 
enhance our operating margins in times of stable or growing revenues.
6 Developing our people We are leveraging and enhancing the knowledge and experience of our existing 
staff with training to see that they are equipped with the knowledge necessary to 
do their jobs well. We are also adding new hires who bring different, incremental 
skills and experience to Renold. This will include new graduate recruitment 
programmes in many locations. Proportionate to the scale of our business, we will 
ensure succession plans exist to develop resilience and strength in depth.
6 7 Strengthening and de-risking our 
balance sheet 
We will improve working capital management to support business development 
through stock availability while minimising the cash tied up.
We aim to reduce the annual cash burden of legacy pension liabilities in the 
medium term while also seeking to de-risk them. We plan to realise value from 
significant tax assets and any surplus properties.
The overall aim of these activities is to significantly enhance the cash generation 
capability of the Group.
Our Strategy
Strategic Objectives
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
16 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Three-phase Strategic Plan delivering value
Our Strategy
Three-Phase Strategic Plan
Strong EPS growth as plan progresses
5.0 pence EPS 1.4 pence
Three Phase Plan Commences
3.2 pence
Restructure unattractive segments
 Some of our business segments
deliver results below their capability
for a number of reasons such as 
under-selling, inﬂexible overheads 
   and too high a cost to serve.
 
  
 
Right-size capacity and cost base
 
 
 
Fix product margins
 We aim to achieve appropriate value 
for the highly technical products we 
offer to the market.
 
Effective product management will be 
key in identifying and implementing 
appropriate margin structures for our 
wide range of high performance products.
 
We will drive manufacturing efﬁciency 
supported by a focused capital 
investment upgrade to reduce 
production costs.
 
 
  
 
 
Establish uniform operating processes  
Phase I 
Restructuring
1
  
 
 
Phase II
Organic growth
2
 
  
 
Phase III
Structural activities 3
March
2013
March
2014
March
2015
Achieve streamlined 
business ﬁt for future
Mid teens % margins
deliverable by 2020
Double digit margins and 
boost in shareholder value. 
Deliverable in the short term
Right-sizing capacity involves both 
reducing the absolute size of the 
manufacturing footprint and also 
reducing surplus capacity.
 
Right-sizing our cost base involves 
reducing the infrastructure or support 
costs of the retained business activities. 
It closely aligns to our business process 
re-engineering activities.
Leverage superior products in Chain and Torque Transmission
Leverage market and brand leading positions
Drive growth from improved sales and marketing practices
Signiﬁcant opportunities from our scale
Fragmented market
Growth potential through selective bolt-on 
acquisitions adding capability and market share
 
Find out more:
www.renold.com
Implementation of simple repeatable 
processes for all aspects of our business, 
whether in manufacturing, commercial or 
support activities, will lead to more 
efﬁcient and more robust processes.
 
This will be supported by investment in 
one common ERP system.
Make right hires to drive growth
We have strong engineering credentials 
and capability. We need to ensure that 
other key parts of the business are equally 
capable, such as Manufacturing, Product 
Management, Marketing, Business Systems 
and Commercial functions.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
17
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Strategic objective Progress in 2014/15 KPIs
1
Future aims Risks and mitigations
1 Significantly 
improving our 
health and safety 
performance
A huge amount of work has been done over the last 12 months and our determination to 
significantly improve our health and safety performance is undiminished. It is undoubtedly 
disappointing that a number of accident statistics have shown a negative trend over the last 
year. We remain committed to following best practice in our goals and activities and believe 
that by constantly doing the right things our overall performance as measured by the KPIs will 
improve. Beneath the surface, accidents involving almost all major body parts have reduced 
during the year with the exception being hands and fingers. To address this latter point we have 
taken a number of actions including a major initiative to review and improve guarding and install 
'best of breed' control systems.
Average Lost Time  
Accident Frequency  
Rates 15.6 
Reportable Injury  
Rates 2,060 
Lost Time Days 806 
Safety  
Improvements 1,723 
Our overarching objective is to achieve 
zero accidents every year. As well as 
targeting improvements in each KPI, we 
have tasked all manufacturing sites with 
achieving OHSAS 18001 by the end of the 
year.
We hope to see an increase in the 
number of sites achieving one of our new 
Health and Safety Awards.
Organisational change increases the risk of 
accidents, particularly when the change is on 
a large scale and in production environments. 
The Group is mitigating this risk by considering 
in advance of any change, full risk assessments 
and new safe operating procedures.
2 Generating 
margin enhancing 
growth from our 
superior product 
capability
Customers continue to seek us out for our high value added technical products. In Torque 
Transmission in particular we have delivered a second year of margin improvement as sales 
have fallen. This reflects a churn of business and a shift in mix towards higher value added 
products. In the Chain division, more limited progress was made on margins as the business 
focused on completing the Bredbury closure and assimilating production in the new sites. This 
focus of management time and effort led to a decision to defer the appointment of a Product 
Management Director to the second half.
RoS% 8.5% 
Adjusted EPS 5.0p 
ROCE% 15.6% 
We are aiming to deliver steady 
improvements in RoS % each year. These 
will feed directly into growth in adjusted 
EPS. Our medium term goal, as part of 
our STEP 2020 programme, is to deliver 
mid-teens operating margins by 2020, 
implying around 1.0% annual average 
gains in RoS%.
Our mid-teens operating margin target is 
based on a GDP plus growth environment. A 
significant fall in sales or a rapid appreciation 
of input costs could jeopardise this outcome 
if we were not able to respond quickly and 
effectively. Our order books give reasonable 
visibility on sales in Chain (3 months) and 
Torque Transmission (6 months).
2 3 Enhancing 
customer service
During the year we launched our service centre concept on a pilot basis. Initially focused 
on the UK market we aimed to ensure a smooth transition of Bredbury production without 
inconveniencing customers. Within the centre sits our configured cell that allows customers 
to choose any chain that could be configured from a range of standard components and 
have it delivered in 24, 48 or 72 hours. While relatively modest in scale, it has proven an 
attractive proposition for customers and we are reviewing options to expand the model in 
other geographies. Efforts to improve service are also being supported by investments in new 
production capabilities in our factories that will, among other things, help to reduce lead times.
Improvement in:
 — Customer contact 
response times
 — Quotation lead times
 — On Time Delivery In Full 
('OTDIF')
Our aim is to show a steady and regular 
improvement in all metrics.
A number of consistent quantitative 
metrics will be capable of measurement 
when the new ERP system is 
implemented.
Excellent customer service requires efficient 
business processes and systems that deliver 
replicable, predictable and timely outcomes. 
As the Group is changing and improving many 
of our business processes and systems, this 
creates a risk to current service levels. This risk 
is being mitigated by a newly created Steering 
Committee with responsibility for oversight 
and approval of all business system change 
requests.
Our Strategy
Progress Against Our Strategic Objectives
The second year of our Strategic Plan has built on the successes of last year. Completing the Bredbury closure project on 
budget and ahead of schedule was a major achievement. By incurring additional operating costs to protect our customers 
from teething problems in the recipient sites for products formerly made in Bredbury, we were able to maintain our revenue. 
This has allowed us to revise upwards the annual benefits of the closure project from £3.2m to £3.8m. During the year, we 
have also created detailed action plans for each of our operating units that will deliver significant continuous improvements 
in performance. These improvements will span the full range of health and safety, customer service, business processes and 
operating margins. We have also identified initiatives that align to our transition to the second Growth phase of our Strategic 
Plan. STEP 2020 has been launched to embody all of these detailed projects in the context of our Strategic Plan. By the 
effective implementation of STEP 2020 we will continue to re-engineer everything that we do.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
18 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Key:
 KPI result an improvement on the prior year
 KPI result unchanged on the prior year
 KPI result a deterioration on the prior year
Strategic objective Progress in 2014/15 KPIs
1
Future aims Risks and mitigations
1 Significantly 
improving our 
health and safety 
performance
A huge amount of work has been done over the last 12 months and our determination to 
significantly improve our health and safety performance is undiminished. It is undoubtedly 
disappointing that a number of accident statistics have shown a negative trend over the last 
year. We remain committed to following best practice in our goals and activities and believe 
that by constantly doing the right things our overall performance as measured by the KPIs will 
improve. Beneath the surface, accidents involving almost all major body parts have reduced 
during the year with the exception being hands and fingers. To address this latter point we have 
taken a number of actions including a major initiative to review and improve guarding and install 
'best of breed' control systems.
Average Lost Time  
Accident Frequency  
Rates 15.6 
Reportable Injury  
Rates 2,060 
Lost Time Days 806 
Safety  
Improvements 1,723 
Our overarching objective is to achieve 
zero accidents every year. As well as 
targeting improvements in each KPI, we 
have tasked all manufacturing sites with 
achieving OHSAS 18001 by the end of the 
year.
We hope to see an increase in the 
number of sites achieving one of our new 
Health and Safety Awards.
Organisational change increases the risk of 
accidents, particularly when the change is on 
a large scale and in production environments. 
The Group is mitigating this risk by considering 
in advance of any change, full risk assessments 
and new safe operating procedures.
2 Generating 
margin enhancing 
growth from our 
superior product 
capability
Customers continue to seek us out for our high value added technical products. In Torque 
Transmission in particular we have delivered a second year of margin improvement as sales 
have fallen. This reflects a churn of business and a shift in mix towards higher value added 
products. In the Chain division, more limited progress was made on margins as the business 
focused on completing the Bredbury closure and assimilating production in the new sites. This 
focus of management time and effort led to a decision to defer the appointment of a Product 
Management Director to the second half.
RoS% 8.5% 
Adjusted EPS 5.0p 
ROCE% 15.6% 
We are aiming to deliver steady 
improvements in RoS % each year. These 
will feed directly into growth in adjusted 
EPS. Our medium term goal, as part of 
our STEP 2020 programme, is to deliver 
mid-teens operating margins by 2020, 
implying around 1.0% annual average 
gains in RoS%.
Our mid-teens operating margin target is 
based on a GDP plus growth environment. A 
significant fall in sales or a rapid appreciation 
of input costs could jeopardise this outcome 
if we were not able to respond quickly and 
effectively. Our order books give reasonable 
visibility on sales in Chain (3 months) and 
Torque Transmission (6 months).
2 3 Enhancing 
customer service
During the year we launched our service centre concept on a pilot basis. Initially focused 
on the UK market we aimed to ensure a smooth transition of Bredbury production without 
inconveniencing customers. Within the centre sits our configured cell that allows customers 
to choose any chain that could be configured from a range of standard components and 
have it delivered in 24, 48 or 72 hours. While relatively modest in scale, it has proven an 
attractive proposition for customers and we are reviewing options to expand the model in 
other geographies. Efforts to improve service are also being supported by investments in new 
production capabilities in our factories that will, among other things, help to reduce lead times.
Improvement in:
 — Customer contact 
response times
 — Quotation lead times
 — On Time Delivery In Full 
('OTDIF')
Our aim is to show a steady and regular 
improvement in all metrics.
A number of consistent quantitative 
metrics will be capable of measurement 
when the new ERP system is 
implemented.
Excellent customer service requires efficient 
business processes and systems that deliver 
replicable, predictable and timely outcomes. 
As the Group is changing and improving many 
of our business processes and systems, this 
creates a risk to current service levels. This risk 
is being mitigated by a newly created Steering 
Committee with responsibility for oversight 
and approval of all business system change 
requests.
1 
Refer to Glossary on page 150 for definitions of KPIs.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
19
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Strategic objective Progress in 2014/15 KPIs
1
Future aims Risks and mitigations
4 Optimising 
business 
processes
A number of improvement initiatives have been launched or implemented in the current year. The 
single biggest was the selection of the single ERP system that will become the Group’s standard. 
Accompanying the selection of the system was the creation of a document known as ‘The Template’ 
which aims to set out the detailed requirements and functioning of all of our key business processes. 
The core team are now in place and are configuring the underlying software system. In parallel, we 
are putting in place a robust infrastructure platform which includes an improved WAN service and 
outsourcing the hosting of our critical servers. Other processes being piloted for implementation 
include warehouse management by barcoding over wireless, a new simplified planning tool and a 
number of improved reporting tools.
Beneath this global KPI, each 
of our business processes 
will have its own set of 
detailed KPIs
Sales per 
employee £79.7k 
Our intention is to create one global, 
integrated, ERP system. Our cost to serve 
will be reduced and this work will also 
feed into the KPIs for customer service.
Changes to systems and processes may in 
the short term reduce performance as users 
learn new skills. If changes are not managed 
properly, the performance reduction and its 
duration can grow.
4 5 Lowering our 
breakeven point
The Bredbury closure project was clearly a significant contributor to the reduction in our 
overheads during the year with annual cost savings being revised upwards from £3.2m to £3.8m.  
However, it was not the only cost reduction initiative. Overheads in our Torque Transmission 
division were also reduced by £0.8m year on year. In all cases we aim to re-engineer our processes 
and organisation to deliver sustainable efficiencies and cost reductions. This will reduce the risk 
of simplistic cost cutting that could lead to costs coming back into the business when business 
activity changes.
Total overheads £66.5m As we re-engineer our business processes 
we aim to reduce the cost to serve of all 
of our activities. Our medium term goal is 
to deliver meaningful annual reductions 
in our overheads to support the delivery 
of enhanced margins and shareholder 
value.
Overhead structures tend to be inflexible and 
can be a major financial burden in a downturn. 
Our new processes are being designed with 
more flexibility in mind to reduce this risk.
6 Developing our 
people
We are working hard to deliver new skills and capabilities to existing staff but also to ensure that 
new employees bring the right mix of skills and experience. A key focus in the last year has been 
on filling a number of senior and other management roles with an emphasis on preparedness to 
challenge the status quo and to be willing to bring new and fresh ideas as well as energy to each 
role. We launched a graduate recruitment programme at the end of the year and have already had 
almost 400 applications for the seven roles advertised across a number of disciplines which include 
engineering, finance, business systems and operations. We believe that this level of interest reflects 
well on what Renold has to offer as an employer and will allow us to ensure that the successful 
candidates are of a very high calibre. We have also devoted time and energy to creating a new Group 
wide set of values. These values will sit alongside our STEP 2020 programme and will inform how 
we will behave as we make the journey towards our strategic goals.
Under development Performance management processes 
and systems in the business are currently 
somewhat ad-hoc and inefficient. We aim 
to deliver a performance management 
system that assesses performance 
but that also both identifies training 
and development needs and supports 
delivery of them.
Change can be unsettling for all staff creating 
a risk of some staff leaving due to feelings of 
uncertainty.
To counter some of this we are increasing the 
regularity and content of communication to 
give all staff a clearer sense of direction.
6 7 Strengthening 
our balance sheet
During the year we started a process to put in place a five year financing structure that would 
match the needs of our Strategic Plan. That process completed in early May 2015 and delivered 
a facility closely aligned to our current and future business needs. Our cost of debt is reduced to 
reflect current market conditions and we have an accordion facility available that will support us 
in the third ‘Acquisitions’ phase of our Strategic Plan but also in the short term should any bolt-on 
acquisition opportunities arise. 
During the year we started a project to de-risk £25m of our highest risk pensioner liabilities. 
These were in respect of individuals with higher annual pensions and therefore a concentration of 
longevity risk. We were able to secure the liabilities at a discount to their funding value and at a 
broadly neutral value from an accounting valuation perspective in a transaction which completed 
just after the year end (see Note 27). During the year we also terminated one of three US defined 
benefit plans and the excess funding now available is being used to accelerate deficit funding in a 
second closed scheme in the US.
Cash cost of servicing 
legacy pensions £4.4m 
Average working 
capital ratio 19.1%  
Leverage ratio 0.9x 
Net Debt £19.5m 
Ultimately, we aim to de-risk the Group 
from all defined benefit pension liabilities. 
The short term focus is on managing 
down the larger exposures in the UK and 
Germany. We aim to have stable annual 
cash costs to enhance predictability.
We want to optimise working capital to 
support the business while minimising 
the cash tied up.
Pension liabilities fluctuate with factors outside 
the Group’s control (interest rates, inflation 
expectations, longevity and returns on assets). 
The key is to be ready to de-risk when the 
market opportunity arises. Legislative changes 
can also lead to changes in liabilities and 
opportunities for de-risking. 
Working capital can take time to unwind and in 
the event of a sudden downturn in activity the 
Group could be left with excess stock.
To mitigate this risk we have deployed working 
capital management tools and WC % is a 
monthly monitored KPI.
Our Strategy
Progress Against Our Strategic Objectives
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
20 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Strategic objective Progress in 2014/15 KPIs
1
Future aims Risks and mitigations
4 Optimising 
business 
processes
A number of improvement initiatives have been launched or implemented in the current year. The 
single biggest was the selection of the single ERP system that will become the Group’s standard. 
Accompanying the selection of the system was the creation of a document known as ‘The Template’ 
which aims to set out the detailed requirements and functioning of all of our key business processes. 
The core team are now in place and are configuring the underlying software system. In parallel, we 
are putting in place a robust infrastructure platform which includes an improved WAN service and 
outsourcing the hosting of our critical servers. Other processes being piloted for implementation 
include warehouse management by barcoding over wireless, a new simplified planning tool and a 
number of improved reporting tools.
Beneath this global KPI, each 
of our business processes 
will have its own set of 
detailed KPIs
Sales per 
employee £79.7k 
Our intention is to create one global, 
integrated, ERP system. Our cost to serve 
will be reduced and this work will also 
feed into the KPIs for customer service.
Changes to systems and processes may in 
the short term reduce performance as users 
learn new skills. If changes are not managed 
properly, the performance reduction and its 
duration can grow.
4 5 Lowering our 
breakeven point
The Bredbury closure project was clearly a significant contributor to the reduction in our 
overheads during the year with annual cost savings being revised upwards from £3.2m to £3.8m.  
However, it was not the only cost reduction initiative. Overheads in our Torque Transmission 
division were also reduced by £0.8m year on year. In all cases we aim to re-engineer our processes 
and organisation to deliver sustainable efficiencies and cost reductions. This will reduce the risk 
of simplistic cost cutting that could lead to costs coming back into the business when business 
activity changes.
Total overheads £66.5m As we re-engineer our business processes 
we aim to reduce the cost to serve of all 
of our activities. Our medium term goal is 
to deliver meaningful annual reductions 
in our overheads to support the delivery 
of enhanced margins and shareholder 
value.
Overhead structures tend to be inflexible and 
can be a major financial burden in a downturn. 
Our new processes are being designed with 
more flexibility in mind to reduce this risk.
6 Developing our 
people
We are working hard to deliver new skills and capabilities to existing staff but also to ensure that 
new employees bring the right mix of skills and experience. A key focus in the last year has been 
on filling a number of senior and other management roles with an emphasis on preparedness to 
challenge the status quo and to be willing to bring new and fresh ideas as well as energy to each 
role. We launched a graduate recruitment programme at the end of the year and have already had 
almost 400 applications for the seven roles advertised across a number of disciplines which include 
engineering, finance, business systems and operations. We believe that this level of interest reflects 
well on what Renold has to offer as an employer and will allow us to ensure that the successful 
candidates are of a very high calibre. We have also devoted time and energy to creating a new Group 
wide set of values. These values will sit alongside our STEP 2020 programme and will inform how 
we will behave as we make the journey towards our strategic goals.
Under development Performance management processes 
and systems in the business are currently 
somewhat ad-hoc and inefficient. We aim 
to deliver a performance management 
system that assesses performance 
but that also both identifies training 
and development needs and supports 
delivery of them.
Change can be unsettling for all staff creating 
a risk of some staff leaving due to feelings of 
uncertainty.
To counter some of this we are increasing the 
regularity and content of communication to 
give all staff a clearer sense of direction.
6 7 Strengthening 
our balance sheet
During the year we started a process to put in place a five year financing structure that would 
match the needs of our Strategic Plan. That process completed in early May 2015 and delivered 
a facility closely aligned to our current and future business needs. Our cost of debt is reduced to 
reflect current market conditions and we have an accordion facility available that will support us 
in the third ‘Acquisitions’ phase of our Strategic Plan but also in the short term should any bolt-on 
acquisition opportunities arise. 
During the year we started a project to de-risk £25m of our highest risk pensioner liabilities. 
These were in respect of individuals with higher annual pensions and therefore a concentration of 
longevity risk. We were able to secure the liabilities at a discount to their funding value and at a 
broadly neutral value from an accounting valuation perspective in a transaction which completed 
just after the year end (see Note 27). During the year we also terminated one of three US defined 
benefit plans and the excess funding now available is being used to accelerate deficit funding in a 
second closed scheme in the US.
Cash cost of servicing 
legacy pensions £4.4m 
Average working 
capital ratio 19.1%  
Leverage ratio 0.9x 
Net Debt £19.5m 
Ultimately, we aim to de-risk the Group 
from all defined benefit pension liabilities. 
The short term focus is on managing 
down the larger exposures in the UK and 
Germany. We aim to have stable annual 
cash costs to enhance predictability.
We want to optimise working capital to 
support the business while minimising 
the cash tied up.
Pension liabilities fluctuate with factors outside 
the Group’s control (interest rates, inflation 
expectations, longevity and returns on assets). 
The key is to be ready to de-risk when the 
market opportunity arises. Legislative changes 
can also lead to changes in liabilities and 
opportunities for de-risking. 
Working capital can take time to unwind and in 
the event of a sudden downturn in activity the 
Group could be left with excess stock.
To mitigate this risk we have deployed working 
capital management tools and WC % is a 
monthly monitored KPI.
Key:
 KPI result an improvement on the prior year
 KPI result unchanged on the prior year
 KPI result a deterioration on the prior year
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
21
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
STEP 2020 is 
fundamentally concerned 
with continuous 
improvement. Each 
initiative, no matter how 
small, is a step in a series 
of commonly themed 
staircases aimed at re-
engineering everything 
we do.
Our Strategy
Our ‘Staircases’
Business process efficiency
Overview
We operate a varied and wide ranging 
set of business processes which differ  
in almost all locations. All of them 
inter-link in different ways with 
multiple different users and computer 
systems. The Business Process 
Efficiency staircase of projects is aimed 
at delivering our strategic goals of 
Optimising business processes and 
Lowering our breakeven point.
Objectives
Our aim is to implement one global 
standard operating model. This will 
unify our people, processes and 
systems. Each of our business processes 
is being designed to be simple and 
effective while being robust and as 
automated as possible. That will free 
up management time to focus on value 
added activities. It will also reduce 
the cost and simplify support for our 
information systems.
Manufacturing efficiency
Overview
Our manufacturing facilities have been 
under invested in previous years. This 
has led to inefficient manufacturing 
processes, long lead times, excess waste 
and waiting time as products pass 
between multiple work centres. The 
Manufacturing Efficiency staircase of 
projects is aimed at supporting delivery 
of a number of our strategic goals such 
as Lowering our breakeven point.
Objectives
Our aim is to modernise our 
manufacturing capability to match 
our leading edge engineering and 
production know how. Better equipped 
facilities will shorten lead times to 
enhance customer service, reduce stock 
holdings to improve the balance sheet, 
and contribute strongly towards our 
goal of mid-teens operating margins  
by 2020.
Pictured: Renold’s new head 
office location, Trident, where we 
will be moving in August 2015. 
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
22 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Commercial positioning
Overview
Our commercial business processes are 
focused on improving customer service 
and enhancing our service offering. 
Like many of our diverse business 
processes, there is much scope for 
us to standardise and simplify. The 
Commercial Positioning staircase of 
projects is primarily aimed at supporting 
delivery of our strategic goal of 
Enhancing customer service.
Objectives
We are working hard to improve 
our customer service. We know we 
have a long way to go as this is an 
area that has been weak in the past. 
Through improved management of our 
commercial teams and resources and by 
re-connecting with customers in their 
own local markets we aim to make our 
reputation for service as strong as that 
for our superior products.
Corporate efficiency
Overview
Much of our operating footprint has 
been accumulated over a long period 
of time and in many cases either 
falls short of modern standards, is 
too big, or over-priced for our needs. 
The Corporate Efficiency staircase of 
projects is aimed at supporting delivery 
of a number of our strategic goals such 
as Strengthening our Balance Sheet and 
Improving Financial performance. 
Objectives
Put simply, we want to make the best 
use of the spaces we occupy. Where we 
have too much space will aim to reduce 
it. Where we overpay for space we will 
renegotiate lower rents or move to 
better priced premises. Where we have 
surplus assets or facilities we will aim 
to realise value and avoid unnecessary 
costs.
Growth activities
Overview
Our diversity of markets is a major 
opportunity for the Group. By bringing 
greater focus to our sales activities, 
we can deliver steady and sustainable 
growth and eliminate much of our 
historical cyclicality. The Growth 
Activities staircase of projects is aimed 
at supporting delivery of our strategic 
goal of Generating margin enhancing 
growth.
Objectives
Our markets typically grow in line with 
GDP. Because we are under represented 
in a number of geographies markets 
and industry sectors, we are aiming to 
deliver annual growth of GDP plus in the 
period to 2020. At the same time, we 
will leverage superior product capability 
to enhance our operating margins and 
retain value for our shareholders.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
23
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
T ell us about the thinking behind 
STEP 2020?
Robert: When we first started to 
describe our three-phase Strategic Plan, 
we said that the different phases were 
not about one or two major projects 
that would solve all of our problems or 
immediately transform the business. 
Instead we have described, in increasing 
levels of detail, that our improvement 
journey will be made up of a significant 
number of individual continuous 
improvement activities. In some ways 
this is similar to the roadmap for 
success of the British Cycling Team 
with whom we have been working for 
a number of years. The idea is that if 
you look at all the different parts of an 
organisation and improve each part 
of it, when you add it all up, you get a 
major improvement in the business as 
a whole.
We have been describing those 
individual initiatives in terms of a series 
of steps that we have then grouped 
into staircases, which share a common 
theme. These themes, or staircases, we 
refer to are: Business Process Efficiency; 
Manufacturing Efficiency; Commercial 
Positioning; Corporate Efficiency and 
Growth Activities. Over the last year we 
have pushed the business to develop 
detailed action plans that cover those 
five staircases that run through to the 
year 2020. It seemed a natural extension 
to christen the overall Strategic Plan 
STEP 2020. Lastly, because of its 
importance for the business, the number 
one priority, Health and Safety, has a 
staircase of its own.
What changes will we see as the 
business moves into the Growth 
phase of the Strategic Plan?
Robert: The first thing to say is that the 
Growth phase activities will be in parallel 
with our restructuring activity. We have 
always said there are large numbers of 
internal, self-help initiatives that we can 
deliver for a number of years to come 
that will all add value to the business. 
Some of those will be about cost 
reduction but some will be about process 
efficiency, lead time reductions and other 
service improvements. So the Growth 
phase activities will be additional to our 
continuous improvement initiatives and 
not as a replacement for them.
The Growth phase will bring in to play 
a number of changes for us with focus 
being a key objective. This change will 
include product focus, channel focus and 
also geographical focus. For example, in 
France, we have separated our Chain and 
Torque Transmission businesses to give 
clearer and more accountable ownership 
for delivery of growth in both distinct 
product groups. We believe in being local 
and convenient for our customers so 
you will see us continually move to be 
closer to their locations. For example, we 
have re-established local sales offices 
in Belgium and Denmark. In other parts 
of the world, we are opening new sales 
offices with local staff in markets where 
we have already developed enough 
critical mass to support the cost base, 
and which will in turn lead to further 
opportunities for growth. 
Are the markets helping or hindering 
you at the moment?
Robert: In general terms things feel a 
little better than last year, though the 
picture is actually quite mixed across 
the different geographies. With the 
exception of Australasia, all of our Chain 
regions posted year on year growth in 
underlying external sales with China and 
India at or around double digit levels of 
sales growth while the larger territories 
of Europe and the Americas showed low 
single digit growth. In Australasia, the 
region showed a very small decline in 
sales, a 0.1% fall this year compared to 
a decline of 7.4% in the prior year. South 
East Asia saw particularly strong growth 
and in the larger Australian market the 
year on year decline more than halved 
from 15.2% to 7.3% and actually showed 
signs of levelling off in the second half of 
the year. The small 1.1% decline in Torque 
Transmission was a major improvement 
on the prior year fall of 5.8%, again 
showing some signs of levelling off.
Chief Executive’s Review
Robert Purcell discusses the strategy and development of the business
“Self-help will 
continue to be a 
major source of 
value generation 
supported by the 
benefits of growth 
as we transition into 
the second phase 
of our STEP 2020 
Strategic Plan.”
Robert Purcell
Chief Executive
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
24 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
In summary, the current market 
conditions create a relatively benign 
environment in which to be entering the 
second ‘Growth’ phase of our Strategic 
Plan. We won’t get much help from 
the markets but equally there do not 
appear to be many headwinds that will 
hinder our self-help initiatives aimed at 
growing the business.
Why did you decide to re-finance the 
business 18 months early?
Robert: A number of reasons really.  
While we were setting out the STEP 
2020 detailed action plan, our thoughts 
turned naturally to medium term 
issues such as how we would finance 
our progressive capital investment 
programme. We also wanted to build  
in some future proofing. We would 
expect to be in the third ‘Acquisitions’ 
phase of the Strategic Plan before we get 
to 2020 but the revised financing also 
allows us to take advantage of  
any opportunistic acquisitions that  
arise in the short term. Finally, current 
market conditions for company financing 
are quite favourable with lower costs 
and also longer terms available. The 
combination of these factors created a 
clear and simple value adding imperative 
to put in place a five year financing 
structure that is closely aligned to our 
five year STEP 2020 programme.
Pension deficits seem to be growing. 
What can the business do about it?
Robert: The key thing to remember in 
any discussion of pension deficits is 
that the real issue is the predictability 
and affordability of the cash flows for 
the pension scheme and for Renold, the 
sponsoring employer. While volatility 
in market interest rates for gilts and 
corporate bonds is undoubtedly having 
an impact on balance sheet liabilities, 
the picture for cash flows is much more 
stable. Because we have in place a long 
term plan for funding the UK deficit, 
which sets contributions at £2.6m per 
annum rising by inflation plus 1.5%, we 
have wholly predictable cash flows for 
Renold for a number of years. The UK 
scheme represents over half of all of 
our annual pension cash flows. From 
a pension scheme perspective, this 
predictability of cash flow income is a 
major strength. In addition, because the 
principal UK and German schemes are 
mature in nature, their cash outflows in 
the form of pension payments are also 
very stable and predictable.
In terms of ‘What can be done?’, the 
business has been actively managing 
our legacy defined benefit schemes for 
a number of years. Most recently, we 
completed a medically underwritten 
insured buy-in that fully de-risked 
25% of our highest risk UK pensioner 
members. We also completed the 
termination of one of our three legacy 
schemes in the USA. In the previous 
year we merged three UK schemes and 
1,316 members had their benefits paid 
out in full. The merger and reduction in 
member numbers significantly reduced 
the administrative burden on the 
scheme. We will continue to consider 
other liability management and de-
risking projects.
So where do you think STEP 2020 will 
take the business?
Robert: In the early days of Phase 
One of our Strategic Plan, the 
Restructuring or Turnaround phase, we 
set the goal of delivering double digit 
operating margins. Given the history 
of the business since the turn of the 
millennium, it is not hard to see why this 
was seen as a repeat of the aspiration 
to deliver 10% operating margins or, 
in more sceptical circles, was simply 
seen as undeliverable. As we have 
progressed, belief inside and outside 
the business has grown that 10% is a 
realistic target. Of course, I have never 
tired of saying that double digit includes 
10% but is not limited to that figure. By 
delivering the initiatives underpinning 
STEP 2020, accompanied by organic 
growth in the range of GDP+, we believe 
the business can achieve operating 
margins in the mid-teens and hence 
deliver further major improvements in 
our adjusted earnings per share thereby 
delivering significant increases in 
shareholder value.
Robert Purcell
Chief Executive 
26 May 2015
Turn to page 17 for our three–phase Strategic Plan
Manufacturing Efficiency
Business Process Efficiency Commercial  
Positioning
Growth Activities
Corporate Efficiency
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
25
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Chain performance review
Underlying external revenue of £138.3m 
was 3% ahead of the prior year. The 
regional picture was more mixed and 
reflected differences in local macro-
economic conditions. Our largest region 
of Europe delivered growth of 4.5% 
with the three major territories of 
Germany, the UK and France all being 
up on the prior year while Switzerland 
had a particularly strong year on the 
back of a one-off major project win. 
The Americas and India delivered good 
growth of 1.3% and 10.3% respectively. 
Underlying revenue in Australasia was 
broadly flat (down 0.1%) with the 7.3% 
fall in Australia almost being offset by 
growth in South East Asia. The regional 
result was a significant improvement 
on the 7.4% fall in the prior year though 
Australia itself remains challenging 
(down 7.3% compared to 15.2% in the 
prior year). Our Chinese Chain business 
focuses on supporting other Group 
companies and its own direct external 
sales saw small but positive growth  
of 8.9%.
Underlying order intake grew by 
2.7% almost matching the growth in 
sales. At a regional level, European 
underlying order intake was up 1.5% 
and in the Americas it was up 3.1%. 
Overall order intake in Australasia 
was up 3.5% though again Australia 
itself was weaker, down by 6.7%. The 
smaller regions of China and India, in 
terms of externally focused activity, 
both delivered order intake growth. The 
profile of our order intake (and hence 
our revenue profile) continues to be 
more stable with less reliance being 
placed on large one off orders which can 
have an adverse impact by disrupting 
our production processes.
Contribution margins, the margin after 
all variable production costs, improved 
during the year. Direct labour costs were 
favourable to the prior year by 0.4% of 
revenue. This figure would have been 
better still had it not been for additional 
temporary activity undertaken during 
the transfer of production from the 
Bredbury facility to sister sites where 
extra labour and labour inefficiencies 
were treated as normal operating costs. 
Now that the recipient sites have fully 
absorbed the Bredbury production load, 
a key task will be to deliver a second 
phase of operational efficiencies that 
will flow from the operating leverage at 
those sites.
Underlying net overheads were reduced 
by £2.3m in the year. The overall gains in 
the year were part of the global effort to 
streamline our processes and structures 
and are part of our continuous 
improvement effort.
As a result of continuing reductions in 
overheads and measures to improve 
our contribution margins, underlying 
adjusted operating profit rose 53% 
to £14.2m (2014: £9.3m), delivering a 
Return on Sales of 10.3% (2014: 6.9%). 
With the exception of Australasia,  
three of the five Chain regions delivered 
a double digit Return on Sales with 
Europe seeing significant benefit from 
the Bredbury closure. Margins in the 
Americas suffered slightly, though 
still double digit, due to the excess 
operating costs incurred in absorbing 
Bredbury production transfers. Australia 
continued to face the additional 
challenge of continuing weakness in  
the foreign exchange rate for the 
Australian dollar which made Chinese 
imports 18% more expensive by the year 
end. This currency change is inevitably 
having an inflationary impact on input 
costs which we have taken action to 
recover with a combination of price rises 
and overhead reductions.
Our Performance:  
Chain 
CHAIN 
FACTS
The Chain division is exemplified by 
an extensive product range reaching 
into a wide number of geographies:
 Æ Sales offices and distribution 
channels in over 18 countries 
worldwide
 Æ Extensive product range that can 
be customised or designed from 
scratch for any application
 Æ Solution chains for many 
challenging applications 
Renold Chain is a global market leading 
supplier of differentiated and value added 
chain products for a wide variety of end 
use applications. We create innovative 
solutions for our customers who want 
to reduce costs and ensure performance 
while dealing with increasingly challenging 
working environments. The Renold name  
is known in the industry for quality  
and performance.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
26 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Performance improvement projects
We reported last year on the closure 
of the Bredbury Chain manufacturing 
facility and transfer of production to 
sister facilities around the world, which 
was completed ahead of target in May 
2014. The first half of this financial year 
involved considerable work to embed 
the new production capabilities into 
routine operations at the recipient sites, 
and normalise the manufacture of their 
extended product ranges. Inevitably this 
brought a number of challenges and 
there was some disruption to supply 
from the Einbeck and Morristown 
sites, resulting in additional overtime 
and freight charges. These issues were 
fully resolved before the year end and 
we are seeing initial progress in the 
second phase of the project, targeting 
efficiency gains in the production of the 
transferred products. 
Rationalisation of the manufacturing 
sites has been followed by a series of 
projects targeting improvements in 
Customer Service. A successful pilot 
programme in the UK that has been 
delivering configured transmission chain 
in market-leading response times has 
been expanded to other parts of Europe 
and is expected to roll out across all 
EU territories towards the end of this 
year. The service will also be expanded 
to cover a wider product range in the 
second half of the new year. 
Preparing for growth
In Europe, new sales offices have been 
opened in Denmark and Belgium to 
improve support to the local markets, 
with a very positive response from local 
customers. Further locations are due to 
be opened during the next 18 months. In 
France we have separated the activities 
of the Chain and TT divisions, to provide 
clearer focus on each sector.
These are a few of the initiatives already 
delivered or underway to support the 
Group's transition to Phase 2 of our 
Strategic Plan, the Growth phase.
Underlying revenue
£m
2011 2012 2014 2013
150
100
50
0
2015
131.8
145.5
134.5 134.3
138.3
Underlying adjusted operating 
margin
1
%
2011 2012 2014 2013
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2015
6.0
5.4
4.0
6.9
10.3
1 
Operating profit before pension administration 
costs and exceptional items divided by revenue 
at constant exchange rates.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
27
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Our Performance:  
Chain continued 
To meet the demands of major escalator users, Renold’s 
significant experience in providing value engineered design 
solutions for public service escalators utilises modern 
materials and the very latest lubrication techniques. Renold 
has designed and manufactured high performance escalator 
systems for more than 50 years. Renold supplies escalator 
manufacturers and end users with roller chain, step chain, 
individual drive units and drive packages that surpass the high 
standards required for this safety conscious industry. 
Renold escalator chains  
first in India
Renold’s chain manufacturing 
facility in India is the first chain 
company in the country to 
develop and supply escalator 
chains within India.
Our products
in action
Read more online at www.renold.com
The picture above shows the assembly of  
an escalator chain at Renold’s manufacturing 
facility in India. 
Reputation
Internationally, Renold has established an unrivalled expertise 
for supplying products for escalators made by many of the 
world’s leading manufacturers.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
28 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Renold supplies Sovereign chain to a US grocery 
manufacturing and processing company. Renold Sovereign 
includes a particular surface treatment that ensures greatly 
increased wear resistance. On the assembly section of the 
production line, two conveyors, each run with six pairs of 
chains in series. Renold’s Sovereign chains run in a tandem 
configuration where each pair of pins, along the conveyor, push 
against the bottom half of the cookie. It is critical that chain 
wears evenly and that the production process is accurate. The 
chains operate in an abrasive and humid environment.
Renold chain for US food 
processing company
Renold offers the most 
comprehensive range of chain 
products designed for the food 
industry and works with many 
international brand names.
Read more online at www.renold.com
Renold Sovereign chain
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
29
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
T orque T ransmission performance
Underlying external revenue of £43.1m 
was 1.1% below the prior year which 
itself had seen a fall of 5.8%. Underlying 
revenue, after excluding a low margin 
mass transit contract that ended in Q1 
of the prior year, grew by 1.3%.
Order intake was weak and down 7.8%, 
primarily as a result of lower demand 
for gear products sourced from the 
UK. This was in part due to the Chinese 
business, primarily in the coal fired 
power station sector, being slower 
than the prior year. Work is ongoing to 
better understand the power generation 
sector to identify other uses to which 
our products are well suited. Successful 
contract wins for escalator drives 
in Europe and USA partly offset the 
reduced Chinese orders. 
Recent divisional restructuring activity 
has brought more product focus 
through the appointment of leaders 
responsible for the Couplings and the 
Gears product ranges. This has in turn, 
started to deliver new products such 
as a new high precision adjustable 
gear mechanism shown in the picture 
opposite. We are also delivering new 
services such as same day despatch for 
industrial coupling products. This will 
translate into further revenue growth 
next year.
Contribution margins, the margin after 
all variable production costs, improved 
during the year. In part this was the 
result of the lower margin mass transit 
contract previously mentioned, that 
came to an end during the previous 
year, but it was also supported by 
focusing more sales effort on the higher 
performance products in the portfolio. 
Continuous improvement activities 
in the factories also contributed to 
the margin gains with labour and 
material cost ratios positive compared 
to the prior year. Further benefits will 
be achieved as we implement more 
efficient manufacturing processes using 
new plant and equipment.
The businesses that make up Torque 
Transmission are continually challenging 
themselves to find better ways of 
working by simplifying processes 
and cutting out waste in every form. 
This has resulted in underlying net 
overheads in the division reducing 
for the second consecutive year with 
£0.8m savings as a result of a number 
of initiatives in each location rather than 
one major restructuring project. 
The combination of the gains in 
contribution margins and ongoing 
overhead reductions led to an increase 
in the adjusted operating profit from 
13.3% to 16.0%. The absolute level of 
adjusted operating profit also rose 
by £1.1m to £6.9m. This was achieved 
despite the fall in underlying external 
revenue. Operating margin gains were 
delivered in five of the seven units, with 
only the UK gear business being down 
year on year.
At the start of the year only one business 
unit in the division had implemented 
the Health and Safety standard OHSAS 
18001. During the year a further five 
units implemented the standard with 
the last remaining business expected to 
complete next year. 
The divisional management team 
continued to be enhanced during the 
year. Key changes included a new 
divisional Finance Director and, as 
previously mentioned, new leaders for 
the Couplings and Gears businesses. 
Both businesses are engaged in change 
programmes which will impact positively 
on every part of their operation. The new 
leadership is tasked with continuing to 
improve business efficiency and deliver 
growth within the framework of STEP 
2020. Our ongoing commitment to invest 
in development of new products and 
processes using the latest manufacturing 
technology in all of Torque Transmission’s 
facilities will continue to provide 
solutions with lasting benefits for Renold 
and our customers.
Our Performance:  
T orque T ransmission
Renold T orque Transmission is an international 
manufacturer of high integrity torque 
transmitting products used where public 
safety or assured plant operation is critical. 
Renold’s products are integral, but generally 
unseen, in different facets of daily life from 
gearboxes driving heavy duty, high rise 
escalators in London and New York subway 
systems to shaft couplings in cement plants 
ensuring the uninterrupted production of a 
vital building material.
TORQUE 
FACTS
Torque Transmission operates 
successfully in a number of 
attractive niches with:
 Æ Sales presence in over 12 
countries worldwide
 Æ Bespoke design solutions for the 
most demanding applications
 Æ Coupling products with unique 
characteristics
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
30 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Pictured: Adjustment 
device with a rotary 
table. 
New product launch – dual lead adjustment mechanism
Renold Gears has launched a new high precision adjustment mechanism, ‘Ren-
Adjust’ (pictured above) for its DL Series dual lead worm gears. These are used 
on positional machinery requiring a high degree of accuracy, such as rotary 
tables and machine tools.
This new market leading system for precisely adjusting backlash without the 
need to remove the wormshaft or drain the oil, is quick and simple to operate, 
thereby reducing downtime whenever an adjustment needs to be made.
The design can be used as a replacement on existing machinery and can replace 
that of most other manufacturers without any redesign or modifications.
The size range of the Ren-Adjust covers centre distances from 67 to 500mm.
Underlying revenue
£m
2011 2012 2014 2013
50
40
30
20
10
0
2015
47.5
49.6
46.3
43.6 43.1
Underlying adjusted operating margin
1
%
2011 2012 2014 2013
20
15
10
5
0
2015
13.3
16.1
11.4
13.3
16.0
1 
Operating profit before pension administration 
costs and exceptional items divided by revenue at 
constant exchange rates.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
31
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Our Performance:  
T orque T ransmission continued 
The custom gearbox for a new pasta making machine was 
a multiple input bevel-helical unit that had to fit within very 
tight space constraints and meet demanding weight limits. 
To achieve this, Renold’s engineers had to use the latest finite 
element analysis and 3D modelling software to reduce the 
thickness of the gearbox casing without compromising its 
structural integrity.
Renold was selected because of our ability to design a custom 
solution that met the customer’s requirements. Also with 
gearbox design and manufacture at one location, the gearbox 
was designed in record time with just 3 online meetings 
(using TeamViewer) between the customer’s engineers and 
Renold’s engineers in both Switzerland and 
the UK.
Renold gear box for  
Bühler pasta machine
Renold has designed  
a bespoke gearbox for  
Swiss food processing equipment 
manufacturer, Bühler.
Our products
in action
Read more online at www.renold.com
Renold HC11 8 multi input bevel helical unit
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
32 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Air Preheaters are very large fan drives that pre-heat the 
combustion air before it enters the boiler to improve thermal 
efficiency.
Renold designs and manufactures a complete range of 
specialist drive solutions for the huge air preheaters found 
at gas, oil and coal fired power stations. In this case, Renold 
supplied a twin input helical bevel gear unit, designed as a 
‘drop-in’ replacement for an obsolete air preheater. Taking the 
original dimensions and speed and power requirements, a 
fabricated version was designed and manufactured, including 
an uprated lubrication system, as an improvement to the 
original design.
Renold gear box for  
coal power station 
Renold is supplying an air 
preheater gearbox to a coal 
powered thermal power 
station located in New South 
Wales, Australia.
Read more online at www.renold.com
Renold twin input helical bevel gear unit
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
33
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Overview
We continue to deliver steady 
incremental improvements in 
profitability, margins and earnings 
per share. This has been achieved in 
parallel with the successful delivery 
of a number of the key projects and 
continuous improvement initiatives that 
underpin our Strategic Plan. At the same 
time, work continues to strengthen 
our balance sheet and improve cash 
generation that will fund our investment 
programme and in turn support further 
margin growth.
Orders and revenue
Order intake during the year in the Chain 
division grew at a similar rate to the 
growth in revenue with the underlying 
ratio of orders to revenue (book to bill) 
being 100.1% (2014: 100.4%). Four out 
of five Chain regions showed growth 
in underlying external order intake 
with only China showing a small £0.3m 
decline. In Torque Transmission, weaker 
demand for gear boxes in the Chinese 
domestic power generation sector, was 
the key driver for a year on year fall in 
order intake of £3.4m. This resulted in 
a book to bill ratio of 91.5%. The results 
for the Chain and Torque Transmission 
divisions are set out in more detail on 
pages 26 to 29 and 30 to 33.
Group revenue for the year decreased 
by 1.4% to £181.4m (2014: 3.3% 
decrease). On an underlying basis, 
excluding the impact of foreign 
exchange, revenue actually grew by 
2.0% or £3.6m in absolute terms (2014: 
1.6% decrease, £2.9m in absolute terms). 
Finance Director’s Review
“A fourth consecutive half year of 
incremental profit growth underpinned 
the new five year financing structure 
completed with our current banking 
partners. This immediately lowers our 
interest costs and includes new flexibility 
to support the Group’s investment goals 
in the Growth phase of the Strategic Plan 
as well as providing the capacity to fund 
potential acquisitions.” 
Brian Tenner
Finance Director
2015 2014
Order 
intake Revenue
Operating 
profit
Order 
intake Revenue
Operating 
(loss)/
profit
As reported 177.9 181.4 12.1 183.7 184.0 (1.3)
Impact of foreign exchange – – – (6.0) (6.1) (0.6)
Exceptional items – – 2.9 – – 11.8
Pension administration costs – – 0.5 – – 0.6
Underlying/adjusted 177.9 181.4 15.5 177.7 177.9 10.5
The business uses underlying 
measures of orders and sales in 
its daily reporting activities by 
retranslating the prior year figures 
to the current year foreign exchange 
rates to give a more meaningful 
comparison of performance. The 
same is also true for operating profit 
and earnings measures which are 
stated on an adjusted basis that 
strips out the impact of exceptional 
items and costs of closed legacy 
pension schemes to better reflect 
the underlying performance of the 
ongoing business.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
34 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Some momentum built in the second 
half with the period being up 2.4% 
compared to the prior year and a first 
half increase of 1.6%.
The Chain division was responsible for 
the overall growth in Group revenue 
with the division delivering underlying 
growth of 3.0%. Torque Transmission 
saw a modest fall in underlying revenue 
of 1.1%, representing an improvement on 
the previous year’s decrease of 5.8%.
Operating result
The Group generated £7.5m of adjusted 
operating profit in the first half (2014: 
£5.1m) and £8.0m in the second half 
(2014: £6.0m) with a full year result of 
£15.5m (2014: £11.1m). The second half 
result was achieved on 1.7% (£1.6m) 
lower underlying revenue than the first 
half. This reflects our continuing drive to 
improve margins and reduce our costs 
as we continue to lower our breakeven 
point. It also reflects certain excess 
operating costs incurred in the first half 
following the closure of the Bredbury 
facility. These costs were reduced in the 
second half and largely eliminated by 
the end of the year. 
T rends in adjusted operating profit 
and RoS
£m / %
H2-2013 H1-2014 H1-2015 H2-2014
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
H2-2015
£3.6m
£5.1m
£6.0m
£7.5m
£8.0m
3.8%
5.3%
6.8%
8.3%
8.8% Adjusted operating proﬁt
RoS
The chart above shows the positive 
trend in half-yearly adjusted operating 
profit and Return on Sales. Our aim is to 
continue this trend. 
Foreign exchange rates have been 
extremely volatile during the year as 
shown in the table above which shows 
the movements in the Group's three 
primary operating currencies versus 
Sterling. The Group’s diverse operating 
territories and currencies provided a 
natural hedge during the year with 
Euro weakness almost fully offset by 
US$ strength. The net impact of this 
volatility was an operating income of 
£0.2m in the year (2014: £0.4m charge). 
All else being equal, there would be an 
estimated increase of £0.5m operating 
profit if the year end exchange rates 
applied throughout the year.
Exceptional items
The exceptional charges of £2.9m  
were much reduced on the prior year  
(2014: £11.8m). A £1.2m impairment 
charge has been booked against a 
surplus property in Calais where a 
depressed local economy and weak 
property market are hampering the 
Group’s ability to realise value from the 
site. It has therefore been written down 
to a nil net book value, which reflects 
potential clean up costs in the event of 
a sale. A £0.5m charge arose to increase 
the Bredbury factory onerous lease 
provision as a result of a change in the 
interest rate assumption used when 
discounting future obligations. The 
remaining charges are detailed further 
in Note 2(c) to the Group financial 
statements.
Financing costs
External net interest costs in the year 
were £1.7m (2014: £1.8m). The annual 
charge includes £0.3m in respect of 
amortisation of the refinancing costs 
paid in 2012 which were being expensed 
over the four year term of the facility. 
Financing costs also include £0.2m of 
the impact of unwinding discounts on 
onerous lease provisions established 
in the prior year (the Bredbury factory 
onerous lease provision and the provision 
for onerous software license costs). 
The new facility terms that were agreed 
in May 2015, just after the end of the 
current financial year (see Note 27), 
include lower interest rates and were 
delivered at a lower one off cost of 
re-financing than previously. The annual 
amortisation charge is therefore also 
expected to fall by £0.1m to £0.2m p.a. 
as the costs are amortised over the 
remaining five year term of the facility.
Net IAS 19 finance charges (which are  
a non-cash item) were £2.5m (2014: 
£2.8m), the net movement being due 
to lower interest rates on a higher 
opening liability figure. In the current 
year, the actual return on assets was 
£13.7m higher than the return used in 
the interest calculation as specified 
in IAS 19. The difference appears as a 
remeasurement gain in the asset section 
of Note 18. 
Result before tax
Profit before tax was £7.7m (2014: 
loss of £5.9m). The profit before tax 
and exceptional items was £10.6m 
(2014: £5.9m).
Taxation
The current year tax charge of £2.1m  
(2014: tax charge of £4.8m) is made up 
of a current tax charge of £1.4m (2014: 
charge of £1.2m) and a deferred tax 
charge of £0.7m (2014: charge of £3.6m). 
The Group cash tax paid was much 
lower at £1.4m (2014: £0.9m) and the 
difference is due to the utilisation of tax 
losses and other tax assets in various 
parts of the Group.
Group results for the financial period
Profit for the financial year ended 31 
March 2015 was £5.6m (2014: loss 
of £10.7m) and the basic and diluted 
earnings per share was 2.5p for both 
(2014: loss 4.9p for both). The basic and 
diluted adjusted earnings per share  
was 5.0p for both (2014: earnings 3.2p 
for both).
Balance sheet
Net assets at 31 March 2015 were 
£11.6m (2014: £13.9m restated). The 
fall was driven by the increase in the 
present value of pension liabilities as a 
result of falling yields on government 
and corporate bonds. 
FX rates March 2014 March 2015 Variation
GBP/Euro 1.210 1.382 (14.2%)
GBP/US$ 1.667 1.485 10.9%
GBP/A$ 1.799 1.943 (8.0%)
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
35
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The net liability for pension benefit 
obligations was £61.2m (2014: £53.5m 
restated) after allowing for a net 
deferred tax asset of £14.5m (2014: 
£11.4m). Overseas schemes now account 
for £25.3m (41%) of the post tax pension 
deficits and £21.5m of this is in respect 
of the German scheme which is not 
required to be prefunded (see Pensions 
section on pages 37 to 39).
Following the year end review of 
deferred tax in respect of the German 
pension deficit, it was identified that 
the prior year asset was overstated 
by £4.2m. The Balance Sheet and 
Statement of Other Comprehensive 
Income have been restated with the 
correct balance. The restatement has 
had no impact on the prior year or 
current year profitability or earnings per 
share. Further detail is set out on page 
107 in the Accounting Policies.
Cash flow and borrowings
Cash generated from operations 
was £12.8m (2014: £6.1m). Capital 
expenditure was marginally down 
in the year at £5.5m (2014: £7.1m). 
Following the closure of the Bredbury 
facility and the transfer of production 
to sister plants, those recipient plants 
were focused on absorbing the 
transferred production into their day 
to day operations. As a result, capital 
expenditure in the year was lower 
than previously anticipated. Capital 
expenditure in the new financial year 
is expected to exceed £10.0m with 
a number of major projects already 
committed as at the date of this report.  
Further gains were made in working 
capital management with reductions 
equivalent to £1.4m. 
Group net borrowings at 31 March 2015 
of £19.5m were £5.3m lower than the 
opening position of £24.8m comprising 
cash and cash equivalents of £12.6m 
(2014: £6.7m) and borrowings (which 
include £0.5m of preference stock) of 
£32.1m (2014: £31.5m).
Debt facility and capital structure
Towards the end of the current financial 
year the Group decided to ask our 
current banking partners, Lloyds Bank 
plc and Svenska Handelsbanken AB, 
to amend and extend the terms of the 
Group’s primary banking facility which 
was due to mature in October 2016. The 
decision to offer the financing to our 
current banks only was based on our 
desire to build a long-term relationship 
with our banking partners who have 
been very supportive during the first 
two years of our Strategic Plan. We 
maintained a firm view on market 
pricing through independent advice 
from Rothschilds. The process to amend 
and extend the facility completed in 
May 2015.
The amended facility comprises an 
unchanged committed £41m Multi-
Currency Revolving Credit Facility 
(MRCF), but now also includes a £20.0m 
accordion feature. This can be used in 
the event of a significant investment 
or acquisition opportunity. In the short 
term, any such acquisition would be 
likely to be opportunistic in nature. 
However, given that the amended 
facility has a five year term (matures 
in May 2020), the facility will also be 
available at a time when the Group is 
likely to enter the third phase of our 
Strategic Plan, the Acquisition phase.
The amended facility has also taken 
advantage of lower interest rates in the 
corporate banking market which will 
have an immediate positive impact on 
our financing costs in the first half of 
the new financial year. The process to 
amend and extend the existing facility 
was significantly faster, cheaper and 
less demanding on management time 
than a full scale competitive banking 
re-financing exercise. The Group saved 
approximately £0.7m in one off costs 
compared to the re-financing exercise 
in 2012.
The principal covenants remain 
unchanged, being the Net Debt/Adjusted 
EBITDA ratio (calculated on a rolling 
12 months basis), which remains at a 
maximum of 2.5 times until maturity, 
and minimum Adjusted EBITDA/Interest 
cover which is also unchanged at 4.0 
times until maturity. The Net Debt/
Adjusted EBITDA ratio as at 31 March 
2015 is 0.9 times (2014: 1.5 times), based 
on the period end net debt of £19.5m 
(2014: net debt £24.8m). The Adjusted 
EBITDA/interest cover as at 31 March 
2015 is 12.1 times (2014: 8.7 times).
At 31 March 2015 the Group had unused 
credit facilities totalling £10.6m and cash 
balances of £12.6m. Total Group credit 
facilities amounted to £42.6m with 
£41.0m being committed.
T reasury and financial instruments
The Group’s treasury policy, approved 
by the Directors, is to manage its 
funding requirements and treasury risks 
without undertaking any speculative 
risks. Treasury and financing matters 
are assessed further in the section on 
Principal risks and uncertainties on 
pages 47 to 49. Note 25 to the Group 
financial statements provides further 
details of financial instruments.
To manage foreign currency 
exchange risk on the translation of 
net investments, certain US Dollar 
denominated borrowings taken out 
in the UK to finance US acquisitions 
had been designated as a hedge of 
the net investment in US subsidiaries. 
At 31 March 2015 this hedge was fully 
effective. The carrying value of these 
borrowings at 31 March 2015 was £5.8m 
(2014: £5.2m). 
At 31 March 2015, the Group had 2%  
(2014: 2%) of its gross debt at fixed 
interest rates. Cash deposits are placed 
short term with banks where security and 
liquidity are the primary objectives. The 
Group has no significant concentrations 
of credit risk with sales made to a wide 
spread of customers, industries and 
geographies. Policies are in place to 
ensure that credit risk on individual 
customers is kept to a minimum.
Finance Director’s Review
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
36 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Pensions assets and liabilities
The Group has a mix of UK (82% of gross liabilities) and overseas (18%) defined benefit pension obligations as shown below.
Assets  
£m
2015  
Liabilities  
£m
Deficit  
£m
Assets  
£m
2014  
Liabilities  
£m
Deficit  
£m
Defined benefit schemes
UK funded 156.6 (201.5) (44.9) 144.9 (183.0) (38.1)
Overseas funded 14.7 (19.5) (4.8) 14.1 (17.3) (3.2)
Overseas unfunded – (26.0) (26.0) – (23.6) (23.6)
171.3 (247.0) (75.7) 159.0 (223.9) (64.9)
Deferred tax asset (2014: restated – see page 107) 14.5 11.4
Net deficit (61.2) (53.5)
Detailed information on the Group’s 
pension schemes is set out in Note 
18 to the Group financial statements, 
including the key assumptions used by 
the actuaries in arriving at the IAS 19 
valuation.
The Group’s retirement benefit 
obligations increased from £64.9m 
(£53.5m net of deferred tax) at 31 March 
2014 to £75.7m (£61.2m net of deferred 
tax) at 31 March 2015. The drivers of 
change are shown on the waterfall chart 
below. The main reason for the change 
was the sharp decline in UK corporate 
bond yields. This was accompanied by a 
sharp decline in European interest rates 
following the launch of Quantitative 
Easing by the European Central Bank. 
It is important to note that the change 
in discount rates used to value the 
schemes’ liabilities balance has no 
impact on the cash contributions paid to 
the schemes and these remain stable.
One of the Group’s US pension schemes 
had all of its members benefits paid 
out and the scheme is now in wind up 
having moved into surplus during the 
prior year.
The aggregate expense of administering 
the pension schemes was £0.5m (2014: 
£0.6m) and is now included in operating 
costs but is excluded in arriving at 
adjusted operating profit.
UK pensions scheme merger and 
asset backed funding structure
The previous three UK defined benefit 
pension schemes were merged into the 
Renold Supplementary Pensions Scheme 
(subsequently renamed the Renold 
Pension Scheme ‘RPS’) on 26 June 2013. 
At that time, 1,316 members took wind-
up lump sums to the value of £10.4m 
and, as a result, a small settlement gain 
of £0.5m was recognised. The remaining 
assets of the Renold Group Pension 
Scheme and J&S Retirement Benefit 
Plan were transferred into the RPS 
and full wind-up of those schemes was 
triggered on 27 June 2014. The merged 
scheme had 3,502 members as at 31 
March 2015 compared to 3,635 at the 
start of the year.
The detailed structure and mechanics 
of the merger and underpinning asset 
backed funding structure are set out 
in Note 18 to the accounts. The most 
recent triennial actuarial valuation of the 
RPS was completed with an effective 
date of 5 April 2013 and no additional 
contributions in excess of those 
generated by the asset backed funding 
structure were deemed necessary. The 
next triennial valuation will take place 
with an effective date of 5 April 2016. 
Summary
The focus for the management team 
remains on steady and continuous 
improvement in our day to day business 
processes and performance. We are 
working to support this activity with 
initiatives to improve our working 
capital management, including adding 
stock or resources to support business 
development activity. Separately, we 
aim to ensure that the legacy issues the 
Group faces are ring fenced as much as 
possible from the day to day operation 
of the business to ensure they are 
neither a distraction nor a hindrance. 
The improvements in our cost of debt 
and pension liability management 
represent a series of successful 
outcomes in delivering our strategic goal 
of strengthening our balance sheet.
Brian Tenner
Finance Director
(6.8)
(30.3)
13.7
2.7
15 5 -15 -25 -5 0 -35
Bad Good
9.8
UK discount
rate
Overseas
discount rate
UK inﬂation 
rate
Asset
performance
Other
 Æ The chart shows the key drivers of change for the Group’s 
defined benefit pension schemes over the last year.
 Æ UK discount rates decreased by 1.2% increasing the deficit 
by £30.3m. 
 Æ UK discount rates are now around 2% below their long 
term historical average of around 5.6%.
 Æ German and American discount rates fell by 1.9% and 0.5% 
respectively increasing the deficit by £6.1m and £0.7m in 
each case.
 Æ Net asset out performance compared to the IAS 19 
discount rate reduced the deficit by £13.7m.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
37
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
 Æ The pie chart shows the current make up of the UK pension scheme membership 
as at 31 March 2015.
 Æ The membership profile has changed over the last decade with 56% of members 
being either pensioners or dependants today compared to 49% in 2005.
 Æ The bar chart shows the evolution of the number of total members of the 
UK defined benefit scheme over the last ten years and the numbers in each 
category. 
 Æ The total number of scheme members has fallen by 56% since 2005 from 
8,030 to 3,502 today due to a combination of net mortality and leavers from 
the scheme (whether through trivial commutation exercises, scheme merger or 
members simply opting to transfer their entitlements elsewhere).
 Æ All three UK defined benefit schemes were closed to new members and future 
accrual by March 2010 and hence membership of the active category fell to zero.
 Æ The significant step down in total membership in 2014 followed the scheme 
merger in June 2013. At that time 1,316 members opted to have their small 
pension entitlements paid out as a lump sum.
 Æ The Group and Trustees are currently reviewing the potential impact of the 
recent changes in legislation. That allows more members to take their pension 
pots as a lump sum benefit which may have implications for the future 
membership of the UK scheme and on its administration costs. 
Finance Director’s Review
continued
Deferred Pensioners
Dependants
3,502
Members
15
44 41
Pensions
UK membership today
%
Equities
Gilts
Other
£156.6m
Assets
23
32
19
Bonds
Hedge and
diversiﬁed    
funds      
25
1
UK assets
%
Trends in UK scheme 
membership
2005 2006 2008 2007 2010 2009 2012 2011 2014 2013
Pensioners
Deferred
Active
9,000
8,000
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
2015
 Æ Given the relative maturity of the scheme, 42% of assets are now invested in gilts 
and corporate bonds. they are held primarily to generate an income stream that 
supports the ongoing annual pension payments (currently circa £10.0m including 
cash lump sums on retirement).
 Æ The overall target for UK portfolio returns is 5.5%.
 Æ The actual UK return in the year was 13.6% compared to the return (based on 
the discount rate on the scheme liabilities) used in the IAS 19 financing charge 
calculation of 4.5%. 
 Æ It should be noted that the hedge and diversified funds have characteristics of 
both protection assets (returns are lower and less volatile than equities) and 
growth assets (return targets higher than simple gilts and bonds).
Dependant - new
Dependant - current
Pensioner status - member
Deferred status - member
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2015/16 2020/21 2025/26 2030/31 2035/36 2040/41
Years from 5 April 2014
2045/46 2050/51 2055/56 2060/61
Number of members
Projected future membership change
The chart to the left shows the 
projected change in scheme 
membership using the current 
mortality assumptions. It makes no 
allowances for trivial commutation 
of small pots (over 1,000 eligible 
members) or transfers out of 
the scheme which may increase 
significantly with the new flexible 
retirement options in recent 
legislation.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
38 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
T argeted UK pensions strategy
£'000
Discounted cash flows – UK
£m
Discounted cash flows – Germany
£m
E
A
B
C
D
10 30 70 50
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
90 Age
Pensioner
Deferred
10.0
9.0
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0
2015 2025 2035 2045 2055 2065
Pensioner
Deferred
1.3
1.2
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
2015 2025 2035 2045 2055
In the chart to the left, each dot represents one UK scheme 
member plotted by age and pension pot. Liabilities and risks 
are concentrated in the small number of members with the 
large pots whereas administrative and governance costs are 
concentrated in the large number of members with small pots. 
A number of liability management options exist for the different 
groupings shown and discussed below:
 Æ A De-risked after the year end with an insured buy-in of 
approximately £25m of liabilities;
 Æ B The next tier of larger pension pots. If market opportunities 
exist, the Scheme could de-risk these in future as in A;
 Æ C Members able to take advantage of the new retirement 
flexibilities offered by recent changes in legislation. The Scheme 
will ensure that all members are aware of their new options;
 Æ D Over 1,000 members eligible for the new trivial 
commutation allowance limit of £10,000; and
 Æ E Young dependent pensioners whose liability will cease 
when they reach the age of majority.
 Æ The lower chart shows a similar analysis for the unfunded 
German scheme, discounted at 1.4%.
 Æ The German chart also shows that peak funding has been 
passed and also the maturity of the scheme as evidenced 
by the relatively steep decline in annual cash flows in the 
medium term. 
 Æ The German scheme closed to new members in 1992 and 
the current average age of members is 69 years old.
 Æ The Group has initiated action to close the scheme to 
future accrual and the outcome of the court mediation 
process is expected to be known in the new financial year. 
If successful, the future annual cash costs of the scheme 
would reduce.
 Æ The upper chart shows the future cash outflows expected 
for the UK pension scheme, split between deferred and 
pensioner members. The cash flow profile has been 
discounted at 3.3%, the discount rate used to value the 
total liabilities of the scheme. 
 Æ The chart for the UK scheme shows that the scheme has 
already passed peak funding and therefore, all else being 
equal, future cash flows will reduce in line with the profile 
above. 
 Æ It should be noted, however, that the profile assumes that 
all members draw their pension in regular payments rather 
than transferring out of the scheme. Any transfer out would 
accelerate the reductions in annual cash flows.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
39
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Our Values 
Operate with integrity
Value our people
Work together to achieve excellence
Accept accountability
Be open-minded
The Board has overall responsibility for 
corporate social responsibility with the 
Chief Executive taking direct leadership 
responsibility supported by the regional 
and business unit Executive teams.
We recognise our duty to behave 
responsibly towards all stakeholders in 
our business, including shareholders, 
employees, customers, suppliers and 
communities in which we operate. This 
includes a commitment to:
 Æ Act in an ethical manner in all our 
business relationships;
 Æ Work with the communities in which 
we operate;
 Æ Provide a rewarding and safe 
working environment for all our 
employees;
 Æ Minimise the environmental impact 
of our products and processes.
Aligned to this is our continuous 
commitment to uphold good corporate 
governance principles, in respect of 
which further details are set out in our 
Corporate Governance Report at pages 
52 to 61.
Values
During the year ended 31 March 2015 
we have engaged with all employees 
across all regions in which we operate 
in order to facilitate the development 
of a statement of Renold’s Values and 
Behaviours ('Values').
The Values describe the Group as we 
want it to be. Our decisions and actions 
will reflect the Values and we believe 
that putting these values into practice 
will create long term benefits for all 
stakeholders, including employees, 
customers, shareholders and suppliers.
The Values are set out above and 
represent a key element of the progress 
we have made in our strategic objective 
'Developing our people'. Further 
information in relation to “Developing 
our people” can be found on pages 20 
and 21.
There is clear recognition that in the 
end our values are defined by what 
we do and not just what we say, in 
other words it is how we behave that 
is important. We have also identified 
a number of desirable behaviours that 
support the Values.
The Values have been launched across 
the Group and there are ongoing plans 
to deepen understanding of them and 
embed them into the business.
Business integrity and ethics
We operate the business in an ethical 
and responsible manner and we expect 
our employees and business operations 
to conduct themselves ethically, and  
to be honest, fair and courteous in  
their dealings.
The highest standards of ethical business 
conduct are required of our employees 
in the performance of their duties. 
Employees may not engage in conduct 
or activity that may raise questions as to 
Renold’s honesty, impartiality, reputation 
or otherwise cause embarrassment to 
the Group. Our employees are required 
to neither offer nor accept improper and/
or illegal gifts, hospitality or payments 
in accordance with the Group Gifts and 
Hospitality policy.
Every Renold employee has the 
responsibility to ask questions, seek 
guidance and report suspected 
violations of the Group’s code of ethics.
A free of charge, independent whistle 
blowing hotline continues to be 
available to all employees across the 
Group, enabling them to report any 
concerns about theft, fraud and other 
malpractice in the workplace.
Corporate Social Responsibility
We believe that 
our commitment 
to corporate social 
responsibility is 
integral to ensuring 
the protection of the 
long term interests  
of our shareholders.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
40 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The Group is also committed to 
compliance with anti-corruption 
laws in all countries and operates 
a zero tolerance policy. The Group 
Anti-Corruption policy forms part of 
that commitment, together with the 
Gifts and Hospitality policy, both of 
which are designed to assist Renold 
employees in meeting corporate and 
individual obligations under anti-
corruption laws. Implementation of 
these policies followed the coming into 
force of the UK Bribery Act in 2011. 
Other control processes and updates 
to formal contractual arrangements 
with agents and distributors have been 
put in place to ensure compliance with 
the requirements of the UK Bribery 
Act. In addition, an annual training 
programme is in place for all members 
of staff whose roles involve working in 
environments or activities where there 
is a perceived risk. The training is also 
undertaken by external parties, such as 
agents. 
These principles are reflected in the 
statement of Values. 
Health and safety 
As a core objective Renold remains 
committed to providing a safe workplace 
for all its employees and those affected 
by its activities. No activity is so critical 
or urgent that it may be done in an 
unsafe and uncontrolled manner. Safety 
at Renold is paramount.
Governance structures are clearly 
defined. These include a Group Health 
and Safety policy which is reviewed 
annually. Cascading from this is the 
Group Health and Safety Management 
Framework (the 'Framework') which 
defines the Board’s expectations 
regarding health and safety control 
and performance. Management across 
all material locations are required to 
adhere to the Framework.
The Framework is not a set of rules and 
regulations to be applied mechanically 
across the Group. It contains principles 
and expectations describing a set of 
outcomes. It provides a structure to 
manage health and safety, encompassing 
continual monitoring and periodic review. 
The Framework is consistent with 
internationally recognised standards, 
including OHSAS 18001.
The Framework consists of eight core 
components, which include setting a 
supportive leadership tone, with sub 
processes, covering for example, hazard 
assessment, incident management and 
the management of third parties. The 
internationally adopted model of Plan-
Do-Measure-Learn cycle is a key aspect 
of the Framework.
The web based Integrated Risk 
Management System provides aligned 
processes and data mining functionality. 
This allows sites to manage 
accident reporting, opportunities for 
improvement, hazard assessment and 
all action tracking. Performance data for 
the Board and to support site reviews is 
derived from the system. 
The hazard assessment reporting 
feature provides both a consistent and 
transparent view of the ongoing health 
and safety risks at both site and Group 
level. The online hazard assessment 
module, launched last year, supports 
our drive to deliver improvements to 
our health and safety risk management 
processes.
An independent programme of audits is 
in place, which requires all material sites 
to be audited within a twelve month 
period. This assesses compliance and 
performance against the Framework. 
The assurance results along with other 
typical KPIs are reported each month to 
the Group Board and reviewed under a 
standing agenda item.
The Group Health and Safety Management Framework
Each stage has a number of key components:
Plan Do
Learn Measure
Plan Do Measure Learn
→ Determine the 
scope of the 
management 
system
→ Set objectives and 
timescales and 
identify resource 
requirements 
→ Develop 
performance 
indicators based 
upon desired 
objectives
→ Create a 
management 
structur e  with 
clearly assigned 
roles and 
responsibilities 
→ Create and 
implement 
processes and 
procedures, 
including controls 
and training people 
→ Maintain records
→ Conduct timely 
monitoring and 
measurement 
confirming the 
status of compliance 
→ Develop and 
implement 
corrective/
preventative actions
→ Undertake periodic 
reviews of the 
management 
system’s 
effectiveness 
→ Identify areas for 
improvement
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
41
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Groupwide performance and 
improvement initiatives
The Group uses a number of KPIs to 
monitor performance. Examples are 
provided below, showing performance 
for the four years to 31 March 2015. 
Average lost time accident  
frequency rates
1
2011 2012 2014 2013
20
15
10
5
0
2015
18.0
11.0
7.2
14.0
15.6
Working days lost
2011 2012 2014 2013
1,500
1,200
900
600
300
0
2015
1,250
1,050
481
587
806
Average trend of Reportable  
injury rates
2011 2012 2014 2013
2,250
2,000
1,750
1,500
1,250
1,000
750
500
250
0
2015
1,200
1,050
748
1,665
2060
1 
The lost time accident frequency rate is 
calculated using the rolling lost time accident 
figure for the year to date divided by the number 
of hours worked in the year and multiplied by 
1,000,000 thus providing the lost time accident 
rate per 1,000,000 hours worked.
The need to improve performance 
is recognised. A number of targeted 
initiatives have been completed and 
others are planned at both a Group and 
site level. Momentum is being built. By 
way of example, during the year ended 
31 March 2015, sites have implemented 
1,700 general improvements emanating 
from accident investigations, near 
misses, hazard assessments and the 
internal assurance programme. 
The Group has launched a new visual 
identity logo (right) to reinforce a simple 
message; Be safe, Act safe and Think 
safe – BAT. Over a relatively short 
period this has become recognised by all 
parts of Renold as being illustrative of 
the basis of safety management. 
During the year a global manager 
training programme was completed, 
attended by 158 delegates at 16 venues 
throughout the Group including all Group 
Board members. This focused on the 
Framework and related management 
processes, ensuring clarity of personal 
management accountabilities.
A Group wide exercise has commenced 
to critically review all site hazard 
assessments, to ensure that risks are 
managed within acceptable levels, as set 
by the Group Board with the Group Risk 
Management policy.
An additional six production facilities 
have achieved certification, to OHSAS 
18001, the internationally recognised 
management system for Occupational 
Health and Safety. The remaining 
production facilities are scheduled to 
achieve certification during 2015. 
Whilst it is important to recognise 
and address known areas where 
improvement is required, it is equally 
important to acknowledge and celebrate 
success. The annual Health and Safety 
Awards Scheme was launched during 
2014. The awards support and deliver 
benefits by gaining prestige for the site/
team and the staff who contribute to 
a positive health and safety culture. A 
number of awards have been granted in 
the first year of the scheme. 
Community 
We aim to be a part of the communities 
in which we work and seek to assist 
local projects with support where 
possible. This year, the Group acquired 
new defibrillators through a scheme run 
by a charitable organisation. As a result, 
a further defibrillator was provided free 
of charge to a local high school close to 
the Group’s UK Head Office: pictured 
opposite on page 43.
We also encourage volunteering 
and working with local educational 
institutions in the promotion and 
raising of awareness of engineering and 
manufacturing.
Whilst the Group is not currently in a 
position to provide financial support to 
local projects, it is our aim to review this 
in future with a view to improving our 
contribution to local communities.
Employees
The motivation and commitment of 
our employees are essential to drive 
forward our business. The recruitment, 
retention and development of 
motivated, effective people will be key 
to the successful delivery of the revised 
strategy for the Group. That revised 
strategy will itself include assessing 
opportunities to improve our processes 
for managing and developing people.
Corporate Social Responsibility
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
42 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
During the year ended 31 March 2015 
the following activities were carried out 
across the Group:
Engaging our people
We place a strong emphasis on 
employee communications and two 
way feedback. The Group’s intranet 
site enables access to the latest 
Group information as well as Group 
policies. We also undertake regular 
presentations to employees throughout 
the Group where the half year and year-
end financial results are presented and 
explained by senior management. This 
helps to achieve a common awareness 
amongst employees of the financial 
and economic factors affecting the 
performance of the Group.
We also use electronic bulletin boards 
for the sharing of knowledge and 
information across the world. 
T alent acquisition and development
Building a strong talent pool to deliver 
the current business needs whilst 
establishing the foundation for longer 
term sustainable employee development 
is crucial to the Group strategy. 
The past year has seen the Group 
continue to strengthen the senior 
management team in both Chain 
and Torque Transmission with 
key appointments in commercial, 
operational and leadership roles, 
including the appointment of key new 
roles in Torque Transmission (Managing 
Director Couplings and Managing 
Director Gears) and a new Commercial 
Director for Chain Europe. We will 
continue to review and optimise the 
Group’s organisational structures.
The Group’s apprentice programme 
both in the UK and Germany continues 
to operate. Apprentices in the UK at 
the Renold Gears facility spend their 
first year learning basic engineering 
skills, before transferring to the shop 
floor and other areas of the business 
such as planning, quality, purchasing 
and distribution so that they also gain 
an appreciation and awareness of the 
wider business operations and how 
these work together. We currently have 
13 apprentices at various stages of 
development within the UK.
The apprentices themselves value this 
mix of formal learning and the ‘hands 
on’ experience they gain from working 
alongside their colleagues. 
Our German Chain facility currently 
employs 21 apprentices and two 
students for bachelors degrees. There 
are a number of different types of 
apprenticeship in Germany for school 
leavers, the various roles including 
bachelor of engineering, bachelor of 
business administration, industrial clerk, 
industrial mechanic and toolmaker. In 
addition to role specific training, wider 
education and experience is also offered 
from exchange programmes with 
other local companies, participation in 
simulated business competitions, training 
and attendance at business exhibitions. 
This year the Group has also launched 
a Graduate Programme under which 
between six and eight university leavers 
will be recruited into the business in 
the autumn of 2015. Graduates will be 
sought to join the Group’s manufacturing 
operations and its commercial, business 
systems, finance and engineering 
functions. New graduates will have 
real roles, with real responsibility in the 
business from day one. They will also 
participate in a structured two year 
training programme which will develop 
their skills in key management and 
leadership areas, be involved in critical 
business projects and have regular 
exposure to the senior leadership team. 
We expect this programme to be one 
of the key processes through which 
the business ensures that we internally 
develop our leaders of the future.
The financial year ending 31 March 
2016 will also see the implementation 
of a more rigorous performance and 
development review process, with a 
particular focus on the leadership and 
management teams. This will enable the 
Group to more effectively set objectives 
and targets, manage employee 
performance against the delivery of 
these targets and identify employee 
development requirements. We plan to 
meet these development requirements 
through a range of approaches. These 
will include a modular Leadership and 
A new defibrillator is presented to Newall Green High School in Wythenshawe, Manchester by Group Head 
of Risk and Assurance, Andrew Monkhouse. 
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
43
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Management Programme for high 
potential employees, supported and 
delivered by an external third party 
and the provision of internal, online 
and off the shelf training interventions 
to allow us to address critical gaps in 
management skills and knowledge 
quickly and cost effectively.
Employment policies
Arrangements for consulting and 
involving Group employees on matters 
affecting their interests at work are 
developed in ways appropriate to each 
business. A variety of approaches is 
adopted aimed at encouraging the 
involvement of employees in effective 
communication and consultation, and 
the contribution of productive ideas at 
all levels.
Employment policies are designed to 
provide equal opportunities irrespective 
of race, caste, national origin, religion, 
age, disability, gender, marital status, 
sexual orientation or political affiliation. 
Group policy is to ensure that disabled 
applicants for employment are given full 
and fair consideration having regard to 
their particular aptitudes and abilities, 
and that existing disabled employees 
are given equal access to training, 
career development and promotion 
opportunities. In the event of existing 
employees becoming disabled, all 
reasonable means would be explored 
to achieve retention in employment in 
the same or an alternative capacity, 
including arranging appropriate training.
Diversity
The Group is committed to equal 
opportunities and operates a non-
discriminatory working environment. 
We expect staff and job applicants to be 
treated equally regardless of age, race, 
religion, disability, gender or sexuality.
As at 31 March 2015, the Group 
employed 2,243 people including 
380 in the UK. Of the total number of 
employees, 385 (being 17%) are female. 
The Company recognises the need to 
encourage and support more gender 
diversity throughout the 
employee population as well as at Board 
level: details of the Board’s Diversity 
policy are set out in the Nomination 
Committee report at pages 68 and 69.
We set out in the table below, a 
breakdown of the gender of our Board 
members, and, in accordance with new 
reporting requirements introduced last 
year, the number of ‘senior managers’ 
(including directors of the Company’s 
subsidiary companies) and employees 
as at 31 March 2015. A senior manager is 
defined in the legislation as an employee 
who has responsibility for planning, 
directing or controlling the activities of 
the company or a strategically significant 
part of the company. Whilst falling 
within the definition of ‘senior manager’, 
the most senior leadership population 
(below the Board), the Group Executive, 
is shown separately in the table below.
Board and employees Male Female
Board* 5 0
Group Executive 6 1
Senior managers, including 
those on Renold’s subsidiary 
boards 26 7
Other employees 1,824 377
* The Non-Executive Directors are not employees.
Human rights
The Group is required to make a 
disclosure in relation to human rights. 
The Board has overall responsibility 
for ensuring the Group upholds and 
promotes respect for human rights and 
has adopted the definition of human 
rights within the European Convention 
on Human Rights: the concept of human 
beings as having universal rights, or 
status, regardless of legal jurisdiction 
or other localising factors, such as 
ethnicity, nationality, and sex. 
The Group respects all human rights 
and in conducting its business regards 
the right to non-discrimination and fair 
treatment as the most relevant to its 
key stakeholder groups, these being 
customers, employees and suppliers. 
The Group’s employment policies  
and procedures reflect principles 
of equal treatment. Respect for the 
individual is also enshrined in Renold’s 
statement of Values and Behaviours.
The Group has not been made aware of 
any incident in which the organisation’s 
activities have resulted in an abuse of 
human rights.
Greenhouse gas ('GHG') emissions
As a part of the Group’s commitment to 
minimising the impacts of its business 
operations on the environment, our 
policy is to co-operate with regulators, 
suppliers and customers to develop 
and achieve improved standards of 
environmental protection.
We continue to use the boundaries 
and methodology established during 
the previous year for the reporting of 
our GHG emissions. After setting the 
organisational boundary (adopting a 
financial approach) all Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, as defined below, arising 
from the assets and operations within 
this control boundary are reported for 
the period 1 April 2014 to 31 March 
2015. We report 100% of operational 
boundary emissions for entities within 
the organisational boundary. Using 
the selected 12-month period avoids 
the need to include consumption 
estimations when calculating the Scope 
1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Note: The organisational boundary 
determines the operations owned or 
controlled by the reporting company. 
The operational boundary determines 
the direct and indirect emissions 
associated with operations owned or 
controlled by the reporting company. 
Both are as defined by the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard issued in May 2013 
('GHG Protocol').
Corporate Social Responsibility
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
44 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The financial control approach is where 
the company has the ability to direct 
the financial and operating policies of 
the organisation with a view to gaining 
economic benefits from its activities, as 
defined in the Environmental Reporting 
Guidelines: Including Mandatory 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting 
Guidance, June 2013.
Effective environmental management 
is integral to the Group’s business 
strategy and we endeavour to achieve 
the highest practicable environmental 
standards of performance to ensure 
compliance with our statutory 
obligations. Our manufacturing facilities 
have active programmes to implement 
environmental management systems 
compliant to ISO 14001. This provides 
an opportunity not only to identify the 
environmental impacts of the business 
but to also consider opportunities to 
manage and optimise energy usage. This 
approach to both existing processes 
and new projects is embedded within 
our business model and will feature 
in the business’s developing carbon 
management plan.
The third party consultancy (EEF: The 
Manufacturers’ Association) engaged 
last year continues to provide advice 
and review the ongoing data collection 
process. In addition, EEF undertakes 
an assurance audit on the 12 months 
reported data. 
Greenhouse gas emission sources
Scope 1 emissions are from those direct 
sources that are owned by the Group 
(e.g. from direct combustion of natural 
gas within our facilities’ boilers and 
heaters); fugitive gases are not included.
Scope 2 emissions are those emissions 
for which the Group is indirectly 
responsible, excluding transmission 
and distribution losses (e.g. from the 
electricity we purchase to operate 
machinery or equipment).
Our reported Scope 2 emissions 
are limited to those associated with 
purchased electricity as no location 
within the business purchases steam, 
heating or cooling from a third party.
Scope 3 (Other indirect emissions) 
arising as a consequence of our actions, 
which occur at sources which we do 
not own or control and which are not 
classed as Scope 2 emissions. Scope 3 
emissions are not reported
The emissions are expressed as CO
2
-e 
which is the unit of measurement used 
to indicate the global warming potential 
('GWP') of each of the six greenhouse 
gases. GWP provides a basis to evaluate 
the effects of releasing (or avoiding 
release) of different greenhouse gases. 
To do so it compares the warming effect 
of a mass of a GHG compared to a 
similar mass of carbon dioxide (CO
2
). 
The main contributors to GHG emissions 
arising from our energy use are 
electricity consumption, which accounts 
for 67.9% of our emissions, and fuels, 
such as natural gas and fuel oil, burnt on 
our premises which, combined, account 
for 31.7% of the Group’s emissions. 
The combined CO
2
-e emissions arising 
from owned transport and fugitive 
refrigerant gases were calculated to 
be 0.4% of the total emissions and 
considered to be immaterial and have 
therefore been excluded.
In line with UK Government guidance 
and to ensure we have the ability to 
compare future years to our base year 
we established an intensity measure in 
which we express the combined Scope 
1 and 2 GHG emissions (as tonnes of 
CO
2
-e) per £m external revenue for the 
financial year ending 31 March 2015.
Global GHG emissions data for period 
1 April 2013 to 31 March 2015
Tonnes CO
2
-e
1 April 2013 
to 31 March 
2014
1 April 2014 
to 31 March 
2015
Scope 1 emissions 11,175 9,570
Scope 2 emissions 21,353 20,503
Intensity Measure 176.8 165.8
The reduction in emissions for the year 
ended 31 March 2015 in contrast to the 
prior year is primarily as a result of the 
closure of the UK chain manufacturing 
facility in Bredbury and the transfer of 
production to other non-UK sites. Other 
site specific improvement initiatives 
have also contributed to the overall 
measured reduction. 
Our report methodology has used 
the GHG Protocol and emission 
factors from the UK Government’s 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting 2014. Conversion of the 
source data into equivalent emissions 
was undertaken using the DEFRA 
(Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs) datasets ‘Greenhouse Gas 
Conversion Factor Repository’ which 
can be found on their website www.
ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk
Where possible, emissions are calculated 
based upon direct measurement or 
purchase invoices of fuel and energy. In 
other cases including those in relation to 
some Group transport and refrigerant 
gases, it has been necessary to make 
consumption estimations. Where there is 
considered significant uncertainty in the 
activity data used, this will be identified. 
An overall ranking of uncertainty will 
be applied (high, good, fair or poor) so 
activity data quality is made using an 
internal procedure consistent with that 
suggested by the GHG Protocol Chapter 7.
The baseline will be amended where 
a variation of 5% or more results from 
acquisition and divestment or significant 
change in reporting methodology.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
45
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Risk management framework 
IRMS
Board oversight
 Æ Sets the ‘Tone at the Top’ – the culture adopted in respect of risk
 Æ Responsible for Risk Management and Internal Control Processes
 Æ Sets direction for key focus areas (e.g. Health and Safety)
 Æ Defines acceptable levels of risk (referred to as our ‘Risk Appetite’)
 Æ Monitors compliance with our Risk Appetite and completion of action plans
Executive Risk Management 
and Monitoring Committee 
 Æ Critique of local risk 
registers
 Æ Challenge and review of 
completed actions
 Æ Shares best practice risks 
and solutions across the 
Group
Audit Committee 
 Æ Supports the Board in review 
of risk management process
 Æ Particular emphasis on 
monitoring completion of 
risk mitigation actions
 Æ Oversight of Executive Risk 
Management and Monitoring 
Committee
Business units
 Æ Detailed local risk registers and action plans
 Æ Ongoing action management and tracking
 Æ Embedding Group culture and risk appetite at a local level
 Æ Process for global alerts to share emerging risks and best 
practice
Internal audit 
 Æ Reviews 
local risk 
management 
process
 Æ Reviews 
status of risk 
management 
actions
Renold’s risk management framework is designed to identify 
and assess the probability and consequences of risks occurring 
and to manage the actions necessary to reduce the risks and to 
mitigate their impact.
Risk
How we assess risk
Over the last three years, throughout 
the world, the Group has deployed an 
online Integrated Risk Management 
System (IRMS). Before the IRMS is 
deployed or populated in a region, the 
Group Head of Risk and Assurance 
facilitates a work shop with the local 
management team to explain the 
guiding principles of risk management, 
the functionality of the IRMS and also 
the consistent approach and standards 
expected by the Group.
The Group has built up a risk library of 
common risks and these are used to 
identify which of these applies to the 
local site before drilling down to a more 
detailed analysis of site specific risks.
This approach combines the sharing 
of best practice across sites, expert 
guidance from the Group Head of Risk 
and Assurance, and local ‘on the ground’ 
experience and knowledge of specific 
risk factors.
How we manage risk
The IRMS was initially used to identify and 
capture risk assessments in the health 
and safety arena. That functionality has 
now been extended to all aspects of risk.
The IRMS automatically links risks to 
associated actions that are designed 
to reduce either the probability or 
the impact of a risk crystallising. The 
IRMS therefore operates as a live 
management tool that assists staff in 
actions management and also in the 
production of live reports.
The ‘heat map’ shows three bandings 
in the different shades of risks that are 
within appetite (green), out of appetite 
(red) and risks that are somewhere 
in between. Management actions are 
focused on those risks deemed not yet 
within appetite. It should be noted that 
there is no level of acceptable health 
and safety risk, that topic will always be 
under active management Likelihood
Impact
High
Low High
6
5
4
1
10
12
3
2
8
7
9 11
Risk heat map
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
46 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Set out below are the known principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group together with the 
corresponding mitigating actions that have been taken by the Group. The numbers correspond to the risk identified on the heat 
map and the arrows indicate whether or not the probability or impact of the risk materialising is increasing, reducing or constant. 
Additional risks not currently known or which are currently regarded as immaterial could also affect future performance.
Key:
 Risk trending downwards
 Risk trend unchanged
 Risk trending upwards
Risk Potential impact Mitigation
Strategic risks
1 Business strategy 
A strategy which does not match the 
Group’s circumstances, capabilities or 
potential will fail to create shareholder 
value.
The Group is developing a new strategy to 
deliver a turnaround in performance and 
to make that performance more stable and 
less exposed to revenue volatility. Unless 
successfully implemented the Group will 
continue to experience volatile results and 
weak levels of cash generation. These are 
basic requirements to allow the delivery 
of sustainable and consistent growth in 
shareholder value.
A three phase strategic plan was developed in 
the prior year (refer to page 17). In parallel, a 
new and detailed operating model has also been 
specified and is now in the process of being 
implemented. 
During the year a detailed five year unit level 
action plans have been developed. 
These combine to form STEP 2020.
2 Macro-economic and political 
We operate in 18 countries and sell to 
customers in over 100 and therefore we 
are necessarily exposed to economic and 
political risks in these territories such 
as recession or the imposition of trade 
barriers.
The continuing fragile macro-economic 
climate in the Eurozone and Australia is a 
specific source of risk.
Key territory sales profile is shown below:
USA  32.0% (of Group sales)
UK  9.3% 
Germany  6.5%
Australia  6.0%
Adverse macro-economic or political 
changes in any of these territories 
could have a material negative effect 
on the Group’s financial performance 
and condition and is a key driver for the 
objective to lower our breakeven point.
Our diversified geographic footprint inherently 
exposes us to more countries where risks arise 
but conversely mitigates the risk of over-
exposure in any one country.
Actions to lower the Group’s overall breakeven 
point also serve to reduce the impact of a global 
economic slowdown.
Continuous monitoring of macro-economic 
trends, industry specific and internal leading 
indicators.
Strong core banking group with multi-currency 
debt facility supported by matching cash flows 
plus improving EBITDA.
3 Raw material price volatility 
Increases in the cost of raw materials 
may not always be recoverable or have 
delays in recovery due to weakness in 
demand or competitor actions.
If raw material costs fall, the Group may 
face customer pressure to reduce prices 
or experience a fall in demand.
Approximately 35% of the Group’s sales 
value is spent on raw materials with steel 
being the primary purchase.
Steel prices experienced by the Group have 
been relatively stable recently following 
previous periods of considerable volatility. 
Unrecovered cost increases would have 
a material effect on the Group’s financial 
performance.
Continuous monitoring of different international 
steel price indices to give early warning of 
negative trends. The Group is partially insulated 
from movements in raw commodity prices 
because of intermediary processing steps in the 
supply chain.
Where contractually possible, we pass on price 
increases.
4 Competitive markets and  
technology advancements 
Renold operates in highly competitive 
markets with customer decisions based 
typically on quality, technology, service 
and price. New entrants or consolidation  
of existing competitors could restrict our 
ability to deliver our strategic objectives.
Renold may lose customers to competitors 
if we are unable to adapt to market 
developments due to changes in consumer 
preferences, regulatory or industry 
requirements or competitive technologies.
Highly fragmented market may reduce risk of 
significant competitive pressure.
Strategic objective to improve service and 
enhance customer relationships will deliver a 
more loyal customer base.
Investment in new technology and engineering 
capabilities.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
47
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Risk Potential impact Mitigation
Operational risks
5 Health and safety in the workplace 
A lack of robust safety processes and 
procedures could result in accidents 
involving Renold employees and others 
on Renold premises.
The risk assessment reflects the fact that 
increased focus and auditing is part of 
the rising rate trends seen on page 42.
Accidents caused by a lack of robust safety 
procedures could result not only in civil or 
criminal liability for both the Group and the 
Directors but also:
 Æ Business interruption;
 Æ Significant fines and penalties; and
 Æ Reputational damage.
Revised group wide health and safety policies 
contained within a documented management 
system, ‘the Framework’, have been rolled out 
during the year. Health and safety audits and 
enhanced reporting have been implemented 
at all sites and a new Group HSE Assurance 
Manager has been appointed.
Continual risk assessments to ensure awareness 
of risks.
Live tracking of accident rates and root cause 
analysis via the Integrated Risk Management 
System.
6 Manufacturing disruption 
A catastrophic loss of the use of all or a 
portion of any of Renold’s manufacturing 
or distribution facilities, due to accident, 
labour issues, fire, weather, terrorism, 
natural disaster or otherwise, which in 
the short or long term could adversely 
affect the Group’s ability to meet the 
demands of its customers.
A material disruption to operational 
facilities or the loss of critical assets may 
negatively affect the Group’s:
 Æ Production capability and asset base;
 Æ Supply chain management; 
 Æ Customer relationships and reputation; 
and 
 Æ Financial performance.
Dedicated production teams focused on demand 
fulfilment.
Preventative maintenance programmes.
Alternate manufacturing capacity exists for a 
substantial portion of the Group’s product range.
Inventory maintained to absorb and flatten out 
raw material supply and production volatility.
The Group has insurance cover to mitigate the 
impact of a number of these risks.
7 ERP systems 
The Group is presently implementing a 
global ERP system to replace numerous 
legacy systems.
Legacy systems are less robust and less 
efficient than new systems.
The risk continues that an unsuccessful 
implementation at an individual site could 
seriously impact the Group’s performance.
 Æ Risks have reduced by virtue of the 
experience gained and lessons learned 
from previous implementations.
 Æ Old systems may not support delivery 
of business objectives.
Short term stabilisation of existing hardware 
and legacy software platforms.
Use of specialist external consultants on 
the global ERP project and recruitment of 
experienced personnel.
Phased implementation rather than ‘big bang.’
Project assurance and lessons learned reviews 
to continuously improve the quality of successive 
roll outs.
8 Compliance risks  
– laws and regulations 
Risks related to regulatory and legislative 
changes include the inability of the Group 
to comply with current, changing or new 
requirements.
Many of the Group’s business activities 
are subject to increasing regulation and 
enforcement by relevant authorities.
Failure by the Group or its representatives 
to abide by applicable laws and regulations 
could result in:
 Æ Administrative, civil or criminal liability;
 Æ Significant fines and penalties;
 Æ Suspension of the Group from trading; 
and
 Æ Reputational damage.
Communication of a clear compliance culture.
Risk assessments and ongoing compliance 
reviews.
Published up to date policies and procedures.
Monitoring of compliance with nominated 
accountable managers in each business unit.
Clear guidance and training issued to all 
employees.
9 A lack of technical expertise  
or management skills 
The Group’s international operations are 
dependent upon existing key executives 
and certain other employees in order 
to sustain and grow its business and 
there can be no assurances that these 
employees will remain with the Group. The 
success of the Group will depend upon 
its ability to attract, retain and motivate 
highly qualified and trained employees.
If the Group fails to retain, attract or 
motivate the required calibre of employees 
then its operational and financial 
performance may be negatively impacted.
Competitive reward programmes, focused 
training and development.
Ongoing reviews of succession plans based on 
business needs.
Personal development reviews and training 
programmes.
Management team strengthened with new 
capability from external hires and internal 
promotions.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
48 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Risk Potential impact Mitigation
Financial risks
10 Liquidity 
At times in the past, the conditions in 
the banking markets and Renold’s own 
financial performance have made access 
to appropriate debt facilities difficult to 
achieve.
If the Group fails to obtain the required 
funding then this could negatively impact:
 Æ Ongoing business operations; and
 Æ Going concern.
The Group’s primary banking facility expires May 
2020 and is fully available given current levels of 
profitability.
The facility includes additional draw down 
capability, accessible as long as financial 
covenants are complied with
Constant management focus to enhance working 
capital management processes.
11 Foreign exchange rate volatility 
Currency markets have shown significant 
volatility in recent months. The Group is 
exposed to transactional exchange risk 
exposure in the short term impacting 
earnings and cash flow. In the long term, 
sustained variations in foreign exchange 
rates could alter the viability of supply 
chains in and out of certain territories.
Shown below are the Groups principal 
trading currencies, weighted by revenue:
US$  34% (of Group sales)
Euro  14%
£GBP  20%
A$  6%
C$  4%
Other  22%     
The Board has approved a net cash flow hedging 
strategy for major currencies that extends for 
four quarters on a rolling diminishing coverage 
basis. Transactions are covered primarily by 
simple forward foreign exchange contracts.
Borrowings denominated in foreign currency 
are supported and serviced by cash flows in the 
same currencies.
Dollar denominated borrowings taken out in 
the UK to finance US acquisitions have been 
designated as a hedge of the net investment in 
US subsidiaries.
12 Pensions deficit volatility 
Estimates of the amount and timing of 
future funding obligations for the Group’s 
pension plans are based upon a number 
of assumptions.
Pension deficits are dependent on 
market based assumptions for discount 
rates and inflation.
Changes in these assumptions can 
materially impact the financial condition 
of the Group, reported in the balance 
sheet and could, in the longer term, lead 
to changes in cash contributions to the 
schemes.
The major UK pension cash flows (50% of all 
defined benefit pension cash costs) are fixed 
under the 25 year asset backed funding scheme 
put in place during 2013. A further 25% of the 
annual cash flows are pensions in payment in 
Germany in a mature scheme that has passed its 
peak funding requirement.
All pension risks are actively managed in line 
with the Group’s risk management system 
covering investment and liability management 
issues.
Strategic Report approval
The Strategic Report, on pages 10 to 49, incorporates: Our Business Model, Market Review, Our Strategy, Chief 
Executive’s Review, Our Performance, Finance Director’s Review, Corporate Social Responsibility, Risk and Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties, and was approved by the Board on 26 May 2015.
For and on behalf of the Board
Louise Brace 
Company Secretary 
26 May 2015
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
49
Strategic Report 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Governance
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
50 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Contents
Corporate Governance Report: 
Chairman’s Letter 52
Board of Directors 54
Governance Structure and  
Board Composition 56
Audit Committee Report 62
Nomination Committee Report 68
Directors’ Remuneration Report:  
Annual Statement 70
Directors’ Remuneration Report:  
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 73
Directors’ Remuneration Report:  
Annual report on remuneration 81
Directors’ Report 88
Statement of Directors’  
Responsibilities 91
Shareholder Information 93
Process 
“Corporate governance is the system by which companies are directed and 
controlled. Boards of directors are responsible for the governance of their 
companies. The shareholders’ role in governance is to appoint the directors and 
the auditors and to satisfy themselves that an appropriate structure is in place. ”
Cadbury Committee 1992
Our Values 
Read more about our Values on page 40
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
51
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Introduction
I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance report for 
the year ended 31 March 2015 on behalf of the Board. 
In this report, we explain the Group’s approach to corporate 
governance and provide the information required of us by 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 ('2012 Code'). 
The detailed list of contents of the Corporate Governance 
report can be found on page 51. The Statement of Corporate 
Governance covers these areas. In addition, the Group’s principal 
risks and uncertainties are described in the Strategic Report 
and this section forms part of the Corporate Governance report. 
We also include a section in this report addressing how the 
Company communicates with shareholders. 
The Financial Reporting Council ('FRC') revised the UK 
Corporate Governance Code in September 2014 ('2014 Code'). 
The Board continues to review the requirements of corporate 
governance, this year considering the revisions made by the 
FRC in the 2014 Code. The 2014 Code applies to reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. As a result, 
the 2014 Code does not apply to the Company’s reporting 
period ended 31 March 2015. However, the Board has, where 
appropriate, adopted some of the new provisions in the 2014 
Code earlier than required. Where it has done so, disclosure 
is provided against these requirements in the 2015 Annual 
Report and Accounts. 
In addition to the changes in the 2014 Code relating to 
remuneration and accountability/financial reporting, the 
Board considers a key development to be the emphasis on the 
importance of establishing 'tone from the top'. This has been 
set in particular by the policies and procedures put in place by 
the Board in relation to anti-corruption and whistleblowing. 
The Group rightly operates with a zero tolerance approach to 
all forms of bribery and corruption. 
In addition, the Board was also pleased to approve the 
issue of Renold’s Values and Behaviours this year, which are 
described in more detail on page 40. Renold’s first referenced 
Value is to 'Operate with integrity'. This means “We will 
conduct ourselves with uncompromising integrity, honesty 
and fairness as individuals, as teams and as a company, 
holding ourselves accountable to the highest ethical and 
relevant legal standards and fulfilling our commitments as 
responsible citizens and employees.”
Turning to matters outside corporate governance and ethics, 
the key priority for every Board is the delivery of business 
strategy. The Strategic Plan has been uppermost on the 
Board’s agenda again this year as is reflected in my opening 
Chairman’s Letter on pages 8 and 9.
Corporate Governance Report
Chairman’s Letter
“The Group continues to be 
committed to and recognise the 
importance of high standards 
of corporate governance and 
behaviour. Aligned to this 
is the Group’s commitment 
to maintaining the highest 
standards of ethics and 
integrity in the way in which  
we conduct business around 
the world. ”
Mark Harper
Chairman
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
52 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
In terms of the function of the Board itself, the annual 
effectiveness review this year again proved a worthwhile and 
constructive process. In its second full financial year since 
being constituted, following the appointment of Robert Purcell 
as Chief Executive in January 2013, the Board continues to 
work effectively together with a real culture of openness and 
constructive debate. Given the position of the Company as 
it enters Phase 2 of the Strategic Plan, this is by no means a 
complacent Board and the collective view is that it continues 
to perform well. 
Annual General Meeting 
Our Annual General Meeting will be held at 11am on Tuesday 
21 July 2015 at Renold House, Styal Road, Wythenshawe, 
Manchester, M22 5WL. We are pleased to receive feedback 
from shareholders at all times and I would encourage our 
shareholders to attend the AGM. 
Compliance with the 2012 Code
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance in order to facilitate efficient, effective and 
entrepreneurial management of the Company. The Board 
acknowledges its contribution to achieving management 
accountability, improving risk management and ultimately to 
creating shareholder value over the longer term. 
The 2012 Code sets out guidance for companies with a premium 
listing in the form of main principles and specific provisions of 
good governance. 
The rules of the FCA require listed companies incorporated 
in the UK to disclose, in relation to the applicable governance 
code, how they have applied those principles and whether 
they have complied with the provisions throughout the 
financial year.
The obligation of all listed companies is to comply with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, or to explain 
why it has not done so. The Board’s compliance statement is 
therefore made with reference to the 2012 Code which applies 
to the Company’s reporting period. The Board reviews its 
compliance with the Governance Code regularly and considers 
that the Company has complied with all provisions set out in 
the 2012 Governance Code that are applicable to it throughout 
the year ended 31 March 2015, except where highlighted in 
this report. 
The 2012 Code is available to view on the FRC’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk.
Pictured: An employee working in the 
test centre in Renold’s manufacturing 
facility in Germany. 
Operate with integrity
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
53
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The Board provides entrepreneurial 
leadership of the Company within a 
framework of prudent and effective 
controls which enables risk to be 
assessed and managed. 
On these pages, we set out the age, tenure and biographical 
details of each Board member and the Company Secretary.
For details of how our governance structure works, including 
how the Board and its Committees are composed and how 
they work, see pages 56 and 57.
Committee memberships key:
Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Executive Risk Management and Monitoring Committee
Board of Directors
Non-Executive
Directors
Non-Executive
Chairman
Membership of the board
Executive
Directors
5
Members
2
2
1
International
experience
Manufacturing
and engineering
sector
Financial management 
and corporate ﬁnance
Sales and marketing
Corporate governance
Strategy
development
Experience of the board
HSE
4
4
5
3
2
5
3
HR
0
Mark Harper, Chairman
Committee memberships Appointment to the Board
 
May 2012
Experience 
Mark, aged 59, was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman-elect on 1 May 2012. He took on the role of 
Chairman at the close of the Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2012. 
His appointment was extended on 1 May 2015 to May 2018. Prior to 
joining Renold, Mark became the Chief Executive of Filtrona plc at the 
time of its demerger from Bunzl plc in June 2005 and led a successful 
period of growth until his retirement in May 2011. He also held a 
number of senior operational management positions within Bunzl plc, 
being appointed to the Bunzl plc Board in September 2004 and has 
previously acted as a Non-Executive Director of BBA Aviation plc.
Robert Purcell, Chief Executive 
Committee memberships Appointment to the Board
January 2013
Experience 
Robert, aged 53, joined the Group on 21 January 2013 as Chief 
Executive. Prior to joining Renold, Robert was Managing Director 
of Filtrona plc’s Protection and Finishing Products Division. He has 
also held a Managing Director role at Low and Bonar plc within 
its technical textiles business. His early career was in operational 
management within Courtaulds plc, during which time he gained an 
MBA from the Cranfield School of Management.
Membership of the Board
The above graphic shows the balance of Non-Executive Directors and 
Executive Directors.
The above graphic shows the number of directors with significant 
experience in the areas listed. The Board recognises that it would 
be beneficial to have a member with a background in HR and will be 
mindful of this when further recruitment to the Board next arises.
Experience of the Board
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
54 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Brian T enner, Finance Director 
Committee memberships Appointment to the Board
September 2010
Experience 
Brian, aged 46, joined the Group in September 2010 as Finance 
Director. Until 31 August 2010, he was Group Finance Director and 
a member of the Board of Scapa Group plc. Prior to this, he was 
Group Finance Director for the former British Nuclear Group. Brian 
held various Finance Director posts within National Grid and his first 
industry role was as Head of Investor Relations of Lattice Group plc. 
His early career was spent with PricewaterhouseCoopers where 
he qualified as a chartered accountant and he completed several 
extended international assignments and a wide range of consulting 
and corporate finance projects.
John Allkins, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
Committee memberships Appointment to the Board
  
April 2008
Experience 
John, aged 65, was appointed to the Board and to the chair of the 
Audit Committee in April 2008 and became the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 21 January 2013. John brings strong 
relevant technical experience to the role having served as the finance 
director of the publicly quoted companies MyTravel Group plc and 
Equant NV. Since 2007, he has served as a Non-Executive Director on 
a number of boards of public and private companies and is currently a 
Non-Executive Director of Fairpoint Group plc, Punch Taverns plc and 
Nobina AB. John is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants.
Louise Brace, Group Legal Manager and Company Secretary
Appointment as Company Secretary
November 2012
Experience 
Louise, aged 42, joined Renold as Group Legal Manager in June 2012 
and was appointed Company Secretary in November 2012. Louise 
qualified as a solicitor at a leading City law firm in 1998 and specialised 
in London market insurance litigation until 2003. She then held senior 
roles in private practice at Addleshaw Goddard LLP and Pannone LLP, 
advising in relation to commercial litigation and dispute resolution. 
Ian Griffiths, Non-Executive Director 
Committee memberships Appointment to the Board
  
January 2010
Experience 
Ian, aged 64, was appointed to the Board in January 2010 and 
to the chair of the Remuneration Committee in November 2010. 
His appointment to both was extended in January 2013. Ian was 
appointed as Non-Executive Director of Hydro International plc, a 
Company admitted to trading on the AIM Market of the London Stock 
Exchange, in October 2014. He was previously Managing Director of 
Royal Mail Letters and a Director of Royal Mail Holdings plc. He has 
also been a Non-Executive Director of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 
and held Executive Director roles at GKN plc and GKN Holdings plc 
where he was Group Managing Director, GKN Automotive.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
55
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The Board is collectively responsible for the effective 
oversight of the Group and its businesses. 
In addition, it is responsible for strategic business planning, 
including reviewing succession planning and risk management 
and the development of Group policies in areas such as health, 
safety and environmental matters, Directors’ and senior 
managers’ remuneration and ethics. The Executive Directors 
have authority to deal with all other matters affecting the 
Group.
Feedback is provided to the Board following presentations to 
investors and meetings with shareholders in order to ensure 
that its members, and in particular Non-Executive Directors, 
develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders 
about their Company.
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for 
decision by it to ensure that it takes all major strategy, policy 
and investment decisions affecting the Group. As part of the 
Board’s oversight of operations, it must ensure maintenance 
of a sound system of internal control and risk management. 
There have been no changes to the composition of the Board 
during the year ended 31 March 2015, there being a balance of 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors. Currently, the Board 
comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, two Non-Executive 
Directors and two Executive Directors. 
The Board’s consideration of its composition in the context 
of its diversity is more fully detailed in the Nomination 
Committee Report on pages 68 and 69, together with a 
statement on the Board’s diversity policy.
Governance
Governance Structure and Board Composition
Board Committees
Support the Board in its work with specific review and oversight
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
Executive Risk Management  
and Monitoring Committee
Oversees the Company’s financial 
reporting and internal controls and 
their effectiveness, together with 
the procedures for identifying, 
assessing and reporting risks. 
It also oversees the services 
provided by the external auditor 
and its remuneration.
Determines remuneration policy 
and practices to attract, motivate 
and retain high-calibre Executive 
Directors and other senior 
employees to deliver performance 
for all our stakeholders and ensure 
a close alignment of executive 
pay to the Company’s strategic 
objectives and performance.
Responsible for considering the 
structure, size and composition 
of the Board and Committees, 
and succession planning. It also 
identifies and proposes individuals 
to be Directors where new 
appointments are to be made and 
leads that process.
Led by the Chief Executive, the 
principal role of the Executive 
Risk Management and Monitoring 
Committee is to evaluate and 
manage the risks to the Group.
Report at pages 62 to 67 Report at pages 70 to 87 Report at pages 68 and 69 See further at pages 59 to 61
Governance structure
Board
The Board has ownership of the global policies and is 
responsible for strategic business planning
Chief Executive
The Chief Executive has responsibility for managing 
the business and implementing the strategy agreed 
by the Board
Functional 
leaders
Business unit 
leaders
Finance 
Director
Business unit teams Functional teams
Group management team
Implementation of the Group policies
Executive Committee
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
56 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The members of the Board maintain the appropriate balance 
of status, experience, independence and knowledge of the 
Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties 
and responsibilities and to ensure the Board is of a sufficient 
size that the requirements of the business can be met.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated 
with a clear division of responsibilities set out in writing 
and agreed by the Board. The Chairman’s primary role is to 
ensure the effectiveness of the Board in setting the direction 
of the Company and the agenda of the Board. The Chief 
Executive has responsibility for managing the business and 
implementing the strategy agreed by the Board.
Biographical and experience details of the current Directors 
appear on pages 54 and 55. Details of Board and Committee 
membership and attendance during the year are set out on 
page 59. Further details of the Directors’ service contracts 
and letters of appointment are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
The Board and its Committees
The Board delegates authority to a number of Committees 
to deal with specific aspects of the management and control 
of the Group. These Committees are summarised on page 
56 and details about the structure and activities of each are 
set out in the separate Committee reports. The Committees 
communicate and work together where required. 
Committee membership may not be refreshed as frequently 
as would be the case for a company with a larger board. 
However, the Board is satisfied that no undue reliance is 
placed on particular individuals.
Terms of reference for each Committee together with the 
schedule of matters reserved for the Board, are available on 
the Company’s website at www.renold.com.
Louise Brace, the Company Secretary, has acted as secretary 
to the Committees during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Board focus during the year
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Board has provided 
its main focus on the following matters:
 Æ Continued review of Group strategy and supporting the 
Chief Executive in developing the Group’s Strategic Plan;
 Æ Completion of the project to review manufacturing capacity 
in the Chain Division;
 Æ Health and safety performance;
 Æ Renold’s statement of Values and Behaviours;
 Æ Organic growth opportunities;
 Æ Customer service enhancement;
 Æ ERP effectiveness and commencement of new ERP 
implementation;
 Æ Pension liabilities;
 Æ Capital investment programme;
 Æ Margins and profitability;
 Æ Cashflow;
 Æ Organisational development; and
 Æ Consideration of the new 2014 Code.
Expected Board focus for next year
The Board will continue to review the matters listed above 
other than the Chain Division manufacturing capacity review 
which has been completed. In addition, it is anticipated that 
the following areas will form areas of focus for the Board for 
the year ended 31 March 2016:
 Æ Preparation for the new 'viability statement' requirements 
in the 2014 Code, which will apply to the Company’s 
reporting period ending 31 March 2016;
 Æ Financial performance;
 Æ Succession planning.
Director induction and development
Board members are able to seek independent legal or other 
professional advice in respect of their duties as they may 
require at the Company’s expense, and have access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary, who ensures 
that Board procedures are complied with. 
The training needs of the Board are discussed as part of 
the Board performance evaluation process. Updates are 
provided to the Board at regular intervals in order to refresh 
the Directors’ knowledge. Training is arranged primarily by 
the Company Secretary in consultation with the Chairman. 
During the period, the Board has received an update from 
EY in relation to the 2014 Code. Remuneration advisers, 
PwC, have also presented updates to the Remuneration 
Committee, including in relation to market trends in executive 
remuneration.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
57
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The Company has a detailed framework for the induction of 
new Directors. This includes the issuing of all key documents 
relating to the new Director’s role on the Board to the new 
Director, as well as site visits and face-to-face meetings 
with senior executives. Throughout the year ended 31 March 
2015 the Executive Directors have continued to visit Renold 
sites around the world including: United States of America, 
India, Germany, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia and 
China. The Board itself also met during the year at Renold’s 
manufacturing site in Germany and at manufacturing sites in 
the UK.
Non-Executive Director independence
The Non-Executive Directors throughout the year are 
considered to be independent in character and judgement. 
The Board is of the opinion that all of the Directors take 
decisions objectively and in the best interests of the Company 
and that no individual or small group of individuals can 
dominate the Board’s decision taking. The balance between 
Non-Executive and Executive Directors allows independent 
challenge to the Executive Directors and senior management.
Board evaluation and effectiveness
The Board is supportive of the principle of evaluation of the 
Board, as set out in paragraph B.6 of the 2012 Code, and 
recognises that evaluation of its performance is important in 
enabling it to realise its maximum potential. A formal process 
for evaluating the performance of the Board, its members 
and its Committees is planned and is conducted annually. This 
process gives the Directors the opportunity to identify areas 
for improvement both jointly and individually through the use 
of questionnaires and/or open discussion. An evaluation of 
the Chairman is also carried out annually, led by the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Evaluations of the Board (including of the Chairman), the 
Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee were carried out during the year 
ended 31 March 2015.
The evaluation process commences with the completion of a 
written questionnaire for each separate review, compilation of 
a summary of the results and feedback obtained and then 
discussion between the participants. The Board’s discussion  
of the results of the review highlighted a number of areas 
where objectives might be set by the Board and practical 
issues for consideration. As a result, the Board has 
implemented a number of changes including allocating 
additional time for Board and Audit Committee meetings at 
key points in the financial year, these being review of interim 
and annual financial results. The Board has also continued to 
allocate separate time for review and consideration of the 
Strategic Plan.
In accordance with the 2012 Code, the evaluation process  
also included a number of discussions during the year 
between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, 
without the Executive Directors present, to discuss feedback 
arising from the process and the performance of each 
Executive Director. The Senior Independent Director also 
met with the other Directors as part of the Chairman’s 
performance evaluation process.
Election of Directors
The 2012 Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 
350 companies should be subject to annual election by 
shareholders. This provision is not applicable to the Company. 
However, with a view to complying voluntarily with all terms 
of the Governance Code where possible, the Board considered 
this provision during the year ended 31 March 2014 and 
agreed that all Non-Executive Directors will be subject to 
annual election. Given the size of the Company, it would not 
be practicable for the two Executive Directors to be subject to 
annual election.
Board and Committee membership and attendance
The Board meets on a regular basis with an agenda and 
necessary papers for discussion distributed in advance of 
each meeting. The meetings are scheduled to coincide with 
the internal financial reporting timetable of the Company and 
key events including interim and final results and the AGM.
The table on page 59 shows the number of meetings of the 
Board and its Committees during the year and individual 
attendance by Board and Committee members at those 
meetings. All Directors attended all scheduled Board 
meetings, as can be seen in the table of attendance.
Governance
Governance Structure and Board Composition
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
58 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Risk monitoring and internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control including financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management systems, and for reviewing 
internal control effectiveness. 
The ongoing process, in accordance with the FRC’s ‘Internal 
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined 
Code (October 2005)’, for review of the system of internal 
controls by the Directors, to identify, evaluate and manage the 
significant risks faced by the Group, has been in place for the 
year ended 31 March 2015 and up to the date of approval of 
this report and the financial statements. 
Internal controls and the risk management processes are 
reviewed on a regular basis by the Audit Committee, which 
reports directly to the Board. This review includes a report 
from the Executive Risk Management and Monitoring 
Committee ('ERMMC') after each meeting to the Audit 
Committee. Further details of the Group’s risk management 
framework can be found on page 46 of the Strategic Report 
and of the Audit Committee’s oversight of the ERMMC can be 
found in the Audit Committee Report on page 62.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the responsibility to 
review internal control effectiveness was discharged by the 
Audit Committee and reported to the Board as follows: 
 Æ receiving and considering regular reports from the internal 
audit function on the status of internal control across the 
Group. The Audit Committee also reviewed the internal 
audit function’s findings, annual audit plan and the 
resources available to it to perform its work; 
 Æ reviewing the external auditor’s findings on internal 
financial control; and 
 Æ monitoring the adequacy and timeliness of management’s 
response to identified audit issues.
The executive team is accountable to the Directors for 
implementing Board policies on internal control and for 
monitoring and reporting to the Board that it has done so. 
Group internal controls are designed to mitigate rather than 
eliminate the risks identified and can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement  
or loss. 
Brian Tenner* John Allkins Robert Purcell* Mark Harper* Ian Grifﬁths
8 meetings
Board 8 8 8 8 8
3 meetings
Nomination
Committee
– 3 3 3 –
4 meetings
4 4 4 4 4
Audit 
Committee
8 meetings
4 8 8 7 6
Remuneration
Committee
4 meetings
4 – – – 4
ERMM
Committee
* Robert Purcell, Mark Harper and Brian Tenner attended Remuneration Committee and/or Audit Committee meetings or 
parts thereof by invitation.
T able of attendance
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
59
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The key features of the Group’s internal control and risk 
management systems are: 
 Æ the ERMMC which oversees, on behalf of the Audit 
Committee and, ultimately, the Board, that appropriate 
policies are implemented to identify and evaluate risks. 
 Æ access for all Group employees to a free of charge, 
independent whistle blowing hotline enabling them to 
report any concerns about theft, fraud or other malpractice 
in the workplace; 
 Æ an internal audit function which assists management 
and the Audit Committee in the fulfilment of the Board’s 
responsibility for ensuring that the Group’s financial and 
accounting systems provide accurate and up-to-date 
information about its current financial position whilst 
also permitting the accurate preparation of financial 
statements; 
 Æ an organisational structure which supports clear lines of 
communication and tiered levels of authority; 
 Æ a schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s approval 
to ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, 
financial, organisational and compliance issues; 
 Æ the preparation of detailed annual financial plans covering 
profit and cash flow, which are approved by the Board; 
 Æ the review of detailed regular reports comparing actual 
performance with plans and of updated financial forecasts; 
 Æ procedures for the appraisal, approval and control of 
capital investment proposals; 
 Æ procedures for the appraisal, approval and control of 
acquisitions and disposals; and
 Æ monitoring procedures which include a system of key 
financial controls self-assessment questionnaires.
The Board has approved a Corporate Governance Compliance 
Statement which contains terms of reference for the Board 
and each of the Board Committees. The terms of reference 
are available on the Company’s website at www.renold.com. 
Internal controls are in place at both local and Group level. 
In addition, the Renold Internal Control Statement contains 
details of such matters as Group signing authorities, 
contracting principles and an ethics policy to ensure that all 
Group employees conduct business on behalf of the Group on 
the same basis and in accordance with approved policies and 
procedures. This has been approved by the Board and has 
been fully rolled out across the Group. Separate Group policies 
also address anti-corruption and gifts and hospitality.
Control over financial reporting
There are also in place internal control systems in relation to 
the Company’s financial reporting process and the Group’s 
process for preparation of consolidated accounts. These 
systems include policies and procedures that: pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets; 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS; require representatives of the 
businesses to certify that their reported information gives a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the business and 
its results for the period; and review and reconcile reported 
data. The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing these 
internal control systems.
Executive Risk Management and Monitoring Committee
The principal role of the ERMMC is to evaluate and manage 
the risks to the Group. 
The ERMMC is chaired by the Chief Executive Robert Purcell 
and is comprised of the Executive Directors. The Chairman 
invites attendance to the ERMMC of any employee as 
appropriate depending upon the nature of the risks to be 
considered at any one time. 
The following people currently attend by invitation: the Group 
Business Systems Director, the Group HR Director, the Group 
Head of Risk and Assurance and the Group Legal Manager and 
Company Secretary.
The ERMMC meets quarterly and reports to the Audit 
Committee after each meeting (at least twice each year). 
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the ERMMC met four 
times. Details of the attendance by the Executive Directors 
can be found at page 59.
Governance
Governance Structure and Board Composition
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
60 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The Executive Risk Management and Monitoring Committee 
considers the principal risks to the Group and the appropriate 
actions to be taken to minimise such risks. It is also provided 
with information in the form of reports on health and safety, 
treasury, insurance and material litigation. The Chairman of 
the Executive Risk Management and Monitoring Committee 
reports to the Audit Committee.
Communications with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority 
and are made in a number of ways. The Board is accountable 
to shareholders and therefore it is important for the Board to 
appreciate the requirements of shareholders and equally that 
shareholders understand how the actions of the Board and 
short term financial performance relate to the achievement 
of longer term goals. The Non-Executive Directors make 
themselves available to meet shareholders on request, attend 
shareholder visits at Company sites and are available for 
discussions with analysts and the Company’s broker.
The reporting calendar is driven by the publication of interim 
and final results each year, in which the Board reports to 
shareholders on its management of the Company. Formal 
regulatory news service announcements are also made 
in accordance with the Company’s reporting obligations. 
Comments on Group financial performance in the context 
of the business risks faced and objectives and plans for the 
future are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 49.
The Company continues to keep shareholders informed 
of its strategy and progress at other times during the 
year, presentations being given by the Executive Directors 
to analysts and updates provided to the London Stock 
Exchange and shareholders via the Company’s website at 
www.renold.com. The Board receives feedback from the 
Company’s brokers throughout the year. In addition, the 
Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director meet with 
major shareholders to discuss governance and Group strategy 
and update the Board as a whole accordingly at each meeting. 
The Board also receives reports prior to each Board meeting 
which set out the main changes to the composition of the 
Company’s share register. 
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not 
generally attend meetings with shareholders although he 
makes himself available to attend such meetings if and when 
required. Whilst the Company is not in compliance with 
paragraph E1.1 of the 2012 Code, the Chairman ensures that 
the Chief Executive and Finance Director provide feedback to 
the Board following presentations to investors, and meetings 
with shareholders and analysts’ and brokers’ briefings are 
circulated to all Directors in order to ensure that Board 
members, and in particular Non-Executive Directors, develop 
an understanding of the views of major shareholders about 
their Company. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for 
communication with private and institutional investors. 
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General 
Meeting and we welcome their participation.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman of the Board 
and the two Non-Executive Directors who respectively chair 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees, together with the 
Executive Directors, will be available to answer questions. The 
Chairman of the Board is also chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and the Chief Executive chairs the Executive Risk 
Management and Monitoring Committee.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders 
at least 20 business days before the meeting. Details of the 
proxy votes lodged on each resolution are made available and 
shareholders are invited to talk informally to the Directors 
after the formal proceedings.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on Tuesday 
21 July 2015 at Renold House, Styal Road, Wythenshawe, 
Manchester, M22 5WL. 
The Notice of Meeting will be sent to shareholders prior to the 
AGM. This will set out a detailed explanation of each item of 
business for consideration at the AGM. Shareholders who are 
unable to attend the AGM are encourage to vote before the 
meeting by using the Proxy Card which will be sent with the 
Notice of Meeting.
All resolutions were passed at last year’s AGM with votes in 
support all exceeding 98%.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
61
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Audit Committee members and meetings attended
Names Position Meetings attended
John Allkins Chairman 4 of 4
Ian Griffiths Non-Executive Director 4 of 4
In addition to monitoring effective project control and benefits 
delivery from major change initiatives, we also support 
the efforts of the Executive team to continuously improve 
the financial control and risk monitoring environment. Our 
approach is to ensure that embedded and responsive financial 
controls operate in the vanguard of our activities rather than 
run the risk of a loss of control by operating in the rearguard.
Key objective
In support of the Board’s duty of stewardship, the Committee 
aims to ensure appropriate corporate governance is applied 
to the Group’s systems of internal control, risk management, 
internal audit and other compliance matters such as UK 
anti-bribery legislation. We monitor the integrity of financial 
information published externally for use by shareholders. We 
also ensure that the integrity of the financial statements is 
supported by an effective external audit.
Governance
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee appear on the 
Company website at www.renold.com.
Responsibilities
 Æ Reviewing the Group’s financial results, announcements 
and financial statements;
 Æ Reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of existing 
accounting policies and their application across the Group;
 Æ As a matter of course, confirming that the Going Concern 
basis remains appropriate for the financial statements;
 Æ Advising the Board on the application of any new or 
modified accounting and reporting standards;
 Æ Advising the Board on the adequacy of the processes 
required to confirm that the Annual Report and 
Accounts, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and include the information necessary 
to allow shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy;
 Æ Overseeing the Internal Audit function. This includes 
reviewing the annual internal audit plan, identifying 
specific areas of focus for new or emerging business risks 
and receiving internal audit reports;
 Æ Oversight of the relationship with the external auditor, 
including the appointment and, where appropriate, re-
appointment of the external auditor;
 Æ Assessing and making recommendations to the Board on 
the activities and performance of the Group’s Executive 
Risk Management and Monitoring Committee ('ERMMC')
including reviewing the Integrated Risk Management 
System ('IRMS');
Audit Committee Report
“We continue to ensure that the 
major change projects being 
delivered in the business are 
appropriately controlled and 
monitored. The key goal is to 
support the Group in identifying 
and capturing the benefits of 
those projects and maintaining 
financial control during a period 
of significant change.”
John Allkins
Audit Committee Chairman
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
62 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
 Æ Reviewing and reporting to the Board on the Group’s 
internal control and compliance processes;
 Æ Reviewing the procedures for responding to whistle 
blowing, fraud or potential breaches of anti-bribery 
legislation. This includes oversight of any and all reports 
summarising the concerns raised, how they were 
investigated and the response to the same;
 Æ Reporting to the Board at regular intervals on how the 
Committee is discharging its responsibilities.
Composition
The Committee was chaired by me during the year. The 
second member of the Committee is Ian Griffiths, also an 
independent Non-Executive Director.
The composition of the Committee therefore remains 
unchanged in the year and complies with the requirements of 
the Governance Code for a smaller company, this being to have 
two independent Non-Executive members. 
Biographical details and experience of members are set out 
on pages 54 and 55.
Expertise
The Committee members have been selected to give an 
appropriate range of financial, operational, commercial and 
risk management expertise to allow the Committee to fulfil 
its duties. The Board considers that I have recent and relevant 
financial experience as required by the Governance Code to 
perform the role of Committee Chairman.
Committee meetings
The Committee meets at least four times each year. During 
the year ended 31 March 2015 the Committee met four times. 
The meetings are attended by the independent Non-Executive 
Directors (the members), the Company Secretary and, by 
invitation, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group 
Finance Director and the Group Head of Risk and Assurance. 
Full details of Director attendance during the year are set out 
in the table of all Committee meetings on page 59.
Other members of the Group’s management team are 
also invited to attend to present or respond to queries on 
particular areas of focus. Our external auditor, EY, also 
attended the majority of Committee meetings. Each meeting 
so attended includes an opportunity for the external auditor 
to raise any matters in confidence which they consider should 
be brought to the attention of the Committee without the 
Executive Directors being present. Similarly, the Group Head 
of Risk and Assurance has a regular opportunity to address 
the Committee without the Executive Directors being present.
Main activities of the Committee during the year
Significant issues considered in relation to the  
financial statements
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Company’s 
financial information and other formal documents relating 
to its financial performance and makes appropriate 
recommendations to the Board before publication.
A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring 
that suitable and compliant accounting policies are adopted 
and applied consistently on a year-on-year basis and across 
the Company. In this respect, the Committee also considered 
the estimates and judgements made by management when 
accounting for non-standard transactions, the treatment of 
exceptional items and in provision calculations.
These considerations are supported by input from other 
assurance providers, for example, the Group’s actuarial 
advisers, the Group Internal Audit and Assurance team as well 
as our external auditor.
Summarised below are some of the significant issues the 
Committee considered during the year in relation to the 
financial statements. These are separated into items of 
particular focus this year and recurring items that the 
Committee regularly addresses.
Reporting of exceptional items (current year focus item: 
See Note 2(c) to the financial statements on page 116) 
Following two years of significant exceptional restructuring 
charges and asset impairments, the Committee continued 
its focus on this area to ensure that the lower charges in 
the current year genuinely need to be excluded to allow a 
user of the accounts to form an accurate assessment of the 
performance of the underlying business. The Committee 
concluded that the charges were sufficiently material and 
unrelated to underlying business activities to require separate 
disclosure as exceptional charges. In two cases, the charges 
for the revaluation of the Bredbury onerous lease provision 
(£0.5m) and the further write down of surplus Bredbury 
assets (£0.2m), were directly related to the significant 
restructuring project which started in the prior year and 
concluded in the first quarter of the current year. The direct 
relation to that project was a firm basis for classifying both 
of these items as exceptional charges. In the third case, the 
impairment charge of £1.2m against a surplus French property 
was sufficiently material and potentially distorting of the 
underlying operating results to also require disclosure as an 
exceptional item.
Other restructuring and redundancy costs include an 
impairment of software licences (£0.2m) following the 
decision to change the Group’s global ERP system and costs 
associated with the agreed re-location of our head office and 
ongoing restructuring of senior management teams (£0.8m).    
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
63
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Defined benefit pension accounting 
(recurring annual item: See Note 18 to the financial 
statements on pages 126 to 130)
Defined benefit pension scheme accounting is a complex 
matter. The values disclosed can fluctuate, particularly in 
a period of significant changes in gilt yields and interest 
rates. The values disclosed are also sensitive to a range of 
assumptions where judgement is required. The Committee 
therefore devoted a significant amount of time to assessing 
the basis of the actuarial assumptions used to derive the 
values shown in the financial statements. 
As has been the case for a number of years, the Committee 
reviews management estimates which are themselves 
produced following independent actuarial advice and are 
compared to third party benchmarks on the reasonableness 
of the assumptions used. The Group’s underlying assumptions 
and methodology used in deriving them are unchanged year 
on year. In respect of the relatively high mortality assumption, 
the Committee considers extensive scheme specific data 
which underpins and supports the level of mortality 
assumed by the Group. The Committee was satisfied that the 
assumptions are within an acceptable range and no changes 
were made to management assumptions. 
The Committee has also encouraged additional disclosure of 
forward looking financial information in respect of defined 
benefit pension schemes. Typically graphical in nature, this 
is designed to give greater clarity of the risks, issues and 
opportunities in what is a complex area of accounting: see 
pages 38 to 39 of the Finance Director's Review. 
The Committee continues to conclude that the financing 
charges and administration costs of the closed defined benefit 
pension schemes should, for the purposes of assessing 
underlying performance as reported in adjusted operating 
profit and adjusted EPS, be excluded from these calculations.  
The costs involved relate to closed legacy pension schemes 
that have no bearing or relevance to understanding the 
underlying performance of the ongoing business: see Note 18 
to the financial statements on pages 126 to 130.
Review of carrying value of intangible assets, deferred tax 
assets and investments in subsidiary undertakings 
(recurring annual item: see Note 7 to the financial 
statements on pages 119 and 120 and Note 17 on pages 
125 and 126)
The Group holds a number of valuable intangible assets such 
as goodwill and deferred tax. In addition, the parent company 
and other subsidiary holding companies hold investments 
in various subsidiaries (which are relevant in their individual 
statutory accounts as opposed to the consolidated financial 
statements). The judgements on the carrying value of these 
assets are normally a key area for Committee scrutiny. 
These are areas where management estimates play a key 
role in supporting the carrying values reported in the balance 
sheet. The Committee reviews the assumptions underlying 
the discounted cash flow calculations and the likelihood of 
long term recovery of the asset values. The details of the 
impairment reviews and the sensitivities performed are in Note 
7 on pages 119 and 120. Short term cash flows are confirmed 
by reference to the Board approved budget for the following 
year and sense checked against the longer term plan and this 
is also a key area of focus for the external auditor.
As part of the review of defined benefit pension accounting the 
Committee also reviews the carrying value and recoverability 
of the deferred tax assets which are the corollary of the gross 
pension deficit. The Committee was satisfied that the extended 
duration of the pension liabilities in Germany and the UK, and 
their priority in recognition, justified the extended recovery 
periods for the associated deferred tax assets which were also 
fully supported by future expectations of taxable profitability.
During the year end review of the carrying value of deferred 
tax assets in respect of pension liabilities in Germany, it was 
identified that the asset recognised in the prior year was 
overstated. The Committee has reviewed the circumstances 
that led to the over statement as well as management actions 
to improve the controls and processes to ensure that a similar 
issue does not recur. The Committee has also critically reviewed 
the disclosures and accounting treatment of the prior year 
adjustment and restatement contained in this Annual Report, 
in the Finance Director’s Review on pages 34 to 39 and in the 
Accounting Policies to the accounts on page 107.
Review of inventory valuation and provisioning 
(recurring annual item: see Note 11 to the financial 
statements on page 122)
As a manufacturer, the Group adds value to raw materials as 
part of its normal production processes. In order to provide 
shorter lead times and better customer service the Group 
also holds a significant amount of stock. Inventory therefore 
represents a material component of the Group’s balance 
sheet. The basis of valuation always includes the allocation 
of amounts for labour and overhead costs which require the 
exercise of management judgement.
The Committee therefore reviews in some detail both the 
valuation bases and the application of the Group’s policy on 
providing for slow moving and obsolete stock. The Committee 
is satisfied that the net book value shown in Note 11 on page 
122 is appropriate and that any management judgements 
formed in arriving at those values are reasonable.
Audit Committee Report
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
64 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Other matters reviewed by the Committee:
 Æ corporate risk reporting processes and action plans;
 Æ the annual process for control self-assurance and reporting;
 Æ reviewing medium term financial planning assumptions;
 Æ the ongoing programme to improve the efficiency of financial 
control processes in the business; and
 Æ commissioning an independent review of the Group’s 
processes for complying with UK anti-bribery legislation 
and following up the best practice action plan.
Internal control, risk and compliance
We evaluate regularly the integrity of financial reporting and 
the robustness of internal controls to ensure compliance 
with applicable legal and internal requirements. We also 
review the Group’s policies and procedures for identifying 
material business risks and action plans aimed at reducing 
the likelihood of risks crystallising and mitigating the impact if 
they do.
During the year, detailed risk management processes and 
reviews were pushed deeper into the organisation with 
a focus on operational risks in manufacturing facilities in 
particular.
The ERMMC receive regular reports from the Group Head of Risk 
and Assurance, to convey the status of risk profiles and actions 
arising from the risk assessment process. The ERMMC reports 
the results of its discussions to the Committee. 
The Group’s management team makes regular use of the 
IRMS which is delivered via the Group’s intranet. This system 
facilitates both the identification of risks and their relative 
priority in each functional area or each geographic location. 
The system also allows users to develop and implement 
action plans to mitigate those risks. The system has extensive 
reporting functionality that allows senior management and the 
ERMMC to review progress in mitigating the risks faced by the 
Group.
Further details of our internal control and risk management 
systems, including the financial reporting process, can be 
found on pages 59 to 61 in the Corporate Governance report.  
Our primary risk factors are shown in the Strategic Report on 
pages 46 to 49.
Confidential reporting procedures and whistle blowing
The stewardship of the Group’s assets and the integrity 
of the financial statements are further supported by 
confidential reporting and whistle blowing procedures. The 
Committee reviews these procedures once a year to ensure 
that appropriate processes are in place to treat complaints 
confidentially and implement proportionate and independent 
investigation in all cases. The Committee is diligent in ensuring 
a high degree of visibility and accessibility of whistle blowing 
communications methods to all staff, including first hand 
inspection during site visits.
The Committee was satisfied that all whistle blowing reports 
received during the year were properly investigated. In 
all cases, no material issues were identified at a Group 
or subsidiary level and were, in the main, related to local 
employee relations matters. The Committee considers the 
number and nature of reports received in the year to be small 
in number and risk in comparison to businesses of a similar 
size and geographical distribution.
Internal audit
The Committee receives and considers reports on the control 
environment from the Group Head of Risk and Assurance. These 
reports highlight key improvement themes and recommend 
areas for business focus, with additional observations 
provided around root cause analysis and cultural and 
behavioural themes. In addition, the Committee has visibility 
of management responses and action tracking via the Group’s 
IRMS. The audit plan, which contains mandatory, risk-based 
and cyclical reviews, was approved by the Committee in 
February 2014, and was built around focus areas such as 
organisational change, major projects, security, business 
resilience and capital spend.
The annual Internal Audit plan is built on a risk-based 
approach for the majority of work, but also includes an 
element to ensure coverage of key operations and processes 
over a defined period. The inherent risk of each process is 
assessed and in turn is used to inform audit frequency, with 
elements of higher risk processes being audited on a more 
frequent basis. The Committee supports this approach and 
comments on particular areas of focus or concern that we 
wish to see addressed. In the new financial year, the plan will 
include site financial control audits, site Health and Safety 
audits and project assurance associated with the M3 ERP 
implementation.
External audit
The Committee is responsible for overseeing relations with the 
external auditor, including the approval of fees, and makes 
recommendations to the Board on their appointment and, 
where appropriate, reappointment based upon reviews of 
audit effectiveness.
Details of total remuneration for the auditors for the year, 
including audit services, audit related services and other non-
audit services, can be found in Note 2(b) of the consolidated 
financial statements on page 115.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
65
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Auditor independence and objectivity
The independence of the external auditor is essential to the 
provision of an objective opinion on the true and fair view 
presented in the financial statements. Auditor independence 
and objectivity is safeguarded by limiting the nature and value of 
non-audit services performed by the external auditor. The Group 
has a policy of not recruiting senior employees of the external 
auditor, who have worked on the audit in the past two years, 
to senior financial positions within the Group, and the rotation 
of the lead engagement partner at least every five years. The 
current lead engagement partner has held the position for four 
years.
Non-audit services provided by the external auditors
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate 
relationship is maintained between the Group and the 
external auditor. Non-audit services can only be provided by 
the external auditor if there is no potential conflict of interest 
or material risk of values being included in the financial 
statements that have been both advised on and audited by 
the external auditor. 
To safeguard the independence and objectivity of the auditor, 
the Committee has approved a policy on non-audit services 
provided by the auditor in line with professional practice and 
in accordance with ethical standards published by the Audit 
Practices Board. Control of non-audit services is exercised 
by ensuring that all non-audit services where fees exceed 
an agreed limit are subject to the prior approval of the 
Committee. The policy is available on the website at www.
renold.com.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee 
continued with the appointment of other accountancy firms to 
provide non-audit services to the Group and anticipates that 
this will continue during the year ending 31 March 2016.
Total non-audit services provided by EY during the year ended  
31 March 2015 were £0.2m (2014: £0.2m) which comprised 
25% (2014: 46%) of total audit and audit related fees. Total 
audit and audit related fees include the statutory audit fee 
and fees paid to EY for other services which the external 
auditor is required to perform. Examples include reporting to 
banking partners in territories where no statutory accounts 
are required to be prepared. Non-audit fees represent all 
other services provided by EY not included in the above. 
Significant non-audit services provided by EY in the year 
included tax advisory and compliance services (£0.1m) that 
were provided in territories where it would be prohibitive for 
the Group to employ its own full time tax manager.
The Committee concluded that some overseas tax advisory 
and compliance services could most efficiently be provided 
by the external auditor as much of the information used in 
preparing computations and returns is derived from audited 
financial information. In order to maintain the external 
auditor's independence and objectivity, Group and local 
management reviewed and considered EY’s findings and EY 
did not make any decisions on behalf of management.
The Committee also discussed the overall level of fees and 
considered them appropriate given the current size of the 
Group. The Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of 
non-audit services undertaken by the external auditor does 
not impair its independence or objectivity and considers that 
the Company receives particular benefit from the advice 
provided by its external auditor, given its wide and detailed 
knowledge of the Group and its international operations. 
The Committee is also mindful of impending changes in 
regulations relating to the provision of non-audit services by 
the external audit firm. New European regulations due to take 
effect in 2016 will restrict the level of non-audit fees that can 
be charged by a company's external auditor and will forbid 
the provision of certain specific services, a number of which 
are tax services currently provided by the external audit 
firm. The Committee has decided to early adopt some of the 
proposed restrictions on non-audit services and, specifically, 
will make all tax services non-permitted services with effect 
from the next tender of the external audit. 
The objective is to achieve a smooth transition to the 
proposed new limits on non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor and thereby avoid a disruptive major step 
change. 
Audit focus
To ensure appropriate focus on key risk areas identified by the 
Committee, the proposed external audit plan is challenged 
before the audit commences to ensure that EY have 
developed appropriately targeted audit procedures. These are 
closely aligned with the current year focus items noted above 
in the section Main activities of the Committee during the 
year. They also reflect the relative changes in profitability and 
materiality of each of the Group’s operating units during the 
year (in some cases as a result of the ongoing restructuring 
activities). 
Assessment of effectiveness of external audit 
The Committee has a formal system for evaluating the 
performance and independence of the external auditors. This 
system involves active dialogue with the Lead Engagement 
Partner, a formal questionnaire and feedback process involving 
senior management in direct contact with the audit team, and 
EY’s response to accounting, financial control and audit issues 
as these arise.
An annual review is conducted by the Committee of the 
structure and approach taken in the external audit, the level 
of non-audit fees, and the effectiveness, independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor. This includes consideration 
of:
 Æ the global external audit process;
 Æ the auditor’s performance;
 Æ the expertise of the firm and our relationship with them; 
and
 Æ the results of the questionnaire process.
Audit Committee Report
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
66 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The results of the review are discussed with the external 
auditor.
Following this year’s annual review, the Committee was 
satisfied with the effectiveness, independence and objectivity 
of the external auditor. As noted below, the Committee 
has made a recommendation to the Board to re-tender the 
contract for audit services. The Committee believes that the 
tender would add value at this time. There are no contractual 
obligations restricting the choice of external auditor, nor 
entered into any auditor liability agreements.
Audit tender
EY were first appointed as the Company’s external auditor 
in 2006 for the year end audit in 2006/07 following a tender 
process where assessment criteria included quality of service, 
qualifications, expertise, independence, effectiveness and 
scale of international network to service the Company.
The Governance Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put 
the contract for audit services out to tender at least once 
every ten years which, in the case of Renold, would be for the 
year ended 31 March 2017. While the Company is not covered 
by this requirement, as part of the Company's internal 
governance the Board is generally minded to match the 
requirements for FTSE 350 companies, even when not strictly 
required.
The Committee has reviewed the timeframe for an audit 
tender that would comply with the Governance Code. The 
Committee has decided that the best interests of the Group 
would be better served by accelerating the tender process 
for the external audit by one year. A process is therefore 
underway to appoint the external auditor for the year ended 
March 2016. The tender process will include the assessment 
criteria of quality of service, qualifications, expertise, 
independence, effectiveness and scale of international 
network to support the Group. A resolution to appoint the 
external auditor will be included in the Ordinary Business of 
the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 21 July 2015.
In the interests of efficiency and minimising disruption, and 
being conscious of the impending changes in non-audit service 
regulations noted above, the Committee has also decided to 
run a parallel selection process to appoint the Group's global 
tax advisers at the same time as the external auditor. The 
firms participating in the two tenders are aware that the 
Group will appoint a separate auditor and tax advisers. 
Audit information
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors 
in office at the date of the approval of this report are aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is 
unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable: the role of the 
Disclosure Committee
As part of the process of ensuring that all disclosures made 
by the Company are timely, accurate and importantly meet 
the ‘Fair, Balanced and Understandable’ requirements arising 
under the FCA's Listing and Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, the Group maintains a Disclosure Committee whose 
membership includes the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
(as Chair), Group Finance Director, Group Chief Accountant and 
the Company Secretary.
The following activities were carried out by the Disclosure 
Committee:
 Æ all those contributing to the Annual Report and Accounts 
were briefed on the requirements of the Governance 
Code with specific emphasis on the fair, balanced and 
understandable requirements;
 Æ a number of senior managers who were knowledgeable 
about the business but otherwise not significantly involved 
in the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts, each 
performed an independent review and their comments 
incorporated accordingly; and
 Æ as in previous years, a documented verification file of 
all substantive facts and assertions is maintained and 
reviewed for completeness prior to finalisation of the 
Annual Report and Accounts.
The Disclosure Committee presents its findings and 
recommendations to the Audit Committee as part of 
its review of processes to enable the fair, balanced and 
understandable statement to be made.
We welcome feedback from shareholders on this report and I 
will be available at the AGM to answer questions.
John Allkins
On behalf of the Audit Committee 
26 May 2015
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
67
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Nomination Committee members and meetings attended
Names Position Meetings attended
Mark Harper Chairman 3 of 3
John Allkin Non-Executive Director 3 of 3
Ian Griffiths Non-Executive Director 3 of 3
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Committee has delegated authority from the Board. The 
duties of the Committee include the following:
 Æ to review the structure, size and composition of the Board 
and recommend any proposed changes;
 Æ where new appointments of Executive and/or Non-
Executive Directors are to be made, to lead that process 
and identify and nominate candidates to the Board; and
 Æ to give full consideration to succession planning for 
Directors and other senior executives, taking account of the 
challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
Composition of the Nomination Committee
I chair the Committee and our two Non-Executive Directors 
are members of the Committee and have been so throughout 
the year. The Committee meets during the year as required.
Policy on appointments to the Board
In accordance with the provisions of the 2012 Code, when 
reviewing the Board’s structure, the Committee’s primary 
objective is to ensure that the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors have the relevant skills, knowledge and experience 
to create a balanced and effective Board and to support the 
Group in delivering its overall strategic objectives. This is in 
parallel with ensuring that the costs and composition of the 
Board reflect the size of business and also the current stage of 
development of the business. Our policy extends to ensuring 
that the various sub-committees of the Board also have an 
appropriate range of skills and experience to deliver their 
terms of reference. 
In addition to skills and experience, we will also consider 
factors such as how an individual’s personal attributes would 
complement and enhance the diversity on the Board. For the 
appointment of Non-Executive Directors, additional factors for 
consideration include independence and time commitment.
In selecting candidates for the short-list for any appointment, 
the Board always considers candidates from a wide range of 
backgrounds and on merit and against objective criteria. 
Nomination Committee Report
“The Nomination Committee 
acknowledges a key 
requirement of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 
placing responsibility on the 
Board for succession planning. 
As a result, the Nomination 
Committee will ensure a full 
review of the Company’s 
succession plans is begun 
during the forthcoming 
financial year.”
Mark Harper
Committee Chairman
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
68 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The Board is already aware of the need to consider the 
benefits of diversity on the Board in all its aspects. The Board 
recognises that gender is one important aspect of diversity 
and while all current members of the Board are male, the 
Company Secretary, who is also the Group’s most senior 
legal professional, is female. An analysis of the gender of all 
employees is set out in the Strategic Report on page 44. Other 
than in relation to gender, the current Board is diverse in 
terms of the different skill sets of each member. These include 
professional qualifications and career work experience but 
also wider experience relevant to our global business, most 
of the Board members having worked and lived overseas for 
significant periods for example. For further information, see 
the charts set out on page 54.
Both the Board and the Committee continue to be mindful of 
the issue of diversity, a formal Board diversity policy having 
been discussed and adopted last year. In any future changes 
to its composition, the Board will continue to be mindful of 
the issues of diversity, including gender, and these factors will 
be taken into account alongside the over-riding objective of 
appointing the best possible candidate for the role.
The Board does not believe it is appropriate to set measurable 
objectives for the implementation of the policy at this time. 
As an international business with operations in multiple 
locations we employ a very diverse work force with a broad 
range of ethnicity which extends to senior management 
and leadership posts in the various territories. We prefer to 
appoint local management where possible.
The process for making appointments to the Board 
commences with the evaluation described earlier in this 
report. The Committee will then seek to identify suitable 
candidates usually with the use of external recruitment 
consultants or, where appropriate, the use of open 
advertising. The Board supports the engagement of executive 
search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of 
Conduct on gender diversity and best practice. Recruitment 
consultancy services have been provided by Korn Ferry 
Whitehead Mann and Odgers Berndtson, who themselves are 
signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct. None of these 
firms has any other connection to the Company. 
Activities during the year
Here we set out the principal activities of the Committee during 
the year.
Effectiveness review
The Nomination Committee carried out its annual evaluation 
during the year. 
Succession planning
As a result of the Committee’s Effectiveness review and the 
Board’s evaluation process, a key discussion point arising 
was that of succession planning for the Board. A review of 
succession planning for the Board will commence during the 
forthcoming financial year and will form part of a Company 
wide review of succession planning. An update will be 
provided to shareholders accordingly in the next Annual 
Report and Accounts. 
Board composition 
As stated in its report for the year ended 31 March 2014, the 
Committee continues to review the composition of the Board. 
Conscious of the fact that the Company is continuing in the 
Turnaround Phase of the Group’s Strategic Plan and entering 
Phase 2, the Committee notes that reductions in staffing 
levels and pay restraint throughout the Group continue. 
The current capability and cost of the Board has therefore 
been appropriate in the Committee’s view during the current 
reporting period. In the view of the Committee, the Group 
and Board have continued to benefit from the stability and 
continuity of membership of the current Board. However, this 
issue will continue to be monitored and discussed.
Mark Harper
On behalf of the Nomination Committee 
26 May 2015
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
69
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I present the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 
2015. This year’s remuneration report has been prepared in 
accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008. This amended Schedule 8 was introduced by the 
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, for financial 
years ending on or after 30 September 2013 in the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 ('the Regulations').
Our report is structured in two sections following this Annual 
Statement:
 Æ Directors’ Remuneration Policy (pages 73 to 80) which 
sets out the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration 
for three years from the 2014 AGM. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding shareholder 
vote and was approved by shareholders at the AGM 
on 22 July 2014. It is expected that the Company will 
next propose a resolution to approve the Directors’ 
remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM, or earlier should any 
revisions to the policy be proposed. There are no proposals 
to amend the policy at this time.
 Æ Annual Report on Remuneration (pages 81 to 87) which 
shows the implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy in 2014 and how it is proposed to be applied in 2015. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration together with this 
letter is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the  
2015 AGM. 
Key responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee determines on behalf of the Board, and 
within agreed terms of reference set by the Board, the overall 
remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and the 
Chairman, and the terms of the service contracts and all 
other terms and conditions of employment of the Executive 
Directors.
The key aim is to ensure that executive pay is strongly aligned 
to the Company’s business priorities and the interests of 
shareholders. Our policy is also designed to attract, motivate 
and retain individuals who will deliver strong performance 
for all of our stakeholders. The Committee takes into account 
the pay and employment conditions of employees within the 
Group when determining Executive Directors’ remuneration.
In line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on 
Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures 
that the incentive structure for the Executive Directors 
will not raise environmental, social or governance risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Statement
“Further to the changes in 
remuneration reporting 
last year, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy was 
approved by shareholders at 
the AGM which took place on 
22 July 2014 and took effect 
on that date. A key aim of 
the policy is to ensure a close 
alignment of executive pay 
to the Company’s strategic 
objectives and performance.”
Ian Griffiths
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
70 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Key decisions and changes in remuneration policy
The Committee undertook an extensive review of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy last year and decided to leave 
all fixed elements of salary and benefits unchanged for both 
of the Company’s Executive Directors. This aligns directly 
to the key strategic goal of lowering the Group’s breakeven 
point. It also reflects the pay restraint that is in force in all 
Renold locations. The next review by the Committee of the 
Executive Directors’ salaries will be in July 2015. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy received support from shareholders both 
through an informal consultation with major shareholders 
and approval being given by 98% of those voting at the 2014 
AGM. Outside of fixed elements of salary, the key elements of 
remuneration policy comprise:
 Æ Annual bonus: The maximum achievable annual bonus 
remains unchanged. The targets reflect the continuing need 
to improve operating margins and reduce average levels 
of net debt, structured as a matrix to ensure that one 
goal cannot be pursued at the expense of the other. The 
Committee assessed performance against EBITDA and Net 
Debt targets set at the beginning of the year. The adjusted 
EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2015 of £20.8m was 
a 26% increase on the prior year and the Average Net 
Debt during the year was £25.9m, lower than in the year 
ended 31 March 2014. As such, annual bonus payments 
to Executive Directors equal to 67% of salary were 
determined. The Committee believes this result represents 
the strong underlying performance of the Company during 
the year ended 31 March 2015.
 Æ The 2013 Performance Share Plan (PSP) (approved by 
shareholders at the 2013 AGM): The PSP was introduced 
to increase the alignment of Directors’ remuneration 
with shareholder value, to motivate the achievement 
of strong growth in the long term and to increase the 
proportion of variable pay. PSP Awards have a three year 
performance period and the awards granted during this 
year have required 30% growth per year in adjusted EPS 
for maximum vesting. As a result, it is both challenging and 
firmly aligned to shareholders’ interests. Growth of 56% in 
adjusted EPS has been achieved during the year ended 31 
March 2015. Provisions to enable PSP awards to be clawed 
back prior to vesting have been introduced to the 2013 
PSP as well as a shareholding requirement for Executive 
Directors. In addition, a provision has been added so that 
part or all of an annual bonus may be forfeited or sought to 
be clawed back in certain circumstances.
 Æ 2004 Options Plans: Option awards granted to Brian Tenner 
in 2011 vested during June 2014 as the share price condition 
attached to these awards was met in full.
Finally, there have been no changes to the Non-Executive 
Directors’ annual fees in the year.
Committee membership
This section describes the membership of the Committee 
and principal activities during the year. It forms part of the 
Annual Report on Remuneration section of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. All members of the Committee are 
independent. Members of the Committee during the year are 
set out below and further biographical details can be found on 
page 55:
 Æ Ian Griffiths (Chairman) 
 Æ John Allkins
The Company Secretary attends all Committee meetings and 
is secretary to the Committee. The Executive Directors, the 
Chairman of the Board and the Group HR Director attend 
meetings by invitation. PwC, the external advisers to the 
Committee, also attend meetings by invitation. Further details 
in relation to PwC’s engagement as adviser to the Committee 
can be found at page 87. No Director is involved in deciding his 
own remuneration, whether determined by the Committee, or 
in the case of the Non-Executive Directors, by the Board.
An evaluation of the Committee was undertaken during the 
year ended 31 March 2015 and I can report that this review 
concluded the Committee has operated effectively.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the 
Company’s website at www.renold.com. None of the Committee 
members has any personal financial interest (other than as 
shareholders) in the matters to be decided or any conflict of 
interest, cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in the 
running of the business.
The Company’s auditor is required to report on certain parts of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and to state whether in its 
opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the relevant accounting regulations. Audited 
sections of the report are indicated accordingly.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
71
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Statement
continued
Committee activities
The Committee’s terms of reference require meetings to be held at least twice a year. This year, the Committee met on eight 
occasions to discuss the following themes and agenda items in accordance with its terms of reference:
Theme Agenda items
Best practice  — The Company’s remuneration policy in light of the Regulations, and consideration of any 
AGM feedback
 — Review of the current UK corporate governance environment and the implications for the 
Company
Directors’ remuneration policy  — Noting the Directors’ Remuneration Policy is in place for three years from the 2014 AGM
Annual report on remuneration — Consideration and approval of the Annual report on remuneration to be put to shareholders
Executive Directors — Reviewing the base salaries payable to each of the Executive Directors
 — Reviewing performance under the annual bonus and consideration of any bonuses payable 
for the financial year ended 31 March 2015
 — Approving the annual bonus structure and performance targets for the financial year ending 
31 March 2016
 — Approving the LTIP awards made under the Company’s 2013 PSP during the year
Committee performance — Reviewing the Committee’s performance
Performance of external advisers — Reviewing the performance of PwC and retaining them as external remuneration 
consultants 
In addition, it is noted that the Executive Directors and the Chairman reviewed the remuneration arrangements of the  
Non-Executive Directors.
The Company has complied with the 2012 Code in respect 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, to the extent set out in the statement 
of Corporate Governance on page 52. The 2014 Code does 
not apply to the Company’s reporting period ending 31 
March 2015. However, the Board has, where appropriate, 
early adopted some of the new provisions in the 2014 Code 
and provides disclosure against these requirements in this 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
In particular, the Committee notes the new Main Principle in 
the 2014 Code: “Executive Directors’ remuneration should be 
designed to promote the long-term success of the Company” 
and believes that the Director’s Remuneration Policy 
inherently reflects this requirement.
As noted in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, all of the rules 
relating to the 2013 PSP and Executive Director annual bonus 
contain clawback and malus provisions. 
Finally, the Committee considered the 2014 Code provision for 
share schemes requiring Directors to hold shares for a period 
after vesting or exercise including for a period after leaving 
the Company. There is a minimum vesting period of three 
years in respect of PSP awards and as set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy on page 75, all LTIP awards vesting (net 
of income tax and National Insurance contributions) must 
be retained until a shareholding requirement is met. The 
Committee has considered a post-vesting holding period but 
has decided not to implement this. 
The Committee reviewed the existing remuneration 
arrangements and is satisfied that the Company is otherwise 
compliant with the 2014 Code.  
The Committee reviews shareholder voting on the 
remuneration report each year. We are focused on clear 
reporting of past remuneration and future policy and we 
welcome feedback from shareholders. I will be available at the 
AGM to answer any questions about the Committee and its 
work.
Ian Griffiths
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
26 May 2015
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
72 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Introduction
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the 
Company’s policy for the remuneration of its Directors. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved by 
shareholders at the AGM on 22 July 2014 and took effect 
from that date. The Committee has since reviewed the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy and concluded that it 
remained appropriate for the foreseeable future. There are 
no current proposals to revise the policy and it will not be 
put for shareholder approval at the AGM on 21 July 2015. It is 
expected that the Company will next propose a resolution to 
approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM, 
or earlier should any revisions to the policy be proposed.
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy is extracted in full from 
the 2014 Annual Report, without amendment except; (1) this 
Introduction; (2) minor amendments such as cross references 
and (3) updating the total remuneration opportunity chart on 
page 77 and the Non-Executive Directors’ appointment details 
on page 79 which are time specific. It is in the form approved by 
shareholders at the AGM which took place on 22 July 2014. 
Remuneration principles for Executive Directors
Our Directors’ Remuneration Policy has been designed to 
deliver two key aims:
To attract, motivate and retain executives who will deliver 
high performance for all our stakeholders.
We believe the mix of our remuneration package provides an 
appropriate and balanced set of rewards. Executive reward at 
Renold is relatively modest compared to our peer group and 
this has been validated by independent third parties. In part, 
this reflects a number of years of business under-performance 
but it is also consistent with the key strategic objective of 
lowering our breakeven point by reducing our cost base – this 
applies to executive pay as much as it does to any business 
expenditure. However, we are careful to ensure appropriate 
incentive opportunities remain for sustainable improvements 
in business performance.
To ensure a close alignment of executive pay to the 
Company’s strategic objectives and performance.
We review our incentive plans each year to ensure they 
remain closely aligned with the Company’s strategic 
objectives and our shareholders’ interests, while continuing 
to motivate and engage the team leading the Company to 
achieve stretching targets. One consequence of this approach 
during the last year was to launch the 2013 PSP that includes 
demanding three year performance targets. To achieve the 
maximum vesting, the Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) 
in adjusted EPS has to be more than 50% per annum, which 
would result in an adjusted EPS figure more than three times 
that achieved in the year ended 31 March 2013. The current 
and forecast dilution levels from our share plans remain well 
below prescribed limits.
In addition, we aim to make the remuneration framework for 
Executive Directors relatively simple – the incentive plans are 
now therefore limited to an annual bonus and the 2013 PSP.
The Committee believes the requirement to build up and 
maintain a direct shareholding in the Company ensures that 
Executive Directors share a significant level of risk with the 
Company’s shareholders and their interests are aligned. 
Having reviewed current best practice, we have introduced 
a shareholding requirement for Executive Directors equal to 
100% of annual salary to be achieved over a five year period. 
Unvested shares/unexercised options are not counted within 
the shareholding requirement. Otherwise, the shareholding 
requirements can be met through purchase from salary, 
bonus or through vested long term incentive shares. As at 
31 March 2014 the Executive Directors both hold shares of a 
value in excess of this requirement. 
We also operate a mitigation policy in the event of early 
termination by the Company of an Executive Director’s 
employment. During the year the Committee introduced a 
formal claw back policy for Executive Directors in respect of 
annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards. This claw 
back policy is to come into effect so as to apply from 1 April 
2014 and has been introduced to provide the Committee 
with discretionary powers to claw back performance based 
remuneration should exceptional circumstances occur. Such 
circumstances would include: fraud; misconduct; significant 
misstatement of financial results or incorrect calculation of 
performance conditions.
Should the Committee, in its opinion, consider such 
circumstances to have occurred during a performance 
period from 1 April 2014 onwards then the claw back policy 
will provide the Committee discretion to determine that 
any amounts paid or payable under the Annual Bonus or 
awards under the 2013 PSP (which have not yet vested) by 
reference to the relevant period may be clawed back. The 
Committee will take into consideration any claw back events 
when determining future awards and/or bonus payments for 
Executive Directors.
Shareholder views
The Committee constantly welcomes the views of 
shareholders in respect of pay policy as well as those views 
expressed on behalf of shareholders by their respective 
proxy advisers. The Committee documents all remuneration 
related comments made at the Company’s AGM and feedback 
received during consultation with shareholders throughout 
the year. Any feedback received is fully considered by the 
Committee and where thought necessary amendments made 
to remuneration policy.
Discretion of the Committee
The Committee has discretion in various areas of policy 
as set out in this report. The Committee may also exercise 
operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan 
rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules. In 
addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy 
with regard to minor or administrative matters where it 
would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate 
to seek or await shareholder approval.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
73
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Policy table
Based on our view of current market practice, and the principles of our remuneration policy, we have established the 
remuneration policy set out in this report. The following table summarises the fixed and variable elements of remuneration for 
the Executive Directors.
The policy described here is intended to apply for three years beginning on the date of the 2014 AGM, subject to shareholders’ 
approval. Each of the elements of remuneration set out below are forward looking other than the 2004 Option Plans which 
is a provision of previous remuneration policy and although it will not be used going forward, it will continue to apply until all 
outstanding awards vest and is therefore included in the Policy table as required by the Regulations.
Remuneration 
element
Purpose and link to 
corporate strategy Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold/review basis Performance metrics
Base salary To ensure 
competitive 
salaries to 
attract, retain and 
motivate those 
responsible for 
executing strategy 
while ensuring the 
Company pays 
no more than is 
necessary.
Base salary is paid in 12 equal monthly 
instalments during the year. 
Reviewed annually, the policy is to provide 
third quartile salary for comparable jobs in 
manufacturing companies of a similar size, 
influenced by:
 Æ Role, experience and performance;
 Æ Changes in broader workforce salary; 
and
 Æ Salaries payable in similar companies.
Reviewed annually and set on  
1 August each year.
Annual rate for each Executive 
Director is set out in the annual 
report on remuneration on page 
81.
Salary increases will normally 
be in line with increases for the 
wider employee population.
Higher increases may be 
awarded in circumstances such 
as following recruitment into 
a role at a below-market rate 
or due to a change in role or 
responsibilities.
For new recruits, the salary 
increases may be higher than 
the wider workforce until the 
individual is aligned with market 
levels.
None.
Benefits As base salary 
above, benefits 
are non-
pensionable.
The Company pays the cost of providing the 
benefits on a monthly basis or as required 
for one-off events. 
Benefits consist of a fully expensed 
company car (or cash equivalent) and 
private medical insurance in addition to a 
lump sum death-in-service benefit of five 
times base salary. Death-in-service benefit 
is also available to all other UK staff at five 
times base salary for those who opt to join 
the Company pension scheme and at two 
times for those opting out.
In the case that an Executive Director is 
required to relocate, either on recruitment 
or during service as a Director, reasonable 
relocation expenses will be provided in line 
with market practice.
The Committee may change the benefits 
offered in line with local market practice or 
the operational needs of the business.
Reviewed annually and set on 
1 August each year in line with 
the Company’s car policy to a 
maximum of £11,000 per annum 
cash allowance or equivalent 
lease value.
The maximum opportunity for 
other benefits is defined by the 
nature of the benefit itself and 
the cost of providing it. As the 
cost of providing such insurance 
benefits varies according to 
premium rates and the cost of 
other benefits is dependent on 
market rates and other factors, 
there is no formal maximum 
monetary value. 
None.
Pension As base salary 
above.
The Executive Directors are not members 
of the Company pension scheme and have 
their own pension arrangements. The 
Company’s only pension liability is to make 
annual cash contributions to the personal 
pension arrangements of the Executive 
Directors.
Cash allowances equivalent to 
15% of base salary.
None.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
74 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Remuneration 
element
Purpose and link to 
corporate strategy Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold/review basis Performance metrics
Annual bonus To incentivise 
delivery of 
the corporate 
strategy and 
reward delivery 
of superior 
performance.
Annual bonuses are paid shortly after the 
end of the financial year end to which they 
relate.
Bonuses are normally payable in cash but 
the Committee has flexibility to introduce a 
deferral if it deems it appropriate.
Bonus payments are based on Group 
financial targets. Maximum bonus 
payments are made only on the 
achievement of outstanding performance. 
Bonuses are not pensionable.
Performance targets are set at the start 
of the financial year and the level of bonus 
paid is determined by the Committee after 
the year end based on performance against 
target.
A claw back facility will apply from 1 April 
2014 under which part or all of the cash 
bonus may be forfeited or clawed back if 
any of the circumstances outlined on page 
73 arise.
For Executive Directors the 
maximum annual bonus payable 
is 100% of base salary.
No bonuses will be payable 
unless a minimum level of 
financial performance has been 
achieved. 50% is payable at 
threshold performance.
The bonus may be based on a 
range of financial, non-financial 
and personal targets as set by 
the Committee from year to year. 
Financial targets will comprise at 
least half of the bonus.
Details of the measures and 
weightings will be set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration 
following the end of each financial 
year.
Notwithstanding the achievement 
of performance targets, any 
bonus payable will be determined 
by the Committee in accordance 
with the relevant plan rules, 
including the Committee’s right to 
exercise its discretion fairly and 
reasonably in any circumstances 
which the Committee considers it 
appropriate to do so.
The Committee has the discretion 
to vary the weighting of 
performance metrics over the life 
of this remuneration policy.
2013 PSP To incentivise 
delivery of  
long-term 
shareholder value.
The 2013 PSP was approved by 
shareholders at the AGM on 23 July 2013. 
The key features are as follows:
 Æ Conditional share awards or options 
may be granted under the PSP (the 
exercise price of options is set by the 
Committee and can be nil).
 Æ The Committee will impose demanding 
performance conditions on the vesting 
of awards.
 Æ Outstanding commitments to issue new 
shares under all share plans operated by 
the Company are subject to a maximum 
of 10% of the Company’s issued share 
capital in any ten year period.
 Æ The PSP includes the ability to grant 
options under an HM Revenue & 
Customs approved schedule.
 Æ A claw back facility is in operation with 
effect from 1 April 2014 under which 
part or the whole of the PSP award can 
be recovered prior to vesting if any of 
the circumstances outlined on page 73 
arise, including if there is a restatement 
of the financial accounts or the individual 
is dismissed for cause.
A maximum grant is permitted 
of 100% of base salary each 
year (200% of base salary in 
exceptional circumstances such 
as recruitment).
Vesting is dependent on 
performance conditions. On 
achievement of threshold 
performance 25% of the award 
vests for 30% CAGR in adjusted 
EPS.
Performance condition based on 
CAGR in adjusted EPS which must 
be met over a three year period. 
In exceptional circumstances, 
the Committee has discretion 
to change the performance 
measures, targets and weightings 
between measures during the 
performance period if there is a 
significant event which causes 
the Committee to believe that the 
original conditions are no longer 
appropriate. Any amendments 
would be such that the new 
conditions are not materially less 
difficult to satisfy than the original 
conditions.
The Committee also has discretion 
to reduce the percentage that 
vests in cases where it believes 
the outcome of the performance 
conditions is not a fair reflection 
of the Company’s performance.
Shareholding 
requirement
To strengthen 
the alignment 
between the 
interests of 
Executive 
Directors 
and those of 
shareholders.
Executive Directors must build up over five 
years.
Unvested LTIP or deferred shares are not 
taken into account. Share price is measured 
at the end of each financial year.
All LTIP or deferred share awards vesting 
(net of income tax and National Insurance 
contributions) must be retained until the 
shareholding requirement is met.
Executive Directors – 100% of 
salary.
None.
Provisions 
of previous 
policy that 
continue to 
apply – LTIP 
awards made 
prior to and 
in 2013 under 
the 2004 
Option Plans.
To align the 
interests of 
Executive 
Directors 
with those of 
shareholders.
The outstanding awards under the 2004 
Option Plans will continue to form part of 
the remuneration policy until vesting.
Details in relation to the background, terms 
and use of the 2004 Option Plans are set 
out on page 79.
A maximum of 200% of salary. Market value options exercisable 
on the third anniversary of the 
grant.
The performance condition is 
based on a varying percentage of 
the shares under option becoming 
exercisable depending on the 
Company’s share price on the 
date three years following the 
date of grant.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
75
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
continued
Notes to the Policy table
Performance measure and targets for the annual bonus plan and the 2013 PSP
The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, closed defined benefit pension scheme 
charges and excludes exceptional items. Average net debt is the net sum of external borrowings, finance leases and cash and 
cash equivalents, measured at each month end to produce a simple annual average which excludes preference stock from 
targets and results. Adjusted EPS excludes exceptional items, pension administration costs, IAS 19 financing charges and the tax 
thereon from earnings.
The Committee selected the performance conditions because these are central to the Company’s overall strategy. The annual 
bonus plan metrics of adjusted EBITDA and average net debt provide a balanced mix of targets to deliver improving business 
performance and enhanced cash generation. Importantly, both are consistent with the longer term goals of generating 
additional shareholder value and facilitating additional investment in the business itself and hence align with the long term 
incentive plan. Average net debt has been chosen as the appropriate measure of cash performance as it encourages continuous 
focus on cash and working capital management throughout the year rather than focusing on a single point in time. The two 
targets are structured as a matrix to ensure that management must have regard to both metrics to maximise reward. Equally, if 
either metric falls below a specified minimum level of performance then no reward can be earned, irrespective of performance on 
the other metric.
The Committee considers CAGR in adjusted EPS to be the most appropriate performance condition to align the longer term 
goals of executive management with the interests of shareholders. The performance period is three years at which point 
testing occurs and awards either vest or lapse. There is no opportunity for testing to be deferred or for re-testing at a later 
date. Minimum and maximum targets, at which 25% and 100% of awards vest, are set at the time each award is made and are 
adjusted to ensure that they remain suitably demanding but also motivating.
The Committee is of the opinion that the performance targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive in respect of the 
Group and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Group to disclose them.
Changes to remuneration policy from that operating in 2013/14
Element Operation of component Maximum potential value
Performance metrics used, 
weighting and time period 
applicable
Base salary No change No change No change
Benefits No change No change No change
Pension No change No change No change
Annual bonus
Previously no claw back 
provision No change
Previously included  
individual director 
performance targets
Long term incentive (2013 PSP)
Previously no claw back 
provision No change No change
Shareholding requirement No change 100% of salary None
Long term incentive (2004 Option Plans) No change No change No change
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees
All employees of the Group are entitled to base salary and benefits. The Group operates a number of pension plans for 
employees which it operates in line with local market practice. Some employees in senior roles are entitled to participate in an 
annual bonus scheme. The maximum opportunity available is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role.
Conditional share awards are only available to senior executives and Directors. Since 2008, share option grants and conditional 
share awards have been made only to employees at senior executive level.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Committee invites the HR Director to present at a meeting on the proposals for salary increases for the employee population 
generally and on any other changes to remuneration policy within the Group. The Committee limits any salary increases for 
Executive Directors to the inflationary increase available to employees unless there has been a change in role or they are 
progressing through a development phase.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
76 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The HR Director consults with the Committee on the performance metrics for Executive Directors’ bonuses and to the extent to 
which these should be cascaded to other employees. The Committee approves the overall annual bonus cost to the Group each 
year. The Committee has oversight over the grant of all LTIP awards across the Group.
The Group does not specifically invite employees to comment on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy but any comments made 
by employees are taken into account.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for senior management in the three tiers below Executive 
Director and uses this information to work with the human resources team to ensure consistency of approach throughout the 
Group.
T otal remuneration opportunity
The chart below demonstrates the total amount of remuneration payable to the Chief Executive, Robert Purcell and Finance 
Director, Brian Tenner, under the proposed remuneration policy for the year ending 31 March 2015 should they achieve 
minimum, on-target or maximum performance. The amounts shown represent £’000s and for share related elements are the 
face value of awards.
The chart shows that at minimum levels of performance the Executive Directors only form of remuneration is the fixed element 
of base pay, benefits in kind and pension contributions. For performance above minimum the variable element of pay for the 
Chief Executive increases to approximately 63% of total reward or 168% of the fixed elements of pay noted. The ratios are 
similar for the Finance Director.
The Executive Directors’ base salaries are assessed independently of the ability to earn variable awards under the annual and 
long term incentive plans and hence future bonus opportunities are not a consideration when setting base pay.
T otal remuneration
£’000
13%
Minimum On-target Maximum
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
100%
Minimum On-target Maximum
100%
Robert Purcell Brian Tenner
13%
31%
31%
£360
£585
£960
£224
£363
£594
PSP
Annual bonus
Salary, beneﬁts 
and pension
61% 38%
26%
31%
63% 38%
26%
31%
Note: On-target assumes 50% of maximum bonus is earned and threshold vesting under the 2013 PSP. Share price growth is excluded.
Service contracts, remuneration and exit payments
As a matter of policy, the length of service contracts and notice periods is determined by the Committee at the time of 
appointment in light of the then prevailing market practice. Details of the Executive Directors’ terms of appointment and notice 
periods are as follows:
Date of contract Expiry date of current term/notice period
Robert Purcell 21 January 2013 No specified term/terminable on 12 months’ notice
Brian Tenner 1 September 2010 No specified term/terminable on 12 months’ notice
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
77
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
continued
Other than normal payments due during notice periods, there are no express provisions for compensation on early termination 
of the Executive Directors’ contracts. In the event of early termination, the Company’s policy is to act fairly in all circumstances. 
The Committee has noted the Association of British Insurers’ and National Association of Pension Funds’ joint statement on 
Executive Contracts and Severance. Neither of the Executive Directors’ contracts provide for compensation in the event of 
a change of control of the Company. Copies of the two service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the 
Company’s registered office.
Change of control
In the event of a change of control, any outstanding awards under the long term incentive plan may vest. Awards will become 
exercisable immediately. The proportion of award vesting will be determined by the Committee based on the proportion of 
the performance period completed and the extent to which the performance condition has been met at the date the change of 
control occurs. 
The Committee has discretion to waive any performance condition if it considers this appropriate in the particular 
circumstances.
Leavers
The Committee’s policy for exit payments on a leaver event involving an Executive Director is:
Item Policy Details
Salary, pension  
and benefits
A maximum of 12 months’ salary, pension and 
benefits may be payable.
Payments may be subject to mitigation if the leaver finds 
alternative employment.
Annual bonus No annual bonus normally payable, unless the 
Committee uses its discretion to treat as a good 
leaver.
Good leavers are entitled to receive a bonus based on 
performance to date of termination, pro-rated for the  
period of service to termination.
PSP The Committee will use its discretion to determine 
whether the individual should be treated as a good 
leaver or a bad leaver.
In the event of death or retirement, an individual will 
be treated as a good leaver.
Bad leavers will forfeit outstanding PSP awards.
Good leavers’ awards shall vest pro-rata based on the proportion 
of the vesting period completed and based on the extent to which 
the performance condition has been met at the date of leaving.
Awards may be exercised within a six month period following date 
of leaving. In the case of death, the award may be exercised within 
a 12 month period following death.
In determining whether an individual should be treated as a good leaver or a bad leaver, and in assessing the extent to which 
any award will vest, the Committee will consider the specific circumstances of the departure, the individual’s performance prior 
to departure and the performance of the Company.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
In the event of the appointment of a new Director the same principles would apply as they do today to the existing Directors.
The remuneration package of any new Executive Director would therefore include the elements and maximum award size set 
out on pages 74 and 75 in accordance with the Company’s remuneration policy and subject to the same discretions.
The Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is to set the salary level in accordance with the remuneration policy 
and having taken into account the individual’s experience, the nature of the role and their existing remuneration package.
Where it is necessary to ‘buy out’ an individual’s awards from a previous employer, the Committee will seek to match the 
expected value of the awards that vest over a timeframe similar to those given up, with a commensurate reduction in quantum 
where the new awards will be subject to performance conditions that are not as stretching as those on the awards given up. 
This would be an additional element of remuneration to the normal maxima as set out in the Policy table on pages 74 and 75.
Details of the Company’s approach to the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 79.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
78 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
External non-executive directorships
The Board encourages Executive Directors to broaden their 
experience outside the Company by taking up a non-executive 
directorship.
Long T erm Incentive Plans – 2004 Option Plans (audited 
information) 
The 2004 Option Plans were not used during the year ended 
31 March 2014 as indicated in the resolution approving the 
2013 PSP at the Annual General Meeting on 23 July 2013. 
The final use of these plans was an award of options to 
Robert Purcell in January 2013 on joining the Company. The 
information presented below is therefore purely in respect 
of awards made in previous years. The plans consist of the 
Renold plc 2004 Inland Revenue Approved Company Share 
Option Plan and the Renold plc 2004 Non-Inland Revenue 
Approved Company Share Option Plan (together the ‘2004 
Option Plans’). Their key features are:
 Æ Market value options exercisable three years after grant; 
 Æ The maximum annual grant limit is 200% of base salary; 
and 
 Æ Outstanding commitments to issue new shares under all 
share plans operated by the Company are subject to a 
maximum of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital in 
any ten year period.
For options granted since the year ended 31 March 2010, the 
performance condition is based on a varying percentage of 
the share options becoming exercisable depending on the 
Company’s share price on the date three years following the 
date of the grant. The following tables show the different 
conditions for existing awards not yet subject to performance 
testing.
Granted 8 June 2011
1
 – performance test 8 June 2014
Share price (p)
% of shares under 
option that become 
exercisable
2
45 25
55 50
60 75
65 100
Granted 21 January 2013
3
 – performance test 21 January 2016
Share price (p)
% of shares under 
option that become 
exercisable
2
30 0
35 50
40 100
1 
The closing share price on the date of grant (8 June 2011) was 37.13 pence.
2 
With the corresponding number of shares being rounded down to the nearest 
whole number. 
3 
The closing share price on the date of grant (21 January 2013) was 25.5 pence.
Long T erm incentive Plans – 2013 PSP (audited information)
The key features of the 2013 PSP are set out in the table on page 75. The performance conditions attaching to options granted 
under the 2013 PSP in the year ended 31 March 2014, measured as the equivalent CAGR in adjusted EPS over a three year 
period, are as follows:
Entry Threshold Maximum Performance period
Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Performance % vesting
<30% 0% 30% 25% 50% 100% 
3 years from  
1 April 2013
Non-Executive Directors
Appointment details and fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set out below:
Name Date of appointment Unexpired term (months) Date of election/last re-election Contractual fees
Mark Harper 1 May 2012
1
1 22 July 2014 £110,000
John Allkins 17 April 2008
2
23 22 July 2014 £43,000
3
Ian Griffiths 13 January 2010
4
9 22 July 2014 £38,000
1 
Mark Harper’s appointment was renewed with effect from 1 May 2015 and for a period of three years in line with best practice guidelines.
2 
John Allkins’ appointment was renewed with effect from 17 April 2014 and for a period of three years in line with best practice guidelines.
3 
John Allkins’ fee includes an additional £2,500 payable with effect from 21 January 2013 as a result of his appointment as the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director.
4 
Ian Griffiths’ appointment was renewed on 14 January 2013 for a period of three years in line with best practice guidelines.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
79
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
continued
The Company’s policy for Non-Executive Directors’ 
remuneration is managed by the Board. Their remuneration is 
confined to fees alone, with no performance-related element. 
Reasonable expenses are also reimbursed as incurred.
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by 
the Chairman and the Executive Directors. The level of fees 
is reviewed from time to time with regard to fees paid in 
comparable organisations and the time commitment required. 
The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Committee 
and the Board and is subject to the same basis of review as 
the other Non-Executive Directors.
The letters of appointment for each of the Non-Executive 
Directors confirm that their appointment is for a specified 
term and that reappointment is not automatic. When making 
a decision on reappointment, the Board reviews the Non-
Executive Director’s attendance and performance at meetings 
and the composition and skill of the Board as a whole. Each 
Non-Executive Director is appointed for an initial period of 
three years, subject to earlier termination by either party. 
Thereafter, the appointment may be renewed, provided 
that both the Non-Executive Director and the Board agree. 
Their respective appointments continue on an annual basis, 
subject to re-election at each AGM. The letters of appointment 
contain no provision for payment or compensation on early 
termination. Copies of the individual letters of appointment 
are available for inspection by shareholders at the Company’s 
registered office.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
80 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Introduction
This section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration paid to Directors for the financial year ending 
31 March 2015. This part, together with the description of the composition of the Committee, which is set out on page 71 of 
the report, constitutes the Annual report on remuneration. The Annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the AGM on 21 July 2015.
Directors’ remuneration 
Total remuneration – single total figure table (audited information)
The total remuneration for the period and for the year ending 31 March 2014, in order to permit comparison, for each Director is 
set out in the table below:
Executive Directors
Salary
 (£’000)
Benefits 
(£’000)
Bonus 
(£’000)
1
LTIP 
(£’000)
2
Pensions 
(£’000)
Total 
(£’000)
Robert Purcell 2015 300 15 201 – 45 561
2014 300 14 300 – 45 659
Brian Tenner 2015 185 11 124 137
3
28 485
2014 185 11 185 36 28 445
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
2015  
£’000
2014 
£’000
Change 
£’000
Mark Harper 110 110 –
John Allkins 43 43 –
Ian Griffiths 38 38 –
1 
Further details in relation to the annual bonus paid to Executive Directors are on page 82 within the Directors' Remuneration Report.
2 
 Further details of awards to the Executive Directors under the 2004 Option Plans and 2013 PSP are on pages 82 to 84. The LTIP uses the closing share price on 
the day of vesting less the option exercise price to calculate the value of the award.
3 
 Of the 495,978 options awarded to Brian Tenner on 8 June 2011 with an exercise price of 37.30p, 495,978 (equivalent to 100% of the maximum award) vested on 
8 June 2014 as the mid-market price of the Company’s shares on the five preceding trading days was 65.2p. The closing mid share price on 6 June 2014, which 
was the last trading day prior to vesting on 8 June 2014, was 65.0p.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration
“The Group delivered a second consecutive significant increase in 
adjusted operating profit and earnings per share, two of the key 
performance metrics used to assess the performance of the business 
and Executive Directors. The further development of a series of 
detailed five year action plans in each operating unit to deliver our 
longer term strategic objectives was also a key milestone. In parallel, 
implementing the new five year financing agreement and further 
progress in de-risking our pensions liabilities supports and aligns 
the business to longer term value generation. The Committee had 
regard to all of these factors when aspects of the Executive Directors' 
remuneration was assessed. ”
Ian Griffiths
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
81
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration
continued
(1) Fixed elements of pay 
(i) Base salary
Consistent with the key strategic goal of lowering the Group’s breakeven point and the pay restraint that continued across the 
Group, there were no pay rises for Executive Directors during the period. Robert Purcell’s annual salary therefore remained at 
£300,000 and Brian Tenner’s annual salary at £185,000. These figures are outlined in the Total remuneration table on page 81. 
The proportion of the Group’s basic salary bill attributable to the Executive Directors’ base salaries for the year ended 31 March 
2015 was 0.91% (2014: 0.87%).
(ii) Pension
The Executive Directors’ only pension entitlements are Company contributions equivalent to 15% of base salary. The Committee 
agreed that Brian Tenner’s pension would be payable as a cash equivalent with effect from 1 April 2014 as the value of his 
retirement benefits were expected to exceed the lifetime allowance. During the year ended 31 March 2015, cash payments of 
£45,000 (2014: £45,000) and £27,750 (2014: pension contribution of £27,750) were made by the Company to Robert Purcell and 
Brian Tenner respectively. These figures are shown in the Total remuneration table on page 81.
(iii) Benefits
The Executive Directors received the following benefits during the period. Robert Purcell received a non-cash benefit of £15,000 
for his company car and private healthcare. Brian Tenner received a cash benefit of £10,000 for his company car allowance and 
£1,000 non-cash benefit for private healthcare. These figures are outlined in the Total remuneration table on page 81.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any benefits.
(2) Variable elements of pay – awards vested in year
(i) Annual bonus (payable in cash) 
The annual bonus, which is payable in cash, provides the Executive Directors with the opportunity to receive an annual 
bonus based on achievement of certain performance targets. For the year ended 31 March 2015 the annual bonus scheme for 
Executive Directors was structured as follows: 
Maximum Adjusted EBITDA Average Net Debt Paid in cash
Total paid as 
% maximum
(% salary) Weight Achieved Weight Achieved (£’000) %
Robert Purcell 100% 70% 60% 30% 66% 201 67
Brian Tenner 100% 70% 60% 30% 66% 124 67
The two metrics shown were structured as a matrix such that failure to deliver a minimum result in either metric would have 
led to no bonus being achievable in the other. Similarly, in order to achieve the maximum award, superior performance would 
be required against both metrics. There was no allowance for personal objectives during the year (this was the same for the 
year ended 31 March 2014). 
The following table sets out an indication of the actual performance against the targets for the year ended 31 March 2015. The 
performance targets for the annual bonus are based on internal targets and considered commercially sensitive. Consequently 
these will not be disclosed.
Adjusted EBITDA Average Net Debt
Below 
threshold
Between threshold 
and maximum At maximum
Below 
threshold
Between threshold 
and maximum At maximum
Robert Purcell  
Brian Tenner  
(ii) 2004 Options performance testing during the year
Awards made under the 2004 Option Plans in 2011 had a three year performance period ending on 8 June 2014 with share 
price targets as shown in the table below:
Of the 495,978 options awarded to Brian Tenner on 8 June 2011 with an exercise price of 37.30p, 495,978 (equivalent to 100% 
of the maximum award) vested on 8 June 2014 as the mid-market price of the Company’s shares on the five preceding trading 
days was 65.2p.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
82 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Granted 8 June 2011 – tested on 8 June 2014
Share price (p) % of shares under option that become exercisable
1
45 25
55 50
60 75
65 100
1 
With the corresponding number of shares being rounded down to the nearest whole number.
(iii) 2013 PSP awards performance testing during the year
The year ended 31 March 2015 was the second year in which awards were made under the 2013 PSP and none were due for testing 
in the same year.
(3) Variable elements of pay – awards made in year
Awards made to Executive Directors during the year under the 2013 PSP and associated performance conditions are set out 
below.
(i) 2013 PSP (granted in year) 
Awards equal to 100% of salary were made.
Type of award Face value Number of shares
2
Date of award
Robert Purcell Nil price Option £300,000 460,358 5 June 2014
Brian Tenner Nil price Option £185,000 283,887 5 June 2014
2 
The number of shares is based on the average mid-market share price for the three business days preceding the date of grant (65.17 pence).
The performance conditions attaching to options granted under the 2013 PSP in the year ended 31 March 2015, measured as 
the equivalent compound annual growth rate in adjusted EPS over a three year period from a base EPS for the year ended 
31 March 2014, are as follows. On achievement of threshold performance 25% of the award vests. Straight line vesting occurs 
between threshold and maximum performance.
Threshold Maximum
Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Performance period
20% 25% 30% 100% 3 years from 1 April 2014
(4) Payments to past Directors
No payments were made to past Directors during the year in respect of services provided to the Company as a Director. 
(5) Payments made for loss of office
No payments were made to a Director during the year in respect of loss of office.
Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
(1) Vesting history of the 2004 Options Plan and PSP
The following table shows the vesting history of the 2004 Options Plans over the last five years as a percentage of the total 
award to Executive Directors. The first awards under the 2013 PSP were made in the year ended 31 March 2014 and will be due 
for testing in July 2016.
Award 2007/08 
Vesting 2010/11
Award 2008/09 
Vesting 2011/12
Award 2009/10 
Vesting 2012/13
Award 2010/11 
Vesting 2013/14
Award 2011/12 
Vesting 2014/15
Vesting % Nil Nil Nil 47.9% 100%
The vested awards relate to options awarded to Brian Tenner in 2010/11 and 2011/12: further details are set out on page 82 and 
above.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
83
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration
continued
(2) Directors’ interests 
The beneficial interest of each of the Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company is detailed 
below and these amounts were unchanged between the year ended 31 March 2015 and the date of this report.
Executive Directors 
Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding equal to 100% of salary over a five year period. Unvested shares and 
unexercised options are not counted within the shareholding requirement. The table below sets out the extent to which this 
requirement was met as at 31 March 2015.
 31 March 2014
Shareholding 
requirement (% of 
salary)
Shareholding at 31 
March 2015
(% of salary) 31 March 2015
Robert Purcell 3,748,526 100% 675% 3,748,526
Brian Tenner 408,396 100% 119% 408,396
Non-Executive Directors
The shareholdings of the Non-Executive Directors are:
31 March 2015
Mark Harper 469,189
John Allkins 75,000 
Ian Griffiths 10,000 
The shareholdings of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are unchanged between 31 March 2015 and the date of 
this report.
(3) Directors’ share options 
Awards over shares in which the Executive Directors retain an interest are detailed in the table below and were unchanged 
between the year ended 31 March 2015 and the date of this report.
Number of share options 
Robert Purcell
Options 
held at 
1 April 
2014
Granted 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Options 
held at 
31 March 
2015
Options 
vested at 
31 March 
2015
Option 
price (p)
Date from
 which 
exercisable
Expiry
date
2004 Options Plan 1,145,038 – – 1,145,038 – 26.20 21.01.2016 20.01.2023
Total 2004 Options Plan 1,145,038 – – 1,145,038 –
2013 PSP 1,065,089 – – 1,065,089 – Nil 25.07.2016 25.07.2023
– 460,358 – 460,358 – Nil 05.06.2017 31.03.2024
Total 2013 PSP 1,065,089 460,358 – 1,525,447 –
Total 2,210,127 460,358 – 2,670,485 –
Number of share options 
Brian Tenner
Options 
held at 
1 April 
2014 
(restated)
1
Granted 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Options 
held at 
31 March 
2015
Options 
vested at 
31 March 
2015
Option 
price (p)
Date from
 which 
exercisable
Expiry
date
2004 Options Plan 311,444 – – 311,444 311,444 27.25 27.09.2013 26.09.2020
495,978 – – 495,978 495,978 37.30 08.06.2014 07.06.2021
Total 2004 Options Plan 807,422 – – 807,422 807,422
2013 PSP 656,805 – – 656,805 – Nil 25.07.2016 25.07.2023
– 283,887 – 283,887 – Nil 05.06.2017 31.03.2024
Total 2013 PSP 656,805 283,887 940,692 –
Total 1,464,227 283,887 – 1,748,114 807,422
1 
The prior year figures have been amended to restate the number of share options lapsed.
The performance conditions to which the share options are subject are disclosed on pages 79, 82 and 83 and are included in 
this audited information section by reference. None of the terms and conditions of the share options was varied in the year.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
84 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Performance graph and table 
The graph below shows the Company’s total shareholder return (share price growth plus dividends reinvested where 
applicable) for each of the last six financial years of a holding of shares in the Company against a hypothetical holding of shares 
in the FTSE All-Share Industrial Engineering index. The Committee considers this index to be an appropriate index for total 
shareholder return and comparison disclosure as it represents a broad equity index of which the Company is a constituent.
The market capitalisation of the Company at 31 March 2015 was £120.45m and the lowest and highest share prices during the 
year were 49.25p and 67.75p respectively, with a share price on 31 March 2015 of 54p.
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
31 March 2009 31 March 2015
Renold plc
FTSE All-Share Industrial Engineering Index
Source: Thomson Financial – Thomson One Banker
Chief Executive’s remuneration for the period  
2009/10 to 2014/15
The following table shows the history of the Chief Executive’s total remuneration and proportions of annual bonus and options 
vesting each year as a percentage of the maximum over the last six years. 
2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
Chief Executive’s total remuneration
1
 £’000 337 667 494 311 659 561
Annual bonus as % of maximum awarded 0 81 44 16 100 67
LTI as % of maximum vesting 100 0 0 0 N/A N/A
1 
The values use the same methodology as that shown in calculating the single figure basis of remuneration in the table on page 81. 
Chief Executive pay and employee pay 
The table below shows the percentage change from the preceding financial year in respect of the total of the Chief Executive’s 
remuneration (on a single total remuneration basis as shown in the table above on page 81).
Percentage change in salary Percentage change in benefits Percentage change in annual bonus
Chief Executive 0% 6% (33%)
Workforce
 2
<2%
3
0% (33%)
2 
The Group uses the UK workforce as an appropriate comparator group as the Executives are based in the UK and the structure of remuneration varies 
considerably based on local market practice in other countries in which the Group operates.
3 
The figures include only those employees who were not promoted and did not change role during the year to provide a like-for-like comparison.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
85
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration
continued
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below sets out the total of the Executive Directors’ remuneration (on a single total remuneration basis as shown in 
the table on page 81) compared to a number of other key financial metrics. The metrics chosen are considered of interest and 
relevance to both the Group’s actual performance in the period and also to be of relevance to different stakeholder groups.
Employee 
remuneration
Shareholder 
distributions
Market 
capitalisation Revenue
1
Adjusted 
operating profit
2
EBITDA
3
Executive 
Directors’ total 
remuneration
2015 £61.7m Nil £120.5m £181.4m £15.5m £20.8m £0.6m
2014 £64.0m Nil £124.4m £184.0m £11.1m £16.5m £1.1m
Difference (%) 4% Nil 3% 1% 40% 26%
1 
and 
2
 Note 2 to the Company financial statements sets out the calculation of revenue (total operating costs) and adjusted operating profit.
3
 EBITDA is adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation charges.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in next financial year
The Committee intends to operate the remuneration policy as set out in the Policy table and notes on pages 73 to 80 and as 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM for the next financial year. 
Base salary
Consistent with the timing of annual employee pay reviews across the Group, which are implemented with effect from 1 August, 
the Committee reviews base salaries for the Executive Directors annually at its July meeting. The Committee’s review of base 
salaries for the Executive Directors in July 2014 concluded that there would be no increase with effect from 1 August 2014. 
The next review will take place in July 2015 and any change implemented from 1 August 2015. The current base salaries for the 
Executive Directors are set out on page 82 and below:
2014/15
Robert Purcell £’000 300
Brian Tenner £’000 185
Annual bonus
The performance measures and weightings for the 2015/16 annual bonus are unchanged from 2014/15. The performance 
measures and weightings are as follows:
Weighting
Adjusted EBITDA 70%
Average net debt 30%
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, closed defined benefit pension scheme 
charges and exceptional items. Average net debt is the net sum of external borrowings, finance leases and cash and cash 
equivalents, measured at each month end to produce a simple annual average.
The performance targets for the annual bonus are based on internal targets and considered commercially sensitive. 
Consequently these will not be disclosed.
Long T erm Incentive Plan – 2013 PSP
The performance conditions attaching to options that will be granted under the 2013 PSP in the year commencing 1 April 
2015, measured as the equivalent CAGR in adjusted EPS over a three year period, are as follows. On achievement of threshold 
performance 25% of the award vests. Straight line vesting occurs between threshold and maximum performance. Performance 
will be measured from an adjusted EPS figure of 5.0p for the year to 31 March 2015.
Threshold Maximum
Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Performance period
20% 25% 30% 100% 3 years from 1 April 2015
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
86 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Adviser to the Committee
During the year, the Committee received independent 
advice from PwC in relation to remuneration reporting, 
share sourcing in connection with the exercise of options 
under the Company’s share plans, an update on market 
trends in executive remuneration and themes from the 
2014 AGM season. Total fees for services provided over the 
year amounted to £13,310 plus VAT. PwC was appointed 
by the Committee in 2014 following an assessment and 
interview process and has advised on various issues including 
remuneration policy and the Regulations and updating the 
Committee on trends in compensation matters. Fees charged 
have been on a time-spent basis. PwC is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to that group’s 
Code of Conduct. PwC has provided internal audit and pensions 
related services to the Company. The Committee has chosen to 
retain PwC as its adviser. 
The Committee is satisfied that the advice given on executive 
remuneration is objective and independent and that no conflict 
of interest arises as a result of these other services. 
In addition to external advice received from PwC, the 
Committee consulted and received reports from the 
Group Finance Director and the Group HR Director. At all 
times, the Committee recognises the need to identify and 
manage conflicts of interest when receiving reports from, or 
consulting with, the Executive Directors or members of senior 
management.
Statement of shareholder voting 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy 
received significant shareholder support at the AGM held on 
22 July 2014. Votes cast in respect of each of these at the 
2014 AGM are detailed in the table below.
Remuneration Report 2014 AGM %
Votes cast in favour 149,734,682 98.74
Votes cast against 1,916,225 1.26
Total 151,650,907
Votes withheld 58,786
Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM %
Votes cast in favour 149,644,229 98.68 
Votes cast against 1,999,735 1.32 
Total 151,643,964 
Votes withheld 65,729 
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Ian Griffiths
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
26 May 2015
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
87
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The Directors submit their report and the financial statements 
as set out on pages 94 to 148.
The Directors’ report, which comprises pages 88 to 90, 
sets out certain information in relation to the Company in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and the FCA’s Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Strategic Report provides an overview of the 
performance of the business in the year ended 31 March 2015 
and covers likely future developments in the business of the 
Company and the Group.
In accordance with section 414C (11) of the Companies Act 
2006, information about the employment of disabled persons, 
employee involvement and greenhouse gas emissions, which 
is required to be included in the Directors’ report, has been 
included in the Strategic Report. The Corporate Governance 
report also forms part of the Directors’ Report. Where 
statutory disclosures have been made elsewhere in the 
Annual Report and Accounts, they are cross referenced in the 
table on page 90 and therefore incorporated by reference.
Group
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in 
England, registered number 249688, with its registered office 
at Renold House, Styal Road, Wythenshawe, Manchester 
M22 5WL. 
The Group is an international engineering group, producing 
a wide range of high quality engineering products which are 
sold in over 100 countries worldwide. 
Results
Profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2015 is 
£7.7m compared with a loss of £5.9m for the year ended 
31 March 2014.
Dividends
Details about dividend policy are set out on page 106 of the 
Group financial statements.
The Board has decided to recommend that no ordinary 
dividend be paid in respect of the year ended 31 March 2015, 
but it will consider future dividend policy in the light of results 
from the business going forward.
Dividend payments in respect of the 6% cumulative 
preference stock in the Company were made on 1 July 2014 
and 1 January 2015.
Directors' appointment and replacement
The appointment and replacement of Directors of the 
Company is governed by its articles of association and 
legislation. The Company’s articles of association give power to 
the Board to appoint Directors to fill a vacancy or as additional 
Directors, but also require Directors to retire and submit 
themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting 
following their appointment. In addition, all Non-Executive 
Directors are subject to annual election: please refer to the 
Corporate Governance report on page 58 for further details. 
As a result, Mark Harper, John Allkins and Ian Griffiths will be 
standing for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, 
appointments to the Board are recommended by the Nomination 
Committee for approval by the Board. For a full description of 
the Company’s policy on appointments to the Board, see the 
Nomination Committee report at pages 68 and 69.
Shareholders may also appoint a Director by ordinary 
resolution.
Directors’ interests
Details of the interests of the Directors and their connected 
persons in the Company’s share capital and in options held 
under the Company’s share option schemes, along with 
any changes in such interests since the end of the year, are 
detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 70 to 
87. No Director had any interests in contracts of significance in 
relation to the Company’s business during the year.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
Liability insurance for directors and officers was maintained 
throughout the year. No qualifying third party indemnity 
provision or qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision 
was in force when this Directors’ report was approved or was 
in force during the year.
Conflicts of interest
The Company’s articles of association were amended at the 
2008 Annual General Meeting, in line with the Companies 
Act 2006, to allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts 
of interest of Directors, on such terms (if any) as the Board 
thinks fit when giving any authorisation. Any decision of the 
Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective if it is 
approved without the conflicted Directors voting or without 
their votes being counted and, in making such a decision, the 
Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be 
most likely to promote the success of the Company. The Board 
considers that the procedures it has in place for reporting and 
considering conflicts of interest are effective and a review of 
previously approved conflicts is carried out annually.
Shares
Share capital
As at 31 March 2015, the issued share capital of the Company 
was £27,146,657.75 divided into 223,064,703 ordinary shares 
of 5p each, 580,482 units of 6% cumulative preference stock 
of £1 each and 77,064,703 deferred shares of 20p each. The 
ordinary shares represent 41.08% of the Company’s total 
share capital, the preference stock represents 2.14% and the 
deferred shares represent 56.78%. The Company’s ordinary 
shares and preference stock are listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. The deferred shares have no voting or dividend 
rights and are not able to be traded.
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the 2014 
Annual General Meeting to make market purchases of up to 
22,306,470 ordinary shares in the Company, which remains 
Directors’ Report
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
88 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
outstanding until the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General 
Meeting. The minimum price which must be paid for any 
ordinary share is the nominal value of such share at the time 
of the purchase and the maximum price is that permitted 
under the FCA’s Listing Rules or, in the case of a tender offer, 
5% above the average of the middle market quotations of 
the Company’s ordinary shares as derived from the London 
Stock Exchange’s Daily Official List for the five business days 
immediately preceding the date on which the tender offer is 
announced. As at the date of this report, the Company had 
not purchased any of its own ordinary shares in the market 
pursuant to such authority. The Directors will seek authority 
from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 22,306,470 
of its own ordinary shares (which represents approximately 
10% of the Company’s ordinary share capital as at the date 
of this report) either to be cancelled or retained as treasury 
shares. 
Details of the Company’s share capital are also set out in Note 
19 to the Group financial statements on page 131.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s shares 
are contained in the Company’s articles of association, a copy 
of which is available at www.renold.com or can be obtained 
upon request to the Company Secretary. The articles of 
association may only be changed by a special resolution 
passed at a general meeting of the Company.
Voting rights
The Directors confirm that no person has any special rights of 
control over the Company’s share capital and that no shares 
have been issued that carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. 
Participants in employee share schemes have no voting or 
other rights in respect of the shares subject to those awards 
until the options are exercised, at which time the shares rank 
pari passu in all respects with shares already in issue. No such 
schemes carry any special rights with regard to control of  
the Company. 
No member shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, 
be entitled to vote at a general meeting either personally 
or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by 
membership in relation to meetings of the Company, if any 
call or other sum presently payable by him to the Company 
in respect of such shares remains unpaid. The Directors 
also have powers to suspend voting rights in certain limited 
circumstances when a shareholder has failed to comply with a 
notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights and 
appointing a proxy or proxies in respect of the resolutions to 
be considered at the Annual General Meeting are set out in 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Major shareholdings
As at 31 March 2015, the Company had been notified of the 
following major holdings of voting rights attached to its 
ordinary shares under the FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule 5:
Shareholder
Number of  
voting rights
% of total number 
of voting rights
Schroder Investment Management 34,094,214 15.28
Prudential plc group of companies, 
of which 11% is managed by M&G 
Investment Funds 3
1 
33,343,324 14.95
Henderson Global Investors Limited 25,959,814 11.64
JP Morgan Asset Management 24,353,229 10.92
Rights and Issues Investment Trust 
plc 8,480,000 3.80
AXA Framlington 8,373,982 3.75
1 
M&G Investment Funds 3 is an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC) and 
is not a Prudential group company and must be separately disclosed. The 
Prudential plc group holding includes the holding of M&G Investment funds 
3 as M&G Investment Management Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Prudential plc.
Subsequent to 31 March 2015, the Company was notified of 
the following: by Schroder Investment Management,  
a reduction in its shareholding to 14.93% ordinary shares; 
and by JP Morgan Asset Management, an increase in its 
shareholding to 11.01% ordinary shares. 
No major shareholder had any interest in derivatives or 
financial instruments relating to shares carrying voting rights 
that are linked to the Company’s shares.
Directors’ rights in respect of shares
The Board, which is responsible for the management of the 
Company’s business, may exercise all the powers of the 
Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation 
and the Company’s articles of association. The powers of the 
Directors set out in the articles of association include those in 
relation to the issue and buyback of shares.
Issue of shares
The Directors are authorised to issue equity securities either 
by way of a rights issue or in any other way, provided that 
the shares issued other than by way of a rights issue, open 
offer or other pre-emptive offer or under the various share 
option schemes of the Company be limited to shares with 
an aggregate nominal value of £557,661.76, being equal to 
5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the Company’s 
ordinary share capital in issue as at the date of the Notice of 
the Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting. The authority 
will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The 
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting to issue equity securities either by way of 
a rights issue or in any other way, provided that the shares 
issued other than by way of a rights issue, open offer or other 
pre-emptive offer or under the various share option schemes 
of the Company be limited to shares with an aggregate 
nominal value of £557,661.76.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
89
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
In addition, the Directors have authority to allot shares up to 
a maximum nominal amount of £7,428,054.61, representing 
approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital 
as at the date of the Notice of the Company’s 2014 Annual 
General Meeting. The authority will expire at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. The Directors will seek authority 
from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to allot 
shares up to a maximum nominal amount of £7,428,054.61, 
representing approximately 66.6% of the issued ordinary 
share capital as at the date of the Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting.
Transfer of shares
The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times 
and for such periods as the Directors may determine. The 
Directors may refuse to register the transfer of any share 
which is not a fully paid-up share and may refuse to register 
any transfer in favour of more than four persons jointly. 
The Directors may also refuse to recognise any instrument 
of transfer unless it is in respect of any one class of share, 
is lodged at the requisite place and, where appropriate, is 
accompanied by any relevant share certificate and such other 
evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the 
right of the transferor to make the transfer. 
The Directors may suspend transfers where a shareholder has 
failed to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of shares in 
the Company other than certain restrictions which may from 
time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, 
insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close 
periods) and pursuant to the FCA’s Listing Rules whereby 
certain employees of the Company require the approval of the 
Company to deal in the Company’s securities.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities which may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or voting rights.
Donations
During the year, the Group made no political donations.
Contracts: Change of control provisions
The Company’s main UK banking facilities agreement with 
Lloyds Bank plc and Svenska Handelsbanken AB contains a 
change of control provision. This requires the Company to 
provide notification to the agent in the event of a change 
of control. The banks may then demand cancellation and 
repayment of the commitments and the loans. 
The share subscription and shareholders’ agreement between  
L. G. Balakrishnan & Bros Ltd, Renold International Holdings 
Limited and Renold Chain India Private Limited dated 24 
June 2008 contains certain change of control provisions. 
On the change of control of a shareholder (being one of the 
parties to the agreement), the other shareholder has a right 
to terminate the agreement and/or to require the shareholder 
suffering the change of control to sell, at a fair price, all of its 
equity shares to the terminating shareholder or a nominee of 
such shareholder. 
No other material contracts contain change of control 
provisions. 
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for 
loss of office or employment (whether through resignation, 
purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a 
takeover bid. 
Note 18 to the Group financial statements on pages 126 to 130 
details the Group’s obligations to contribute to the UK defined 
benefit pension schemes.
Details of the effect of any change of control in relation to 
awards under the long term incentive plan are set out on page 
78 within the Directors’ remuneration report.
Going concern
After making enquiries, we, the Directors, have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
We therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
The basis on which this conclusion has been reached is set out 
on page 100 which is incorporated by reference here.
Other disclosures
Directors’ biographical details and date of appointment 54 & 55
Employee involvement 43 & 44
Employment of disabled persons 44
Financial instruments Note 25 to the Group financial 
statements
133 to 
137
Greenhouse gas emissions 44 & 45
Important events affecting the Group since 31 March 2015 
Note 27 to the Group financial statements 138
Statement on disclosure to auditor 91
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 91 & 92
The Directors’ report was approved by the Board on 
26 May 2015.
For and on behalf of the Board:
Louise Brace
Company Secretary 
26 May 2015
Directors’ Report
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
90 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law and regulations and IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Consolidated 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, 
the directors must not approve the Consolidated financial 
statements for the Group unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
Under IFRS, the directors are required to prepare financial 
statements that present fairly the financial position of the 
Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the 
Group for that period.
In preparing the Consolidated financial statements, the 
directors are required to:
 Æ select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 
and apply them consistently; 
 Æ present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
 Æ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable; 
 Æ provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial 
performance; 
 Æ state that the Group has complied with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and 
 Æ prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records, which show and explain the Group’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial 
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic 
Report, the Directors’ Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the Corporate Governance Report in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, 
including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Parent company financial statements prepared  
under UK GAAP
The directors are responsible for preparing the parent 
company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the 
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP. Under company law, the directors 
must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and of the profit and loss of the 
Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are 
required to: 
 Æ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
 Æ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
 Æ state whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and 
 Æ prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities. 
The directors who were members of the Board at the time 
of approving the Directors’ report are listed on pages 54 and 
55. Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the 
Company’s auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: 
 Æ to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is 
no information (that is, information needed by the Group’s 
auditor in connection with preparing its report) of which 
the Company’s auditor is unaware; and 
 Æ each Director has taken all the steps a Director might 
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of 
relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
In Relation to the Group Financial Statements and  
Annual Report
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
91
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
In Relation to the Group Financial Statements and  
Annual Report
continued
Directors’ responsibility statements pursuant to DTR4
Each of us, for himself and on behalf of each other director 
who held office on 31 March 2015, confirms that, to the best of 
his knowledge: 
 Æ the Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
result of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation as a whole; and 
 Æ the Strategic Report (comprising pages 10 to 49) and the 
Directors’ report (on pages 88 to 90) includes fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
 Æ the Board confirms that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the performance, strategy and business model of 
the Company.
On behalf of the Board:
Robert Purcell Brian Tenner
Chief Executive Finance Director
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
92 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The Company’s website at www.renold.com, which presents 
additional information about the Group, is regularly updated 
and includes the posting of the interim and final preliminary 
results and interim management statements on the day they 
are announced. 
If you wish to advise a change of name, address, or dividend 
mandate, please contact the Company’s registrar, Capita 
Asset Services, whose contact details appear on page 149. 
Alternatively, you can view up-to-date information and 
manage your shareholding through Capita’s share portal 
where you will be able to access and maintain your holding at 
your own convenience. You will require your unique investor 
code, which can be found on your share certificate. The URL 
for the portal is www.capitashareportal.com 
Beware of share fraud
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure 
investors into scams. They may offer to sell shares that turn 
out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an 
inflated price in return for an upfront payment. While high 
profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you 
will probably lose your money.
How to avoid share fraud
1. Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely 
to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell 
shares. 
2. Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the 
person and firm contacting you and then end the call. 
3. Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk 
to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised 
by the FCA. 
4. Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised 
firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details. 
5. Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you 
want to call it back. 
6. Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have 
contact details on the Register or you are told they are out 
of date. 
7. Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 
www.fca.org.uk/scams. 
8. Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 
unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. 
9. Think about getting independent financial and professional 
advice before you hand over any money. 
10. Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! 
Report a scam 
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using 
the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, 
where you can find out more about investment scams. 
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 
0800 111 6768. 
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you 
should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Shareholder Information
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
93
Governance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
94
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
94
Financial  
Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
95
Financial Statements
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
Contents
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Renold plc  96
Accounting Policies 100
Consolidated Income Statement 108
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 109
Consolidated Balance Sheet 110
Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity 111
Consolidated Statement  
of Cashflows 112
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 113
Group Five Year Financial Review  139
Company only:
Accounting Policies  140
Company Balance Sheet  142
Company Statement of Total  
Recognised Gains and Losses 143
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements  144
Corporate Information 149
Glossary 150
95
People
The ability to deliver our Strategic Plan depends 
upon our people. Building upon our existing 
capability we will continue to strengthen 
our teams, develop our people and create a 
sustainable pipeline of talent for the future.  23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 Æ the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as 
at 31 March 2015 and of the group’s profit for the year then 
ended;
 Æ the group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union;
 Æ the parent company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 Æ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as 
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of Renold plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2015 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated 
Accounting Policies and the related Notes 1 to 27, the 
Company Balance Sheet, the Company Statement of Total 
Recognised Gains and Losses and the Company Accounting 
Policies and the related notes i to xv.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent company financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the company and the company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have 
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 91, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report. 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
T o the Members of Renold plc 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of material misstatement in the financial statements and 
consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources and, the efforts of the engagement 
team, including the more senior members of the team:
Principal risk area and rationale Audit response
Revenue recognition
Refer to page 101 (notes).
There is a risk concerning inappropriate revenue recognition when 
the risks and rewards of the product have not yet passed to the 
customer and revenue is recognised. As such revenue recognition 
has been held as an area of audit focus.
We carried out substantive testing, including cut-off testing 
verifying the recognition of revenue to contractual shipping terms 
and goods dispatched. We also performed analytical procedures 
to identify significant fluctuations and trends which were further 
investigated.
We undertook a review of credit notes raised post year end and 
detailed test of transactions back to supporting evidence.
We also audited a sample of manual revenue journal entries to 
underlying evidence to assess appropriateness.
We confirmed managements’ policies for revenue recognition 
continue to be robust and are applied consistently.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
96 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Principal risk area and rationale Audit response
Inventory provision
Refer to page 64 (Audit Committee Report) and Note 11.
Inventory provision is generated automatically by the system based 
on age of stock and historical usage with management adjustment 
for known anomalies, for example new stock lines with no history. 
This level of management adjustment can leave the stock provision 
susceptible to error/ judgement.
We tested the standard costs used to value inventory at year end, 
such as agreeing back to invoices, and challenged management’s 
key assumptions, such as labour and overhead absorption rates 
compared to actual costs. 
We tested management’s calculation of the inventory provision, 
challenged management judgements formed in adjusting the 
system generated provision for appropriateness and confirmed that 
the provision was derived in line with Group policy.
We reviewed the inventory provision compared to the prior year 
and investigated any unusual movements.
We also checked that a consistent approach to inventory valuation 
and provisioning had been adopted globally
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes
Refer to page 64 (Audit Committee Report) and Note 18.
Small changes in the underlying assumptions used to value these 
schemes have a material impact on the Group’s balance sheet. 
Volatility in capital markets means that asset values can change 
significantly in a short period of time.
We utilised our own actuarial experts to benchmark and consider 
an appropriate range for the key assumptions underpinning the 
calculation of the pension liabilities.
We also utilised our own actuarial experts to challenge the 
appropriateness and consistency of the methodology used by 
management’s actuaries to calculate the liabilities for the pension 
scheme.
We reviewed the adequacy of pension disclosures provided in the 
financial statements and compliance with the requirements of IAS 
19 (revised).
We obtained confirmation of the pension assets from the asset 
managers and performed procedures to verify that assets have 
been appropriately valued.
Deferred tax 
Refer to page 64 (Audit Committee Report) and Note 17.
The recoverability of these assets needs to be considered, taking 
into account the forecast taxable profits of the individual trading 
entities as well as the ability to utilise losses against future profits.
We performed audit procedures on the calculation and disclosure 
of deferred tax to assess compliance with local tax rules and the 
group’s accounting policies, including review by our Tax specialists 
to ensure it has been recognised in accordance with local tax 
regulations.
We considered the appropriateness of management’s assumptions 
and estimates in relation to the likelihood of generating suitable 
future taxable profits, such as the appropriateness of profit 
forecasts, to support the recognition of deferred tax assets 
described in note 17, challenging those assumptions and considering 
supporting forecasts and estimates.
We reviewed the adequacy of deferred tax disclosures provided in 
the financial statements and compliance with the requirements of 
IAS 12.
Following a review of the tax base of the unfunded pension 
scheme in Germany, it was identified that the value of the tax 
base that had been used in calculating the deferred tax asset on 
the German pension deficit in 2014 was understated. The effect 
of this restatement has been to reduce, for the prior period, the 
closing recognised deferred tax asset by £4.2m. Please refer to 
the Accounting Policies on page 107 for further details. The tax 
credit shown in other comprehensive income in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income in the prior year has been 
reduced by the same amount. The restatement has no impact on the 
current or prior year income statement, cash flows or earnings per 
share.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
97
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
In 2014 we highlighted that Group restructure was identified 
as a significant risk in relation to the Bredbury closure. As this 
project was completed in the first quarter of the current year 
with only £0.2m additional costs recorded, this was no longer 
considered to be a significant risk. Hence the risk has not been 
included in the risk table above.
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning 
and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of 
misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements. 
For the purposes of determining whether the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement we define 
materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes 
it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably 
knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, 
would be changed or influenced. 
We determined planning materiality for the group to be 
£480,000, (2014: £415,000), which is approximately 5% (2014: 
5%) of adjusted pre-tax profit (2014: 5% of forecast adjusted 
profit before interest and tax). We used adjusted pre-tax 
profits (2014: forecast adjusted profit before interest and tax) 
to exclude the exceptional items of £2.9m (2014: £11.8m) as 
described in note 2 (c). This provided a basis for determining 
the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, 
identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement 
and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit 
procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our 
assessment of the group’s overall control environment, our 
judgement was that overall performance materiality (i.e. 
our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account 
or balance) for the group should be 50% (2014 50%) of 
planning materiality, namely £240,000 (2014: £207,000). Our 
objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total 
uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts 
did not exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based 
on a percentage of our total performance materiality. The 
performance materiality set for each component is based on 
the relative size of the component and our view of the risk 
of misstatement at that component. In the current year the 
range of performance materiality allocated to components 
was £48,000 to £144,000.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report 
to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £24,000 
(2014: £20,750) as well as differences below that threshold 
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the 
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in 
the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement 
to the Group financial statements, we selected components 
which represent the twelve (2014: fourteen) principal business 
units within the Group’s two divisions and account for 86% 
(2014: 69%) of the group’s profit before tax (2014: profit 
before interest and tax) and 83% (2014: 86%) of the group’s 
total revenue. 
■ Full
■ Speciﬁc
■ Review
Proﬁt before tax %
11%
75%
14%
■ Full
■ Speciﬁc
■ Review
Revenue %
14%
69%
17%
 
Six (2014: five) of these were subject to a full audit, whilst 
on the remaining six (2014: nine) specific audit procedures 
were performed including full audit of the accounts that were 
impacted by our assessed risks of material misstatement and 
the materiality of the Group’s business operations at those 
locations. They were also selected to provide an appropriate 
basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of 
material misstatement identified above. For the remaining 
components, we performed other procedures to confirm 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the 
Group financial statements.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of 
planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the 
Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each full 
scope location at least once every other year on a rotational 
basis. This year the group team visited five out of six full 
scope locations. For all entities in scope, the Group audit 
team reviewed key working papers and participated in the 
component team’s audit planning, including the component 
team’s discussion of fraud and error, and the audit closing 
meeting.
Independent Auditor’s Report 
T o the Members of Renold plc 
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
98 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006 
In our opinion:
 Æ the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006;
 Æ the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
 Æ materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
 Æ apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or 
 Æ is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement 
that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit 
committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion: 
 Æ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 Æ the Parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 Æ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or 
 Æ we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 Æ the directors’ statement, set out on page 90, in relation to 
going concern; and 
 Æ the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating 
to the company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Gary Harding
(Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, 
Statutory Auditor 
Manchester 
26 May 2015
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
99
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Basis of preparation
Renold plc is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial 
statements of the Company comprise the Company and 
its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group). The 
Company financial statements present information about 
the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU. In addition, the 
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to groups 
reporting under IFRS. 
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company 
financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are 
presented on pages 140 to 148. The financial statements were 
approved by the Board on 26 May 2015.
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 March 
2015. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or 
has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its 
power over the investee. Specifically, the Group controls an 
investee if, and only if, the Group has: 
 Æ Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it 
the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the 
investee); 
 Æ Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee;
 Æ The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its 
returns.  
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting 
rights result in control. To support this presumption and when 
the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar 
rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts 
and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an 
investee, including: 
 Æ The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders 
of the investee; 
 Æ Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; 
 Æ The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights. 
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee 
if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to 
one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation 
of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over 
the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of 
the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of 
a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the consolidated financial statements from the 
date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases 
to control the subsidiary. 
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive 
income 'OCI' are attributed to the equity holders of the parent 
of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if 
this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit 
balance. When necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting 
policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-
group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash 
flows relating to transactions between members of the Group 
are eliminated in full on consolidation.    
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a 
loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. 
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises 
the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-
controlling interest and other components of equity while 
any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any 
investment retained is recognised at fair value.  
The results and financial position of Renold Scottish Limited 
Partnership ('SLP') have been consolidated in the consolidated 
financial statements of Renold plc. Renold plc is the parent 
undertaking of the general partner in the SLP (see Note (xv) to 
the Company financial statements). To determine that Renold 
plc has control over the SLP, we considered the following 
activities, benefits and risks:
Activities – the SLP was established by Renold plc as a means 
of funding its pension obligation in an efficient manner.
Benefits – during the 25 year period, the Schemes will receive 
substantially all of the SLP’s income. However, after this 
period, the Renold Group is entitled to any remaining income 
generated in the SLP, together with any other residual value 
in the SLP.
Risks – the Group bears the risks incidental to the activities 
of the SLP because it retains the obligation to ensure the 
Schemes are appropriately funded. 
Accordingly, advantage has been taken of the exemption 
conferred by paragraph 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) 
Regulations 2008 from the requirements for preparation, 
delivery and publication of the partnership’s accounts.
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis. In determining the appropriate basis of 
preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are 
required to consider whether the Group can continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Further information in relation to the Group’s business 
activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position is set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 10 to 49.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Strategic Report on pages 10 to 49. In addition Note 25 to the 
financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies 
Accounting Policies
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
100 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities and its exposure to foreign exchange, 
credit and interest rate risk. Further details of the Group’s 
cash balances and borrowings are included in Notes 13, 14 and 
24 of the financial statements. Note 27, Post Balance Sheet 
Events, includes additional information on the revisions to the 
core banking agreement signed after the year end.
The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements 
of the Group and the Company and compared them to the 
level of available borrowing facilities. The assessment included 
a detailed review of financial and cash flow forecasts, financial 
instruments and hedging arrangements for at least the 12 
month period from the date of signing the Annual Report 
and Accounts. The Directors considered a range of potential 
scenarios within the key markets the Group serves and how 
these might impact the Group’s cash flow, facility headroom 
and banking covenants. The Directors also considered what 
mitigating actions the Group could take to limit any adverse 
consequences. The Group’s forecasts and projections show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its 
borrowing facilities and covenants. 
Having undertaken this work, the Directors are of the opinion 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency translation
Items included in the financial statements of each entity 
in the Group are measured using the currency that best 
reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and 
circumstances relevant to that entity (the functional currency). 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
Sterling, which is the functional and presentational currency 
of the parent company, Renold plc. 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
date of the transaction or average rates where applicable. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at 
year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the 
income statement, except for monetary items that form part 
of the net investment in foreign operations which are taken to 
other comprehensive income. 
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated 
into Sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the end of 
the financial year. Income statements and cash flows are 
translated at the appropriate average rates of exchange for 
the year. Differences on exchange arising on the re-translation 
of net assets in overseas subsidiaries at the beginning of the 
year, borrowings used to finance or provide a hedge against 
those investments and from the translation of the results 
at average rates are taken directly to other comprehensive 
income. On loss of control of a foreign entity, related exchange 
differences previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income are recognised in the income statement as part of the 
gain or loss on sale. 
Revenue 
Revenue comprises the fair value of goods and services 
provided to external customers after deducting value added 
tax or other sales related taxes and trade discounts. Revenue 
from the sale of goods is recognised when significant risks and 
rewards of ownership of goods are transferred to the buyer 
which is normally the point of despatch. Revenue from the sale 
of services is recognised when the service has been provided.
Exceptional items 
Items which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, 
are material to an understanding of the Group’s financial 
performance are separately disclosed as memorandum 
information on the face of the income statement. Examples 
are costs incurred in restructuring the Group, significant asset 
impairments and discount adjustments on onerous lease 
provisions. 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or 
sale are capitalised as part of the costs of the respective assets. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they 
occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that 
an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Taxation 
The tax charge comprises current tax payable and deferred 
tax.
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. The 
current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts 
payable to tax authorities in respect of taxable profits. It 
is based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or 
substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in 
the consolidated financial statements. Currently enacted, or 
substantively enacted, tax rates as at the balance sheet date 
are used in the determination of deferred income tax.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences can be utilised or 
taxable profit will be available against which unused tax 
losses can be utilised before they expire.
Deferred income tax is provided on taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where 
the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be 
controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
101
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is 
reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income 
tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are 
recognised to the extent that it has become probable that 
future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be 
recovered. 
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly 
in other comprehensive income is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and not the income statement. 
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited to equity if it 
relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity. 
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities 
are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current 
income tax assets against current income tax liabilities 
and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable 
authority and taxable entity, or where deferred tax relates to 
different taxable entities, the tax authority permits the Group 
to make a single net payment.
Business combinations and goodwill – prior to  
1 April 2010
The purchase method of accounting was used to account 
for the acquisition of subsidiaries of the Group. Goodwill 
represents the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over 
the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired 
entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill arising on the 
acquisition of an entity is included as an intangible asset. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested at least annually for 
impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses. Any impairment charge is recognised immediately in 
the income statement.
In circumstances where the fair value of the interest acquired 
in an entity’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
exceeds the consideration paid, the excess is recognised 
immediately as a gain in the income statement.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3: 
Business combinations to business acquisitions that occurred 
before 4 April 2004. Therefore, the carrying amount of 
goodwill (being cost less accumulated amortisation) included 
under UK GAAP forms the ‘cost’ of goodwill recognised under 
IFRS at the date of transition. Goodwill that was written off 
directly to reserves under former UK GAAP will not be taken 
into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of 
previously acquired businesses after 4 April 2004.
Business combinations and goodwill – post 1 April 2010
There have been no business combinations post 1 April 
2010. IFRS 3R will apply for any business combinations 
prospectively and will result in the following changes in 
accounting treatment from the policy adopted prior to 
1 April 2010: 
 Æ Acquisition costs incurred will be expensed and included in 
expenses.
 Æ Contingent consideration will be recognised at fair value 
at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair 
value of the contingent consideration will be recognised in 
accordance with IAS 39 either in the profit or loss account 
or in other comprehensive income.
Intangible assets
(a) Computer software
Computer software that is not integral to an item of plant 
and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible 
asset. Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis so as 
to charge the cost of software to the income statement over 
its expected useful life which is between three and seven 
years. Costs associated with maintaining computer software 
programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
(b) Research and development
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design 
and testing of new or improved products) are only recognised 
as intangible assets in circumstances where certain strict 
criteria are satisfied. These include the expectation that it 
is probable that the project will be a success, considering 
its commercial and technological feasibility, and that all 
associated costs can be measured reliably. Otherwise 
development expenditure is recognised as an expense as 
incurred. Development costs previously recognised as an 
expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent 
period. Development costs that have been capitalised are 
amortised from the commencement of the commercial 
production of the product on a straight-line basis over the 
period of its expected benefit.
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being 
purchase cost plus any incidental costs of acquisition, less 
accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis so as to 
charge the depreciable amount of the respective assets to the 
income statement over their expected useful lives. The useful 
lives of assets are as follows:
 Years
Freehold buildings 50
Leasehold properties 50 years or the period  
of the lease if less
General plant and equipment 15
Fixtures 15
Precision cutting and  
grinding machines
10
Motor vehicles 3
Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually 
and where adjustments are required these are made 
prospectively. Where the carrying amount of an asset is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written 
down immediately to its recoverable amount.
Accounting Policies
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
102 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing 
proceeds with carrying amounts and are included in operating 
profit.
As permitted by IFRS 1, at 4 April 2004, the Group has 
measured its freehold properties on a fair value basis and 
used that value as the deemed cost at the transition date.
Asset impairment 
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed, at least annually, to ensure that assets are not 
carried above their recoverable amounts. Where some 
indication of impairment exists, calculations are made of the 
discounted cash flows resulting from continued use of the 
assets (value in use) or from their disposal (fair value less 
costs to sell). Where these values are less than the carrying 
amount of the assets, an impairment loss is charged to the 
income statement. 
Leases 
Tangible assets held under finance leases, which are those 
where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised in the 
balance sheet at the lower of the fair value of the leased 
asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the 
shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term. The 
corresponding liability to the leasing company, net of finance 
charges, is included as an obligation under finance leases 
in creditors. The interest element of the lease payment is 
charged to the income statement on a basis which produces a 
constant rate of charge over the period of the liability.
Leases where a significant portion of the risk and reward of 
ownership is retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any 
incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 
Investment property 
One of the Group’s properties is classified as an investment 
property on the basis that it will be held for the long-term, 
earning a rental income. This is a contractual arrangement 
arising from the disposal of a former business segment.
The investment property was previously a manufacturing 
facility of the Group but owner-occupation ceased upon 
disposal of the automotive business. On the date of disposal a 
transfer was made from property to investment property. An 
impairment charge was made against the book value in the 
year, writing down the value of this property to nil. See Note 9.
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated 
net realisable value, after due allowance for obsolete or 
slow moving items. Cost includes all direct expenditure and 
attributable overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods 
to their current state under normal operating conditions. The 
first in, first out method of valuation is used. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of 
business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses. 
In the Group accounts, unrealised profit on sales within the 
Group is deducted from inventories.
Assets held for sale 
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount 
will be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the 
business and where the sale is highly probable. Assets that 
are classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of 
their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
T rade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original 
invoice amount less an allowance for any identified 
impairment. The impairment allowance is charged to the 
income statement when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not collect all amounts due under the original 
terms of the transaction. Balances are written off when the 
probability of recovery is assessed as remote.
Financial assets and liabilities
(a) Financial assets 
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes 
a party to the contracts that give rise to them and are 
classified as financial assets at fair value through the income 
statement or loans and receivables, as appropriate. The Group 
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial 
recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates 
this designation at each financial year end. When financial 
assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair 
value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial 
assets not at fair value through the income statement, directly 
attributable transaction costs. The Group considers whether 
a contract contains an embedded derivative when the entity 
first becomes a party to it. The embedded derivatives are 
separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair 
value through the income statement and when the economic 
characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the 
host contract. Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in 
the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash 
flows that would otherwise be required.
All standard purchases and sales of financial assets are 
recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. Standard transactions 
require delivery of assets within the time frame generally 
established by regulation or convention in the market place. 
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on 
their classification, as follows:
(i) Financial assets at fair value through the income statement:
Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets 
designated as such on inception are included in this category. 
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are 
acquired for sale in the short term. Derivatives, including 
separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held 
for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging 
instruments. Assets are carried in the balance sheet at fair 
value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement. 
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
103
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Financial assets may be designated at initial recognition as 
at fair value through the income statement if the following 
criteria are met: (i) the designation eliminates or significantly 
reduces the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise 
arise from measuring the assets or recognising gains or 
losses on them on a different basis; or (ii) the assets are part 
of a group of financial assets which are managed and their 
performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance 
with a documented risk management strategy; or (iii) the 
financial asset contains an embedded derivative that would 
need to be separately recorded.
(ii) Loans and receivables: 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets 
with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in 
an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have 
not been designated as either fair value through the income 
statement or available for sale. Such assets are carried at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time 
value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognised 
in the income statement when the loans and receivables are 
derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation 
process.
(b) Impairment of financial assets 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a 
financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
(i) Assets carried at amortised cost: 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on 
assets carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the 
amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have 
not been incurred), discounted at the financial asset’s original 
effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed 
at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset 
is reduced, through the use of an allowance account. The 
amount of the loss is recognised in administration costs. 
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment 
loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively 
to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, 
the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any 
subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the 
income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the 
asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment 
is made when there is objective evidence (such as the 
probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties 
of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of 
the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The 
carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of 
an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when 
they are assessed as irrecoverable.
(ii) Assets carried at cost: 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an 
unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value 
because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on 
a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by 
delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, has been 
incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market 
rate of return for a similar financial asset.
(c) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when 
the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are 
measured initially at the fair value of consideration received 
less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial 
recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, 
settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are 
recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance cost. 
(d) Financial liabilities at fair value through the income 
statement 
Includes financial liabilities held for trading and financial 
liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value 
through the income statement. 
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they 
are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. 
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are 
also classified as held for trading unless they are designated 
as effective hedging instruments. Gains or losses on liabilities 
held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as 
forward currency contracts to hedge its risks associated with 
foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Since 1 April 
2005, such derivative financial instruments have been initially 
recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative 
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at 
fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value 
is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by 
reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts 
with similar maturity profiles.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which 
hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is 
formally designated and documented at its inception. This 
documentation identifies the risk management objective and 
strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, 
the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being 
hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout 
its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be 
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash 
flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine 
that they actually have been highly effective throughout the 
reporting period for which they were designated.
Accounting Policies
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
104 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: 
 Æ Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in 
cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk 
associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly 
probable forecast transaction; or 
 Æ Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
There are no fair value hedges.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value 
of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
taken to the income statement. The treatment of gains 
and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as 
hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging 
relationship, as follows: 
(a) Cash flow hedges 
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or 
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in 
other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion 
is recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken to 
other comprehensive income are transferred to the income 
statement when the hedged transaction affects the income 
statement, such as when a forecast sale occurs. 
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income are transferred to the income statement. If the 
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised 
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a 
hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast 
transaction occurs and are transferred to the income 
statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial 
asset or liability as above. If the related transaction is 
not expected to occur, the amount is taken to the income 
statement.
(b) Hedges of a net investment 
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including 
a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part 
of the net investment, are accounted for in a way similar to 
cash flow hedges. Gains or losses relating to the effective 
portion are recognised in other comprehensive income while 
any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are 
recognised in the income statement. On loss of control of the 
foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or 
losses recognised directly in other comprehensive income is 
transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other 
host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their 
risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the 
host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value 
with changes in its fair value recognised in the income statement.
From 1 April 2005, the Group’s 6% cumulative preference stock 
of £1 each ‘Preference Stock’ has been classified as a liability. 
Dividends payable are included within net finance costs. 
Employee benefits
(a) Pension obligations 
The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans around 
the world. The costs are calculated by independent actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method. Any past service costs 
resulting from enhanced benefits are recognised immediately 
in income. Administration costs, other than plan asset 
management costs which are included in the actual return 
on plan assets, are charged to operating costs, including the 
Pension Protection Fund Levy.
Remeasurement gains and losses, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, and the return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest), are recognised in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. 
The defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the balance 
sheet represents the net total for each plan of the present 
value of the benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, 
less the fair value of plan assets (for funded schemes) at 
the balance sheet date. If a plan records a surplus, the asset 
recognised is limited to the present value of any amount 
expected to be recoverable by the Group by way of refunds or 
reduction in future contributions.
Under the UK pension scheme rules, any notional surplus 
arising on payment of agreed contributions is fully 
recoverable.
For defined contribution plans, the Group’s contributions are 
charged to the income statement in the period in which they 
fall due. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has 
no further payment obligation.
(b) Share-based compensation 
The Group operates equity settled, share-based compensation 
plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the options is calculated using a 
Black-Scholes pricing model and is recognised as an expense 
over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed 
over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options or performance shares granted. At each 
balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the 
number of options that are expected to become exercisable. 
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, 
if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding 
adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. 
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately 
vest except for awards where vesting is conditional upon 
market or non-vesting conditions which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting 
condition is satisfied provided that all other performance or 
service conditions are satisfied. The market-based conditions 
are linked to the market price of shares in the Company.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or 
a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled 
award, the cost based on the original award terms continues 
to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, 
an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new 
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
105
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original 
award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if 
this difference is negative.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has applied IFRS 2: Share-based payment only to equity settled awards granted after 7 
November 2002 and which vested on or after 1 January 2005.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities on 
the balance sheet.
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group: (i) has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; (ii) it 
is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and (iii) a reliable estimate of the 
amount can be made. Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the 
reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Costs related to ongoing activities of the Group are not provided in advance.
Dividend distribution 
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period 
in which the dividends are paid or approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and 
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting 
period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results 
ultimately may differ from those estimates.
However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could require a material 
adjustment to the carrying value of the Group’s assets or liabilities in the future.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a potential risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: 
a) Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets at each reporting date. Goodwill 
is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist.
When value in use calculations are undertaken, management must estimate the expected future cash flows from the asset or 
cash generating unit and choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the net present value of those cash flows. Further 
details are included in Note 7. 
b) Deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets in respect of pension liabilities are recognised in full (with the exception of Germany where the amount 
recognised is offset by a deferred tax liability in relation to the German tax base of the pension liability) given the business has 
a legal obligation to make the underlying pension contributions and it is probable that adequate taxable profit will be available 
to take advantage of the associated taxable deductions. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management 
judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing 
and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies. Actual outcomes may vary that could require a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts. Further details are contained in Note 17. 
c) Retirement benefit obligations 
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit plans are determined by using actuarial valuations. These involve making 
assumptions about discount rates, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the long term 
nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount 
rate to the net defined benefit liability. Further details are given in Note 18.
Accounting Policies
continued
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
106 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
d) Onerous lease 
The Group has assessed an existing operating lease obligation at the Bredbury facility and concluded that an onerous lease 
provision is required following the cessation of significant manufacturing activity at the site. This involves making assumptions 
upon future sub-let income streams and the discount rate used. Refer to Note 2(c) and 16.
e) Inventory valuation 
Manufactured inventory and work in progress include amounts of attributable indirect costs incurred in the production process. 
The Group employs a standard cost methodology which, while including judgements and assumptions, seeks to allocate the 
allowable indirect production costs in a logical and appropriate manner.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
The Group has not adopted the following pronouncements, which have been issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB) but are not effective for the year ended 31 March 2015:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs) Effective date
1
IAS 1 Amendment - presentation of financial statements 1 January 2016
IAS 19 Amendment - employee benefits 1 July 2014
IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2017
Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle 1 July 2014
Annual improvements 2011-2013 cycle 1 July 2014
Annual improvements 2012-2014 cycle 1 January 2016
1 
The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB/IFRIC standards and interpretations. As the Group prepares its financial statements in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having being endorsed for 
use in the EU via the EU endorsement mechanism. In the majority of cases, this will result in an effective date consistent with that given in the original standard 
or interpretation but the need for endorsements restricts the Group’s discretion to early adopt standards.
The Group has adopted all applicable amendments to standards with an effective date from 1 April 2014. Adoption of these 
standards did not have any material impact on financial performance or position of the Group. 
Restatements 
Following a review of the tax base of the unfunded pension scheme in Germany, it was identified that the value of the tax 
base in relation to the pension deficit that had been used in calculating the deferred tax asset on the German pension deficit 
in 2014 was understated. The tax base had been assumed to be nil, whereas tax relief had been claimed in respect of the 
pension scheme, based on actuarial valuations, under German tax law. In respect of pensions, a deferred tax asset represents 
the difference between the carrying amount of a pension deficit and its tax base.  As a result, the deferred tax asset recognised 
in the accounts in the prior year was over-stated by £4.2m. The prior year comparatives have been restated to correct for this 
error. The deferred tax asset in respect of the pension deficit was correctly calculated at 2013 and therefore no opening balance 
sheet at 1 April 2013 is presented.
The effect of this restatement has been to reduce, for the prior period, the closing recognised deferred tax asset by £4.2m. The 
tax credit shown in other comprehensive income in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the prior year has 
been reduced by the same amount. The restatement has no impact on the current or prior year income statement, cash flows 
or earnings per share.
The restatement has been made in accordance with IAS 8, ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’. 
The effect of the restatement to the financial statements including the related impact on taxation is summarised below:
2014  
Reported  
£m
2014 
Adjustment 
£m
2014 
Restated 
£m
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
– Tax credit on remeasurement (gains) / losses on retirement benefits obligations 2.1 (4.2) (2.1)
– Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (2.7) (4.2) (6.9)
– Total comprehensive expense for the year net of tax (13.4) (4.2) (17.6)
Balance Sheet
– Recognised deferred tax assets 18.9 (4.2) 14.7
– Total assets 160.0 (4.2) 155.8
– Net assets 18.1 (4.2) 13.9
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
107
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 1 181.4 184.0 
Operating costs before pension administration costs and exceptional items 2 (165.9) (172.9)
Operating profit before pension administration costs and exceptional items 15.5 11.1 
Pension administration costs 2 (0.5) (0.6)
Exceptional items 2 (2.9) (11.8) 
Operating profit/(loss) 12.1 (1.3) 
Financial costs (1.7) (1.8) 
Net IAS 19 financing costs (2.5) (2.8) 
Discount on provisions (0.2) –
Net financing costs 3 (4.4) (4.6) 
Profit/(loss) before tax 7.7 (5.9) 
Taxation 4 (2.1) (4.8)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 5.6 (10.7) 
Attributable to: 
Owners of the parent 5.5 (10.9) 
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.2 
  5.6 (10.7) 
Earnings/(loss) per share 5
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 2.5p (4.9)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 2.5p (4.9)p
Adjusted earnings per share
1
 5.0p 3.2p
Diluted adjusted earnings per share
1
 5.0p 3.2p
1 
Adjusted for the after tax effects of pension administration costs, exceptional items, changes in the provision discounts and the IAS 19 financing costs.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
108 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
109
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 March 2015
2015
£m
2014 (restated)
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year 5.6 (10.7) 
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Net (losses)/gains on cash flow hedges (0.2) 0.2 
Foreign exchange translation differences 4.6 (8.5)
Foreign exchange differences on loans hedging the net investment in foreign operations (0.6) 0.6
 3.8 (7.7)
Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on retirement benefit obligations (15.1) 2.9
Tax on remeasurement losses/(gains) on retirement benefit obligations 3.4 (2.1) 
(11.7) 0.8
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax (7.9) (6.9)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax (2.3) (17.6)
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent (2.4) (17.7)
Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 
 (2.3) (17.6) Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
110
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014 (restated)
£m
ASSETS 
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 7 21.9 19.8 
Other intangible assets 7 6.1 6.1 
Property, plant and equipment 8 39.7 39.3 
Investment property 9 – 1.3 
Other non-current assets 12 – 0.2 
Deferred tax assets 17 17.3 14.7
Retirement benefit surplus 18 0.2 0.4
  85.2 81.8
Current assets 
Inventories 11 35.8 35.9 
Trade and other receivables 12 30.6 29.7 
Derivative financial instruments 25 – 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents 13 12.6 6.7 
  79.0 72.4 
Non-current asset classified as held for sale 10 1.4 1.6
80.4 74.0
TOTAL ASSETS 165.6 155.8
LIABILITIES 
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 14 (0.7) (0.1)
Trade and other payables 15 (36.6) (34.9)
Current tax (1.6) (1.7)
Derivative financial instruments 25 (0.1) –
Provisions 16 (2.1) (2.4)
  (41.1) (39.1)
NET CURRENT ASSETS 39.3 34.9 
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings 14 (30.9) (30.9)
Preference stock 14 (0.5) (0.5)
Trade and other payables 15 (1.1) (0.6)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (0.2) (0.2)
Retirement benefit obligations 18 (75.9) (65.3)
Provisions 16 (4.3) (5.3)
  (112.9) (102.8)
TOTAL LIABILITIES (154.0) (141.9)
NET ASSETS 11.6 13.9
EQUITY 
Issued share capital 19 26.6 26.6 
Share premium account 29.9 29.9 
Currency translation reserve 21 2.3 (1.7) 
Other reserves 21 1.0 1.2 
Retained earnings 21 (50.8) (44.6)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 9.0 11.4 
Non-controlling interests 2.6 2.5 
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 11.6 13.9
Approved by the Board on 26 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Robert Purcell  Brian Tenner
Chief Executive  Finance Director 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
 
 
Share 
capital
£m
Note 19
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Note 21 
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
Note 21 
Other  
reserves  
£m 
Note 21 
Attributable 
to owners 
of parent
£m 
Note 21 
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£m 
Total 
equity 
£m
 
At 1 April 2013 26.5 29.6 (34.8) 6.1 1.2 28.6 2.4 31.0
(Loss)/profit for the year – – (10.9) – – (10.9) 0.2 (10.7)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – 0.8 (7.8) 0.2 (6.8) (0.1) (6.9)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 
for the year – – (10.1) (7.8) 0.2 (17.7) 0.1 (17.6)
Employee share options:
 – value of employee services – – 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
Exercise of share warrants:
 – release of share warrant reserve – – 0.2 – (0.2) – – –
 – proceeds from share issue 0.1 0.3 – – – 0.4 – 0.4
At 31 March 2014 (restated) 26.6 29.9 (44.6) (1.7) 1.2 11.4 2.5 13.9
Profit for the year – – 5.5 – – 5.5 0.1 5.6
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – (11.7) 4.0 (0.2) (7.9) – (7.9)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 
for the year – – (6.2) 4.0 (0.2) (2.4) 0.1 (2.3)
Employee share options:
– settled share based payment transactions – – (0.2) – – (0.2) – (0.2)
– value of employee services – – 0.2 – – 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 March 2015 26.6 29.9 (50.8) 2.3 1.0 9.0 2.6 11.6
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 March 2015
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
111
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities (Note 24)
Cash generated from operations 14.2 7.0
Income taxes paid (1.4) (0.9)
Net cash from operating activities 12.8 6.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (3.8) (6.0)
Purchase of intangible assets (1.7) (1.1)
Net cash from investing activities (5.5) (7.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares – 0.4
Financing costs paid (1.4) (1.5)
Proceeds from borrowings 1.0 8.0
Repayment of borrowings (1.1) (8.0)
Net cash from financing activities (1.5) (1.1)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5.8 (2.1)
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 6.6 9.2
Effects of exchange rate changes (0.2) (0.5)
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 13) 12.2 6.6
Consolidated Statement of Cashflows
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
112 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Segmental information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two operating segments according to the nature of their products and 
services and these are considered by the Directors to be the reportable operating segments of Renold plc as shown below:
 Æ The Chain segment manufactures and sells power transmission and conveyor chain and also includes sales of torque 
transmission product through Chain National Sales Companies 'NSCs'; and
 Æ The Torque Transmission segment manufactures and sells torque transmission products such as gearboxes and couplings.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable segments.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker 'CODM' for the purposes of IFRS 8: ‘Operating Segments’ is considered to be the Board of 
Directors of Renold plc. Management monitor the results of the separate reportable operating segments based on operating 
profit and loss which is measured consistently with operating profit and loss in the consolidated financial statements. The 
same segmental basis applies to decisions about resource allocation. However, Group net financing costs, retirement benefit 
obligations and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and therefore are not allocated to operating segments. Transfer 
prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. 
Year ended 31 March 2015
Chain
(ii)
 
£m 
Torque 
Transmission
£m
Head office 
costs and 
eliminations 
£m 
Consolidated
£m 
Revenue
External customer 138.3 43.1 – 181.4
Inter-segment
(i)
– 4.6 (4.6) –
Total revenue 138.3 47.7 (4.6) 181.4
Operating profit/(loss) before pension administration costs and exceptional 
items 14.2 6.9 (5.6) 15.5
Pension administration costs – – (0.5) (0.5)
Exceptional items (2.1) (0.2) (0.6) (2.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 12.1 6.7 (6.7) 12.1
Net financing costs (4.4)
Profit before tax 7.7
Other disclosures
Working capital
(iii)
22.3 9.3 (3.0) 28.6
Capital expenditure
(iv)
4.4 0.9 1.3 6.6
Depreciation and amortisation 3.0 1.1 1.2 5.3
Year ended 31 March 2014
Chain
(ii) 
£m 
Torque 
Transmission
£m
Head office 
costs and 
eliminations 
£m 
Consolidated
£m 
Revenue
External customer 139.6 44.4 – 184.0
Inter-segment
(i)
0.3 5.0 (5.3) –
Total revenue 139.9 49.4 (5.3) 184.0
Operating profit/(loss) before pension administration costs and exceptional 
items 9.9 5.8 (4.6) 11.1
Pension administration costs – – (0.6) (0.6)
Exceptional items (11.5) (0.3) – (11.8)
Operating (loss)/profit (1.6) 5.5 (5.2) (1.3)
Net financing costs (4.6)
Loss before tax (5.9)
Other disclosures
Working capital
(iii)
22.6 8.6 (1.1) 30.1
Capital expenditure
(iv)
4.8 1.3 1.0 7.1
Depreciation and amortisation 3.1 1.1 1.2 5.4
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
113
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
1. Segmental information continued
The Board reviews the performance of the business using information presented at consistent exchange rates (‘underlying’). 
The prior year results have been restated using this year’s exchange rates as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2014
Chain
(ii)
 
£m 
Torque 
Transmission
£m
Head office 
costs and 
eliminations 
£m 
Consolidated
£m 
Revenue
External customer 139.6 44.4 – 184.0
Foreign exchange (5.3) (0.8) – (6.1)
Underlying external sales 134.3 43.6 – 177.9
Operating profit/(loss) before pension administration costs 
and exceptional items 9.9 5.8 (4.6) 11.1
Foreign exchange (0.6) – – (0.6)
Underlying operating profit/(loss) before pension administration costs 
and exceptional items 9.3 5.8 (4.6) 10.5
(i) 
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
(ii) 
 Included in Chain external sales is £7.2m (2014: £7.6m) of Torque Transmission product sold through the Chain NSCs, usually in countries where Torque 
Transmission does not have its own presence.
(iii) 
 The measure of segment assets reviewed by the CODM is total working capital, defined as inventories and trade and other receivables, less trade and other 
payables. Working capital is also measured as a ratio of rolling annual sales.
(iv) 
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including through acquisitions).
Geographical analysis of external sales by destination, non-current asset location and average employee numbers
The UK is the home country of the parent company, Renold plc. The principal operating territories, the proportions of Group 
external revenue generated in each (customer location), external revenues, non-current assets (asset location) and average 
employee numbers in each are as follows:
Revenue ratio External revenues Non-current assets Employee numbers
 
 2015
%
2014
%
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m 2015 2014
United Kingdom 9.3 8.7 16.9 16.0 12.7 13.8 372 558
Rest of Europe 27.8 27.7 50.5 51.0 10.8 12.8 503 405
North America 36.8 37.8 66.7 69.5 28.3 24.8 351 355
Australasia 11.5 12.0 20.8 22.0 6.6 7.0 152 157
China 3.8 4.1 6.8 7.5 3.5 3.5 350 348
India 3.9 3.4 7.1 6.2 4.9 3.8 481 479
Other countries 6.9 6.3 12.6 11.8 0.9 0.8 68 77
 100 100 181.4 184.0 67.7 66.5 2,277 2,379
All revenue relates to the sale of goods and services. No individual customer, or group of customers, represents more than 10% 
of Group revenue (2014: none).
Non-current assets consist of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment property. Other 
non-current assets and deferred tax assets are not included above.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
114 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
2. Operating costs and exceptional items
(a) Operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging/(crediting):
 
 
2015
£m
2015
£m
2014 
£m
2014
£m
Change in finished goods and work in progress 1.0 1.5 
Raw materials and consumables 61.9 64.0 
Other external charges 33.8 34.8 
Employee costs
 Gross wages and salaries 53.4 55.6 
 Social security costs 6.2 6.4
 Pension costs
 – defined benefit (Note 18) 0.4 0.4
 – defined contribution (Note 18) 1.5 1.5
 Share-based incentive plans 0.2 0.1 
61.7 64.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
 – owned assets 3.9 4.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.4 1.2 
Operating leases – minimum lease payments 
 – plant and machinery 0.3 0.4 
 – property 0.9 1.6
1.2 2.0 
Other operating income (0.3) (0.8)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
Research and development expenditure 0.8 0.7 
Auditors’ remuneration (Note 2(b)) 0.6 0.7 
Trade receivables impairment 0.1 0.1 
Foreign exchange (0.2) 0.4
Operating costs before pension administration costs and exceptional items 165.9 172.9 
Pension administration costs 0.5 0.6
Exceptional items (Note 2(c)) 2.9 11.8 
Total operating costs 169.3 185.3 
(b) Auditors’ remuneration
2015
£000
Total
2014
£000
Total
Audit of the Group’s annual financial statements 208 180
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 240 327
Total audit fees 448 507
Tax compliance services 82 50
Tax advisory services 20 75
All other assurance services – 60
All other non-audit services 10 48
560 740
This is analysed in the following captions in the financial statements: 
Exceptional reorganisation and restructuring costs – 54
Operating costs 560 686
560 740
The Group’s auditors also received fees of £54,000 for audit services provided to Group pension schemes (2014: £74,000). 
These were the only services provided to the pension schemes, the decrease reflecting additional work performed in the prior 
year on the asset backed funding structure and subsequent UK scheme merger.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
115
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
2. Operating costs and exceptional items continued
(c) Exceptional charges
2015
£m
2014
£m
Included in operating costs
Bredbury factory closure costs 0.2 4.7
Bredbury site onerous lease provision – 5.7
Increase in onerous lease provision due to change in discount rate 0.5 –
Chain business model review 
 – impairment of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
 – impairment of inventory and production tooling – 0.5 
Impairment of investment property 1.2 –
Impairment of software licences 0.2 –
Other reorganisation and redundancy costs 0.8 0.8 
2.9 11.8
The current year saw £0.2m of residual costs incurred in relation to the completion of the Bredbury closure project such as 
additional redundancy costs and lease termination costs. Even with these extra costs the project was still completed ahead of 
its estimated cost. In the prior year, closure costs of £4.7m and an onerous lease provision of £5.7m were recognised in that 
period. The current carrying value of the Bredbury onerous lease provision is set out in more detail in Note 16. The Bredbury 
site onerous lease provision was increased by £0.5m due to a change in the discount rate used to discount the future payment 
obligations.
Also in the current year, an impairment charge of £1.2m was made in relation to an investment property located in Calais, 
France, writing down the value of the property to a net book value of nil. This decision reflects ongoing weakness in the general 
economy and property market in particular in that region of France and therefore we have concluded that the property has no 
material value. Any alternate use specified by local planning regulations may also impact any net realisable value (see Note 9).  
The impairment of software licences reflects the decision to change the Group’s planned global ERP system and consequently 
not to make use of previously acquired licences. As a result, future periods will include approximately £0.2m accelerated 
amortisation for 4-5 years to reflect the shorter assumed useful economic life. Other restructuring and redundancy costs 
include costs associated with the agreed relocation of our headquarters in Manchester and ongoing restructuring of our senior 
management teams.
(d) Employees and key management compensation
Employee costs, including Directors, are set out in Note 2(a). Key management personnel are represented by the Board and 
their aggregate emoluments were as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Directors’ remuneration 1,100 1,231
Post-employment benefits – contributions direct to defined contribution schemes – 28
Statutory Directors’ remuneration 1,100 1,259
Share-based payments 53 75
Social security costs 167 103
Total 1,320 1,437
The remuneration listed in the table above differs from the single total figure table in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
page 81 for the following reasons: 
Only pensions payable directly to pension schemes are included in the post employment benefits in the table on page 81. 
£73,000 (2014: £45,000) additional cash payments for pensions paid indirectly were included in Directors’ remuneration; 
The table above excludes LTIPs vested in the form of share options.
Further details of the remuneration of Directors are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 87. 
A geographical split of the Group’s average number of employees during the year is included in Note 1. The total number of 
employees employed by the Group at 31 March 2015 was 2,243 (2014: 2,208).
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
116 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
3. Net financing costs 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Financial costs:
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (1.4) (1.5)
Amortised financing costs (0.3) (0.3)
Total financing costs (1.7) (1.8)
Net IAS 19 financing costs (2.5) (2.8)
Discount unwind on provisions (0.2) –
Net financing costs (4.4) (4.6)
4. T axation
Analys is of tax charge/(credit) in the year
2015
£m
2014
£m
United Kingdom 
UK corporation tax at 21% (2014: 23%) – –
Less: double taxation relief – – 
– –
Overseas taxes 
Corporation taxes 1.3 1.0 
Withholding taxes 0.1 0.2 
Current income tax charge 1.4 1.2 
Deferred tax 
UK – origination and reversal of temporary differences (0.3) 3.0
Overseas – origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.0 0.6
Total deferred tax charge/(credit) 0.7 3.6
Tax charge on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 2.1 4.8
2015
£m
2014 (restated)
£m
Tax on items taken to other comprehensive income 
Deferred tax on changes in net pension deficits 3.4 (2.1)
Tax credit/(charge) in the statement of other comprehensive income 3.4 (2.1)
Factors affecting the Group tax charge for the year
The UK Finance Act 2013 reduced the main rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and then 20% 
from 1 April 2015. The effect of these reductions has been incorporated into the closing deferred tax balances in the financial 
statements.
The Group’s tax charge in future years will be affected by the profit mix, effective tax rates in the different countries where the 
Group operates and utilisation of tax losses. No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries. 
The actual tax on the Group’s profit/(loss) before tax differs from the theoretical amount using the UK corporation tax rate as 
follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax 7.7 (5.9)
Theoretical tax charge/(credit) at 21% (2014: 23%) 1.6 (1.4)
Effects of:
Permanent differences 0.8 0.2 
Overseas tax rate differences 0.8 0.4 
Deferred tax (utilised)/not recognised (1.1) 5.2 
Change in UK tax rate – 0.4 
Total tax charge/(credit) 2.1 4.8 
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
117
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
5. Earnings/(loss) per share
Earnings/(loss) per share (EPS) is calculated by reference to the earnings/(loss) for the year and the weighted average number 
of shares in issue during the year as follows:
2015 2014
Profit
£m
Shares 
(thousands)
Per share
amount 
(pence)
Loss
£m
Shares 
(thousands)
Per share
amount
 (pence)
Basic EPS
Profit/(loss) attributed to ordinary 
shareholders 5.5 223,065 2.5 (10.9) 222,398 (4.9)
Basic EPS 5.5 223,065 2.5 (10.9) 222,398 (4.9)
2015 2014
Earnings 
£m
Shares 
(thousands)
Per share 
amount 
(pence)
(Loss)/
earnings 
£m
Shares 
(thousands)
Per share 
amount 
(pence)
Adjusted EPS
Basic EPS 5.5 223,065 2.5 (10.9) 222,398 (4.9)
Effect of exceptional items, after tax:
Exceptional items in operating costs 2.9 1.3 11.4 5.1
Exceptional tax charge – 3.5 1.6
Pension administration costs included 
in operating costs 0.5 0.2 0.6 0.3
Discount unwind on exceptional items 0.2 0.1 – –
Net pension financing costs 2.1 0.9 2.4 1.1
Adjusted EPS 11.2 223,065 5.0 7.0 222,398 3.2
Inclusion of the dilutive securities, comprising 2,489,000 (2014: 1,620,000 restated) additional shares due to share options in 
the calculation of basic and adjusted EPS does not change the amount shown above (2014: no change).
Further details in relation to the warrants can be found in Note 19.
The adjusted EPS numbers have been provided in order to give a useful indication of underlying performance by the exclusion 
of exceptional items. Due to the existence of unrecognised deferred tax assets, there was no associated tax credit on some of 
the exceptional charges and in these instances exceptional costs are added back in full. 
6. Dividends
No ordinary dividend payments were paid or proposed in either the current or prior year.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
118 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
7. Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
£m
Computer 
software 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 23.3 10.9 34.2
Exchange adjustment (2.1) – (2.1)
Additions – 1.1 1.1
Disposals – (0.7) (0.7)
At 1 April 2014 21.2 11.3 32.5
Exchange adjustment 2.1 (0.2) 1.9
Additions – 1.7 1.7
Disposals – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 March 2015 23.3 12.7 36.0
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 
At 1 April 2013 1.5 4.7 6.2
Exchange adjustment (0.1) – (0.1)
Amortisation charge – 1.2 1.2
Disposals – (0.7) (0.7)
At 1 April 2014 1.4 5.2 6.6
Exchange adjustment – (0.1) (0.1)
Amortisation charge – 1.4 1.4
Disposals – (0.1) (0.1)
Impairment charge – 0.2 0.2
At 31 March 2015 1.4 6.6 8.0
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 21.9 6.1 28.0
Net book amount at 31 March 2014 19.8 6.1 25.9
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 21.8 6.2 28.0
The Group performed its annual impairment test of goodwill at 31 March 2015 that compares the current book value to the 
recoverable amount from the continued use or sale of the related business. No impairment charge has been recognised in the 
period. 
The recoverable amount of each Cash Generating Unit (CGU) has been determined on a value in use basis. Value in use is 
calculated as the net present value of cash flows derived from detailed financial plans for the next two financial years as 
approved by the Board. Cash flows beyond this are extrapolated using the long term country growth rates disclosed below:
Growth rates CGU discount rates Carrying values
2015
%
2014
%
2015
%
2014
%
2015
£m
2014
£m
Jeffrey Chain, USA 2.7 3.1 13.7 13.6 19.5 17.4
Ace Chains, Australia 3.0 3.0 13.5 13.6 0.5 0.5
Renold Chain, India 6.7 6.7 24.1 23.7 1.9 1.9
21.9 19.8
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
119
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
7. Intangible assets continued
Key assumptions used in the value in use calculations:
Sales volume, selling prices and cost changes
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts based on the latest management estimates for the next financial year. The expected 
sales prices and volumes reflect management’s experience of how sales will develop at this point of the economic cycle. 
The expected profit margin reflects management’s experience of each CGU’s profitability at the forecast level of sales and 
incorporates the impact of any restructuring that took place during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Cash flows beyond the period of projections are extrapolated using long term growth rates published by the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development for the territory in which the CGU is based. The discount rates applied to the cash 
flows of each of the CGUs are based on the risk free rate for long term bonds issued by the government in the respective 
market. This is then adjusted to reflect both the increased risk of investing in equities and the systematic risk of the specific 
CGU (using an average of the betas of comparable companies).
Management believe that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of 
Jeffrey Chain and Ace Chains to materially exceed each CGU’s recoverable amount. With respect to Renold Chain India, if long 
term growth rates fell by approximately 46% (2014: 15%) the goodwill in respect of that unit may become impaired. 
Computer software
Following the decision to change the Group’s planned global ERP system, an impairment charge of £0.2m has been recognised 
in the period in respect of software licences that are no longer expected to be used in the business (2014: nil) (see Note 2(c) 
for details). As a result, future periods will include approximately £0.2m per annum of accelerated amortisation to reflect the 
shorter useful economic life.
8. Property, plant and equipment 
Land and 
buildings
 £m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 25.0 121.3 146.3
Exchange adjustment (1.6) (6.3) (7.9)
Additions 0.9 5.1 6.0
Transfer to asset held for sale (2.3) – (2.3)
Disposals (3.0) (15.2) (18.2)
At 1 April 2014 19.0 104.9 123.9
Exchange adjustment (0.5) (2.4) (2.9)
Additions 0.2 4.7 4.9
Disposals – (2.1) (2.1)
At 31 March 2015 18.7 105.1 123.8
Accumulated depreciation and impairment 
At 1 April 2013 6.0 97.2 103.2
Exchange adjustment – (4.3) (4.3)
Charge for the year 0.8 3.4 4.2
Transfer to asset held for sale (0.7) – (0.7)
Disposals (3.0) (14.8) (17.8)
At 1 April 2014 3.1 81.5 84.6
Exchange adjustment (0.1) (2.2) (2.3)
Charge for the year 0.5 3.4 3.9
Disposals – (2.1) (2.1)
At 31 March 2015 3.5 80.6 84.1
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 15.2 24.5 39.7
Net book amount at 31 March 2014 15.9 23.4 39.3
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 19.0 24.1 43.1
Future capital expenditure
At 31 March 2015 capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for in these accounts amounted to £1.1m (2014: £0.1m).
Asset held for sale
In the prior year the former manufacturing site located in Seclin, France was reclassified as an asset held for sale (See Note 10). 
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
120 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
9. Investment property 
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 2.0
Exchange adjustment (0.1)
At 1 April 2014 1.9
Exchange adjustment (0.1)
At 31 March 2015 1.8
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 April 2013 0.6
Charge for the year –
At 1 April 2014 0.6
Impairment charge 1.2
Charge for the year –
At 31 March 2015 1.8
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 –
Net book amount at 31 March 2014 1.3
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 1.4
The property has been accounted for on a cost model basis with a value of £1.4m in respect of land and £0.6m in respect of the 
building. A valuation of the property was conducted in March 2013 by BNP Paribas, French chartered surveyors and property 
consultants. At that date, the fair value of the property was assessed at £1.9m (excluding de-pollution costs) based on ongoing 
rental for industrial use. As a result of this valuation, an impairment charge of £0.4m was made in 2013 to include estimated 
depollution costs. 
During the year, the Directors have reassessed the medium term prospects regarding the future use or sale of the property. 
Given the depressed local property market and general economic weakness in that region of France, the Directors have decided 
to write down the net book value of the property to nil. As a result, a £1.2m impairment charge (included in the 'Chain' segment 
in Note 1) has been charged as an exceptional item in the year. Any future maintenance costs will be charged to operating profit 
in the period incurred. The Group will continue to assess options with regard to the future use of this site which are also subject 
to any changes in local zoning or planning restrictions.
10. Asset Held for Sale 
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 April 1.6 –
Transfer in – 1.6
Exchange adjustment (0.2) –
At 31 March 1.4 1.6
The asset held for sale is the former Chain manufacturing facility located in Seclin, France. Since the transfer of the majority 
of manufacturing in 2011/12, part of the facility has been used as a distribution and sales office. The property is being actively 
marketed for sale by an independent real estate agent in France and regular enquiries continue to be made by various third 
parties. In the event of a sale, the Company may retain an interest in the part of the facility that is in use in the business or seek 
alternate premises for that activity. The property was independently valued by BNP Paribas Real Estate on 29 October 2012 
on the basis of a freehold sale. The value disclosed above reflects that valuation and in the opinion of the Directors no changes 
have occurred that would alter that valuation.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
121
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
11. Inventories 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials 6.1 5.8
Work in progress 5.9 6.8
Finished products and production tooling 23.8 23.3
35.8 35.9
Inventories pledged as security for liabilities amounted to £27.8m (2014: £27.5m).
12. T rade and other receivables 
2015
Current
£m
2015
Non-current
£m
2014
Current
£m
2014
Non-current
£m
Trade receivables
1
27.5 – 26.8 –
Less: impairment provision (0.5) – (0.6) –
Trade receivables: net 27.0 – 26.2 –
Other receivables
1
1.8 – 1.7 0.2
Prepayments 1.8 – 1.8 –
30.6 – 29.7 0.2
1 
Financial assets carried at cost.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk but does have a concentration of translational and transactional 
foreign exchange risk in both US Dollars and Euros. However, the Group hedges against these risks.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms. See Note 25(d) for the Group’s credit risk 
policy. As at 31 March, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Neither past
due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due but not 
impaired
Total
£m
<30 days
£m
30-60 days
£m
60-90 days
£m
>90 days
£m
2015 27.5 23.9 2.4 0.4 – 0.8
2014 26.8 22.8 2.3 0.8 0.2 0.7
2015
£m
2014
£m
Movement on impairment provision 
Opening provision 0.6 0.8
Net charge to income statement 0.1 0.1
Utilised in year through assets written off (0.2) (0.3)
Closing provision 0.5 0.6
13. Cash and cash equivalents 
In the Group cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents are shown after deducting bank overdrafts as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 12.6 6.7
Less: Overdrafts (Note 14) (0.4) (0.1)
Net cash and cash equivalents 12.2 6.6
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
122 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
14. Borrowings 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Overdrafts 0.4 0.1
Bank loans (net of capitalised costs) 0.3 –
0.7 0.1
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Bank loans (net of capitalised costs) 30.9 30.9
Preference Stock 0.5 0.5
31.4 31.4
Total borrowings (Note 25(d)) 32.1 31.5
All financial liabilities above are carried at amortised cost.
Core banking facilities
On 13 May 2015 a revision of the terms of the facility in place was agreed. Details of the revised agreed terms are outlined in 
Note 27. The details of the facility in place at the end of the financial year are summarised below.
On 28 September 2012, Renold agreed a banking facility agreement for a four year period maturing in October 2016. The 
facilities comprise a £41m Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility ('MRCF'), and an additional £8m of ancillary facilities. These 
facilities have been provided by a banking group comprised of Lloyds Bank plc and Svenska Handelsbanken AB. The MRCF is 
fully committed and available until maturity. 
At the year end the undrawn facility was £9.0m (2014: £9.0m). The Group pays interest at LIBOR plus a variable margin 
in respect of this facility. The average rate of interest paid in the year was LIBOR plus 2.69% for the Euro and Sterling 
denominated facility and LIBOR plus 2.94% for the US Dollar denominated facility (2014: LIBOR plus 2.75% for the Euro and 
Sterling denominated facility and LIBOR plus 3% for the US Dollar denominated facility). This facility has two primary financial 
covenants which are tested on a six monthly basis. The first is net debt as a ratio of rolling annual EBITDA with a maximum 
ratio of 2.5 times. The second is interest cover with a minimum ratio of 4.0 times (rolling annual EBITDA divided by net financial 
interest cost). The Group also benefits from a number of overseas facilities totalling £1.6m. Costs of £1.1m associated with the 
refinancing were capitalised and offset against loans and are being amortised over the life of the facility.
Secured borrowings
Included in Group borrowings are secured borrowings of £29.3m (2014: £27.5m). Security is provided by fixed and floating 
charges over assets (including certain property, plant and equipment and inventory) primarily in the UK, USA, France, Germany 
and Australia.
Finance leases
The Group has no obligations under finance leases.
Preference Stock
At 31 March 2015 there were 580,482 units of Preference Stock in issue (2014: 580,482).
All payments of dividends on the Preference Stock have been paid on the due dates. The Preference Stock has the following 
rights:
i. a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 6% per annum payable half yearly on 1 January and 1 July in each year;
ii.  rank both with regard to dividend (including any arrears on the commencement of a winding up) and return of capital in 
priority to all other stock or shares in the Company, but with no further right to participate in profits or assets;
iii.  no right to attend or vote, either in person or by proxy, at any general meeting of the Company or to have notice of any such 
meeting, unless the dividend on the Preference Stock is in arrears for six calendar months; and
iv. no redemption entitlement and no fixed repayment date.
There is no significant difference between the carrying value of financial liabilities and their equivalent fair value.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
123
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
15. T rade and other payables
2015
Current 
£m
2015 
Non-current 
£m
2014 
Current 
£m
2014 
Non-current 
£m
Trade payables
1
18.1 – 17.3 –
Other tax and social security 1.7 – 1.4 –
Other payables
1
1.6 – 1.4 –
Accruals
1
15.2 1.1 14.8 0.6
36.6 1.1 34.9 0.6
1 
Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled within 60 day terms. The Group does have a concentration of 
translational foreign exchange risk in both US Dollars and Euros. However, the Group hedges against this risk.
16. Provisions
Business 
restructuring 
£m
Onerous  
lease
£m
Onerous  
licences 
£m
Contingent 
consideration 
£m
Total  
provisions 
£m
At 1 April 2014 1.1 5.7 0.3 0.6 7.7
Exchange – – – 0.1 0.1
Arising during the year 1.0 0.5 – – 1.5
Release/utilised in the year (1.8) (1.0) (0.3) – (3.1)
Discount unwind on provision – 0.2 – – 0.2
At 31 March 2015 0.3 5.4 – 0.7 6.4
Allocated as:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current provisions 2.1 2.4
Non-current provisions 4.3 5.3
6.4 7.7
Business restructuring
This provision relates to the reorganisation and restructuring of various parts of the business. £0.2m relates to the Bredbury 
plant closure initiated in the prior year and that was completed in the first half of the current financial year. See Note 2(c) on 
exceptional charges for more details.
Onerous lease
A provision was established in relation to onerous lease costs in respect of the lease of the Bredbury plant. The lease expires 
in May 2030 (See Note 2(c)). The provision was increased by £0.5m in the year due to a change in the discount rate used to 
discount the future payment obligations.
Contingent consideration 
Renold (Hangzhou) Co Limited: China
A provision was established for the purchase of the outstanding 10% of the equity following the acquisition of 90% of the equity 
interest in Renold (Hangzhou) Co Limited in the period ended 31 March 2008 and is due to be paid at the latest by 15 June 2017.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
124 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
17. Deferred tax
Assets Liabilities Net
2015
£m
2014 (restated)
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014 (restated)
£m
Accelerated capital allowances (1.6) (1.7) (0.2) (0.3) (1.8) (2.0)
Pension plans 14.5 11.4 – – 14.5 11.4
Tax losses 6.3 6.7 – – 6.3 6.7
Other temporary differences (1.9) (1.7) – 0.1 (1.9) (1.6)
Tax assets/(liabilities) 17.3 14.7 (0.2) (0.2) 17.1 14.5
Net off (liabilities)/assets (0.2) (0.2) 0.2 0.2 – –
Net deferred tax assets 17.1 14.5 – – 17.1 14.5
The net deferred tax asset recoverable within one year is £2.5m (2014: nil) and recoverable after more than one year is £14.6m 
(2014: £14.5m restated). 
The movement in the net deferred tax balance relating to assets is as follows:
2015
Opening 
balance
 £m
Exchange 
adjustments
 £m
Recognised 
in income 
statement 
£m
Recognised 
directly in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
Closing 
balance 
£m 
Accelerated capital allowances (1.7) – 0.1 – (1.6)
Pension plans 11.4 (0.6) 0.3 3.4 14.5
Tax losses 6.7 0.6 (1.0) – 6.3
Other temporary differences (1.7) (0.1) (0.1) – (1.9)
14.7 (0.1) (0.7) 3.4 17.3
2014 (restated)
Opening 
balance
 £m
Exchange 
adjustments
 £m
Recognised 
in income 
statement 
£m
Recognised 
directly in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
Closing 
balance 
£m 
Accelerated capital allowances 0.3 0.2 (2.2) – (1.7)
Pension plans 13.5 (0.2) 0.2 (2.1) 11.4
Tax losses 9.4 (0.9) (1.8) – 6.7
Other temporary differences (1.8) 0.2 (0.1) – (1.7)
21.4 (0.7) (3.9) (2.1) 14.7
The movement in the net deferred tax balance relating to liabilities in the year is as follows:
2015
Opening 
balance
 £m
Exchange 
adjustments
 £m
Recognised 
in income 
statement 
£m
Recognised 
directly in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
Closing 
balance 
£m 
Accelerated capital allowances (0.3) – 0.1 – (0.2)
Pension plans – – – – –
Tax losses – – – – –
Other temporary differences 0.1 – (0.1) – –
(0.2) – – – (0.2)
2014
Opening 
balance
 £m
Exchange 
adjustments
 £m
Recognised 
in income 
statement 
£m
Recognised 
directly in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
Closing 
balance 
£m 
Accelerated capital allowances (0.5) 0.1 0.1 – (0.3)
Pension plans (0.3) – 0.3 – –
Tax losses 0.2 – (0.2) – –
Other temporary differences – – 0.1 – 0.1
(0.6) 0.1 0.3 – (0.2)
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
125
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
17. Deferred tax continued
During the year the Group has reported an operating profit before exceptional items and pensions administration costs of 
£15.5m. The businesses in all jurisdictions where deferred tax assets have been recognised will, more likely than not, generate 
suitable profits based on approved management forecasts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences 
can be deducted.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets amount to £22.5m (2014: £27.4m) arising from unrecognised losses of £14.4m (2014: £15.9m) 
(representing losses of £51.5m (2014: £56.0m)) and other timing differences of £8.1m (2014: £11.5m). Based on available 
evidence, it is considered unlikely that these amounts will be recovered within the foreseeable future. The significant majority of 
these losses are not subject to time limits.
18. Pensions
The Group operates a number of pension plans throughout the world covering many of its employees. The plans are a mix 
of defined benefit and defined contribution plans. In a defined benefit plan the members are guaranteed a certain level of 
benefits that depend on a number of factors such as service, salary and inflation. Defined benefit plans can be supported by 
an asset fund that will be used to pay member benefits or can be unfunded in which case obligations to members are paid by 
the sponsoring employer as they fall due. In a defined benefit plan, because the level and duration of the members’ benefits are 
uncertain, the risk of any increase or decrease in the cost of providing those benefits stays with the employer. This contrasts 
with a defined contribution plan where the employer’s only obligation is to pay the amount agreed in the employment contract 
into a pension plan.
Any change in the total expected cost of providing defined benefits can produce either funding shortfalls or surpluses. In the 
case of an expected funding shortfall, the Company is required to agree a deficit recovery plan. This is usually a combination of 
additional contributions to make good the shortfall over an agreed period of time (sometimes referred to as a ‘funding plan’ or 
a Minimum Funding Requirement (‘MFR’)) and which can also include an allowance for some of the shortfall to be made good 
by future asset outperformance. In the case of a surplus, mechanisms are available in all of the Renold schemes to return that 
surplus to, or utilise it for the benefit of, the Group.
UK Pension Plans
The principal fund is the Renold Pension Scheme (‘RPS’) in the UK that was formed by the merger in June 2013 of three 
predecessor plans, all of which were already closed to future accrual and to new members: (i) the Renold Group Pension 
Scheme (‘RGPS’); (ii) the Jones & Shipman plc Retirement Benefits Plan (1971) (‘J&S RBP’); and (iii) the Renold Supplementary 
Pension Scheme 1967 (‘RSPS’) (which was then renamed the RPS). The RPS is a funded defined benefit plan with assets held in 
separate Trustee administered funds.
The merger of the UK schemes was implemented to reduce the administration costs of running three separate pension 
schemes. During the merger, 1,316 members with smaller pension entitlements opted at that time to have their entire 
entitlement paid out in wind up lump sums. All other members had their benefits transferred in full into the RPS. The legacy 
RGPS and J&S RBP were formally liquidated during the year.
The Trustees are chaired by an independent professional trustee firm and have access to a range of professional advisers. 
The Trustee Board is required to consult the Company in matters such as investment policy and to obtain agreement to any 
amendments to benefits. The Company can make proposals to the Trustees on a range of issues but cannot insist on their 
adoption. The majority of Trustees are either independent or member nominated with Company nominated Trustees being in 
the minority. To mitigate the risk of potential conflicts of interests, no Directors of Renold plc are Trustees of the RPS.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
126 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
18. Pensions continued
The RPS is underpinned by a 25 year asset backed partnership structure (the ‘SLP’). The partnership holds an intercompany 
loan from Renold International Holdings Limited, the holding company for most of the Group’s overseas trading companies. The 
capital rights to the assets in the SLP belong to Renold plc except in the event of a corporate insolvency of the scheme sponsor 
(Renold plc). The income rights in the SLP belong to the RPS. The loan generates interest income that provided an annual cash 
contribution of £2.6m to the pension fund in the current year, with annual increases linked to RPI plus 1.5% and capped at 
5%. The income stream is used to fund deficit repair payments and the first £0.5m of annual administrative expenses (with 
the company bearing any excess). In the event that the RPS becomes fully funded on a buyout basis, the income stream will 
instead accrue to Renold. The SLP was put in place with the expectation that the period to recover the funding shortfall was 25 
years from the time of merger. The SLP therefore helps reduce the volatility in short term cash funding by following an agreed 
payment plan over a longer period of time. The interest in the SLP held by the Schemes is not reported as a plan asset in the 
consolidated financial statements as it is a non-transferable interest issued by the Group.
The new arrangement replaced all other existing funding arrangements for the RPS and there is no separate schedule of 
contributions as at 31 March 2015. The SLP therefore represents the entirety of the committed cash element of the funding  
plan for the RPS. The funding plan also assumes an allowance for asset outperformance of 1.0% (that is, assets are expected  
to return an amount of 1.0% more than the discount rate applied to the liabilities). Separately to the SLP but put in place at the  
same time, the Group has also agreed that if operating profits reach £16.0m in any year following the year ended 31 March 
2017, additional annual contributions of £1.0m will become payable (monthly in arrears) while profits remain above this level.  
The £1.0m increase matches the approximate £1.0m reduction agreed at the inception of the SLP. Finally, as part of the overall 
agreement, Renold plc is not constrained from paying a dividend, other than by normal legal considerations, and has agreed to 
make additional contributions equal to 25% of the value of any dividend paid in order to accelerate the deficit recovery plan. The 
accounting deficit will be reduced as the cash contributions under the scheme are made.
Total cash costs for UK deficit repair payments and UK administrative expenses in the period were £3.1m (2014: £2.7m). The 
current year figure includes the £2.6m noted above in connection with the SLP, and a further £0.5m in respect of the costs of 
other pension projects that were carried out or initiated during the year. The main initiative was the medically underwritten 
insured buy-in that completed after the end of the financial year to de-risk approximately 25% of current pensioner liabilities.  
Further details on that project are contained in the Finance Director’s report on pages 37 to 39 and Note 27. 
The Renold Group Money Purchase Pension Scheme (‘RGMPS’) is a defined contribution type plan. Future contributions to the 
RGMPS ceased in April 2009. All current and future UK employees have the opportunity to join the Renold Personal Pension 
Plan which is a contract based defined contribution scheme.
Overseas Pension Plans
Germany
In Germany, in addition to participating in the Government pension scheme, the Group operates an unfunded defined benefit 
scheme (no other Group company operates an unfunded defined benefit scheme). The scheme has no asset backing and the 
Group pays member benefits as they fall due. The scheme closed to new members on 1 April 1992. The Group has commenced 
proceedings aimed at closing the scheme to future accrual. A number of arbitration hearings have been held during the year 
and a final decision is awaited in the coming financial year. If successful, depending on the terms of the closure, there would be 
a reduction in ongoing annual service costs, the book value of the scheme liabilities, and the lifetime cost of the scheme, all else 
being equal.
United States of America
In the US the Group operated three defined benefit pension schemes in the Torque Transmission business. All three schemes 
are closed to new members and two of the schemes closed to future accrual at the same time. Only the hourly paid scheme 
remains open to future accrual. One of the three schemes, with gross liabilities of £1.1m was formally terminated and member 
benefits secured in full during the year at a net cost to the Group of £0.1m. Funds that had been earmarked for the closed 
scheme are now being used to accelerate making good the deficit in the second fully closed US scheme with a similar intention 
to terminate and secure member benefits in the next two to three years. The US Chain business operates a defined contribution 
scheme.
In aggregate, the two (2014: three) defined benefit schemes in the US have combined assets of £8.6m (2014: £8.0m) and 
liabilities of £13.4m (2014: £11.4m), giving a net deficit of £4.8m (2014: £3.4m). The change in the net deficit was due to reduction 
in the discount rate to 3.5% (2014: 4.0%) and a change in the national mortality rate tables as issued by the US Society of 
Actuaries.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
127
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
18. Pensions continued
Other overseas schemes
Other overseas employees participate in a variety of different pension arrangements of the defined contribution or defined 
benefit type, funded in accordance with local practice.
In aggregate the other overseas defined benefit schemes have combined assets of £5.7m (2014: £5.7m) and liabilities of £6.2m 
(2014: £6.1m) giving a net deficit of £0.5m (2014: net deficit of £0.4m). 
The pension disclosures in the financial statements are based on the most recent actuarial valuations. Where material, these 
have been updated to the balance sheet date by qualified independent actuaries. The disclosures provided are presented on a 
weighted average basis where appropriate. Plan assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates.
The weighted average durations for both the UK and German pension schemes are 14 years (2014: 14 years) respectively.
Significant assumptions
The principal financial assumptions used to calculate plan liabilities as at 31 March 2015 are presented below. The assumptions 
adopted by the plans’ actuaries represent the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due 
to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
UK Germany Other Overseas
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
1
– – 1.5% 1.5% 2.4% 2.3%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 
and deferred pensions 1.6% 1.9% 1.5% 1.5% – –
Discount rate 3.3% 4.5% 1.4% 3.3% 3.2% 3.9%
Inflation assumption
2
1.7% 2.2% 1.5% 1.5% 2.3% 2.4%
1 
No increase applies following the closure of the UK defined benefit pension schemes to future accrual.
2 
The inflation assumption used for UK schemes was changed to a blend of RPI and CPI in 2012. In addition members have the option to take a one off increase in 
pension at retirement in exchange for surrendering future increases. Approximately 25% of members took this option. 
The predominant defined benefit obligation for funded plans within the Group resides in the UK (£201.5m of the £247.0m Group 
obligation for funded plans). In addition to the assumptions shown previously, mortality assumptions have a significant bearing 
on the calculated obligation. The assumed life expectancy for the RPS members on retirement at age 65 is as follows.
2015 2014
Males
 Currently aged 45 21.3 21.3
 Currently aged 65 20.4 20.3
Females
 Currently aged 45 23.7 23.6
 Currently aged 65 22.6 22.5
The post-retirement mortality tables used for the UK plan are the S1PA series tables published by the UK actuarial profession 
with a 20% uplift in mortality reflecting scheme specific experience. The RPS experiences mortality significantly in excess of the 
national average. The mortality rates for the RPS are based on average year of birth for both non-pensioners and pensioners 
with an allowance for future annual improvements in life expectancy.
In Germany, the mortality expectations for the scheme are in line with the local national averages as is the case in the United 
States and Australia.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
128 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
18. Pensions continued
Sensitivity analysis on UK scheme:
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on plan liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.25% Decrease by £7.2m/increase by £7.6m
Rate of inflation Increase/decrease by 0.25% Increase by £4.0m/decrease by £3.9m
Rate of mortality Increase/decrease by 1 year
1
Increase/decrease by £8.0m
1 
Calculated using a reduction to assumed mortality rates of 12.5% at all ages. This is broadly equivalent to an increase in life expectancy of one year at age 65.
The market values of assets of the principal defined benefit plans of the Group, together with the present value of plan 
liabilities, are shown below. It should be noted that the market values of the plans’ assets are stated as at the Group’s year end 
and since it is not intended to realise the assets in the short term, the value may change significantly before being realised. 
The present values of the plans’ liabilities are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and are thus inherently 
uncertain. 
The fair values of plan assets were:
2015 2014
UK 
£m
Overseas
 £m
Total 
£m
UK
 £m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
UK equities 20.4 – 20.4 20.3 – 20.3
Overseas equities 29.7 7.6 37.3 26.1 7.1 33.2
Hedge funds and diversified growth funds 39.1 – 39.1 31.9 – 31.9
Corporate bonds 36.0 4.2 40.2 39.1 4.0 43.1
Gilts 29.8 0.7 30.5 26.1 0.7 26.8
Other 1.6 2.2 3.8 1.4 2.3 3.7
Total market value of assets 156.6 14.7 171.3 144.9 14.1 159.0
Equities include investments in quoted equities, funds of hedge funds and, in the prior year, property investment vehicles. The 
assets held are materially a reflection of the underlying liabilities in that lower risk assets such as gilts and bonds are deemed 
to be a match for pensioner liabilities whereas equities are deemed a better match for the liabilities associated with scheme 
members not yet in retirement.
Pension obligations
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2015 2014
UK 
£m
Overseas
 £m
Total 
£m
UK
 £m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
Opening obligation (183.0) (40.9) (223.9) (199.1) (42.3) (241.4)
Current service cost – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4) (0.4)
Interest expense (8.0) (1.4) (9.4) (8.1) (1.5) (9.6)
Contributions by plan participants – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1)
Remeasurement gains /(losses) by changes 
in:
 – Experience – (1.5) (1.5) 0.3 0.4 0.7
 – Demographic assumptions – (0.5) (0.5) (2.5) – (2.5)
 – Financial assumptions (20.5) (6.3) (26.8) 4.9 (1.7) 3.2
Liabilities extinguished on settlement – 1.1 1.1 10.9 – 10.9
Benefits paid 10.0 2.4 12.4 10.6 2.0 12.6
Exchange adjustment – 2.1 2.1 – 2.7 2.7
Closing obligation (201.5) (45.5) (247.0) (183.0) (40.9) (223.9)
The total defined benefit obligation can be 
analysed as follows:
Funded pension plans (201.5) (19.5) (221.0) (183.0) (17.3) (200.3)
Unfunded pension plans – (26.0) (26.0) – (23.6) (23.6)
(201.5) (45.5) (247.0) (183.0) (40.9) (223.9)
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
129
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
18. Pensions continued
Pension assets
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit plan assets is as follows:
2015 2014
UK 
£m
Overseas
 £m
Total 
£m
UK
 £m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
Opening assets 144.9 14.1 159.0 156.0 15.9 171.9
Interest income 6.3 0.6 6.9 6.3 0.5 6.8
Remeasurement gains 12.8 0.9 13.7 0.9 0.6 1.5
Employer contributions 2.6 1.0 3.6 2.7 1.1 3.8
Participant contributions – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (10.0) (1.3) (11.3) (10.6) (2.1) (12.7)
Assets distributed on settlement – (1.2) (1.2) (10.4) – (10.4)
Exchange adjustment – 0.5 0.5 – (2.0) (2.0)
Closing assets 156.6 14.7 171.3 144.9 14.1 159.0
Balance sheet reconciliation:
Plan obligations (201.5) (45.5) (247.0) (183.0) (40.9) (223.9)
Plan assets 156.6 14.7 171.3 144.9 14.1 159.0
Net plan deficit (44.9) (30.8) (75.7) (38.1) (26.8) (64.9)
Analysed as follows: 
Non-current assets
Retirement benefit surplus – 0.2 0.2 – 0.4 0.4
Non-current liabilities 
Retirement benefit obligations (44.9) (31.0) (75.9) (38.1) (27.2) (65.3)
Net deficit (44.9) (30.8) (75.7) (38.1) (26.8) (64.9)
The retirement benefit surplus relates to the Australian scheme which remains in surplus. 
The net amount of remeasurement gains and losses taken to other comprehensive income is as follows:
2015 2014
UK 
£m
Overseas
 £m
Total 
£m
UK
 £m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on plan 
obligations (20.5) (8.3) (28.8) 2.7 (1.3) 1.4
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on plan 
assets 12.8 0.9 13.7 0.9 0.6 1.5
Net (losses)/gains (7.7) (7.4) (15.1) 3.6 (0.7) 2.9
The actual return on plan assets was £20.6m (2014: £8.3m) which equates to 12.9% (2014: 4.8%) and compares to the assumed 
rates of return of 4.5% in the UK and 3.9% in other overseas locations (2014: 4.3% and 3.7%).
An analysis of amounts charged to operating costs is set out below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating costs 
Pension administration costs (0.5) (0.6)
Current service cost (0.4) (0.4)
Settlement (loss)/gains (0.1) 0.5
(1.0) (0.5)
The settlement loss of £0.1m relates to the termination of the US Clerical pension scheme in February 2015. The settlement gain 
in 2014 relates to the merger of the three UK schemes in June 2013.
The cost for the period of the various defined contribution schemes was £1.5m (2014: £1.5m) and was fully paid up.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
130 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
19. Called up share capital
Issued
2015
£m
2014
£m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 11.2 11.2
Deferred shares of 20p each 15.4 15.4
26.6 26.6
At 31 March 2015, the issued ordinary share capital comprised 223,064,703 ordinary shares of 5p each (2014: 223,064,703) and 
77,064,703 deferred shares of 20p each (2014: 77,064,703). 
20. Share-based payments
Details of the share-based payment arrangements are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 87. At 31 
March 2015, unexercised options for ordinary shares amounted to 7,454,402 (2014: 7,242,517 restated). 
The fair value per option granted in the period and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
2015 
Executive share 
option scheme
2014 
Executive share option scheme
Grant date 05.06.14 6.12.13 26.9.13 25.7.13
Share price at date of grant 65.17p 49.9p 38.3p 28.2p
Exercise price 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p
Number of employees 23 10 2 8
Shares under option 1,945,789 520,887 319,427 3,236,249
Vesting period (years) 3 3 3 3
Expected volatility 58% 59% 59% 58%
Option life (years) 10 10 10 10
Expected life (years) 6 6 6 6
Risk free interest rate 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% 0.8%
Assumed dividends expressed as a dividend yield Zero Zero Zero Zero
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting Zero Zero Zero Zero
Fair value per option 65.17p 49.9p 38.3p 28.2p
Weighted probability of meeting vesting conditions 37.5% 37.5% 37.5% 37.5%
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected 
period to exercise based on historical data. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a 
term consistent with the assumed option life. Dividend yields indicated above are an expression of assumed dividends over the 
respective periods included in the calculation. These assumptions may not be borne out in practice. A reconciliation of option 
movements over the year ended 31 March 2015 is shown below:
Executive share option schemes
2015 2014 (restated)
Number
Weighted 
average exercise 
price Number
Weighted 
average exercise 
price
Outstanding at 1 April 7,242,517 18.3p 5,343,642 35.5p
Granted 1,945,789 0.0p 4,076,563 0.0p
Exercised (1,060,811) 37.3p – –
Lapsed (29,360) 63.27p (390,942) 30.35p
Forfeited (643,733) 24.08p (1,786,746) 32.9p
Outstanding at 31 March 7,454,402 9.9p 7,242,517 18.3p
Exercisable at 31 March 1,158,935 37.9p 819,826 34.5p
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
131
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
20. Share-based payments continued
2015 2014 (restated)
Range of exercise prices
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Number 
of shares
Weighted average 
remaining life Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Number 
of shares
Weighted average 
remaining life
Expected Contractual Expected Contractual
Nil 0.0p 5,150,429 8.6 4.6 0.0p 3,420,252 5.4 9.4
20p to 30p 26.4p 1,456,482 7.3 3.3 26.9p 1,714,931 4.0 8.0
30p to 40p 37.3p 735,923 6.2 2.2 37.3p 1,966,406 3.2 7.2
40p to 100p 71.3p 111,568 1.5 – 69.6p 140,928 – 2.1
1,060,811 options have been exercised in the period (2014: nil). The exercise of the options was executed in the form of a 
surrender for cash consideration rather than the issue of new equity. This was done to avoid dilution on the issue of a relatively 
small number of shares on a post tax basis. The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was 
£0.2m (2014: charge £0.1m), all of which related to equity settled share-based transactions. 
The prior year figures have been restated to exclude share options that had in fact lapsed.  
The middle market price of ordinary shares at 31 March 2015 was 54.00p and the range of prices during the year was 49.25p to 
67.75p.
21. Reserves
The currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements of 
foreign operations and the proportion of the gains or losses on hedging instruments used to hedge against movements in net 
investments in foreign operations that are determined to be effective.
Other reserves record the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an 
effective hedge.
Cumulative goodwill written off directly to Group reserves at 31 March 2015 amounted to £3.5m (2014: £3.5m).
Included in retained earnings is an amount of £5.7m (net of tax) (2014: £6.1m) relating to the revaluation of freehold property 
that was undertaken at the date of IFRS adoption. The amount is not distributable until it is realised.
22. Operating lease obligations
The Group has entered into leases on commercial properties and plant and equipment. Minimum rental commitments under 
non cancellable operating leases at the year end are as follows:
2015 2014
Properties
 £m
Equipment 
£m
Properties 
£m
Equipment 
£m
Within one year 1.9 0.3 1.9 0.3
Between two and five years 6.2 0.4 6.4 0.3
Over five years 10.8 0.1 12.9 –
18.9 0.8 21.2 0.6
Certain of the leased properties have been sublet and the future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under 
non-cancellable sublease agreements is £3.0m (2014: £3.0m).
An onerous lease provision of £5.4m (2014: £5.7m) (see Note 16) was established in 2014 following the closure of the Bredbury 
manufacturing facility (see Note 2(c) for more details). The lease expires in May 2030 at a rental cost of £0.8m per annum and is 
included in the analysis above.
23. Contingent liabilities and commitments
Performance guarantees given to third parties in respect of Group companies were £nil (2014: £nil).
Various UK group companies have given guarantees to the merged UK pension scheme to cover the full cost of buying out 
the liabilities in the event that the Sponsoring Employers defaulted on the agreed deficit repair plan. As one of the sponsoring 
employers of the UK scheme is Renold plc, the continuing obligation is effectively unchanged and is to fully fund the member’s 
accrued benefits.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
132 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
24. Additional cash flow information
Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash flows from operations:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash generated from operations: 
Operating profit/(loss) 12.1 (1.3)
Depreciation and amortisation 5.3 5.4
Impairment of intangible assets 0.2 –
Impairment of investment property 1.2 –
Proceeds from plant and equipment disposals – 0.2
Equity share plans – 0.1
Decrease in inventories 0.7 1.8
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (0.2) 0.8
Increase/(decrease) in payables 0.9 (1.8)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (1.5) 5.8
Movement on pension plans (4.4) (3.8)
Movement in derivative financial instruments (0.1) (0.2)
Cash generated from operations 14.2 7.0
Reconciliation of net change in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5.8 (2.1)
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 0.1 –
Foreign currency translation differences (0.3) 0.4
Non-cash movement – amortisation of refinancing costs (0.3) (0.3)
Change in net debt during the period 5.3 (2.0)
Net debt at start of year (24.8) (22.8)
Net debt at end of year (19.5) (24.8)
Net debt comprises: 
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 13) 12.6 6.7
Total borrowings (Note 14) (32.1) (31.5)
(19.5) (24.8)
25. Financial instruments
These notes should be read in conjunction with the narrative disclosures in the Finance Director’s review on pages 34 to 39.
Foreign currency risk and sensitivity
As a result of the significant operations in the US and Europe, the Group’s balance sheet can be affected significantly by 
movements in the US Dollar/Sterling and Euro/Sterling exchange rates.
The following table demonstrates the impact of reasonably possible changes in the US Dollar (US$) and Euro exchange rates 
(with all other variables held constant) on the Group’s result before tax (due to the effect of foreign exchange on monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in a different currency to the functional currency of operation) and the Group’s equity (due to 
the effect on other comprehensive income of changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts and the effect of hedging 
borrowings). The impact of translating the net assets of foreign operations into Sterling is excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
133
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
25. Financial instruments continued
Change in US Dollar rate (an ‘increase’ being a fall in the value of Sterling compared to US$):
Increase/
(decrease) in 
US$ rate
Effect on profit 
before tax 
£m
Effect on 
shareholders’ 
equity 
£m
2015 25% (0.1) 1.3
(10%) 0.1 (0.7)
2014 25% 0.1 1.6
(10%) – (0.9)
Change in Euro rate (an ‘increase’ being a fall in the value of Sterling compared to the Euro):
Increase/
(decrease) in 
Euro rate
Effect on profit 
before tax 
£m
Effect on 
shareholders’ 
equity 
£m
2015 25% – 0.3
(10%) – (0.2)
2014 25% – –
(10%) – –
Interest rate sensitivity
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the basis points of the Group’s floating 
interest rates:
Increase in basis 
points
2015 
Effect on profit 
before tax
£m
2014 
Effect on loss 
before tax
£m
Sterling +150 (0.3) (0.3)
US Dollar +150 (0.1) (0.1)
Euro +150 (0.1) (0.1)
Other +150 – –
(0.5) (0.5)
(a) The balance sheet position on financial instruments is set out below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current (liabilities)/assets: 
Forward foreign currency contracts: cash flow hedge (0.1) 0.1
The cash flow hedges of the expected future transactions in US Dollars and Euros were assessed to be highly effective. In the 
period £nil (2014: £nil) was transferred to operating costs in the income statement in the period.
(b) Short term receivables and payables
The carrying amount of short term receivables and payables (being those with a remaining life of less than one year) is deemed 
to approximate to their fair value.
(c) Hedge of net investment in foreign entity 
The Group has US Dollar denominated borrowings which it has designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries 
in the US. The carrying value of the US Dollar borrowings at 31 March 2015 was £5.8m (2014: £5.2m). £0.6m of exchange loss 
(2014: £0.6m gain) on translation of the borrowings into Sterling is included as part of the hedging reserve movement in other 
comprehensive income as the hedge was deemed to be effective.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
134 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
25. Financial instruments continued
(d) Currency and interest rate profile of financial liabilities of the Group
2015 2014
Currency
Fixed rate 
£m
Floating rate 
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate 
£m
Floating rate 
£m
Total
£m
Sterling
 – Financial liabilities – 21.7 21.7 – 20.5 20.5
 – Preference Stock 0.5 – 0.5 0.5 – 0.5
US Dollar – 5.8 5.8 – 5.9 5.9
Euro – 3.6 3.6 – 4.5 4.5
Other – 0.5 0.5 – 0.1 0.1
0.5 31.6 32.1 0.5 31.0 31.5
Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates based on relevant national base rate equivalents, which can fluctuate on a 
daily basis. The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and 
are therefore not subject to interest risk.
Interest rate risk
Exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s Sterling, US Dollar and Euro debt 
obligations.
Credit risk
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade 
on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis 
with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as 
disclosed in Note 12. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and 
certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk has a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value of these 
instruments.
(e) Currency and interest rate profile of financial assets at 31 March 2015
Cash at bank and in hand by currency
2015
£m
2014
£m
Sterling 0.7 1.2
Euro 5.0 0.6
US Dollar 3.1 2.5
Other 3.8 2.4
12.6 6.7
Cash balances are held with the Group’s bankers. These deposits are held largely in Canada and Australia and earn interest at 
bank deposit interest rates for periods of up to three months.
(f) Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the contracted amount of the Group’s financial liabilities was as follows:
2015
One year or less 
on demand
£m
One to  
two years
£m
Two to  
five years
£m
More than  
five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 32.1 – – 32.1
Interest paid on borrowings 1.7 – – – 1.7
Trade payables 18.1 – – – 18.1
Forward foreign exchange contracts – outflow 2.7 – – – 2.7
Preference Stock
1
– – – 0.5 0.5
22.5 32.1 – 0.5 55.1
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
135
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
25. Financial instruments continued
2014
One year or less 
on demand
£m
One to  
two years
£m
Two to  
five years
£m
More than  
five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – – 32.7 – 32.7
Interest paid on borrowings 1.8 – – – 1.8
Trade payables 17.3 – – – 17.3
Forward foreign exchange contracts – outflow 3.2 – – – 3.2
Preference Stock
1
– – – 0.5 0.5
22.3 – 32.7 0.5 55.5
1 
No fixed repayment date.
The Group has contracted forward contracts consisting of Euro forward contracts of £1.7m (2014: nil) and US Dollar forward 
contracts of £1.0m (2014: £3.2m). The Euro contracts are buy contracts and the US Dollar are sell contracts, given that the UK 
Group tends to have a surplus in US Dollars and a deficit in Euro’s. 
A lease became onerous in 2014, see Note 22 for details of rentals payable under this lease.
(g) Borrowing facilities
The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the year end date in respect of which all 
conditions precedent had been met at that date:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Expiring within one year or less, or on demand 3.0 2.5
Expiring between one and two years 7.6 –
Expiring between two and five years – 9.0
10.6 11.5
The facilities expiring in one year or less, or on demand, are primarily annual facilities subject to review at various dates during 
the year ended 31 March 2015. See Note 27 for details of amended borrowing facilities agreed post year end.
(h) Fair values 
Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments 
excluding derivatives, short term trade payables and short term trade receivables which are already carried at fair value (or 
where the carrying amount approximates fair value):
Carrying value Fair value
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Financial assets – cash 12.6 6.7 12.6 6.7
Financial liabilities – floating rate bank overdraft 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
 Floating rate borrowing 31.2 30.9 31.2 30.9
 Preference Stock 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
The fair value of borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
With reference to the fair value hierarchy below the above financial instruments are level 2 except Preference Stock which is 
level 1.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
136 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
25. Financial instruments continued
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either 
directly or indirectly; and
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable 
financial market data.
As at 31 March 2015, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value:
Total
 £m
Level 1
 £m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3
 £m
Assets measured at fair value
Forward foreign currency contracts: cash flow hedge (0.1) – (0.1) –
As at 31 March 2014:
Total
 £m
Level 1
 £m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3
 £m
Liabilities measured at fair value
Forward foreign currency contracts: cash flow hedge (0.2) – (0.2) –
The fair value of derivatives has been calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar 
maturity profiles. 
(i) Capital management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a satisfactory credit rating and capital 
ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or 
adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to the shareholders or 
issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 March 2015 and 31 
March 2014.
The Group monitors capital using two gearing ratios, one of which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt and the 
other is the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net debt (Note 24) 19.5 24.8
Total capital (restated) 9.0 11.4
Capital and net debt (restated) 28.5 36.2
Gearing ratio (restated) 68% 69%
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 (£m) 20.8 16.5
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA 0.9 times 1.5 times
1 
Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before pension administration costs and exceptional items adding back depreciation and amortisation charges 
in the period.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
137
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
26. Business combinations
There were no acquisitions in the current or prior year.
27. Post balance sheet events
Amendment and Extension of the Group’s Core Banking Facility
On 13 May 2015 the Group agreed a revision to its existing banking facilities with its current banking partners, Svenska 
Handelsbanken AB and Lloyds Bank plc. The new facility replicates the previous £41m MRCF but also adds a £20m accordion 
feature that can be triggered by the Group to fund investment or acquisition opportunities. The revised facility has been 
extended to mature in May 2020 whereas the original maturity was in October 2016. The new facility is also priced at current 
market rates and will lead to a reduction in average annual interest expense of approximately £0.3m on current debt levels. The 
main covenants and security granted to the banks and other terms remain largely unchanged.
UK Pensions De-risking Project
After the end of the financial year the Group completed a medically underwritten insured buy-in of approximately £25m of 
higher risk current pensioner liabilities representing approximately 25% of current pensioner liabilities. The population in 
question is described as high risk because it includes members with higher annual pensions and therefore a concentration of 
longevity risk. The UK pension scheme is the beneficiary of the insurance contract purchased which creates matching cash 
flows for the pensions secured. The transaction will have no impact on the Group’s accounting balance sheet but the price 
achieved was at a discount to the funding assumption which will be relevant to future funding discussions with Trustees. 
The key benefit of the transaction was the full de-risking achieved in respect of a significant proportion of current pensioner 
liabilities.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
138 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Group Five Y ear Financial Review
(unaudited)
2015
£m
2014 
(restated)
£m
2013
(restated
3
)
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Group revenue 181.4 184.0 190.3 209.5 191.0
Operating profit before exceptional items and pension 
administration costs 15.5 11.1 7.2 14.1 7.0
Operating profit/(loss) 12.1 (1.3) (6.4) 12.0 4.3
Profit/(loss) before tax 7.7 (5.9) (11.9) 7.6 (1.3)
Taxation (2.1) (4.8) 0.1 (1.2) 0.4
Profit/(loss) for the year 5.6 (10.7) (11.8) 6.4 (0.9)
Net assets employed
Tangible and intangible fixed assets 45.8 46.7 50.7 54.9 55.1
Working capital and other net assets 30.0 32.0 33.3 40.2 36.9
Operating assets 75.8 78.7 84.0 95.1 92.0
Goodwill 21.9 19.8 21.8 22.3 22.4
Net debt (19.5) (24.8) (22.8) (22.9) (20.0)
Deferred and current taxation 15.5 12.8 19.4 15.9 15.2
Provisions (6.4) (7.7) (1.9) (1.5) (1.2)
Net assets excluding pension obligations 87.3 78.8 100.5 108.9 108.4
Pension obligations (75.7) (64.9) (69.5) (55.7) (51.5)
Total net assets 11.6 13.9 31.0 53.2 56.9
Other data and ratios
Return on capital employed (restated) (%)
1
15.6 11.1 6.5 12.2 6.1
Return on sales (restated) (%)
2
8.5 6.0 3.8 6.7 3.7
Capital expenditure (£m) 6.6 7.1 4.9 5.6 6.6
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (restated) (p) 2.5 (4.9) (5.4) 2.8 (0.4)
Employees at year end
4
2,243 2,208 2,466 2,569 2,521
1 
Being operating profit before exceptional items and pension administration costs divided by average operating assets and goodwill.
2 
Based on operating profit before exceptional items and pension administration costs divided by revenue.
3 
Only 2013 has been restated for the impact of IAS 19R and hence some of the income statement figures in the earlier years are not fully comparable.
4 
Basis of calculation of employee numbers changed to include temporary workers in 2013 onwards.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
139
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Accounting Policies
A summary of the principal Company accounting policies is 
set out below. These have been applied on a consistent basis 
unless otherwise indicated.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
Basis of accounting 
The accounts have been prepared in compliance with the 
Companies Act 2006 and in accordance with UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles. They have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities for the Company 
financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic 
Report, the Directors’ report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have elected to prepare the Company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of 
the Company for that period. In preparing those financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 Æ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 Æ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
 Æ state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards 
have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
 Æ prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Foreign currencies 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at 
the date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
recognised in the income statement.
Financial instruments and risk management 
The accounting policies of the Company in respect of 
financial instruments are consistent with those of the Group, 
and are detailed in the consolidated financial statements. 
In accordance with paragraph 2(d) of Financial Reporting 
Standard (FRS) 29, the Company is exempt from the 
disclosure requirements of FRS 29. The Company’s financial 
instruments are consolidated with those of the Group and are 
incorporated into the disclosures in Note 25.
Derivative financial instruments 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risks arising from 
operating and financing activities. In accordance with its 
treasury policy, the Company does not hold or use derivative 
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
T angible fixed assets 
Tangible fixed assets represented by properties and 
equipment are stated at cost, being purchase cost plus any 
incidental costs of acquisition, less accumulated depreciation. 
The book values of certain assets which were the subject of 
past revaluations have been retained as permitted by the 
transitional arrangements of FRS 15: Tangible Fixed Assets. 
Depreciation is calculated by reference to original cost at fixed 
percentages assuming effective useful lives as follows:
 Æ Leasehold properties: the period of the lease
 Æ Equipment and fixtures: 10 to 15 years
 Æ Motor vehicles: 25% per annum for three years, leaving 
25% residual value
 Æ Computer software: three to seven years. 
Where appropriate, adjustments are made to the remaining 
effective useful lives of assets to reflect changes in 
circumstances to those envisaged when the asset was 
brought into use.
Leases 
Annual rentals in respect of operating leases are charged 
against the profit of the year on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
140 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Investments 
Investments in subsidiary companies are accounted for at 
cost and reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. Where 
indicators of impairment are present, the cashflows of the 
underlying entities are reviewed to determine whether the 
investment value is recoverable.
The results and financial position of Renold Scottish Limited 
Partnership (SLP) have been consolidated in the consolidated 
financial statements of Renold plc. Renold plc is a parent 
undertaking of the general partner in the SLP (see Note (xv) 
to the Company financial statements). Accordingly, advantage 
has been taken of the exemption conferred by paragraph 7 
of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 from the 
requirements for preparation, delivery and publication of the 
partnerships accounts.
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences that have 
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where 
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, 
or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the 
balance sheet date, with the following exceptions:
 Æ Provision is not made for tax that would arise on the 
remittance of retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries 
unless the dividends have been accrued as receivable at 
the balance sheet date
 Æ Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent 
that, based on all available evidence, it is considered more 
likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits 
from which the future reversal of the underlying timing 
differences can be deducted
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the 
timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates 
and laws enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Pension costs 
Employees of the Company participate in the pension plans 
operated by the Group in the UK. These include pension 
plans of the defined benefit and defined contribution 
types. However, the contributions paid by the Company 
are accounted for as defined contribution plans in all cases. 
This is because the Company is unable to identify its share 
of the underlying assets and liabilities in the respective 
plans, as required by FRS 17: Retirement Benefits. Therefore, 
contributions paid to the respective pension plans are 
charged to the profit and loss account as incurred. Disclosures 
associated with the Group defined benefit plans are provided 
in the Group financial statements.
Share-based compensation 
The Company operates equity settled share-based 
compensation plans as detailed in the Group financial 
statements.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange 
for the grant of the options is calculated using a Black-
Scholes pricing model and is recognised as an expense over 
the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over 
the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options granted. At each balance sheet date, the 
Company revises its estimates of the number of options that 
are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact 
of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income 
statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over 
the remaining vesting period. No expense is recognised for 
awards that do not ultimately vest except for awards where 
vesting is conditional upon market or non-vesting conditions 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not 
the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied provided that 
all other performance or service conditions are satisfied. The 
market-based conditions are linked to the market price of 
shares in the Company.
Equity-settled share based payments granted to employees 
of the Group providing services to subsidiary undertakings are 
treated as an investment in the company’s balance sheet.
As permitted under the transitional provisions of FRS 20, 
the Company has applied the standard only to equity settled 
awards granted after 7 November 2002 and which vested on 
or after 1 January 2005.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially 
recognised at net proceeds. After initial recognition, debt is 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Dividends 
Final dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders 
are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s 
shareholders, while interim dividend distributions are 
recognised in the period in which the dividends are declared 
and paid. Dividends receivable from subsidiary undertakings 
are similarly recognised on this basis.
Cash flow statement 
As permitted by FRS 1: Cash Flow Statements (revised 1996), 
the financial statements do not contain a cash flow statement 
as the financial statements of the Group, which are publicly 
available, contain a cash flow statement.
Related party transactions 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption not 
to disclose related party transactions with wholly owned 
subsidiaries of the Group under FRS 8: Related Party 
Disclosures.
Accounting policy on derivatives 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed in the 
Group financial statements.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
141
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fixed assets 
Tangible assets i 6.5 6.7
Investments in subsidiary undertakings ii 140.2 143.0
146.7 149.7
Current assets 
Debtors iii 2.0 2.3
Derivative financial instruments vii – 0.1
Cash and short term deposits 3.3 1.0
5.3 3.4
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
Other creditors iv (6.5) (8.8)
Provisions for liabilities v (0.2) -
Net current (liabilities)/assets (1.4) (5.4)
Total assets less current liabilities 145.3 144.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
Other creditors iv (62.5) (62.5)
Bank borrowings vi (16.7) (14.7)
Preference Stock vi (0.5) (0.5)
Provisions for liabilities v – (0.3)
Net assets 65.6 66.3
Capital and reserves 
Called up share capital ix 26.6 26.6
Share premium account x 29.9 29.9
Profit and loss account x 9.1 9.8
Shareholders’ funds 65.6 66.3
Approved by the Board on 26 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Robert Purcell  Brian Tenner
Chief Executive  Finance Director
Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2015
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
142 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Company Statement of Total Recognised Gains 
and Losses
for the year ended 31 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Loss for the year (0.7) (8.1)
Total recognised losses for the year (0.7) (8.1)
All attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
143
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
(i) T angible assets
Property 
£m
Equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At beginning of year 0.4 10.0 10.4
Additions at cost – 1.3 1.3
At end of year 0.4 11.3 11.7
Depreciation
At beginning of year 0.4 3.3 3.7
Depreciation for the year – 1.5 1.5
At end of year 0.4 4.8 5.2
Net book value at end of year – 6.5 6.5
Net book value at beginning of year – 6.7 6.7
Future capital expenditure
At 31 March 2015, contracted capital expenditure not provided for in these financial statements for which contracts have been 
placed amounted to £nil (2014: £nil).
(ii) Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Shares 
£m
Advances 
£m
Total 
£m
Subsidiary undertakings
Cost or valuation
At beginning of year 62.0 81.0 143.0
Net repayments – (2.8) (2.8)
At end of year 62.0 78.2 140.2
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 March 2015 are set out in Note (xv).
(iii) Debtors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1.0 1.6
Other debtors 0.3 0.1
Prepayments 0.7 0.6
2.0 2.3
Unrecognised deferred tax assets amount to £2.5m (2014: £4.1m), arising from unrecognised losses of £1.6m (2014: £3.3m) 
(representing losses of £8.2m (2014: £16.4m)) and other timing differences of £0.9m (2014: £0.8m). None of these losses are 
subject to time limits.
(iv) Other creditors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade creditors 0.9 0.7
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3.9 6.7
Other taxation and social security 0.3 0.2
Accruals 1.4 1.2
6.5 8.8
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due after one year:
Loan from subsidiary undertakings 62.5 62.5
A 25 year loan of £62.5m was established with Renold International Holdings Limited in the prior period. Interest of £2.5m per 
annum, increasing in line with RPI plus 1.5% capped at 5%, is payable for the period of the loan.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
144 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
(v) Provisions for liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
At beginning of year 0.3 0.6
Charge for the year 0.2 –
Released/utilised in the year (0.3) (0.3)
At end of year 0.2 0.3
The provision in the prior year relates to onerous software licence costs in relation to the Group ERP system that were unlikely 
to be utilised. This has been released in the year. An additional provision has been made in the year relating to Head Office 
restructuring costs of £0.2m.
(vi) Borrowings
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due after one year:
Bank loans repayable in two to five years 16.7 14.7
Summary of total borrowings:
Bank loans 16.7 14.7
Preference Stock 0.5 0.5
Total borrowings 17.2 15.2
Bank borrowings are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of UK subsidiaries.
Banking facilities
The Group’s core banking facilities comprise a £41m Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility (MRCF), and an additional £8m of 
ancillary facilities which mature in October 2016. These facilities have been provided by a banking group comprised of Lloyds 
Bank plc and Svenska Handelsbanken AB. The MRCF is fully committed and available until maturity. See Note 14 and Note 27 to 
the consolidated financial statements for more details.
Preference Stock
Details of the Company’s Preference Stock are set out in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
(vii) Derivative financial instrument
2015
£m
2014
£m
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedge – 0.1
The Group has contracted forward contracts consisting of Euro forward contracts of £1.7m (2014: £nil) and US Dollar forward 
contracts £1.0m (2014: £3.2m). The two Euro contracts are buy contracts and the US Dollar contracts are sell contracts, given 
that the UK group companies have a surplus in US Dollars and a deficit in Euros.
(viii) Pensions
Employees of the Company include members of the principal UK defined benefit schemes. However, the contributions paid 
by the Company are accounted for under a defined contribution scheme, because the Company is unable to identify with any 
degree of reasonable certainty its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the respective schemes. This is due to the 
fact that the Company cannot attribute the members of the schemes to the individual sponsoring employer company. As a 
consequence, the deficit in the UK defined benefit schemes is only recognised as a liability in the Group balance sheet. The basis 
used to determine the deficit in the schemes is disclosed in Note 18 in the Group financial statements. 
No contributions are outstanding at the year end. As the pension schemes are in a deficit position a plan has been put in place 
for the participating employers to make additional payments into the schemes. The Company will continue to make payments 
in line with the plan agreed with the Trustees. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for more details.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
145
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
(ix) Called up share capital
Issued
2015
£m
2014
£m
Equity interests
Ordinary shares of 5p each 11.2 11.2
Deferred shares of 20p each 15.4 15.4
Preference Stock
1
0.5 0.5
27.1 27.1
1 
Included in borrowings – see Note (vi).
At 31 March 2015, the issued ordinary share capital comprised 223,064,703 ordinary shares of 5p each (2014: 223,064,703) and 
77,064,703 deferred shares of 20p each (2014: 77,064,703). 
Disclosures in respect of capital management can be found in Note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
Share options
At 31 March 2015, unexercised options for ordinary shares amounted to 7,454,402 (2014: 7,242,517 restated) made up as 
follows:
Date normally exercisable Scheme
Option price
(p per share)
Number  
of shares
2015
Number  
of shares
2014 (restated)
Within seven years from:
22 November 2007 2004 Scheme 63.3 – 29,360
26 July 2009 2004 Scheme 52.5 64,592 64,592
02 January 2010 2004 Scheme 97.2 46,976 46,976
27 September 2013 2004 Scheme 27.3 311,444 311,444
08 June 2014 2004 Scheme 37.3 735,923 1,966,406
31 July 2015 2004 Scheme 29.4 – 258,449
21 January 2016 2004 Scheme 26.2 1,145,038 1,145,038
25 July 2016 2013 Scheme 0.0 2,579,938 2,579,938
26 September 2016 2013 Scheme 0.0 319,427 319,427
06 December 2016 2013 Scheme 0.0 419,451 520,887
05 June 2017 2013 Scheme 0.0 1,831,613 –
7,454,402 7,242,517
Further details of share-based payment schemes operated by the Company are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report 
and Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements.
The prior year figures have been restated in the table above to exclude share options in relation to the 2004 Scheme 
exercisable from 27 September 2013 that had lapsed.
(x) Reserves
Profit and loss 
account 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Total 
reserves 
£m
At beginning of year 9.8 29.9 39.7
Loss for the year (0.7) – (0.7)
Employee share options - value of employee services 0.2 0.2
Settled share based payment transactions (0.2) (0.2)
At end of year 9.1 29.9 39.0
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account is presented in these financial statements. 
The Company’s loss for the financial year was £0.7m (2014: loss £8.1m).
Total fees payable by the Company to Ernst & Young LLP for work in respect of the audit of the Company were £30,000 (2014: 
£30,000). Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for non-audit services to the Company are not disclosed in these financial 
statements because the Group financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
146 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
(xi) Operating lease obligations
At the end of the year there were annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in relation to a property as 
follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Leases expiring:
 – less than one year 0.2 –
 – between one and two years – 0.2
0.2 0.2
(xii) Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed borrowings by subsidiary undertakings of £0.4m (2014: £0.2m). No material loss is expected to 
arise as a result of these contingent liabilities.
(xiii) Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, not to disclose transactions with its wholly owned subsidiaries.
During the year, the Company entered into transactions in the ordinary course of business with its 90% owned subsidiary, 
Renold (Hangzhou) Company Limited, its 75% owned subsidiary, Renold Chain India Private Limited and its 50% jointly 
controlled entity, Renold Transmission Technology (Jiangsu) Inc. Transactions entered into and trading balances outstanding at 
31 March 2015 (and 2014) with Renold Transmission Technology (Jiangsu) Inc. are not material. Transactions entered into and 
trading balances outstanding at 31 March with Renold (Hangzhou) Company Limited and Renold Chain India Private Limited are 
as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts receivable as at 31 March
 – Renold (Hangzhou) Company Limited 4.4 0.1
 – Renold Chain India Private Limited – 0.2
4.4 0.3
Transactions with key management personnel
There were no transactions with key management personnel during the year.
(xiv) Post balance sheet events
Amendment and Extension of the Group’s Core Banking Facility
On 13 May 2015 the Group agreed a revision to its existing banking facilities with its current banking partners, Svenska 
Handelsbanken AB and Lloyds Bank plc. The new facility replicates the previous £41m MRCF but also adds a £20m accordion 
feature that can be triggered by the Group to fund investment or acquisition opportunities. The revised facility has been 
extended to mature in May 2020 whereas the original maturity was in October 2016. The new facility is also priced at current 
market rates and will lead to a reduction in average annual interest expense of approximately £0.3m on current debt levels. The 
main covenants and security granted to the banks and other terms remain largely unchanged.
UK Pensions De-risking Project
After the end of the financial year the Group completed a medically underwritten insured buy-in of approximately £25m of 
higher risk current pensioner liabilities representing approximately 25% of current pensioner liabilities. The population in 
question is described as high risk because it includes members with higher annual pensions and therefore a concentration of 
longevity risk. The UK pension scheme is the beneficiary of the insurance contract purchased which creates matching cash 
flows for the pensions secured. The transaction will have no impact on the Group’s accounting balance sheet but the price 
achieved was at a discount to the funding assumption which will be relevant to future funding discussions with Trustees. 
The key benefit of the transaction was the full de-risking achieved in respect of a significant proportion of current pensioner 
liabilities.
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
147
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
(xv) Significant undertakings as at 31 March 2015
United Kingdom 
Renold Power Transmission Limited*  
Renold International Holdings Limited* 
Renold Europe Limited* 
Renold Scottish Limited Partnership (Address: 3-5 Melville Street, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK EH3 7PE)*
Europe (other than the United Kingdom)
Austria  Renold GmbH 
France  Brampton Renold SAS* 
Germany  Renold GmbH 
Russia  Renold Russia (Obshchestvo s Ogranichennoj Otvetstvennost’u) 
Switzerland Renold (Switzerland) GmbH
North America 
Canada  Renold Canada Limited* 
USA  Renold Inc 
  Jeffrey Chain LP
Other countries 
Australia  Renold Australia Proprietary Limited* 
China  Renold Transmission (Shanghai) Company Limited 
  Renold Technologies (Shanghai) Company Limited 
  Renold (Hangzhou) Company Limited 
India  Renold Chain India Private Limited 
Malaysia  Renold (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 
New Zealand Renold New Zealand Limited* 
Singapore Renold Transmission Limited (incorporated in the United Kingdom) 
South Africa Renold Crofts (Pty) Limited*
*Directly held by Renold plc.
The subsidiary undertakings listed are those which, in our opinion, principally affected the results and assets of the Group. 
Companies of minor importance are omitted by virtue of section 410 of the Companies Act 2006. 
All of our companies with the exception of Renold (Hangzhou) Company Limited, Renold Chain India Private Limited and Renold 
Transmission Technology (Jiangsu) Inc. are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Renold plc, a company incorporated in England and 
Wales, which ultimately holds a 100% (except for those companies in which the Group does not hold all of the shares and voting 
rights as set out above) interest in the equity shares and voting rights. Renold Power Transmission Limited, Renold International 
Holdings Limited and Renold Europe Limited are registered in England and Wales.
The Group has the following interests in the exceptions noted above:
Equity shares Voting rights
Subsidiary undertaking
Renold (Hangzhou) Company Limited 90% 90%
Renold Chain India Private Limited 75% 75%
Jointly controlled entity
Renold Transmission Technology (Jiangsu) Inc. 50% 50%
Our overseas companies are incorporated in the countries in which they operate except where otherwise stated.
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
148 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Corporate Calendar
Annual General Meeting    21 July 2015
Half year end 2015/16   30 September 2015
Announcement of half year 2015/16 results November 2015
Year end 2015/16    31 March 2016
Announcement of annual results 2015/16 May 2016
Payment of preference dividends  1 July 2015 and 1 January 2016
Company details 
Registered office
Renold House    Registered number: 249688 
Styal Road    Telephone: +44 (0)161 498 4500 
Wythenshawe    Fax: +44 (0)161 437 7782 
Manchester    Email: enquiry@renold.com 
M22 5WL    Website: www.renold.com
The registered office address of Renold plc will change to the following in August 2015: Trident 2, Trident Business Park, Styal 
Road, Wythenshawe, Manchester, M22 5XB. 
Company Secretary
Louise Brace
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Broker and financial adviser
Arden Partners
Financial PR consultants
Instinctif Partners Limited
Registrars
Capita Asset Services 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4TU
Telephone: If calling from the UK: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am to 
5.30pm, Monday to Friday)
If calling from overseas: +44 208 728 5000
Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Website: www.capitaassetservices.com
Registrars’ Share Portal: www.capitashareportal.com 
If you receive two or more copies of this report please write to Capita Registrars at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU and ask for your accounts to be amalgamated.
Corporate Information
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
149
Financial Statements 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
2013 PSP 2013 Performance Share Plan (approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM).
Adjusted Add back pension administration costs, exceptional items and any tax thereon.
AGM Annual General Meeting of shareholders of the Company held each year to consider ordinary and special business as 
provided in the Notice of AGM.
Average working 
capital % of sales
Calculated as the average of each months closing working capital divided by rolling twelve months sales in each 
month.
Board The Board of Directors of the Company (for more information see pages 54 to 55).
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate.
Company, Group, 
Renold, we, our or us
We use these terms, depending on the context, to refer to either Renold plc itself or to Renold plc and its subsidiaries 
collectively.
Directors/Executive 
Directors/Non-
Executive Directors
The Directors/Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors of the Company whose names are set out on pages 
54 and 55 of this Report. 
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. Calculated as operating profit before pension 
administration costs and exceptional items adding back depreciation and amortisation charged.
EPS Earnings per share. Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent allocated to each ordinary 
share.
EY The Company’s external auditor, Ernst and Young LLP.
FCA Financial Conduct Authority.
FRC Financial Reporting Council.
Financial Year For Renold this is an accounting year ending on 31 March.
FRS A UK Financial Reporting Standard as issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council (FRC).
IAS or IFRS An International Accounting Standard or International Financial Reporting Standard, as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB). IFRS is also used as the term to describe international generally accepted 
accounting principles as a whole. Financial statements are prepared in independence with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
LTA Lost Time Accident.
Ordinary shares Voting shares entitling the holder to part ownership of a company.
ROCE% Return on Capital Employed is calculated as follows: operating profit before pension administration expenses and 
exceptional items divided by average operating assets and goodwill. Operating assets include tangible and intangible 
fixed assets, working capital and other non-current assets.
ROS% Return on sales is calculated as follows: operating profit before pension administration expenses and exceptional 
items divided by revenue.
Subsidiary A company or other entity that is controlled by Renold.
2012 Code Guidance, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2012, on how companies should be governed, applicable to UK 
listed companies including Renold. A new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code was published in September 
2014 (the 2014 Code).
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice. Generally accepted accounting principles in the UK. These 
differ from IFRS and from US GAAP.
Underlying Restate prior period information at current year exchange rates.
Glossary
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
150
