 Head Oﬃce 
66 Grosvenor Street 
London W1K 3JL 
T: 020 7409 2420 
E: info@restoreplc.com 
W: www.restoreplc.com 
Restore Document Management 
T: 01293 446 270 
E: admin@restore.co.uk 
W: www.restore.co.uk 
The Databank 
Unit 5 Redhill Distribution Centre 
Salbrook Road 
Redhill Surrey 
RH1 5DY 
Harrow Green 
T: 0345 603 8774
E: info@harrowgreen.com 
W: www.harrowgreen.com
2 Oriental Road 
Silvertown
London
E16 2BZ 
Relocom 
T: 0345 313 1491 
E: contactus@relocom.co.uk 
W: www.relocom.co.uk 
ITP Group
T: 0118 943 8001
E: info@itp-group.com
W: www.itp-group.com
Unit 1 Stadium Way
Tilehurst
Reading Berkshire
RG30 6BX
Restore IT Eﬃcient
T: 01462 813 132 
E: ite@iteﬃcient.com 
W: www.restore.co.uk/it-disposal
Unit 4B-4F Sheﬀord Industrial Park 
St Francis Way 
Sheﬀord Bedfordshire 
SG17 5DZ
LOCATIONS
Restore Shred 
T: 01869 238 521 
E: admin@restoreshred.com 
W: www.restore.co.uk/shred
234 Heyford Park 
Upper Heyford 
Oxfordshire 
OX25 5HA 
Restore Scan 
T: 01293 446 270
E: enquiries@restorescan.co.uk 
W: www.restore.co.uk/scan 
Unit 3 The Links
Popham Close
Feltham
TW13 6JE
Report & Financial Statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
See page 12 for more detail.
Records Management 
In an industry worth  
c.£500–600 million in the 
UK, we manage millions of 
archive boxes of document 
files, magnetic data, film, 
national heritage items and 
other materials for blue- 
chip organisations, from  
40 sites across mainland 
Britain providing near  
and deep storage. 
Record management 
services include 
reorganisation of customer 
documents, cloud storage, 
electronic data back-up, 
document restoration  
and file-tracking services 
within customers’  
own buildings. 
Scanning  
The UK scanning sector 
is a diverse market with 
operators ranging from BPOs 
to software and mailroom 
providers. We are the 
second largest traditional 
bureau scanning operation 
in the UK. 
 
Shredding 
Onsite and offsite secure 
shredding is a relatively 
young, fast-growing and 
fragmented, industry worth 
c.£180 million per year  
in the UK, which is 
undergoing consolidation.
Relocations & Storage  
A demanding market 
where success requires 
sophisticated logistics for 
what are mission-critical 
services to our clients, 
whether office relocations or 
more specialised moves such 
as laboratories or museums, 
and for both short and  
long-term storage needs.
IT & Server Relocations 
Growth in the IT relocation 
market is continuing as 
organisations change 
hardware configurations  
particularly to reflect the 
move to cloud services. 
IT Asset Reuse & Recycling  
Driven by regulation such 
as the EU Waste Electrical 
and Electronic Equipment 
Directive and clients’ 
requirement for secure 
destruction, there is 
significant growth in  
secure asset disposal,  
reuse and recycling. 
 
Printer Cartridge Recycling  
As a collector of empty 
printer cartridges, we 
provide a link between 
our customers and 
remanufacturers, of which 
we estimate there are up  
to 3,000 across Europe.
Specialising in the UK office services 
market, we have grown over the last  
6 years to become one of the most  
important suppliers in our sector
Your Company in safe hands 01 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Financial Highlights
•  Group revenue up 36% to £91.9m
•  Document Management revenue up 46%;  
adjusted operating profit up 31%
•  Relocation revenue up 24%; adjusted operating profit up 24%
•  Group adjusted profit before tax up 36% to £16.3m
• Adjusted earnings per share up 27% to 15.6p
•  Dividend per share up 33% to 3.2p
•  New five-year banking facility agreed
Overview 
Highlights 01
What we do  02
Strategic report 
Where we’ve come from  04
Our history of growth 06
Where we are now  08
How we work  10
Our markets 12
Corporate social responsibility 14
Chairman’s statement 16
Chief Executive’s statement  18
Group Finance  
Director’s statement 20
Governance
Board of Directors 24
Directors’ report 26
Corporate governance  
statement 28
Directors’ remuneration report 30
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities 33
Independent auditor’s report 34
Financial statements
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 35
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 36
Consolidated statement  
of financial position 37
Consolidated statement  
of cash flows 38
Notes to the Group  
financial statements 39
Company statement of  
changes in equity 72
Company statement of  
financial position 73
Company statement of  
cash flows 74 
Company accounting policies  75
Notes to the Company  
financial statements 76
Other information
Notice of Annual  
General Meeting 91
Officers and advisers 97
Trading record 97
Contents
Highlights
2015 2014 % Change
Revenue £91.9m £67.5m 36%
EBITDA* £20.4m £14.8m 37%
Operating profit* £17.6m £12.9m 36%
Profit before tax* £16.3m £12.0m 36%
Earnings per share** 15.6p 12.3p 27%
Dividend per share 3.2p 2.4p 33%
Net debt £60.6m £30.9m 
Adjusted Results – Continuing Operations
14 15
Revenue  
(£’m)
+36%
67.5
91.9
Dividend per 
share  
(p)
+33%
 2.4 
3.2
Adjusted*  
profit before tax  
(£’m)
 12.0 
16.3
+27%
 12.3 
15.6
Adjusted* 
earnings per share  
(p)
+36%
Operational Highlights
• Significant progress in expanding scale and scope of  
the Group
• Records Management strengthened position in UK  
market, particularly following the WRM acquisition
• Cintas UK and Cannon Confidential integrated
• Six acquisitions completed
• New business stream entered through acquisition  
of toner cartridge recycler ITP Group
• Major contract with NDA Archives for Restore Scan
2015 2014
Revenue £91.9m £67.5m
Operating profit £7.7m £6.9m
Profit before tax £6.1m £6.1m
Earnings per share 7.0p 6.4p
Statutory Results – Continuing Operations
*  Before exceptional items (including exceptional finance costs), amortisation 
of intangible assets, share based payments charge and other finance 
costs. The reconciliation of adjusted figures is shown in the Group Finance 
Director’s statement.
**  Calculated based on the weighted average shares in issue and a standard 
tax charge. 
14 14 14 15 15 15 02 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
What we do
Providing office services  
nationwide from 
58 sites across the UK
Document Management Division
Records Management Restore Shred Restore Scan
Relocation Division
Harrow Green Relocom  IT Efficient  ITP Group 
Head Office
Restore Scan
Redditch
Restore Shred
Manchester
Restore Records Management
Livingston
Harrow Green
Glasgow
Restore IT Efficient
Shefford
Relocom
Shefford
ITP Group
Reading 03 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
The majority of Records Management’s sales are from the storage 
and retrieval of hard copy documents, typically stored in cardboard 
boxes. It manages millions of archive boxes of document files, 
magnetic data, film and other materials for blue-chip organisations, 
from 40 sites across mainland Britain, including a 70-acre freehold 
underground site near Bath. The business generates additional 
service income from the reorganisation of customer documents, 
document restoration, file-tracking services within customers’ 
own buildings, and electronic data back-up. Restore services a 
broad range of customers throughout the UK, with the largest 
sector being law firms who, as meticulous and sophisticated users 
of storage services, ensure the business remains at the cutting 
edge of developments in document storage. Other important 
sectors include accountancy, corporate, financial, insurance and 
media firms, as well as local authorities, hospital trusts and other 
government bodies.
 
Restore Shred offers secure shredding and recycling for 
customers across the UK and operates from 6 sites, as well  
as having 7 mobile shredding units. Restore entered the  
market in October 2011 and has grown its reach through 
targeted acquisition. The business has also seen sharply 
increased volumes through cross-selling, with customers of 
other Group businesses switching to Restore Shred for their  
secure shredding and recycling needs.
 
Restore Scan is one of the country’s leading document 
conversion and data management specialists operating 
from 9 sites. Its main function is the conversion of hard-
copy documents into electronic data. As part of its service, 
it organises and indexes the electronic versions, enabling 
customers to identify and locate their data more efficiently.  
A significant part of its revenues derive from contracts involving 
repeat business, notably for the scanning of exam papers.
Harrow Green is the market leader in UK commercial relocations 
– the physical movement of office furniture and other physical 
resources when an organisation moves staff either within a 
building or to a new site. From eight sites across mainland Britain, 
it serves a diverse range of customers, including large corporates, 
local businesses and a wide range of public sector bodies, such 
as libraries, universities and health trusts. The bulk of its business 
is in London, servicing many of the largest offices, particularly in 
the financial services sector, with regular customers who have 
a frequent demand, often involving staff working permanently 
on customer sites. Harrow Green also operates Global Moving 
Solutions, providing international moving services, typically for 
senior managers of global companies.
 
Relocom is one of the UK’s leading IT relocations service 
providers, helping leading blue-chip organisations during a 
relocation, reorganisation or period of change. It specialises  
in server and data centre relocation, desktop IT and trading 
desk relocation, furniture and IT asset audit and management. 
 
IT Efficient is one of the UK’s leading providers of secure  
data destruction and hardware disposal services for  
computer equipment. It serves predominately large blue-chip 
customers nationwide, processing around 200,000 items of 
IT equipment a year. It provides on- and off-site destruction 
services alongside recycling, refurbishment and resale of 
electronic items. 
ITP Group, founded in 1992 and acquired by Restore in July 
2015, is the UK’s leading collector of empty printing cartridges. It 
collects cartridges from thousands of premises across the UK in 
all business sectors, including large corporates, SMEs, NHS Trusts 
and schools. It also makes bulk purchases of cartridges from 
waste operators and other recycling businesses. Under the ITP , 
Takeback and Office Green brands, ITP handles over 1.25 million 
items a year.
Document Management Division Relocation Division
Relocation Division
Harrow Green Relocom  IT Efficient  ITP Group 
Revenue 
(£’m)
Revenue 
(£’m)
Adjusted 
Operating Profit* 
(£’m)
Adjusted 
Operating Profit* 
(£’m)
+46%
+31%
 37.4
 54.7
+24%
+24%
 30.1
 37.2
 11.5
 15.1
 3.3 
 4.1
14 14 14 14 15 15 15 15
Relocation Division Document Management Division
*  Continuing operations, before exceptional items (including exceptional 
finance costs), amortisation of intangible assets, share based payments 
charge and other finance costs. 04 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Where we’ve come from
Restore refocused its business 
to create significant shareholder 
value and generate excellent 
shareholder returns
Total shareholder return
Total shareholder return – cumulative increase in market value, plus 
dividends minus capital raised  
Adjusted* Profit Before Tax /  
Head Office Costs
 200
 140
£’m £’m
 120
 100
 80
 60
 40
20
0
 160
 180
 2010
 2011
 2012
 2013
 2014
 2015
 2.6
 19.2 
 43.0 
 77.9 
 169.6 
Adjusted Profit Before Tax Head Office Costs
 2010
 2011
2012
 2013
 2014
2015
15
12
9
 6
3
 0
 2.4 
 3.7 
 6.2 
 10.0 
 12.0 
Over the course of the past six years, we have taken a business 
that in 2009 was close to failure, and refocused it purely on 
providing office services. In this time, we have been able to 
create significant shareholder value and generate excellent 
shareholder returns. Here we chart our progress with the help 
of extracts from our previous annual reports.
In the 2008 accounts, as Mavinwood plc, we announced our 
objective to ‘acquire and develop specialist support services 
businesses that have the potential for growth, either organically 
or in combination with other complementary businesses...the 
Board is satisfied that Document Handling remains an attractive 
market to be invested in and would anticipate it growing in  
the future’.
Once our course had been set, we began to implement this 
strategy. Part of this process was to rename the company 
Restore plc, after our core records management business. By 
2010, we were ‘pleased to report a return to profitability’ and 
announced ‘our intention to play a role in the consolidation of 
this market through the sort of acquisitions we made during 
2010’. We knew that what we like to call the ‘box’ business  
was good, and we stayed the course. 
In 2011, we were ‘confident that office services will remain 
buoyant. We have excellent business visibility and are well 
positioned to continue to broaden the scale and scope of the 
Group’s activities’. Therefore, as well as consolidation in our 
main market, we pursued a strategy of broadening our scope 
by adding services which complement our existing activities. 
In that way, we expanded into secure document shredding 
and recycling, as well as divesting non-core activities. We also 
recorded revenue for the first time, albeit a small amount, 
under the complementary activity of office relocation. 
By 2012, ‘our markets, particularly records management, 
remained robust and we continued to grow profits at the same 
time as securing market leadership in UK office relocations and 
rationalising our operational structure. The company is now 
wholly focused on UK office services’. Through the acquisition 
of Harrow Green we became market leader in office relocation, 
in addition to adding substantially to our records management 
revenue. We have reinvented Restore plc, built it as we had 
planned, and have come a long way from being a new entrant in 
the market – and turned our lack of legacy operational systems 
and processes to our advantage. 
04
205.5
16.3  05 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
 10 11 12 13 14 15
 43.3 
 18.8 
 12.7 
Revenue (£’m)
+36%
67.5
91.9
 53.6 
Dividend per share (p)
+33%
 2.4 
3.2
 1.9 
 1.5 
 1.0 
+36%
Adjusted* profit before tax (£’m)
 12.0 
16.3
 10.0 
 6.2 
 3.7 
 2.4 
+27%
 12.3 
15.6
 10.5 
 7.4 
 4.3 
 2.7 
Adjusted* earnings per share (p)
 10 11 12 13 14 15 10 11 12 13 14 15  10 11 12 13 14 15
The rationale behind offering complementary services is  
that our customer base has similar or identical channels to 
market – IT and facilities managers – and we are able to use our 
comprehensive CRM system to make the most of cross-selling. 
In 2013, we continued ‘to focus on increasing our UK market 
share. In Records Management this is achieved most successfully 
through acquisitions. In some of our other services this is most 
likely to be achieved through organic growth, particularly by 
leveraging our customer base across the Group’. 
We have always been clear about what we were doing. We have 
often taken on poor-performing acquisitions and turned them 
into good performers, understanding that sometimes this takes 
time, which we can afford to give them while they reach their 
potential. In 2014, we announced that ‘our principal near-term 
focus in 2015 is to integrate the acquisitions made in 2014 and 
to drive operating margins in the integrated businesses towards 
those we have historically achieved. We are making good 
progress in this and we are realising the efficiencies anticipated 
at the time of acquisition’.
We set out with the aim of becoming the largest UK-based 
provider of UK records management, with a truly national 
presence. Through acquisition, and organic growth, we have 
achieved this. Since 2010, we have completed 26 acquisitions 
in records management and complementary office services. 
From our original footprint of seven locations in the South and 
East of England, we now have 58 sites around mainland Britain. 
From £12.8 million in 2009, our turnover solely in document 
management has grown to £54.7 million. The corresponding 
figures for office relocation show growth from £3.2 million in 
2011 to a figure of £37.2 million for 2015, and we are by some 
distance the market leader. In the UK records management 
market, we have gone from number nine to number two, and 
the number one UK-based provider, during that time. 
Having achieved stability and strength in the business, our 
most recent document management acquisition, Wincanton 
Records Management, has extended our position as the UK’s 
second biggest records management operator. In March 2016, 
our subsequent disposal of Restore Document Management 
Ireland, the Irish business of Wincanton Records Management, 
reinforces our focus on the market of which we have a deep 
knowledge and where we can achieve better returns.
We are part of the UK landscape but, importantly, we still have 
plenty of room to improve and grow. 
05
*  Continuing operations, before exceptional items (including exceptional finance costs), amortisation of intangible assets, share based 
payments charge and other finance costs. The reconciliation of adjusted figures is shown in the Group Finance Director’s statement.
In 2011, with the acquisition of Sargents, Restore diversified 
into other related office services. Since that time, the 
Relocation division has been expanded to incorporate 
office and workplace relocations – for which Harrow 
Green is recognised as the UK market leader – specialist 
IT relocations, IT asset secure destruction, reuse and 
recycling and, most recently, printer cartridge recycling.
From its initial revenue of £3.2 million in 2011, the 
division achieved revenues of £37.2 million in 2015 and 
has opened up significant cross-selling opportunities to 
our Document Management division.
From Document 
Management  
to Relocation 06 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Acquisition  
of Datacare
28.8p
Acquisition  
of Management 
Archives
Acquisition 
of Paterson 
Document 
Management
Acquisition  
of IT Efficient
Acquisition  
of Formsafe
 Share placings
21 Oct 2010 £4.0m at 26p 
02 Aug 2011 £4.6m at 65p
02 Mar 2012 £8.5m at 75p
03 Oct 2012 £3.0m at 93p
09 Apr 2013 £7.0m at 111p
07 Oct 2014 £14.9m at 210p
08 Dec 2015 £34.0m at 260p
Acquisition 
of Brunswick 
Document 
Management
Sale of 
Peter Cox
2010 2011 2012 2013 
Acquisition 
of Archive 
Solutions
Acquisition 
of Atix
 Acquisition of 
File and Data 
Storage 
Acquisition of 
Restore Shred
Acquisition  
of M&L Document 
Destruction
Acquisition  
of Sargents
Acquisition 
of ROC 
Relocations
Acquisition  
of Harrow Green
Our history of Growth
A timeline through six 
years of successful 
acquisitive growth
Name change  
to Restore plc
06 07 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Records Shred  Scan Relocation IT Relocation Reuse & Cartridge Recycling
Management
2 3 2 1 Top 10 Top 10 1
Recycling Collectors
Current UK market position
2013 2014 2015 2016
Acquisition  
of Ancora
Acquisition  
of Cannon 
Confidential
Majority stake  
in Relocom 
Acquisition 
of Magnum 
Secure
Acquisition  
of Papersafe UK 
Acquisition  
of Cintas UK Document 
Management UK
Share Price
Acquisition  
of Diamond 
Relocations 
Acquisition of Crimson UK 
Continuing to build scale  
(while rationalising nationwide 
reach), bringing new customers  
and 2 significant new contracts. 
Acquisition of Wincanton  
Records Management 
Yielding 5 additional sites in key  
areas across mainland Britain – providing 
an additional 5.2m cu.ft. storage (at 69% 
capacity) – and c.600 customers.
Acquisition  
of Document  
Imaging & Archiving
Acquisition of ITP Group
Entering a new and profitable  
area of office support recycling, with 
a customer base of c.5,000, provides 
further cross-selling opportunities  
to the Group.
07
Acquisition  
of Filebase
299.0p 08 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Where we are now
• Strong growth 
• Good operating margins 
• High visibility of earnings
ACQUISITION OF  
WINCANTON 
RECORDS 
MANAGEMENT
Restore acquired WRM 
in December 2015, 
extending its position as 
the second largest records 
management business in 
the UK. The acquisition: 
• materially increased 
the scale of the 
enlarged Group in 
the UK in terms of 
revenue (+£14.8m), RM 
customer base (+600) 
and storage capacity 
(+5.2m cu.ft.  
at 69% capacity)
• provided an 
opportunity to realise 
significant synergies
• is expected to be 
earnings enhancing 
in its first full year of 
ownership.
INTEGRATION –  
CINTAS UK AND 
CRIMSON 
The acquisition of Cintas 
Document Management 
UK and, later, Crimson UK 
have enabled Restore to 
significantly increase the 
scale of scanning services, 
while realising synergies 
and rationalising our 
presence across mainland 
Britain to best meet 
customers’ needs.
Along with new 
customers, providing 
further cross-selling 
opportunities, the 
enlarged scanning 
business has brought 
opportunities to win  
larger contracts.
CASE STUDY –  
OXFORD RADCLIFFE 
HOSPITAL NHS 
TRUST
Oxford University 
Hospitals, a world 
renowned centre of clinical 
excellence and one of 
the largest NHS teaching 
trusts in the UK, chose 
Restore to provide record 
management services 
to handle the Trust’s 1.5 
million patient records.
They required storage of 
both active and non-active 
records, daily retrievals 
and collection services, 
and destruction services.
Critically, they required 
emergency retrieval within 
2 hours which Restore  
was able to provide 
through record indexing 
and near storage.
DIVERSIFYING INTO 
COMPLEMENTARY 
MARKETS – ITP 
GROUP
ITP Group, the market 
leader in UK empty printer 
cartridge recycling, 
provided Restore with 
a complementary new 
business opportunity.
Bringing with it a customer 
base of c.5,000 has 
given Restore further 
opportunities to cross-sell 
Document Management 
and other Relocation 
services to our new 
customers and to cross-sell 
printer cartridge recycling 
services to the Group’s 
existing customers.
08
Growth through 
acquisition 
and market 
consolidation
Integration and 
improvement of 
acquisitions
Competitive 
advantage 
through UK 
focus and market 
knowledge
Group-wide 
cross-selling 
opportunities 09 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Growth in revenue of 36% in 2015
Adjusted operating margins of 19% across the Group
Long-term storage and long-term contracts
High visibility of earnings
• Strong, predictable recurring  
revenues and high customer retention
Through long-term contracts in Records 
Management and Relocation, such as churn 
based projects, we generate predictable 
recurring revenues and through first class 
service have high customer retention levels.
• Integration and improvement  
of acquisitions
• Complex and mission-critical  
operational services
By offering complex services, which  
require long-term investment, our 
businesses typically record double-digit 
operating margins.
Good operating margins
• Growth through acquisition and  
market consolidation
• Integration and improvement  
of acquisitions
• Competitive advantage through UK  
focus and market knowledge
• Group-wide cross-selling opportunities
In addition to pursuing organic growth,  
being actively acquisitive in our  
spheres of expertise provides us with 
opportunities to benefit from scale.
Strong growth
Strong,  
predictable 
recurring 
revenues and 
high customer 
retention
Complex and 
mission-critical 
operational 
services
09
CASE STUDY – 
RELOCATING 
CAMBRIDGE LMB 
The brief: move Cambridge 
Laboratory of Molecular 
Biology staff, equipment, 
facilities, IT desktop 
equipment and servers 
into a new purpose-built 
building, while keeping 
downtime to a minimum, 
with departments back in 
operation in the shortest 
possible time. 
The size: 600 scientists and 
support staff; 8 weeks; 
9,000 crates. 
The added solution: 
‘Hot Teams’, flexible in 
size, ensured downtime to 
science research projects 
(expected by the client to be 
7 days) was kept to 3-4 days.
CASE STUDY – 
GRANT THORNTON 
LLP 
Grant Thornton has been 
a longstanding customer 
of Restore, having sought 
a document management 
provider who could meet its 
requirements for national 
coverage and a partner who 
understood and reflected 
its priorities of service, value 
for money, sustainability  
and excellence.
We provide training for 
our online web portal 
that has been tailored to 
meet its needs, as well 
as advice on retention 
periods, destruction best 
practice, improved KPIs, 
cost analyses, management 
information reporting, 
shredding and scanning. 10 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
How we work
Restore provides office 
services across all of 
mainland Britain
HOW WE CREATE VALUE
Our strategy 
We aim to be a market leader in the spheres we operate in, 
and to maintain a truly national network across mainland 
Britain, deriving competitive advantage from our market 
knowledge and focus. In all of our business streams, 
particularly Records Management, customers prefer not to 
change suppliers, due to the complexity and disruption of 
doing so. This offers a strong source of predictable, recurring 
revenues, as the volume of documents requiring attention 
tends not to vary with the economic climate, nor with 
advances in technology. 
We frequently build our market share and reach by acquisition. 
This way, we have been able to offer customers with national 
presence the opportunity to consolidate their supplier 
base. We have a proven record of acquiring and integrating 
businesses, and achieve industry-leading margins in Records 
Management through scale, tight cost control and low 
property rental costs. 
Overall we aim to consolidate certain inter-related UK office 
services where there are benefits from scale and through 
consistency of demand – and which are of limited interest 
to large facilities management companies. With a strong 
business in Records Management, we have been building 
our shredding, scanning and recycling activities where 
the customer base and skillset required are similar. Our 
relocations and document activities share a similar customer 
base – which is the IT and facilities managers responsible for 
keeping their offices running smoothly. We understand these 
customers, and what it takes for UK offices to work well.
With our activities all having this similar channel to market, 
we cross-sell the services we offer, using our comprehensive 
Customer Relationship Management system to identify such 
opportunities. Our relocations businesses generate excellent 
opportunities as office and IT relocations often lead to a need 
for off-site document storage, shredding or scanning, and 
computer equipment requiring secure recycling or destruction. 
Ours is a decentralised model, with autonomous divisions 
supported by a head office. Our key principle is that power 
and responsibility go hand in hand. Our people know what 
is expected of them and have the power to make their 
own decisions. This is crucial in a business where first-class 
customer service is the key to satisfying and retaining 
customers. We achieve success through well-motivated, 
capable people doing their jobs to the best of their ability. 
Operate in areas where:
•  Revenues are recurring
•  There is operational complexity 
•  There is a similar channel to market 
•  It is unattractive for customer  
to change suppliers 
•  There is reasonable scope  
for cross-selling 
Operating Model 
Invest to increase 
market share 
and operational 
efficiency 
Generate new 
business, including 
from Group customers 
not using the service
Operate in an  
attractive  
market
Use scale to improve 
customer service 
and operating 
margins  11 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
We aim to consolidate certain  
inter-related UK office services where 
there are benefits from scale and 
through consistency of demand 
60%
of FTSE 100 companies
96%
of top 25 UK 
accountancy companies
72%
of top 100 UK  
legal practices
41%
of local authorities  
in England, Scotland  
and Wales
41%
of UK National Health 
Service trusts
We provide services to 
Service Offering Expansion Model Financial Growth Model
Enter related 
market, probably 
through 
acquisition 
Hold strong 
position in 
market 
Organise and 
understand new 
business stream 
Increase market share 
and improve margins 
through operational 
efficiencies
Grow business 
through acquisition 
of companies in same 
market
Grow business 
through leveraging 
Group customer 
base
Achieve and report 
results showing 
strong return on 
invested capital
Strong operational 
business generates 
funding capability 
Performance 
generates strong 
return on invested 
capital
Invest in 
organic 
growth
Acquire 
related 
businesses 
where strong 
return on 
invested 
capital 
available
Our customer base covers a broad range of sectors such as government and local government, public sector, health services,  
retail, manufacturing, construction, education, utilities, financial services, media, legal, IT and FTSE 100 companies.  12 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Restore
Restore is the second largest traditional 
bureau scanning operation in the UK. 
Historically our segment of the market 
was dominated by major one-off projects 
but now we are more focused on 
recurring revenues from major contracts 
for long-term backlog clearance, or work 
such as exam paper processing. 
Restore
We remain number 2 in the UK market 
behind the leading global player, as we 
continue to build scale through market 
consolidation and cross-selling. We  
offer national coverage and one of  
our core differentiators is our 
understanding of the specific 
requirements of UK customers. 
Restore
Restore is currently ranked number 
3 in the UK market. Consolidation 
and acquisition of mid-market firms 
will continue to provide growth 
opportunities in key geographical 
areas. The Restore Shred business is 
highly complementary to our storage, 
scanning and relocations businesses, 
and this leads to important cross-
selling opportunities. 
Our Markets
We provide outsourced 
services to offices, principally 
in mainland Britain
Records Management
This is a large global industry with many 
international operators. The UK market, 
worth an estimated £500–600 million  
per year, has been established for over  
30 years and is still growing at around  
5 per cent a year. The market continues 
to be consolidated, offering participants 
the benefits of operating at scale, which 
facilitates improved cost control. 
There are high barriers to entry in 
records management, largely due 
to the difficulty in acquiring new 
customers and the investment required 
to meet increasingly higher regulatory 
standards. Larger customers often seek 
to consolidate suppliers with a single 
operator who can provide geographical 
coverage, whilst achieving efficiency, 
space and cost savings. 
Cloud storage is sometimes perceived 
as a threat to hard-copy records 
management; while in percentage terms 
only a small amount of data now ends 
up on paper, the amount of data as a 
whole has increased exponentially and 
cloud services, which suffer repeatedly 
from concerns over security, have not 
affected overall storage volumes. 
Shredding
The UK security shredding 
and recycling market is worth 
approximately £180 million a year. 
There are two leading players, each 
with over 15 per cent of the market. 
Shredding is a relatively young, 
fragmented and fast-growing industry 
at the early stages of consolidation. 
Small regional businesses struggle 
to meet new legislation and audit 
standards, or fund modern high-
security mobile shredding vehicles. 
Sales are generated from the 
collection and destruction of 
documents, as well as sales of baled, 
shredded material for recycling, 
mainly for tissues. Demand for 
destruction continues to grow 
strongly, driven by legislation both for 
data protection and environmental 
disposal. Volume shredding is very 
time-consuming and so outsourcing  
is likely to remain the chosen 
option. On the recycling side, tissue 
consumption is growing at 3.5 per 
cent a year, and recovered fibre  
prices rose 15 per cent in 2015. 
Scanning
It is difficult to assess the size of the 
scanning market because such a wide 
range of businesses provide these 
services. Often they specialise in 
certain functions and can principally 
be categorised as: 
• Business Process  
Outsourcing providers
• reprographics and print  
providers and retailers
• scanning bureaux
• mailroom providers
• software houses
• other document management 
service providers
A rough estimate would place the size 
of the entire scanning market at more 
than £500 million a year. Industry 
consolidation is underway, especially 
at the smaller end of the market.  13 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Restore
In this sector, Restore, through 
its Harrow Green and Relocom 
businesses, offers national coverage. 
We are well-established with a blue-
chip customer base, for whom our skills 
in complex project management are 
essential. Our relocations businesses 
are also excellent lead generators 
for our document management and 
recycling businesses, as relocation 
often prompts decisions about 
archiving and legacy equipment. 
Restore
IT Efficient has a strong presence in 
the financial services sector, including 
services to five of the world’s leading 
investment banks. In addition to 
bringing in new customers, we look to 
increase our market share by cross-
selling to the Group customer base. 
Most of our larger customers have  
a steady demand for our services, 
largely unrelated to the economic cycle
Restore
ITP Group is the UK’s leading collector 
of empty printing cartridges, and also 
makes bulk purchases from other 
collectors, so extending the Group’s 
recycling capabilities. ITP continues 
to be market leaders with innovation, 
trust, quality and service being key 
components of its continued growth.
Relocation including IT 
The market for high-level corporate 
and specialist workplace relocations 
remains steady at in excess of £100 
million a year in the UK. 
Success in this demanding market is 
based on sophisticated logistics for 
what clients see as a mission-critical 
service. Thus, there are high barriers 
to entry, especially at the top end of 
the market. Accordingly, customer 
relationships tend to be long-term as 
reliability and knowledge of customer 
sites is key. 
Growth in the IT relocation market is 
continuing as organisations change 
hardware configuration to reflect 
the move to cloud services. We also 
anticipate growth in furniture recycling, 
a relatively immature market. 
IT asset reuse and recycling
The market benefits from regulation 
relating to the safe and secure 
disposal of IT equipment and mobile 
phones, including the EU Waste 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
Directive. This increasing focus within 
the industry on responsible handling, 
together with security and corporate 
social responsibility, provides 
significant growth in secure asset 
disposal, reuse and recycling, often to 
the benefit of charitable causes. 
This service includes a manufacturing 
and retail element for sale of recycled 
and refurbished equipment with a 
target of 0% landfill on disposal. 
Printer cartridge recycling 
There are an estimated 10,000 
cartridge remanufacturers 
worldwide, employing over 
65,000 people. Across Europe we 
estimate that there are c.2,000– 
3,000 professional cartridge 
remanufacturers and many 
companies which provide the third 
party empty cartridge supply link 
between cartridge users and the 
remanufacturers.
Worldwide cartridge shipments have 
increased from 450 million units to 
466 million, with revenues exceeding 
$55 billion. Approximately 20–30%  
of all cartridges sold worldwide are 
now remanufactured and of the  
c.150 million toner cartridges sold  
in EMEA each year an estimated  
100 million units are remanufactured  
OEM cartridges. 14 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015 14 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Corporate Social Responsibility
We strive to change even the little things to  
increase our overall impact
Giving back to society 
As a company and as a workforce, everyone at Restore is 
committed to being a good citizen and playing a useful role in 
society. We aim to minimise our carbon footprint, support local 
communities and contribute towards charitable efforts. 
Within our own operations, the issues of energy conservation, 
waste management and the prevention of pollution are key 
considerations. We work hard to ensure we:
• reduce consumption of materials and promote  
re-use and recycling – our aim is to achieve 0% landfill 
• achieve continual improvement in environmental 
performance 
• minimise the impact of our operations on the environment
• minimise the impact of our buildings, structures and 
operational plant by reducing visibility and noise levels.
We help our clients: 
• make more efficient use of office space and public service 
facilities, by storing documents in remote premises 
• improve access to important documents – our Restore Scan 
service creates efficient processes for public services 
• reduce their carbon footprint with our Restore Shred and ITP 
Group services
• recycle IT equipment and office furniture, or offer it for 
charitable re-use or re-sale.
Working to recycle and reduce energy use in our 
Document Management division
As a provider of full life cycle document and digital information 
management, recycling is a key element of Restore’s business. 
Paper from millions of archive boxes at end of life is despatched 
to Restore Shred – with a 100% recycle rate. We also take day-to-
day steps to minimise our use of natural resources:
• Archive boxes – we use millions of easily assembled, double-
walled construction boxes that are made from material that 
is 70% recycled, along with responsibly sourced FSC-certified 
raw material. At end of life, the boxes are turned into toilet 
paper, carpet and cling film rolls
• Fuel and fleet management – we run a modern fleet of 
vehicles optimised for fuel efficiency. We plan deliveries and 
collections to reduce fuel use and use GPS tracking  
to enhance fleet utilisation 
• Energy management and recycling – we work with the 
Carbon Trust to reduce our environmental impacts through 
recycling and reducing energy consumption 
• Lighting – we are currently migrating our storage facilities 
to a mix of ultra-low wattage LED lighting, very slim T5 
fluorescent tubes and PIR sensors. 
Restore continues to work with The Carbon Trust implementing 
the agreed 10-point plan of action and, having been audited 
under the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme in 2015, Restore 
is now ESOS compliant. 
The Restore Shred recycling programme handled 25,000 tonnes 
of office paper in 2015, which is equivalent to saving over 
400,000 trees from being cut down. All of the shredded and 
baled paper produced is sent to UK tissue mills to be used in 
products such as paper towels, hand wipes and tissue sheeting 
for the NHS.
Supporting a local bio-energy project
Our two high-security storage facilities at Bentwaters Park 
near Ipswich source power from a bio-energy scheme set up 
by a group of local farmers. Anaerobic digesters run on a mix 
of vegetable and maize silage and apple pressings, consuming 
70,000 tonnes a year. Of that, 60,000 tonnes is sourced from 
within a five to ten mile radius. 
Promoting sustainability at Relocation division
Our Relocation division is fully committed to sustainability. The 
division is bringing its knowledge, expertise and passion for 
sustainability together to make energy, carbon and cost savings. 
Harrow Green has achieved The Planet Mark sustainability 
certification, which is provided by Planet First in partnership 
with the Eden Project. This certification is awarded only after 
a rigorous assessment of business activity and involvement in 
the community. It demonstrates our commitment to reducing 
energy, water and fuel consumption and associated carbon 
emissions. Through The Planet Mark certification, we achieved 
a 12% carbon reduction per employee from 2014 to 2015. 
Our IT Efficient resale, reuse and recycle programme handled 
200,000 items such as mobile phones, PCs and printers, with 0% 
going to landfill, and our ITP service collected over 1.25 million 
printer cartridges for reconditioning and reuse in 2015.  15 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
15 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Investing in people
We believe in caring for our employees, the communities in 
which we work and for everyone that comes into contact with 
the organisation. Of course, the more we grow, the more jobs 
we are able to create. We are also involved with the Growing 
Talent project run by PricewaterhouseCoopers, which helps get 
unemployed participants into work.
Our employees regularly take part in a wide variety of 
charitable and community initiatives, where possible supported 
by the Group. Recent events include the London Marathon, 
Moonwalk for Breast Cancer and a skydive raising money for a 
local charity. Funds have also been raised for:
Health and Safety
We are proud of our excellent health and safety record  
and are committed to continually improving health  
safety management systems and safety cultures throughout 
the organisation. 
Through our Re-Fresh programme, each year Harrow Green 
provides over 2,000 tonnes of No Longer Needed assets to 
charities, schools, community and voluntary groups and 
start-up businesses in its area of operation. This brings huge 
benefit to these organisations, providing them with assets 
and equipment which they could not otherwise afford, and 
keeps landfill waste to a minimum. So, after the flooding in 
Leeds in December 2015, Harrow Green donated furniture to 
local businesses affected by the floods.
Harrow Green also contributes to the community by 
providing its services free of charge for small charities and 
community groups, when possible. For example, we have 
provided trucks and drivers to help Crisis at Christmas, which 
offers a lifeline for thousands of homeless people during the 
holiday period. 
Both IT Efficient and ITP Group provide the facility to their 
customers to donate respective resale and recycle profits 
to charitable causes.
Restore Records Management is a sponsor of the Surrey 
Care Trust which provides learning, training, volunteering 
opportunities and support for people who have been held back 
through disadvantage and hardship. In 2015 we also initiated 
support for the Willow Foundation, which helps people aged 16 
to 40 who have been diagnosed with a life-threatening illness.
In 2015, Restore Shred formed a corporate partnership with 
the Woodland Trust to support its programme of planting 
tens of thousands of trees, in addition to supporting tree 
conservation and wildlife protection. Restore Shred also 
supports a number of regional hospices.
Charity and 
community support
• MacMillan Cancer Trust
• Pear Tree Specialist School
• NSPCC
• St Clare Hospice 
• Jeans for Genes 
• Wear it Pink 
• Help For Heroes 
• British Legion
• Smartworks
Health & safety incidents
Document  
Management Relocation
2015 2014 2015 2014
•  E m p l o y e e  
man months
8,309 4,768
•  E m p l o y e e  
man hours* 
963,438 604,987
•  R I D D O R 
events
5 5 9 2
• Near misses 7 7 3 1
•  R I D D O R 
events per 
man month
0.06% 0.10%
•  RIDDOR events 
per man hour 0.0009% 0.0003%
* Measured in hours due to the nature of the Relocation business.
RIDDOR – Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences 
Regulations 2013.
1,250,000+
printer cartridges collected  
for reconditioning
200,000 
IT assets resold,  
reused or recycled 
25,000 
tonnes of paper recycled  
2,000+ 
tonnes of No Longer  
Needed assets distributed  
to good causes
In 2015: Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015 16
Results
I am pleased to report another strong performance by your 
Company. For the year to 31 December 2015, profit before tax, 
exceptional items, amortisation, discontinued activities and 
share-based payment charges was £16.3 million, a year-on-year 
increase of 36% (2014: £12.0 million). Turnover was £91.9 million 
(2014: £67.5 million), with a large part of the year-on-year increase 
reflecting acquisitions made in both 2014 and 2015. Earnings per 
share on an adjusted basis were up 27% at 15.6 pence (2014:  
12.3 pence). The recommended final dividend is up 37% at 2.2p.
These results exclude our Irish business, acquired as part of 
Wincanton Records Management in December 2015, whose  
sale was completed on 10 March 2016.
Strategy
We are now established as an important supplier of services to 
UK offices and workplaces. The increase in scale of our business 
in recent years enhances our ability to grow organically through 
increased operational efficiency, cross-selling and greater  
market presence.
The services that all of our operations supply have  
common features: 
• A strong element of recurring revenues
• A degree of operational complexity which enables  
good margins to be achieved
• A similar channel to market: typically through our  
customers’ facilities managers or IT managers
• Switching suppliers is neither desirable nor practical  
for customers
• Reasonable scope for cross-selling most of the other  
services we offer.
Most of our business streams have a significant presence in their 
respective markets. We are well established as one of the two 
major records management businesses in the UK, and further 
strengthened that position following the acquisition of Wincanton 
Records Management in December 2015. Records Management 
currently accounts for about half of Group revenues and the 
majority of Group operating profit and we continue to seek out 
appropriate records management acquisitions. Harrow Green is 
the UK market leader in office relocation by some distance and the 
Relocation division has increased operating profit from £0.3 million 
to £4.1 million over the last four years. 
Restore Records Management and Harrow Green are respectively 
the two leading businesses in our Document Management and our 
Relocation divisions. Sitting alongside these two large activities, we 
have other smaller businesses which either currently have a strong 
UK market position or the opportunity to build one. Our two other 
business streams in the Document Management division, Scan and 
Shred, both have substantial scope for profitable growth and we 
expect them to show significant improvements in profitability over 
the coming years. As part of this, they now have their own newly-
appointed managing director who is focused exclusively on these 
businesses’ growth. In the Relocation division, we offer three other 
services in addition to office relocation: IT relocation, IT recycling 
and toner cartridge recycling, the last of which was added through 
the acquisition of ITP Group in July 2015. We believe all these 
businesses have scope for significant growth and benefit greatly 
from being part of Restore.
We continue to look at opportunities to enter related markets 
which share the attributes referred to above. 
We have invested heavily in terms of management time in 
establishing a Group-wide customer relationship management 
system. This enables all of our sales staff in all our business 
streams to recognise and leverage the contacts we have developed 
elsewhere in the Group. Despite being operationally and 
managerially decentralised, this ability to plug into our Group-
wide customer contacts makes the process far more effective for 
our sales people looking to introduce their service into our Group 
customers. This creates momentum for all sales staff across  
the Group.
We believe that it is key to our business that we focus on areas 
where we can benefit from cost and customer synergies. As part  
of this, on 10 March 2016 we completed the sale for €36 million 
(£27.8 million) of our Irish records management business, acquired 
in December 2015 as part of Wincanton Records Management. 
While this is a high-quality business, it provides limited scope to 
generate substantive cost synergies. We are confident that we will 
be able to generate a better return in the long term on the funds 
realised by redeploying them in our core UK market.
Trading
Our Document Management division performed satisfactorily 
overall. Its turnover was £54.7 million (2014: £37.4 million) and 
adjusted operating profit was £15.1 million (2014: £11.5 million). 
Its core Records Management business continued to demonstrate 
the strength of its financial model. In contrast, our smaller Scan and 
Shred businesses, which had both been substantially enlarged by 
acquisitions made in 2014, performed below our expectations during 
a year of change. We took steps to address the underperformance of 
both businesses during the year and are confident they will deliver an 
improved contribution to the Group in 2016.
Our Relocation division continued to trade strongly. The division’s 
turnover was £37.2 million (2014: £30.1 million) and adjusted 
operating profit was £4.1 million (2014: £3.3 million); these figures 
include ITP Group, the toner cartridge recycling business acquired 
in July. 
Chairman’s Statement
The increase in scale of our business in recent 
years enhances our ability to grow organically 
through increased operational efficiency, 
cross-selling and greater market presence Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
17
Corporate Transactions
Much of the operational focus of the Group was on integrating 
the acquisitions made in 2014, notably Cintas UK and Cannon 
Confidential, both of which were operating at marginal 
profitability at the time of acquisition. As expected at the time 
of acquisition, several acquired businesses required substantial 
restructuring during the year and, following significant 
investment, these are now showing a marked improvement  
in profitability under our ownership.
Nonetheless, 2015 was another key year in the strategic 
development of the Group with several acquisitions including the 
largest ever undertaken by Restore. 
In total, six acquisitions were made in the year:
• In January, we acquired Ancora, a records management business 
in East Anglia, a region in which we were under-represented, for 
£0.5 million 
• In July, we acquired ITP Group, the UK’s largest toner cartridge 
recycling business, for £3.6 million (net of cash acquired). This 
took us into a new business activity but one very closely aligned 
to our existing services
• In August, we acquired Data Imaging and Archiving, a scanning 
and records management business based in South London, for 
£1.5 million. We are in the process of relocating the acquired 
boxes into our estate and have transferred the scanning to our 
facility in Hanworth, South-West London
• Also in August, we acquired Crimson UK, a Manchester-
based scanning business for an initial cash consideration of 
£1.0 million. We have subsequently moved its Manchester 
operations into our facility in Manchester
• In December, we acquired Wincanton Records Management, 
one of the largest UK records management companies, which 
also has a significant presence in Ireland, for £57.3 million. 
This extended our position as one of the two major UK records 
management operators
• Also in December, we acquired Diamond Relocations in South 
London for £1.0 million. This provides Harrow Green with a 
South London base and a small records management operation, 
which has been integrated into Restore. 
Funding 
Net debt at the year-end was £60.6 million (2014: £30.9 million). 
The increase in net debt reflects the cost of acquisitions made 
during the year. As part of the acquisition of Wincanton Records 
Management in December, a new banking facility was put in place 
with Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland. We now have in place a 
£50 million Term Loan maturing in December 2020 and a 5-year  
Revolving Credit Facility of £30 million, with an additional  
£20 million available. The Wincanton Records Management 
acquisition was also funded by the placing of 13.1 million shares  
at 260 pence per share.
Following the disposal of our Irish records management business 
for €36 million (£27.8 million) on 10 March 2016, net debt has been 
reduced sharply. We therefore have considerable funds available to 
us to continue to develop the company.
Dividends
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.2p, payable on  
8 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 10 June 2016. The total 
dividend for the year is 3.2p, a 33% year-on-year increase. It remains 
the Board’s firm intention to follow a progressive dividend policy.
People
Our business has grown significantly in recent years and that is 
reflected in the increased size of our workforce. We now have 
over 1,200 employees. We remain committed to the principle of 
locking power and responsibility together at all levels within the 
business and letting our people get on with their job with minimal 
interference. I believe this lies at the heart of our current success 
as we are wholly dependent on the abilities of our people and their 
commitment to serving our customers.
As our Group increases in scale, we are able to offer greater 
stability and career opportunities for all our people. We are also in 
a position to provide to our people the support and development 
that is appropriate to a larger company without losing the flexibility 
to treat people as individuals.
I thank all our people for their commitment over the last year and 
look forward to them continuing to share in the success of the 
Group. I also welcome the people who have joined us through 
acquisitions made over the year.
Outlook 
Looking ahead, our near-term focus will be on delivering the cost 
and capacity synergies from the Wincanton acquisition, continuing 
to improve the performance of our Shred and Scan businesses, and 
ensuring that our newer activities, in particular IT recycling and printer 
cartridge recycling, benefit in full from the cross-selling opportunities 
that arise from the breadth of the Group’s customer base.
We will continue to pursue our strategy of organic and acquisitive 
growth. The current year has started satisfactorily and we look 
forward to delivering another year of strong progress in 2016.
Sir William Wells
Chairman
24 March 2016
+36%
£91.9m 
(2014: £67.5m)
Revenue (£’m)
+27%
15.6p 
(2014: 12.3p)
Adjusted* earnings  
per share (p)
+36%
£16.3m 
(2014: £12.0m)
Adjusted* profit  
before tax (£’m)
+33%
3.2p 
(2014: 2.4p)
Dividend per share (p)
* Before exceptional items (including exceptional finance costs), amortisation 
of intangible assets, share based payments charge and other finance costs. 
The reconciliation of adjusted figures is shown in the Group Finance  
Director’s statement. Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our Document Management and 
Relocation divisions both delivered 
very strong growth in operating profit
18
Document Management
Trading in Document Management overall was steady in 2015 
with adjusted operating profits increasing by £3.6 million to 
£15.1 million. Turnover increased from £37.4 million to  
£54.7 million. The majority of the increase in revenue derived 
from acquisitions made during the year. The decline in operating 
margin reflected a higher percentage of revenues deriving from 
activities other than records management, but was also affected 
by the limited initial contribution from those activities.
Records Management comprises the bulk of these results 
and its performance remained robust. Organic box growth in 
the established business, defined as increase in box numbers 
from existing customers, continued to run at 7%, while new 
box growth, at over 6%, was stronger than in prior years 
and well above the industry average. After box destructions 
and permanent retrievals, overall net box growth (before 
acquisitions) was in excess of 6%. The box growth in acquired 
businesses was at appreciably lower levels at both the former 
Cintas UK and Wincanton Records Management businesses and 
we expect this to continue for some time given their weak sales 
pipelines at the time of acquisition. This will adversely affect the 
overall box growth rate in the business in the short term.
Prior to the acquisition of Wincanton Records Management, 
capacity levels across the business were comfortably in excess 
of 90%, and approaching full capacity in the South East. On 
acquisition, Cintas UK had been operating at 68% of available 
space; this is now in excess of 90%, in line with the levels we 
have historically achieved. Combined with extensive cost 
restructuring, the profitability of the former Cintas UK business 
is now in line with the established Restore business. The 
increase in capacity utilisation has been driven by a combination 
of box growth and the closure of several sites across the 
combined business where there was the opportunity to leave 
inappropriate sites at low cost. The acquisition of Wincanton, 
whose pre-acquisition capacity levels in the UK business were 
at 69%, provides us with much-needed space in the South-
East, particularly as we will be exiting our site in Charlton in 
2017. With the need to accommodate new box growth and 
the opportunity to leave certain other sites, we are confident 
that our overall capacity utilisation will have been optimised 
by the end of 2016 and that operating margins in the records 
management division will be in line with historic levels. 
Alongside additional capacity from acquired businesses, we 
continue to develop the most attractive of our existing facilities. 
We are developing another district in our freehold underground 
site in Wiltshire, which we expect to begin utilising in 2017, and 
have continued to lease additional hardened aircraft shelters 
at Upper Heyford, with a further two currently being prepared. 
We have taken on similar aircraft shelters in East Anglia and we 
envisage more capacity will become available there. Overall, we 
feel we are well positioned with the space currently occupied 
and available to us across mainland Britain. In the medium term, 
we expect a shortage of appropriately-priced space in the South 
East to become more of a feature for the sector as a whole.
Restore Scan, which primarily comprises the Cintas UK scanning 
business acquired in October 2014, had a difficult year with 
a poor operational performance on its largest contract and 
several major contracts being delayed. The management 
structure was inappropriate and this was substantially changed 
during the course of the year. We also closed part of our site 
at Peterborough. Despite the poor operational performance, 
Scan’s largest contract has been extended to 2017 and we also 
signed a significant 5-year contract in September with NDA 
Archives. We have several large contracts for NHS Trusts and 
a stable base of recurring business. We have invested heavily 
in Scan and following the changes made during the year we 
believe it has strong growth prospects. 
Restore Shred, our secure shredding and recycling business, 
showed steady organic growth but has yet to achieve the critical 
mass to generate an appropriate contribution to the Group. We 
have invested in new equipment, including a new IT system. 
We continue to expect that Restore Shred will in due course 
become a significant operator in the UK market, particularly by 
leveraging the Group’s customer base effectively, and remain 
confident that it can generate good returns.
Relocation
The Relocation division recorded adjusted operating profits 
for the year of £4.1 million (2014: £3.3 million) on revenue 
of £37.2 million (2014: £30.1 million). The uplift in revenues 
partly reflected the acquisition of ITP Group but was also 
driven by strong organic growth in all three of the ongoing 
business streams.
Revenues in the core Harrow Green office relocation business 
showed yet another strong year-on-year improvement, as well 
as an increase in operating margins. Market conditions remained 
buoyant, particularly in the London office market, and we 
benefited from a continued good level of activity by our major 
customers. Major one-off projects undertaken during the year 
included work for the BBC, European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, Slater & Gordon and Net-a-Porter. We 
completed our first year of our contract for work with the 
Ministry of Defence, which was particularly busy following the 
rebasing of several Army units to the UK from Germany. GMS, 
our international moves business, showed a strong year-on-year 
improvement in both revenues and contribution. Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Relocom, our IT relocation business, had an excellent year with 
increased revenues and a doubling of its contribution year-on-
year. Its major customers were active and its contract to install 
collection lockers for Amazon continued to grow. It continues to 
work more closely with Harrow Green and IT Efficient, which is 
being reflected in higher revenues.
IT Efficient, our IT recycling business, increased revenues 
although its contribution to the Group was broadly flat year-on-
year. In the three years since we entered this market we have 
established a blue-chip customer base from whom we receive 
equipment. As we look to broaden IT Efficient’s customer base, 
the Group’s customer base, particularly that of the recently 
acquired ITP business, should be helpful in this regard. 
ITP Group, our toner cartridge recycling business acquired in 
July 2015, achieved revenues and a contribution broadly in line 
with expectations at the time of acquisition. We expect that 
volumes should increase over time as ITP benefits from access 
to the Group’s customers, many of whom are showing interest 
in ITP’s services.
Customers
Our focus on the UK office services market means that we 
deliver at least one of our services to a high proportion of 
UK offices including most of the UK’s larger offices. We seek 
to utilise this extensive customer base by maintaining and 
developing our Group customer relationship management 
system, which all sales people across the Group use. This 
continues to facilitate cross-selling as most of our customers 
have a demand for most of our services and the procurement 
person or team is often the same. We regularly conduct an 
exercise which shows that our current penetration of customers 
in various groupings was:
• 60% of FTSE 100 companies
• 96% of top 25 UK accountancy firms
• 72% of top 100 UK legal firms
• 41% of local authorities in England, Scotland and Wales
• 41% of UK National Health Service trusts.
I believe this represents an excellent indication of the strength 
of our business and the opportunity for future development.
Charles Skinner
Chief Executive
19
Revenue 
2015
Revenue 
2014
Adjusted* Operating 
Profit 2015
Adjusted* Operating 
Profit 2014
Document Management £54.7m £37.4m £15.1m £11.5m
Relocation £37.2m £30.1m £4.1m £3.3m
Head Office costs – – (£1.6m) (£1.9m)
Total £91.9m £67.5m £17.6m £12.9m
* before exceptional items (including exceptional finance costs), amortisation of intangible assets, share based payments charge and other finance costs.
Divisional Performance 
As part of the acquisition of Wincanton Records 
Management from Wincanton plc in December 2015, 
Restore acquired Wincanton’s Irish records management 
business, which has two sites in Dublin, and which was 
subsequently renamed Restore Document Management 
Ireland (RDMI).
In view of Restore’s continued strategic focus on the 
UK mainland, and the limited synergies between RDMI 
and the company’s UK operations, the Board decided to 
dispose of RDMI.
RDMI was sold in March 2016 for €36 million.
Sale of Restore 
Document 
Management 
Ireland Limited
Ireland Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Profit Before Tax
Profit before tax from continuing operations for the year ended 
31 December 2015 was £6.1 million (2014: £6.1 million). The key 
underlying factors driving the performance compared to the 
prior year are:
• Contribution resulting from the performance of businesses 
acquired in both periods 
• Continued performance improvement
• The adverse impact of higher levels of exceptional costs 
as a result of the significant restructuring activity undertaken 
in the period.
Exceptional costs of £6.4 million (2014: £3.1 million) largely 
reflect double running costs and restructuring undertaken 
in acquired businesses. The most significant of these is the 
restructuring and integration of Cintas UK which was acquired 
in October 2014. The integration of acquired businesses is 
essential to enable them to attain the operating margins we 
achieve in the core business and the financial return expected 
at the point of acquisition. The costs incurred in restructuring 
Cintas UK have overall been broadly in line with those 
expected at the time of the acquisition; within these costs a 
higher proportion than expected has been spent on scanning. 
Amortisation of intangible assets for the year was £2.6 million 
(2014: £1.9 million) with the increase attributable to the higher 
carrying value of intangible assets. 
Due to the one-off nature of exceptional costs and the non-
cash element of certain charges, the Directors believe that an 
adjusted measure of profit before tax and earnings per share 
provides shareholders with a more appropriate representation 
of the underlying earnings derived from the Restore Group’s 
business. The items adjusted for in arriving at that adjusted 
profit before tax are as follows:
Continuing operations
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Profit before tax 6.1 6.1
Share based payments charge 0.9 1.0
Exceptional items 6.4 3.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.6 1.9
Other finance costs 0.3 (0.1)
Adjusted profit before tax 16.3 12.0
Reconciliation of Reported Operating Profit to 
Adjusted Operating Profit and Adjusted EBITDA
Continuing operations
2015
£’m
2014 
£’m
Operating profit 7.7 6.9
Share based payments charge 0.9 1.0
Exceptional items 6.4 3.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.6 1.9
Adjusted operating profit 17.6 12.9
Depreciation 2.8 1.9
Adjusted EBITDA 20.4 14.8
Earnings Per Share (EPS)
Continuing operations 2015 2014
Basic adjusted earnings  
per share (pence) 15.6p 12.3p
Basic earnings per share (pence) 7.0p 6.4p
Basic adjusted earnings per share are calculated as adjusted 
profit for the year less standard tax charge divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue in the year. Basic 
earnings per share reflect the actual tax charge which in 2015 
includes the utilisation of £2.0 million of brought forward losses 
acquired as part of the Cintas UK acquisition.
Exceptional Costs
2015
£’m
2014 
£’m
Acquisition – transaction costs 0.4 0.4
Acquisition – box relocation  
and transport costs 0.1 0.4
Restructuring and  
redundancy costs 5.1 2.5
Other exceptional 0.8 (0.2)
Total 6.4 3.1
Group Finance Director’s Statement
20
Significant levels of restructuring 
undertaken to improve operating 
margins of acquired businesses Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
The integration of acquisitions remains the key driver of 
exceptional costs. In the period the Group completed six 
acquisitions and undertook the bulk of the restructuring of the 
Cintas UK and Cannon Confidential businesses.
Transaction costs include the cost of legal and professional fees 
incurred as part of the acquisitions made in 2015.
Box relocation and transport costs include the cost of uplifting 
boxes to existing facilities and the movement of boxes from 
facilities which closed as result of the Cintas UK acquisition. 
Restructuring and redundancy costs have increased to  
£5.1 million in 2015. As expected at the time of acquisition, 
the Cintas UK business has required significant restructuring to 
enable it to operate at the margins expected. This has included 
a rationalisation of the overhead structure, rationalisation of 
the storage property portfolio to enable increased utilisation 
and the combination of two scanning businesses to deliver 
synergies. Also included in the restructuring and redundancy 
costs are the costs from the other acquisitions including:
• The integration of both Crimson and Data Imaging 
acquisitions into our scanning and storage operations
• The completion of the integration of Cannon Confidential 
into our shredding operations
• The integration of ITP into our Relocation division
• The initial integration costs of the Wincanton acquisition.
Other exceptional costs include £0.6 million in relation to a 
seasonal scanning contract. The contract involves scanning 
exam papers primarily over a two month period in May and 
June each year. Due to technical issues during the process 
which had not occurred in previous years, significant additional 
costs were required to deliver the contract. Further to the 
costs borne directly by the Group further fines and costs were 
recharged by the customer. Management believe the root cause 
of the technical issues has been identified which will enable the 
cost of delivering this contract in future periods to fall in line 
with patterns previously experienced. As a result of the one 
off nature of these costs and their relative size they have been 
shown as exceptional to enable a better understanding of the 
underlying trading of the Group during the year.
Interest
Net finance costs amounted to £1.6 million (2014: £0.8 million) 
which reflects the increased levels of debt as a result of 
acquisition activity. Included within finance cost is a credit of 
£0.1 million (2014: £0.1 million) representing the change in fair 
value of the interest rate collar.
Taxation
UK Corporation Tax is calculated at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) of 
the estimated assessable profit/(loss) for the year. The UK 
Corporation Tax rate reduced on 1 April 2015 to 20%, with a 
further reduction to 19% on 1 April 2017 falling further to 18% 
on 1 April 2020; accordingly, these rate reductions have been 
reflected in the deferred tax balance which forms part of the 
statement of financial position.
Statement of Financial Position
Net assets increased to £104.7 million (2014: £67.0 million) 
following the six acquisitions and placing of shares. Goodwill 
and intangibles at 31 December 2015 were £118.6 million  
(2014: £68.9 million).
Property, plant and equipment totalled £37.4 million (2014: 
£30.2 million), comprising the freehold underground storage 
facilities in Wiltshire, storage racking, vehicles and computer 
systems. The development of additional storage space in 
the underground facility has continued in 2015 including 
exploratory investigations into the viability of a further chamber 
in the facility which could lead to increased capacity.
21
96% increase in net cash inflow from 
operations largely driven by reduction 
in working capital usage 22 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Group Finance Director’s Statement continued
Cash Flow
The net cash inflow from operations increased 96% to  
£11.0 million (2014: £5.6 million). The improvement from the 
prior year has been driven by:
• A reduction of £3.1 million in working capital usage due  
to lower levels of one off acquisition related working  
capital movements
• An increase of £1.6 million in non cash depreciation and 
amortisation charges in the income statement.
Net working capital usage in the year was £3.0 million which 
included movement on property provisions, including the Cintas 
UK Charlton property, of £2.1 million. Capital expenditure 
totalled £4.0 million (2014: £3.6 million) following the continued 
development of additional space in the underground storage 
facility, development of storage capacity in other sites and 
investment in additional scanning capability.
Net Debt
Net debt at the end of the year was £60.6 million  
(2014: £30.9 million) reflecting the additional debt taken on to 
fund the acquisition spend of £65.9 million which was partially 
funded through a placing of shares raising £32.9 million. As part 
of the acquisition of Wincanton’s records management business 
the Group refinanced its debt facilities entering into a two bank 
club arrangement. Facilities at the end of the period totalled 
£100 million (£80 million committed) comprising a £50 million 
term loan, £30 million revolving credit facility and a potential 
£20 million accordion facility. Total amount drawn against these 
facilities at the year end was £68.5 million. Following the sale  
of Restore Document Management Ireland Limited for  
€36 million (£27.8 million) on 10 March 2016, net debt has 
reduced significantly, greatly increasing the funding available  
to the Group to continue to deliver its growth strategy.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
The management of the business and the execution of the 
Group’s strategies are subject to a number of risks. The key 
business risks affecting the Group are shown below.
Risk Management
The significant financial risks the Group faces have been 
considered and policies have been implemented to best deal 
with each risk. The three most significant risks are considered 
to be liquidity risk, finance cost risk and customer relationship 
risk. The Group is primarily based in the United Kingdom so the 
direct exposure to exchange risk is considered to be small.
Liquidity Risk
The year end net debt was £60.6 million (2014: £30.9 million), 
which consisted of £68.5 million of interest bearing loans  
and borrowings plus £1.4 million of overdrafts (note 18),  
(2014: £37.0 million of interest bearing loans and borrowings 
plus £1.2 million of overdrafts). Net debt is monitored on a 
daily basis and banking facilities are reviewed against future 
expected cash flow movements to ensure that adequate 
facilities are in place.
Finance Cost Risk
The Group pays finance costs on its bank facilities. The bank 
facilities finance cost is a variable cost linked to LIBOR plus a 
margin. Interest rates are managed through an interest rate 
swap. The average finance cost on bank facilities for the Group 
in 2015 was 2.7% (2014: 2.7%). The potential exposure to  
LIBOR movements is deemed acceptable given the current  
and anticipated future levels of debt.
Customer Relationship Risk
The Group has commercial relationships with over 14,000 
business customers. Attrition rates are low and relationships are 
strong. The largest customer accounts for less than 4% of Group 
revenue, with the majority of large customers tied into longer 
term contracts. Due to the relatively low revenue concentration 
of our largest customers the perceived customer relationship 
risk is deemed to be low.
Management
It is likely that changes to members of the senior management 
team might impact on the Group’s ability to perform to the 
expectations within its strategy. The Board ensures that the 
management team is appropriately rewarded for its efforts and 
that succession planning is considered.
Legislative
The Group has systems and procedures in place to ensure 
compliance with, and to manage the impact of changes in, 
Government legislation such as agency worker regulations, 
vehicle operating procedures and environmental requirements.  23 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) 
The Group uses many different KPIs at an operational level which are specific to the business and provide information to 
management. At an executive level, a selection of operational KPIs, which allow a relevant and robust review of operational 
performance, are considered with operational management on a monthly basis. The Board also relies on KPIs that focus on the 
financial performance of the Group.
The table below shows the main KPIs used to manage the Group’s performance during the year.
Key Performance Indicator
2015
£’m
2014 
£’m Analysis
Revenue 91.9 67.5 Year-on-year change in revenues analysed by segment (see note 4).
Adjusted operating profit 17.6 12.9 Year-on-year change in adjusted operating profit analysed by 
segment (see note 4).
Operating cash flow before  
financing costs and tax
11.0 5.6 Operating cash flow generated in 2015 increased due to lower 
one of working capital movements compared to 2014. 
Bank interest cost 1.2 0.9 Year-on-year change in cost of Group finance. Finance costs in the 
year remained increased as a result of higher levels of net debt.
Net debt 60.6 30.9 Year-on-year change in bank debt, which increased to fund the 
acquisitions in the year.
The non-financial indicators that are regularly monitored are customer satisfaction and retention as well as staff turnover 
ratios. Customer attrition rates are very low, as the business has strong and long-term relationships and a high level of customer 
satisfaction. The Group has a strong team of experienced and dedicated staff and staff turnover rates are low. 
Adam Councell 
Group Finance Director
The strategic report on pages 4 to 23 was approved by the Board of Directors on 24 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: 
Charles Skinner Adam Councell
Chief Executive Group Finance Director 24 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Board of Directors 
Sir William Wells
Aged 76, Non-Executive Chairman
Sir William Wells was appointed Chairman of the Board on 8 June 
2009. His career encompasses senior positions in public health, 
commercial property, insurance and business services. He was 
Managing Partner and then Chairman of Chesterton Chartered 
Surveyors for 34 years, where he oversaw their transition from 
a private partnership to a listed company. His other experience 
includes Non-Executive Director roles with AMP (UK), Henderson 
Group plc and Exel plc, which was subsequently acquired by 
Deutsche Post. Sir William is Chairman of ADL plc, a care home 
provider, CMG plc, a specialist in the care of adults with learning 
difficulties, Pure Sports Medicine, a leading provider of specialist 
muscular skeletal services, and The Practice Group, a leading 
provider of primary and community care across England. He was 
the Chairman of the Department of Health’s Commercial Advisory 
Board and NHS Appointments Commission.
Charles Skinner
Aged 55, Chief Executive
Charles Skinner was appointed Chief Executive of the  
Group on 8 June 2009. Charles was previously Chief Executive 
of Johnson Services Group plc and Brandon Hire plc for nine 
years, prior to which he was at SG Warburg, 3i plc and editor 
of Management Today. Charles has nearly 20 years experience 
as Chief Executive of quoted companies in the business-to-
business services sector.
Stephen Davidson
Aged 60, Non-Executive Director
Stephen Davidson joined the Board on 8 January 2014. He 
is Non-Executive Chairman of Datatec Limited and PRS for 
Music. Stephen is also Non-Executive Director of Informa plc, 
Inmarsat plc and Jaywing plc. In his earlier career Stephen was 
Chief Financial Officer then Chief Executive officer of Telewest 
Communications plc and Vice Chairman of investment banking 
at WestLB Panmure. Stephen has a 1st class honours degree in 
mathematics and statistics from the University of Aberdeen.
James Wilde 
Aged 62, Non-Executive Director
James Wilde joined the Board on 1 June 2014. He is currently 
Non-Executive Chairman of Nirvana Equity Limited, the 
holding company of NSL Services Group. He has previously 
been Non-Executive Chairman of several support services and 
manufacturing businesses, including Deb Group Limited, Zenith 
Vehicle Contracts Group Limited, ATPI Limited and Allied Glass 
Group Limited. He was on the Board of the Navy Army and Air 
Force Institutes (NAAFI) for six years and spent much of his 
executive career at Securiguard Group plc and Rentokil Initial 
plc, where he was Chief Executive.
24 25 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Adam Councell
Aged 37, Group Finance Director
Adam Councell was appointed Group Finance Director on  
18 June 2012. Adam began his career at Whitbread plc in the 
accounts department of The Pelican Group restaurant division 
before moving to the Milward Brown Precis subsidiary of WPP 
plc. He joined Rentokil Initial plc in 2003, where he held a 
variety of finance posts including Commercial Director of the 
Business and Industry division and Finance Director of Catering 
and the combined Catering and Hospitals division. Most 
recently, he was Finance Director of the UK Business Services 
division, supervising eight businesses with a combined turnover 
of £250 million.
Sharon Baylay
Aged 47, Non-Executive Director
Sharon Baylay joined the board on 10 September 2014. She is 
a Non-Executive Director of ITE Group plc, the listed organiser 
of international trade exhibitions and conferences, and Market 
Tech Holdings, the listed company combining real estate assets 
with e-commerce. She is also Non-Executive Chairman of Dot 
Net Solutions Ltd, a private equity backed Cloud Computing 
business. She has previously been Marketing Director and 
main Board Director of the BBC, responsible for Marketing 
Communications and Audiences, and spent much of her career 
at Microsoft where she was Board Director of Microsoft UK and 
Regional General Manager of MSN International. Sharon is also 
a holder of the FT/Pearson Non-Executive Director Diploma.
25 26 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ report
The Directors submit their report and the financial statements 
of Restore plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Restore plc is a public limited company quoted on AIM, 
incorporated and domiciled primarily in the United Kingdom 
and has no branches outside the UK.
Results
The profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2015  
for continuing operations was £6.1 million (2014: £6.1 million).
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 
2.2 pence per share payable on 8 July 2016 (2014: 1.6 pence  
per share). An interim dividend of 1.0 pence was paid during  
the year (2014: 0.8 pence). The estimated final dividend to be 
paid is £2.1 million (2014: £1.3 million).
Principal Activities
The principal activities of the Group during the year were that of 
Document Management and Relocation.
Business Review and Future Developments
This is dealt with in the Strategic report on pages 16 to 23.
Directors
The following directors have held office during the year:
Sir William Wells (Chairman)
Charles Skinner (Chief Executive) 
Adam Councell (Group Finance Director)
Stephen Davidson (Non-Executive Director) 
James Wilde (Non-Executive Director)
Sharon Baylay (Non-Executive Director) 
Information on Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-
term executive plans, pension contributions and benefits is  
set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 32.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors  
and officers.
Share Capital
Full details of the authorised and issued share capital of the 
Company are set out in note 23 to the financial statements.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 22 March 2016 the Company had been notified of the 
following interests amounting to 3% or more of the Company’s 
issued share capital:
Number of 5p 
ordinary shares
Percentage of 
issued share 
capital
Hargreave Hale 12,471,328 13.0%
BlackRock Investment 
Management (UK) 10,304,693 10.7%
Octopus Investments 9,278,072 9.7%
Old Mutual Global Investors 5,958,107 6.2%
Slater Investments 5,807,600 6.1%
Franklin Templeton  
Investments (UK) 4,210,000 4.4%
River & Mercantile Asset 
Management 3,639,000 3.8%
M&G Investments 2,911,500 3.0%
Property Values
The Directors are aware that a significant difference may exist 
between market and book values, as shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2015, for the 
Group’s freehold properties, all of which have a market value in 
excess of the book value recorded. The Directors believe that 
this excess is in the region of £7.4 million. 
Employees
The Group’s people are its most important asset. Our policy 
is to employ the best people irrespective of race, gender, 
nationality, disability or sexual orientation. Consultation with 
employees or their representatives occurs at all levels, with 
the aim of ensuring their views are taken into account when 
decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests.
Disabled Employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full 
and fair consideration for all vacancies, having regard to their 
particular aptitudes and abilities. In the event of an employee 
becoming disabled, every effort is made to retain them in order 
that their employment with the Group may continue. It is the 
policy of the Group that training, career development and 
promotion opportunities should be available to all employees. 
Environmental Policy
Maintaining and improving the quality of the environment 
in which we live is an important concern for the Group, our 
staff, customers, suppliers, sub-contractors and communities 
in which we operate. We have adopted high standards of 
environmental practices and aim to minimise our impact on the 
environment wherever this is practical. In particular, we comply 
with, and endeavour to exceed the requirements of all laws and 
regulations relating to the environment. 27 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Health and Safety
The Group recognises the importance of maintaining high 
standards of health and safety for everyone working within 
our business and also for anyone who may be affected by 
our business. Health and safety is a particular concern to our 
customers. Consequently, both of our business segments have 
appointed Health and Safety Officers.
The Group’s operational report to the board on a monthly basis 
includes a section on all health and safety matters.
Financial Risk Management
Information in respect of the financial risk management 
objectives and policies of the Group, including the policy 
for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for 
which hedge accounting is used and the exposure of the 
Group to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow 
risk is contained in note 3, and detailed in the Group Finance 
Director’s statement.
Political and Charitable Donations 
Donations of £22,000 were made by the Group for charitable 
purposes during the year (2014: £12,000). The Group does not 
make political donations.
Statement, as to Disclosure of Information  
to Auditors
The Directors in office on 24 March 2016 have confirmed that, 
as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the auditor is unaware. Each of the Directors have 
confirmed that they have taken all steps that they ought to 
have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that it has been 
communicated to the auditor.
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 May 
2016 is set out on pages 91 to 94.
Post Balance Sheet Events
Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 35 of the 
financial statements.
Sarah Waudby
Company Secretary
24 March 2016   28 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Corporate Governance Statement
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company having regard to Quoted Company Alliance. The Directors support 
the principles underlying these requirements insofar as is appropriate for a group of the size of Restore plc.
The Board of Directors
The Group is led and controlled by a Board comprising two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Board meetings are held on a regular basis and no significant decision is made other than by the Directors.
All Directors participate in the key areas of decision-making, including the appointment of new directors. There is no separate 
Nomination Committee due to the current size of the Board. The Board receives timely information on all material aspects of the 
Group to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting at regular intervals. The following were Directors 
during the year:
Number of Board 
meetings attended 
during the year ended
31 December 2015
Total 11
Number of  
Audit Committee 
meetings attended 
during the year ended 
31 December 2015
Total 2
Number of 
Remuneration 
Committee  
meetings attended 
during the year ended 
31 December 2015
Total 2
Executive Directors
Charles Skinner 11 2 –
Adam Councell 11 2 –
Non-Executive Directors
Sir William Wells 11 2 2
Stephen Davidson 11 2 2
James Wilde 11 2 2
Sharon Baylay 11 2 2
The Executive Directors are not members of the Audit Committee or Remuneration Committee but may attend the meetings as a 
guest of the chair of the committee.
Directors’ Remuneration
The Company has an established Remuneration Committee.
Details of the remuneration of each Director are set out in the Remuneration report on page 30.
Accountability and Audit
The Company has established an Audit Committee comprising the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors who are responsible for 
reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
Relations with Shareholders
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are the Company’s principal contact for investors, fund managers, the press 
and other interested parties. At the Annual General Meeting, investors are given the opportunity to question the entire Board. 29 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Internal Control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and monitoring the Group’s systems of internal control. Although  
no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss, the Group’s systems  
are designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt  
with appropriately.
The key procedures that have been established and which are designed to provide effective control are as follows:
Management structure – The Board meets regularly to discuss all issues affecting the Group.
Investment appraisal – The Group has a clearly defined framework for investment appraisal and approval is required by the Board 
where appropriate.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and considers the major business risks and the 
control environment. No significant control deficiencies have come to light during the year and no weakness in internal financial 
control has resulted in any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties which would require disclosure as recommended by the 
Turnbull guidance for Directors on reporting on internal financial control.
The Board considers that, in light of the control environment described above, there is no current requirement for a separate 
internal audit function. The Board will continue to review the need to put in place an internal audit function.
Going Concern
As more fully explained in note 2, having made appropriate enquiries and having examined the major areas which could affect 
the Group’s financial position, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the 
foreseeable future. 30 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Remuneration Committee
The Company has an established remuneration committee consisting of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors. The 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are responsible for the consideration and approval of the terms of service, remuneration, 
bonuses, share options and other benefits of the other Directors. All decisions made are after giving due consideration to the size 
and nature of the business and the importance of retaining and motivating management. The committee will meet at least once a 
year and at other times as appropriate.
Directors’ Contracts and Letters of Appointment
The Company’s policy on Executive Directors’ service contracts is that, in line with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance code, they are to be terminable by the Company on one year’s or 6 months’ notice.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but have letters of appointment.
Date of contract Notice period
Executive Directors
Charles Skinner 8 June 2009 12 months
Adam Councell 1 May 2012 6 months
 
Date of Letter Notice period
Non-Executive Directors
Sir William Wells 8 June 2009 3 months
Stephen Davidson 8 January 2014 3 months
James Wilde 28 March 2014 3 months
Sharon Baylay 12 August 2014 3 months
Directors’ Emoluments 
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of the Company were:
£’000
Salary 
 & Fees Benefits
Pension  
costs
Total  
2015
Salary  
& Fees Benefits
Pension  
Costs
Total  
2014
Executive Directors
Charles Skinner 432 4 – 436 402 12 – 414
Adam Councell 181 1 21 203 155 1 17 173
Non-Executive Directors
Sir William Wells 65 – – 65 60 – – 60
Stephen Davidson 40 – – 40 35 – – 35
James Wilde 35 – – 35 20 – – 20
Sharon Baylay 35 – – 35 11 – – 11
788 5 21 814 683 13 17 713
Directors’ Remuneration Report 31 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Directors’ Interests in Shares and Options
The beneficial interests of the Directors who were in office at 31 December 2015 in the shares of the Company, including family 
interests were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares of 
5p each 31 December 2015
Number of ordinary shares of 
5p each 31 December 2014
Charles Skinner 541,415 541,415
Adam Councell – –
Sir William Wells 352,553 352,553
Stephen Davidson – –
James Wilde – –
Sharon Baylay – –
As at 24 March 2016 there has been no change in any of the above holdings. 
The Directors believe that the success of the Group will depend to a high degree on the future performance of the management 
team. The Company has established incentive arrangements which will reward the Directors when shareholder value is created, 
thereby aligning the interests of the management directly with those of the shareholders.
Restore Share Option Scheme – 2015 Grants
Employee Share Options
The following options have been granted to employees within the Group during the year.
Date of Grant Granted
Number of ordinary 
shares of 5p each
Exercise  
price
Date from  
which exercisable Expiry date
15 June 2015 100,000 100,000 271.0p 15 June 2018 15 June 2025
The share options granted have no performance conditions. See note 29 for details of the grant.
The closing price for Restore shares at 31 December 2015 was 299.0 pence. During the year the market price of the Company’s 
ordinary shares ranged between 231.7 pence and 309.5 pence.
The Directors’ interests in the share options schemes are as follows:
Number of ordinary  
shares of 5p each  
31 December 2015
Number of ordinary  
shares of 5p each  
31 December 2014
Charles Skinner 2,699,611 2,699,611
Sir William Wells 1,053,389 1,053,389
Adam Councell 400,000 400,000
No share options were exercised by any of the Directors in the year (2014: nil). 32 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Restore Executive Incentive Plan
The Company has an Executive Incentive Plan (‘EIP’), details of which are given in note 29. The Directors’ interests in the EIP are  
as follows:
Number of performance units
 31 December 2015
Number of performance units
 31 December 2014
Charles Skinner 66,667 66,667
Adam Councell 16,667 16,667
By order of the Board
Stephen Davidson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 March 2016 
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 33 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic report and the Directors’ report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year. The Directors are 
required by the AIM Rules of the London Stock Exchange to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’) and have elected under company law to prepare the 
company financial statements also in accordance with IFRS.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and 
performance of the Group; the Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant 
part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group and company financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs  
adopted by the EU; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Restore 
plc website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 34 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
We have audited the group and parent company financial statements (‘the financial statements’) on pages 35 to 90. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As more fully explained in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 33, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the FRC’s website at  
http://www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December  
2015 and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European  
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Mark Harwood 
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
For and on behalf of RSM UK Audit LLP (formerly Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP)
Chartered Accountants 
25 Farringdon Street 
London EC4A 4AB
24 March 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Restore plc
For the year ended 31 December 2015
34 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
35 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
Year Ended 31 December 2015 Year Ended 31 December 2014
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£’m
Exceptional 
items  
(note 5) 
£’m
After 
exceptional 
items
 £’m
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£’m 
Exceptional 
items  
(note 5) 
£’m 
After 
exceptional 
items 
£’m
Revenue 4 91.9 – 91.9 67.5 – 67.5
Cost of sales 6 (59.0) – (59.0) (43.8) – (43.8)
Gross Profit 32.9 – 32.9 23.7 – 23.7
Administrative expenses 6 (16.2) (6.4) (22.6) (11.8) (3.1) (14.9)
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 (2.6) – (2.6) (1.9) – (1.9)
Operating profit 6 14.1 (6.4) 7.7 10.0 (3.1) 6.9
Finance costs 7 (1.6) – (1.6) (0.8) – (0.8)
Profit before tax 12.5 (6.4) 6.1 9.2 (3.1) 6.1
Income tax (charge)/credit 8 (1.6) 1.3 (0.3) (1.8) 0.6 (1.2)
Profit and total comprehensive income 
for the year from continuing operations 10.9 (5.1) 5.8 7.4 (2.5) 4.9
Profit from discontinued operations 4 0.2 – 0.2 – – –
Attributable to owners of the parent 11.1 (5.1) 6.0 7.4 (2.5) 4.9
Earnings per share attributable  
to owners of the parent (pence) 9
Total
– Basic 7.2p 6.4p
– Diluted 6.8p 6.0p
Continuing operations
– Basic 7.0p –
– Diluted 6.6p –
Discounted operations
– Basic 0.2p –
– Diluted 0.2p –
  36 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Attributable to owners of the parent
Share  
capital 
£’m
Share 
premium 
£’m
Other 
reserves 
£’m
Retained 
earnings 
£’m
Total 
 equity 
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2014 3.7 21.3 1.9 20.2 47.1
Profit for the year – – – 4.9 4.9
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 4.9 4.9
Transactions with owners
Issue of shares during the year 0.4 14.6 – – 15.0
Issue costs – (0.6) – – (0.6)
Dividends – – – (1.6) (1.6)
Transfers (note 26) – – (0.3) 0.3 –
Share-based payments charge – – 1.0 – 1.0
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – 1.2 – 1.2
0.4 14.0 1.9 (1.3) 15.0
Balance at 31 December 2014 4.1 35.3 3.8 23.8 67.0
Balance at 1 January 2015 4.1 35.3 3.8 23.8 67.0
Profit for the year – – – 6.0 6.0
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 6.0 6.0
Transactions with owners
Issue of shares during the year 0.7 33.2 – – 33.9
Issue costs – (1.0) – – (1.0)
Dividends – – – (2.2) (2.2)
Transfers (note 26) – – (0.1) 0.1 –
Share-based payments charge – – 0.9 – 0.9
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – 0.1 – 0.1
0.7 32.2 0.9 (2.1) 31.7
Balance at 31 December 2015 4.8 67.5 4.7 27.7 104.7 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
37 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of financial position
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Company registered no. 05169780
Note
2015
 £’m
2014 
£’m
ASSETS 
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 118.6 68.9
Property, plant and equipment 14 37.4 30.2
Deferred tax asset 22 4.3 4.2
160.3 103.3
Current assets
Inventories 15 1.7 0.6
Trade and other receivables 16 28.8 24.7
Cash and cash equivalents 20 8.5 6.9
39.0 32.2
Assets held directly for sale 12 24.2 –
Total assets 223.5 135.5
LIABILITIES 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (22.4) (15.2)
Financial liabilities – borrowings 18 (3.7) (3.7)
Other financial liabilities 19 (0.1) –
Current tax liabilities (2.2) (0.6)
Provisions 21 (0.8) (1.0)
(29.2) (20.5)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 12 (4.6) –
 (33.8) (20.5)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 18 (65.4) (34.1)
Other long term liabilities 11 (0.5) (1.2)
Other financial liabilities 19 (0.2) (0.3)
Deferred tax liability 22 (12.0) (6.2)
Provisions 21 (6.9) (6.2)
(85.0) (48.0)
Total liabilities (118.8) (68.5)
Net assets 104.7 67.0
Equity
Share capital 23 4.8 4.1
Share premium account 24 67.5 35.3
Other reserves 25 4.7 3.8
Retained earnings 26 27.7 23.8
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 104.7 67.0
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 24 March 2016 and were signed on 
its behalf by:
Charles Skinner  Adam Councell
Chief Executive   Group Finance Director 38 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
£’m
Year ended
31 December 
2014 
£’m
Net cash generated from operations 27 11.0 5.6
Net finance costs (1.1) (0.9)
Income taxes paid (0.8) (1.0)
Net cash generated from operating activities 9.1 3.7
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and applications software (4.0) (3.6)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings including acquisition costs,  
net of cash acquired 11 (63.9) (28.9)
Purchase of trade and assets 11 (2.0) –
Sale of subsidiary – 1.2
Cash flows used in investing activities (69.9) (31.3)
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from share issues 32.9 14.4
Dividends paid (2.2) (1.6)
Repayment of bank borrowings (47.0) (16.0)
Drawdown of revolving credit facility 28.5 21.9
New bank loans raised 50.0 15.0
Increase in bank overdrafts 0.2 0.9
Finance lease repayments – (0.1)
Net cash generated from financing activities 62.4 34.5
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.6 6.9
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 6.9 –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 20 8.5 6.9
Cash and cash equivalents shown above comprise:
Cash at bank 8.5 6.9
  Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
39 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Notes to the Group financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2015
1 GENERAL INFORMATION
Restore plc and its subsidiaries specifically focus on Document Management and Relocation. The Group primarily operates in the 
UK. The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its primarily 
registered office is The Databank, Unit 5, Redhill Distribution Centre, Salbrook Road, Redhill, Surrey RH1 5DY.
The Company is listed on the AIM market.
These Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 March 2016.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Restore plc have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis although derivatives are reflected at their fair value. The 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial 
statements are disclosed later in this note.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and, unless stated otherwise, shown in pounds million to 
one decimal place.
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance, financial position,  
its cash flows, liquidity position, principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business are set out in the Strategic report on  
pages 16 to 23.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its financing facilities which are due to expire in November 
2020. Details of the Group’s borrowing facilities are given in note 20 of the financial statements.
The Group’s budgets for 2016 and forecasts for 2017, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line 
with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition 
is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued, contingent consideration and liabilities incurred 
or assumed at the date of exchange. Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are initially measured at fair value at the 
acquisition date. Provisional fair values are adjusted against goodwill if additional information is obtained within one year of 
the acquisition date, about facts or circumstances existing at the acquisition date. Other changes in provisional fair values are 
recognised through profit or loss. 40 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Basis of Consolidation continued
Changes in contingent consideration arising from additional information, obtained within one year of the acquisition date, about 
facts or circumstances that existed at the acquisition date are recognised as an adjustment to goodwill.
Other changes in contingent consideration are recognised through profit or loss, unless the contingent consideration is classified as 
equity. In such circumstances, changes are recognised within equity.
Segmental Reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
In the opinion of the Directors, the chief operating decision maker is the Board of Restore plc and there are two segments, 
Document Management and Relocation, whose reports are reviewed by the Board in order to allocate resources and assess 
performance. Segment revenue comprises sales to external customers most of whom are located in the UK. Services are provided 
primarily from the UK.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and 
services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT, returns, rebates and after eliminating intra-group sales.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits 
will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below.
Sale of services – Document Management
Revenue from Records Management represents amounts billed or due for the storage and retrieval of customers’ files and boxes. 
Revenue is recognised on retrieval of documents or time-apportioned for the period for which the documents are stored.
The Group sells scanning and IT services which are provided on a time basis or as a fixed price contract with contract terms ranging 
up to three years, in which case revenue is recognised based upon the value of work completed, or revenue may be received on a 
contractual basis, either as a fixed proportion of managed costs or other fee mechanism, in which case revenue is recognised once 
those contractual conditions have been satisfied, either based on managed costs incurred, on a time basis, or other appropriate 
contractual measurement.
The Group provides all round secure document destruction and recycling processes, including the rental and servicing of office 
recycling units as well as larger secure waste containers providing a confidential waste destruction process. Revenue is recognised 
on a time-apportioned basis in respect of rental and when destruction is complete.
Sale of services – Relocation
Revenue represents amounts in respect of relocation, furniture storage and asset disposal and recycling. Revenue is recognised 
based upon the value of the work completed for removals, storage revenue is recognised on a per day basis for the furniture stored 
on behalf of its customers and when a disposal is complete.
Interest income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s 
net carrying amount.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
41 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Exceptional Items
Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full 
understanding of the Group’s financial performance. Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items are principally gains 
or losses on disposal of investments and subsidiaries, redundancy, integration and other restructuring costs, provisions made in 
respect of onerous leases and acquisition costs relating to business combinations.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of 
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and 
is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed 
for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from 
the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, 
or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets are recognised when they are controlled through contractual or other legal rights, or are separable from the rest 
of the business, and their fair value can be reliably measured.
Intangible assets that are regarded as having indefinite useful lives are not amortised. Intangible assets that are regarded as having 
limited useful lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives. Assets with indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment 
annually and other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use or fair value less cost to sell. Amortisation and any 
impairment write downs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Customer relationships
Acquired customer relationships are identified as a separate intangible asset as they are separable and can be reliably measured 
by valuation of future cash flows. This valuation also assesses the life of the particular relationship. The life of the relationship is 
assessed annually. The life of customer relationships for storage customers was assessed during the year following a review of 
historic customer attrition rates and management believe that a 5% rate on average is appropriate extending the life of customer 
relationships from 10 to 20 years. All customer relationships are being written off on a straight-line basis and have a remaining life 
of 5 to 20 years. The customer lists are considered annually to ensure that this classification is still appropriate.
Trade names
Acquired trade names are identified as a separate intangible asset. The life of the trade name is assessed annually. Trade names are 
being written off on a straight-line basis over 10 years, except where the trade names are assessed as having an indefinite life due 
to the history of trading and the Group being a market leader in the services provided.
Application software and IT
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific 
software. These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (three to five years).
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs 
that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that 
will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives 
(expected to be up to five years). Residual values and useful lives are reviewed each year. Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
42 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis on all property, plant and equipment, except freehold land.
% per annum
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2–5%
Long leasehold land over the remaining life of the lease
Leasehold improvements over the life of the lease
Plant and machinery 5–50%
Racking 5%
Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 10–40%
Motor vehicles 20–25%
Leased Assets
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to profit or loss on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where property lease contracts contain guaranteed minimum incremental rental payments, the total committed cost is 
determined and is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease. Leases of property, plant and equipment which 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are 
classified as a financial liability and measured at amortised cost. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the 
lower of the fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment and the present value of the minimum lease payments and 
depreciated over the period of the lease. The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities. Lease payments are apportioned 
between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability.
Investments
Loan notes are loans and receivables and measured at amortised cost. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss when 
there is evidence of impairment. Available for sale investments are non-derivative assets and are initially recognised at fair 
value net of any transaction costs and are subsequently carried at fair value. Fair value gains and losses are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and are recycled to profit or loss on disposal of the investment. If a fair value for an investment cannot be 
reliably measured, due to the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates being significant, or the probabilities of the 
various estimates within the range not being able to be reasonably assessed, that investment will be carried at cost. An impairment 
test is performed annually on the carrying value of the investment. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, when there is objective evidence for impairment including significant or 
prolonged decline in fair value below cost.
Investments which are held for the long term and over which management do not exercise significant control are carried at cost.  
An impairment review is carried out annually.
Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method
Investments which are held for the long term, and in which the Group has a participating interest and exercises joint control with 
one or more other parties under a contractual arrangement, are treated as joint ventures and accounted for by the equity method. 
The Group’s share of the results of investments is included in the Consolidated Income Statement and the Group’s share of net 
assets is included in investments in the Statement of Financial Position.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first in first out basis. Net realisable 
value is the price at which inventories can be sold in the normal course of business. Provision is made where necessary for 
obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade receivables, classified as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’, are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. A provision for impairment of 
trade receivables is established when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to 
the original terms. The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets’ carrying amount and the present value 
of future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate. The movement in the provision is recognised in profit or loss. Any 
other receivables are recognised at their initial fair value less an allowance for any doubtful amounts. An allowance is made when 
collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
43 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Customer Incentives
Incentives provided to new customers are in the form of either costs borne on behalf of new customers or the provision of 
services free of charge. Such incentives are recognised as an asset at amortised cost at the point when the contract is signed  
and the costs are incurred, or when the service is provided and are amortised in the income statement over the period of  
the contract. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the Consolidated Statement of Cash flows comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with 
immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception.
Assets Held For Sale
Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction rather than continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable and the asset (or 
disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should 
be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. If this condition is no 
longer met and the assets and disposal groups are held for continuing use they are transferred out of assets held for sale in the 
current year. Disposal groups are groups of assets, and liabilities directly associated with those assets, that are to be disposed of 
together as a group in a single transaction.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are initially measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value 
less costs to sell. At subsequent reporting dates non-current assets (and disposal groups) are measured to the latest estimate of fair 
value less costs to sell. As a result of this measurement any impairment is recognised by charging to profit or loss.
Trade Payables
Trade payables, classified as other liabilities in accordance with IAS 39, are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Other payables are stated at amortised cost.
Borrowings
Borrowings are classified as other liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 and are recorded at the fair value of the consideration 
received, net of direct transaction costs. Finance charges are accounted for in profit or loss over the term of the instrument using 
the effective interest rate method.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from accounting profit as reported in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible 
in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and accounted for using 
the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and 
deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the 
initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a 
transaction that affects neither the tax profits nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised 
based upon tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in 
profit or loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income and equity, in which case 
the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income and equity.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. If the 
effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
44 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Equity Instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at fair value net of transaction costs.
Share-Based Payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Fair value is measured by use of a 
stochastic pricing model. Where employees’ contracts are terminated the options are treated as having been forfeited and accordingly 
previous charges are credited back to profit or loss if the option has not yet vested or retained earnings if the option has vested.
Pensions
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. Contributions are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s Statement of Financial Position when the Group has become 
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate caps to 
hedge its risks associated with interest rates. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date 
on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets 
when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
taken directly to profit or loss.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the 
reporting date. However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could require a 
material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in the future. The assumptions made in 2014 for the 
acquisition of Cintas UK have been reassessed in the year and are shown in note 11 and historic attrition rates experienced by the 
group have extended the life of the customer relationships to 20 years.
Judgements
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, apart from those 
involving estimates, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Acquisitions
The Group has made some significant acquisitions in the year, mainly the acquisition of Wincanton Records Management (note 11). 
The assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at acquisition is inherently judgemental and where these are still being 
assessed until further information is received, the amounts included in these financial statements are included as provisional. The 
key assumptions that have been made are in respect of the valuation of customer relationships. 
Exceptional costs
Included within exceptional costs, and as disclosed in note 5, are amounts included in respect of restructuring and reorganisation 
and the related duplication of costs. The period taken to complete restructuring varies for each acquisition and management 
judgement is applied in determining the level of duplication of costs incurred, particularly in relation to personnel costs where it 
can take some time for the optimal levels of staffing to be achieved.
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
discussed below.
Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets at each reporting date. Goodwill 
and other indefinite life intangibles are tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist. Other 
non-financial assets are tested for impairment when there are indicators that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
When value in use calculations are undertaken, management must estimate the expected future cash flows from the asset or cash-
generating unit and choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. Further details are 
given in note 13. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
45 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Valuation of separable intangibles on acquisition
When valuing the intangibles acquired in a business combination, management estimate the expected future cash flows from the 
asset and choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. Separable intangibles valued 
on acquisitions made in the year were £48.2m (2014: £8.8m) as detailed further in note 11.
Provisions
Included within provisions is an ‘over-renting’ provision which relates to the amount by which future lease rental commitments, 
arising as a result of acquisitions, exceed the fair market rentals. In calculating this provision the key estimates are those relating  
to the fair values of the rentals on the properties concerned, the impact of future rent reviews and the discount rate applicable. 
Adoption of New and Revised Standards
a)  New standards, amendments and interpretations issued and effective during the financial year commencing  
1 January 2015
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle
The improvements in this Amendment clarify the requirements of IFRSs and eliminate inconsistencies within and  
between Standards.
b)  Standards, amendments and interpretations, which are effective for reporting periods beginning after the date 
of these financial statements which have not been adopted early:
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle 
The improvements in this Amendment clarify the requirements of IFRSs and eliminate inconsistencies within and between Standards. 
Amendments to IAS 19: Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 
The amendments allow fixed contributions to be recognised as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the employee’s 
services are rendered, instead of being attributed to periods of service as a ‘negative benefit’.
Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative
Amended to further clarify the concept of materiality, namely that it is applicable to the financial statements as a whole, not just 
the primary statements and that it applies to specific disclosures required by an IFRS and, therefore, an entity does not have to 
disclose information required by an IFRS if that information would not be material.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 
Clarifies that preparers should not use revenue-based methods to calculate charges for the depreciation or amortisation of items of 
property, plant and equipment or intangible assets.
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 
Introduces guidance as to how a joint operator should account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation in which the 
activity of the joint operation constitutes a business, as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. Proposes that a joint operator 
should apply the relevant principles for business combinations accounting in IFRS 3 and other relevant IFRSs when accounting for 
these acquisitions.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle 
The improvements in this Amendment clarify the requirements of IFRSs and eliminate inconsistencies within and between Standards.
Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 
Restoration of the option to use the equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in the 
entity’s separate financial statements.
IFRS 9: Financial Instruments*
Replacement to IAS 39 and is built on a logical, single classification and measurement approach for financial assets which reflects both 
the business model in which they are operated and their cash flow characteristics. Also addresses the so-called ‘own credit’ issue and 
includes an improved hedge accounting model to better link the economics of risk management with its accounting treatment.
IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers*
Introduces requirements for companies to recognise revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in amounts 
that reflect the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Also results 
in enhanced disclosure about revenue and provides or improves guidance for transactions that were not previously addressed 
comprehensively and for multiple-element arrangements.
*Not yet endorsed by the EU Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
46 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Adoption of New and Revised Standards continued
IFRS 16: Leases*
The new standard recognises a leased asset and a lease liability for almost all leases and requires them to be accounted for in a 
consistent manner. This introduces a single lessee accounting model and eliminates the previous distinction between an operating 
lease and a finance lease. 
*Not yet endorsed by the EU
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on 
the financial statements of the Group when the relevant standards and interpretations come into effect. 
3  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including fair value interest rate risk and cash flow interest 
rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial 
markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out centrally under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The Group evaluates and hedges 
financial risks. The Board provides written principles for overall risk management.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk:
The Group operates primarily in the UK and has limited exposure to foreign exchange risk.
(ii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk:
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow 
interest rate risk. During 2015 and 2014, the Group’s borrowings at variable rates were denominated in the UK pound. The Group 
analyses its interest rate exposure using financial modelling. Based on the various scenarios, the Group manages its cash flow interest 
rate risk by using interest rate swaps. Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating 
rates to fixed rates at a certain level. Interest rate swaps are an agreement with other parties at quarterly intervals, to exchange the 
difference between fixed and floating rate calculated by reference to the notional principal amount as shown in note 20.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis, except for credit risk relating to accounts receivable balances. Each local entity is 
responsible for managing and analysing the credit risk for each of their new clients before standard payment and delivery terms 
and conditions are offered. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with 
banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to retail customers, including outstanding receivables and committed 
transactions. The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 16.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, the 
Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of 
these instruments as also shown in note 16.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a forecasting model. This model considers the maturity of both its financial 
assets and financial liabilities (e.g. accounts receivables, other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. The 
Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts, bank 
loans and finance in order to ensure that there is sufficient cash or working capital facilities to meet the requirements of the Group 
for its current business plan. A detailed analysis of the Group’s debt facilities is given in note 20. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
47 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Capital risk management
The Group’s main objective when managing capital is to protect returns to shareholders by ensuring the Group will trade profitably in 
the foreseeable future. The Group also aims to maximise its capital structure of debt and equity so as to minimise its cost of capital.
The Group manages its capital with regard to the risks inherent in the business and the sector within which it operates by 
monitoring its gearing ratio on a regular basis. The Group considers its capital to include share capital, share premium, other 
reserves, retained earnings and net debt as noted below. Net debt includes short and long-term borrowings (including overdrafts) 
net of cash and cash equivalents.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ending 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
The Group’s strategy is to strengthen its capital base in order to sustain the future development of the business.
Debt to Capital Ratio
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Total debt 69.1 37.8
Less: cash and cash equivalents (note 20) (8.5) (6.9)
Net debt 60.6 30.9
Total equity 104.7 67.0
Debt to capital ratio 0.6 0.5
The gearing, during 2015 increased as a result of the additional debt to acquire the businesses in the year (note 11) exceeding the 
equity raised (note 23). The Group does not have any externally imposed capital requirements.
Fair value estimation
The fair value of financial instruments is market value.
4  SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
The Group is organised into two main operating segments, Document Management and Relocation, and incurs head office costs. 
Services per segment operate as described in the Strategic report. The vast majority of trading of the Group is undertaken within 
the United Kingdom. Segment assets include intangibles, property, plant and equipment, inventories, receivables and operating 
cash. Central assets include deferred tax and head office assets. Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities. Central liabilities 
include income tax and deferred tax, corporate borrowings and head office liabilities. Capital expenditure comprises additions 
to computer software, property, plant and equipment and includes additions resulting from acquisitions through business 
combinations. Segment assets and liabilities are allocated between segments on an actual basis.
Revenue
The revenue from external customers was derived from the Group’s principal activities primarily in the UK (the Company is 
domiciled in England) as follows:
Document 
Management 
£’m
Relocation 
£’m
Head  
Office 
£’m
2015 
 Total 
£’m
Revenue 54.7 37.2 – 91.9
Segment adjusted operating profit/(loss) 15.1 4.1 (1.6) 17.6
Exceptional items (6.4)
Share-based payments charge (0.9)
Amortisation of intangible assets (2.6)
Operating profit 7.7
Finance costs (1.6)
Profit before tax 6.1
Tax charge (0.3)
Profit after tax 5.8
Segment assets 183.5 39.7 0.3 223.5
Segment liabilities 41.0 7.8 70.0 118.8
Capital expenditure 3.8 0.2 – 4.0
Depreciation and amortisation 4.6 0.8 – 5.4 Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
48 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
4  SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED
Revenue continued
Document 
Management 
£’m
Relocation 
£’m
Head  
Office 
£’m
2014 
 Total 
£’m
Revenue 37.4 30.1 – 67.5
Segment adjusted operating profit/(loss) 11.5 3.3 (1.9) 12.9
Exceptional items (3.1)
Share-based payments charge (1.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets (1.9)
Operating profit 6.9
Finance costs (0.8)
Profit before tax 6.1
Tax charge (1.2)
Profit after tax 4.9
Segment assets 101.1 27.4 7.0 135.5
Segment liabilities 23.3 7.0 38.2 68.5
Capital expenditure 3.5 0.1 – 3.6
Depreciation and amortisation 3.2 0.6 – 3.8
Discontinued Operations
Year ended  
31 December 
2015 
£’m
Year ended  
31 December 
2014 
£’m
Revenue 0.6 –
Operating profit 0.2 –
Profit before tax 0.2 –
Tax charge – –
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 0.2 –
Restore Document Management Ireland Limited (previously Wincanton Ireland) has been shown as a discontinued operation  
(note 12). Due to the short period between acquisition and the year end there were no cashflows from discontinued operations.
Major Customers
For the year ended 31 December 2015 no customers individually accounted for more than 4% (2014: 4%) of the Group’s  
total revenue.
5  EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Acquisition – transaction costs 0.4 0.4
Acquisition – box relocation and transport costs 0.1 0.4
Restructuring and redundancy costs 5.1 2.5
Release of deferred consideration provisions – (1.0)
Additional consideration on sale of Peter Cox – (0.6)
Other exceptional items 0.8 1.4
Total 6.4 3.1 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
49 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
The integration of acquisitions remains the key driver of exceptional costs. In the period the Group completed six acquisitions and 
undertook the bulk of the restructuring of the Cintas UK business. As expected at the time of acquisition the Cintas UK business 
has required significant restructuring to enable it to operate at the margins expected. This has included a rationalisation of the 
overhead structure, rationalisation of the storage property portfolio to enable increased utilisation and the combination of two 
scanning businesses to deliver synergies.
Transaction costs include the cost of legal and professional fees incurred as part of the acquisition.
Box relocation and transport costs include the cost of uplifting boxes to existing facilities and the movement of boxes from facilities 
which closed as result of the Cintas UK acquisition.
Restructuring and redundancy costs have increased to £5.1m in 2015. As noted above these primarily relate to the Cintas UK 
restructuring but also included are the costs from the other acquisitions including:
• the integration of both Crimson and Data Imaging acquisitions into our scanning and storage operations
• the integrations of ITP into our Relocation division
• the initial integration costs of the Wincanton acquisition.
Other exceptional costs include £0.6 million in relation to a seasonal scanning contract. The contract involves scanning exam papers 
primarily over a two month period in May and June each year. Due to technical issues during the process which had not occurred in 
previous years significant additional costs were required to deliver the contract. Further to the costs borne directly by the Group fines 
and costs were recharged by the customer. Management believe the root cause of the technical issues has been identified which will 
enable the cost of delivering this contract in future periods to fall in line with patterns previously experienced. As a result the one off 
nature of these costs and their relative size they have been shown as exceptional to enable a better understanding of the underlying 
trading of the Group during the period. 
6 OPERATING PROFIT
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit:
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.6 1.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2.8 1.9
Share-based payments charge 0.9 1.0
Operating leases – plant and machinery 1.4 1.8 
Operating leases – land and buildings 6.5 4.5
Auditors’ remuneration:
– Parent and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1
– Audit of company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
– Corporate finance services 0.1 0.1
– Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1
Expenses by function:
Staff costs (note 30) 28.3 20.2
Depreciation 2.8 1.9
Premises costs 13.2 9.2
Materials 3.8 3.1
Subcontractors 13.6 11.2
Selling and distribution expenses 0.4 0.2
Transport costs 4.2 3.5
Computer costs 1.3 0.8
Audit and tax services 0.3 0.3
Legal and professional 0.4 0.3
Telecommunication costs 0.6 0.4
Exceptional items 6.4 3.1
Other expenses 6.3 4.5
Total cost of sales and administrative expenses 81.6 58.7
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.6 1.9
Total operating costs 84.2 60.6 Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
50 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
7 FINANCE COSTS
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 1.2 0.9
Amortisation of deferred finance costs 0.1 –
Unwind of discount 0.1 –
Interest rate swap (0.1) (0.1)
1.3 0.8
Exceptional finance costs 0.3 –
Total 1.6 0.8
Exceptional finance costs relate to the write off of bank arrangement fees as the facility was replaced during the year.
8  TAXATION
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Current tax:
UK corporation tax on profit for the year 1.0 1.1
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (0.1) 0.1
Total current tax 0.9 1.2
Deferred tax: (note 22)
Current year (0.2) –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (0.4) –
Total deferred tax (0.6) –
Total tax charge 0.3 1.2
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive income as follows:
2015
 £’m
2014 
£’m
Profit before tax 6.1 6.1
Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 1.2 1.3
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.2 0.2
Tax losses utilised (0.6) (0.3)
Effect of change in rate used for deferred tax – (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of corporation tax for previous periods (0.1) 0.1
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax for previous periods (0.4) –
Tax charge 0.3 1.2 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
51 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
9 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per share have been calculated on the profit for the year after taxation and the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2015 2014
Weighted average number of shares in issue 83,442,266 76,624,278
Total profit for the year £6.0m £4.9m
Total basic earnings per ordinary share (pence) 7.2p 6.4p
Weighted average number of shares in issue 83,442,266 76,624,278
Share options 4,430,077 4,490,487
Executive incentive plan 373,579 616,035
Weighted average fully diluted number of shares in issue 88,245,922 81,730,800
Total fully diluted earnings per share (pence) 6.8p 6.0p
Continuing profit for the year £5.8m £4.9m
Continuing basic earnings per share 7.0p 6.4p
Continuing fully diluted earnings per share 6.6p 6.0p
Discontinued profit for the year £0.2m –
Discontinued basic earnings per share 0.2p –
Discontinued fully diluted earnings per share 0.2p –
Adjusted earnings per share
The Directors believe that the adjusted earnings per share provide a more appropriate representation of the underlying earnings 
derived from the Group’s business. The adjusting items are shown in the table below:
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Continuing profit before tax 6.1 6.1
Adjustments:
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.6 1.9
Exceptional items 6.4 3.1
Share-based payments charge 0.9 1.0
Other finance costs 0.3 (0.1)
Adjusted profit for the year 16.3 12.0
The adjusted earnings per share, based on the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, 83.4m (2014: 76.6m) is 
calculated below:
2015 2014
Adjusted profit before taxation (£’m) 16.3 12.0
Tax at 20.25% / 21.5% (£’m) (3.3) (2.6)
Adjusted profit after taxation (£’m) 13.0 9.4
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) 15.6p 12.3p
Adjusted fully diluted earnings per share (pence) 14.7p 11.5p
10 DIVIDENDS
In respect of the current year, the Directors propose a final dividend of 2.2p per share (2014: 1.6p) will be paid to ordinary 
shareholders on 8 July 2016. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been 
included as a liability in these financial statements. An interim dividend of 1.0p per share (2014: 0.8p) was paid during  
the year.
The proposed final dividend for 2015 is payable to all shareholders on the Register of Members on 10 June 2016. The final 
estimated dividend to be paid is £2.1m (2014: £1.3m). Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
52 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
11 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
On 2 January 2015, the Company acquired the business and assets of Ancora Solutions ('Ancora'), a records management business 
for a cash consideration of £0.5m. The fair values are as follows:
Fair value  
at acquisition  
£’m
Intangible assets – customer relationships 0.5
Net assets acquired 0.5
Consideration 0.5
Satisfied by:
Cash to vendors 0.5
Deferred tax at 18.5% has been provided on the value of intangible assets. Acquisition costs of £10k incurred and have been 
charged to profit or loss.
On 6 July 2015, the Company acquired ITP Group Holdings Limited (‘ITP’), the UK’s leading collector of empty printing cartridges. 
The acquisition broadens the capabilities of the Group to offer additional office services alongside its existing IT recycling, 
document management and office relocation activities. The initial cash consideration was £6.9m, with deferred consideration  
of £0.4m paid on 5th January 2016, and a further earn out of £0.4m depending on performance. The provisional fair values are  
as follows:
Provisional  
fair value  
at acquisition  
£’m
Intangible assets – customer relationships 1.6
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Inventories 0.6
Trade receivables 1.2
Cash 4.1
Trade and other payables (1.4)
Current tax liabilities 0.1
Deferred tax liabilities (0.3)
Net assets acquired 6.0
Goodwill 1.7
Consideration 7.7
Satisfied by:
Cash to vendors 6.9
Deferred consideration 0.4
Earn out consideration 0.4
Deferred tax at 18.5% has been provided on the value of intangible assets. Acquisition costs of £83k were incurred and have been 
charged to profit or loss. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
53 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
On 5 August 2015, the Company acquired the business of the Data Imaging and Archiving Company, ‘DIAC’, a document 
management company, for cash consideration of £1.5m. The fair values are as follows:
Fair value at 
acquisition  
£’m
Intangible assets – customer relationships 1.5
Deferred tax liabilities (0.3)
Net assets acquired 1.2
Goodwill 0.3
Consideration 1.5
Satisfied by:
Cash to vendors 1.5
On 14 August 2015, the Group acquired Crimson UK Limited ('Crimson'), a document scanning business for an initial cash 
consideration of £1.0m, a further payment of £0.2m was made on 17 September 2015 following the award of a major contract 
and further payments of up to a maximum of £0.5m over five years, dependent on the award and execution of a potential major 
contract. At 31 December £0.2m was due after more than one year. The provisional fair values are as follows:
Provisional 
fair value at 
acquisition  
£’m
Intangible assets – customer relationships 0.5
Property, plant and equipment 0.3
Other receivables 0.5
Cash 0.1
Trade and other payables (0.3)
Deferred tax liabilities (0.1)
Net assets acquired 1.0
Goodwill 0.7
Consideration 1.7
Satisfied by: 1.7
Cash to vendors 1.2
Contingent consideration 0.5
Deferred tax at 18.5% has been provided on the value of intangible assets. Acquisition costs of £32k were incurred and have been 
charged to profit or loss. Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
54 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
11 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED
On 8 December 2015, the company acquired the records management business of Wincanton plc, ‘WRM’ for consideration of 
£40.3m and settlement of existing debt of £17.0m. The acquisition was financed by a placing (note 23) and new debt facilities of 
£80.0m (note 20). Acquisition costs of £245k were incurred and charged to profit or loss. The provisional fair values are as follows:
Wincanton UK
Provisional 
fair value at 
acquisition  
£’m
Intangible assets – customer relationships 27.2
Property, plant and equipment 6.3
Trade and other payables (2.9)
Deferred tax liabilities (5.0)
Net assets acquired 25.6
Goodwill 14.5
Consideration 40.1
Satisfied by:
Cash to vendors 28.6
Settlement of exisitng debt 11.5
Wincanton Ireland
Provisional 
fair value at 
acquisition  
£’m
Intangible assets – customer relationships 13.0
Property, plant and equipment 3.4
Trade and other payables (1.6)
Deferred tax liabilities (2.4)
Net assets acquired 12.4
Goodwill 4.8
Consideration 17.2
Satisfied by:
Cash to vendors 10.1
Cash in escrow 1.6
Settlement of existing debt 5.5
Deferred tax at 18.5% has been provided on the value of intangible assets. 
Restore Document Management Ireland Limited (previously Wincanton Ireland) was sold on 10 March 2016, and the assets have 
been presented as held for sale (note 12). Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
55 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
On 17 December 2015, the Company acquired Diamond Relocations Limited, a commercial relocations business, for a cash 
consideration of £1.0m and settlement of existing debt of £1.5m. 
Provisional 
fair value at 
acquisition  
£’m
Property, plant and equipment 2.2
Trade receivables 0.1
Trade and other payables (0.1)
Deferred tax liabilities (0.1)
Net assets acquired 2.1
Goodwill 0.4
Consideration 2.5
Satisfied by:
Cash to vendors 1.0
Settlement of existing debt 1.5
Acquisition costs of £1k were incurred and charged to profit or loss.
Reassessment of previous fair values
On 7 October 2014, the Company acquired 100% of the share capital of Cintas UK Document Management Limited and the 
fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, were included in the 2014 financial statements as provisional amounts. Further 
assessments have been made during the year as more information has become available and the fair values recognised on the 
acquisition have been finalised. The main changes are the valuation of customer relationships, increasing the value by £3.9m and 
adjusting the assumption used in assessing the over-renting provision resulting in an increase of £1.7m. Other changes have been 
made to the value acquired assets and liabilities as well as deferred tax resulting in a reduction in goodwill of £0.8m. The final fair 
value table is as follows:
Fair Value  
£’m
Intangible assets – customer relationships 10.6
Property, plant and equipment 8.0
Deferred tax assets 1.3
Inventories 0.1
Trade receivables 2.0
Other receivables 2.0
Cash 2.5
Trade and other payables (4.1)
Deferred tax liabilities (2.0)
Provisions (7.1)
Net assets required 13.3
Goodwill 13.3
Consideration 26.6
Satisfied by:
Cash to vendors 23.5
Purchase price adjustment 0.6
Reimbursement – less than 1 year 1.0
Reimbursement – more than 1 year 1.5
The reimbursement amounts cover rents to the end of the lease for a site which was acquired as it could not be excluded from 
the acquisition and was surplus to requirements. The reimbursement of these costs is separate to the business acquisition. The 
amounts are included as a deferred income creditor and are being released against costs incurred and is expected to be used by 
2017. At 31 December 2015, £0.3m (2014: £1.2m) was classified as due after more than one year. Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
56 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
11 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED
Post acquisition results
Ancora  
£’m
ITP  
£’m
Crimson  
UK 
£’m
DIAC  
£’m
Wincanton 
UK  
£’m
Diamond 
£’m
Revenue 0.5 2.0 0.5 0.8 1.3 –
Profit before tax since acquisition 
included in the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.4 –
If the acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, the revenue would have been £116.3m and Group 
profit before tax would have been £10.3m. As explained in note 5, following acquisition a number of restructuring costs are 
incurred, and after this post acquisition restructuring the acquisitions have a positive impact on Group profit before tax.
The goodwill on each acquisition represents the value attributable to new business and the assembled and trained workforce. 
The acquisitions of the document management businesses were made to extend national coverage and increase the Group’s 
market share. 
The acquisition of ITP, broadened the capabilities of the Group to offer additional services alongside its existing services.
The acquisition of Diamond Relocations Limited created an additional relocation site.
12 ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
The assets and liabilities related to Restore Document Management Ireland Limited (previously Wincanton Ireland) have been 
presented as held for sale (note 35). 
In addition, a freehold site acquired as part of the acquisition of Diamond Relocations Limited has also been classified as held  
for sale.
Assets classified as held for sale
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Intangible assets 17.8 –
Property plant and equipment 5.6 –
Other current assets 0.8 –
24.2 –
Liabilities classified as held for sale
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Trade and other payables 2.2 –
Deferred taxation 2.4 –
4.6 – Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
57 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill 
£’m
Customer 
relationships 
£’m
Trade 
names
 £’m
Applications 
software & IT 
£’m
 Total 
£’m
Cost
1 January 2014 39.4 13.3 2.0 2.8 57.5
Additions – external – – – 0.7 0.7
Acquisitions – – – 0.3 0.3
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 19.1 8.8 – – 27.9
31 December 2014 58.5 22.1 2.0 3.8 86.4
Cost
1 January 2015 58.5 22.1 2.0 3.8 86.4
Additions – external – – – 0.5 0.5
Disposals – – – (1.6) (1.6)
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 21.6 48.2 – – 69.8
Transferred to assets held for sale (4.8) (13.0) – – (17.8)
31 December 2015 75.3 57.3 2.0 2.7 137.3
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
1 January 2014 10.6 2.7 0.7 1.6 15.6
Charge for the year – 1.2 0.2 0.5 1.9
31 December 2014 10.6 3.9 0.9 2.1 17.5
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
1 January 2015 10.6 3.9 0.9 2.1 17.5
Charge for the year – 1.9 0.2 0.5 2.6
Disposals – – – (1.3) (1.3)
Transferred to assets held for sale – (0.1) – – (0.1)
31 December 2015 10.6 5.7 1.1 1.3 18.7
Carrying amount
31 December 2015 64.7 51.6 0.9 1.4 118.6
31 December 2014 47.9 18.2 1.1 1.7 68.9
1 January 2014 28.8 10.6 1.3 1.2 41.9
The customer relationships have a remaining life of 5–20 years. Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
58 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED
The changes to goodwill during the year were as follows:
£’m
Cost
1 January 2014 39.4
Acquired – Magnum 3.0
Acquired – Relocom 0.6
Acquired – Filebase 0.4
Acquired – Cannon Confidential 0.7
Acquired – Papersafe 0.1
Acquired – Cintas UK 14.3
31 December 2014 58.5
Acquired – ITP 1.7
Acquired – DIAC 0.3
Acquired – Crimson 0.7
Acquired – Wincanton 19.3
Acquired – Diamond 0.4
Adjusted – Cintas UK (0.8)
Transferred to assets held for sale (4.8)
31 December 2015 75.3
Accumulated impairment
1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 10.6
31 December 2015 10.6
Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 64.7
Carrying amount at 31 December 2014 47.9
Carrying amount 1 January 2014 28.8 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
59 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Allocation to cash-generating units
Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the following cash-generating units.
The carrying value is as follows:
Goodwill Indefinite life intangibles 
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Document Management 57.2 42.5 – 2.9
Relocation 7.5 5.4 – –
64.7 47.9 – 2.9
Annual test for impairment
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill and other intangibles are allocated to business segments which represent the 
lowest level that those assets are monitored for internal management purposes. The recoverable amount of each cash-generating 
unit is determined from value-in-use calculations. The calculations use pre tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets 
approved by the Directors for year one and cash flow projections for years two and three using growth rates that are considered 
to be in line with the general trends in which each cash-generating unit operates. Terminal cash flows are based on these 3 year 
projections, assumed to grow perpetually at 1%. In accordance with IAS 36, the growth rates for beyond the forecasted three 
years do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the industry. The key assumptions forming inputs to the cash flows are 
in revenues and margins. Revenues for 2016 have been assessed by reference to existing contracts and market volumes. Margins 
have been assumed to be consistent with those currently achieved in the Document Management and Relocation divisions. The 
forecasts have been discounted at a pre-tax rate of 10.3% (2014: 13.1%). This discount rate was calculated using a pre-tax rate 
based on the weighted average cost of capital for the Group. The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are  
as follows:
Document 
Management 
%
Relocation 
%
Revenue growth – average over 3 years 4 2
Revenue growth – remainder 1 1
Cost growth – employee/overheads, average over 3 years 4 1
Sensitivity
The Group has not identified any reasonably possible changes to key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of the 
remaining goodwill or intangible to exceed its recoverable amount. Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
60 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
land & buildings 
£’m
Leasehold 
improvements 
£’m
Racking plant  
& machinery 
£’m
Office 
equipment 
fixtures  
& fittings 
£’m
Motor 
vehicles 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 11.1 2.5 10.1 4.1 0.5 28.3
Reclassification – – 0.8 (1.3) (0.1) (0.6)
Additions 0.4 0.6 1.2 0.3 0.4 2.9
Acquisitions – 3.9 4.2 0.8 0.2 9.1
31 December 2014 11.5 7.0 16.3 3.9 1.0 39.7
1 January 2015
Additions 0.4 0.8 1.7 0.5 0.1 3.5
Disposals – (1.0) (1.9) (2.5) (0.4) (5.8)
Acquisitions 2.2 – 0.1 9.7 0.1 12.1
Transfer to assets  
held for sale (2.2) – – (3.4) – (5.6)
31 December 2015 11.9 6.8 16.2 8.2 0.8 43.9
Accumulated Depreciation
1 January 2014 0.7 0.9 3.8 2.5 0.3 8.2
Reclassification – – – (0.5) (0.1) (0.6)
Charged in the year 0.1 0.3 1.0 0.3 0.2 1.9
31 December 2014 0.8 1.2 4.8 2.3 0.4 9.5
At 1 January 2015
Charged in the year 0.1 0.5 1.3 0.7 0.2 2.8
Disposals – (1.0) (1.9) (2.5) (0.4) (5.8)
31 December 2015 0.9 0.7 4.2 0.5 0.2 6.5
Net book value
31 December 2015 11.0 6.1 12.0 7.7 0.6 37.4
31 December 2014 10.7 5.8 11.5 1.6 0.6 30.2
1 January 2014 10.4 1.6 6.3 1.6 0.2 20.1
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided in the financial statements is shown in note 32.
Depreciation is charged to profit or loss as an administrative expense. £nil (2014: £0.2m) of plant and machinery is held under a 
finance lease. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
61 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
15 INVENTORIES
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Finished goods and goods for resale 1.7 0.6
£1.2m (2014: £0.2m) of inventories were recognised as an expense in cost of sales in the year.
16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Trade receivables 17.3 16.5
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (0.1) (0.1)
Trade receivables – net 17.2 16.4
Other receivables 2.7 1.6
Prepayments and accrued income 8.9 6.7
28.8 24.7
The average credit period is 57 days (2014: 74 days). No interest is charged on the trade receivables for the first 30 days from 
the date of the invoice. Thereafter, interest may be charged at 2% per annum on the outstanding balance. Trade receivables are 
provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts, determined by reference to past payment history and the current financial 
status of the customers.
Movement in the allowance for impairment
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Balance at beginning and end of the year 0.1 0.1
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade 
receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. See note 20 for an analysis of trade receivables that 
were past due but not impaired.
17 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Trade payables 9.0 5.8
Other taxation and social security 2.6 2.8
Other payables 1.3 0.8
Accruals and deferred income 9.5 5.8
22.4 15.2
Other payables include the fair value of the interest rate swap of £nil (2014: £0.1m), see note 20.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame. Trade 
and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period for 
trade purchases is 70 days (2014: 60 days). Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
62 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
18 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES – BORROWINGS
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Current
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year
Overdrafts on demand 1.4 1.2
Bank loans – secured 2.5 2.6
Deferred financing costs (0.2) (0.1)
3.7 3.7
Non-current
Bank loans – secured 66.0 34.4
Deferred financing costs (0.6) (0.3)
65.4 34.1
The bank debt is due to Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Barclays Bank plc and is secured by a fixed and floating charge over the 
assets of the Group. The interest rate profile and an analysis of borrowings is given in note 20. Under the bank facility the Group is 
required to meet quarterly covenant tests in respect of cashflow cover, interest cover and leverage. All tests were met during the 
year and the Directors expect to continue to meet these tests.
Analysis of net debt
2015
 £’m
2014
 £’m
Cash at bank and in hand 8.5 6.9
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year (3.7) (3.7)
Bank loans due after one year (65.4) (34.1)
(60.6) (30.9)
19 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
2015
 £’m
2014 
£’m
Obligations under finance leases – present value of finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.3
Repayable by instalments:
In less than one year 0.1 –
In two to five years 0.2 0.1
Over five years – 0.2
0.3 0.3 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
63 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash, bank and various other receivable and payable balances that arise from its 
operations. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Group’s operations.
Cash and cash equivalents
2015
 £’m
2014 
£’m
Cash at bank and in hand 8.5 6.9
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £3.3m (2014: £3.3m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of 
independent customers with no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2015
 £’m
2014 
£’m
60–90 days 1.5 1.4 
Greater than 90 days 1.8 1.9
The main financial risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk and liquidity risk. The Directors review 
and agree policies for managing each of these risks. Interest rates are regularly reviewed to ensure competitive rates are paid. 
Detailed cash flows are produced on a regular basis to minimise liquidity risks.
Carrying value of financial assets and (liabilities) excluding cash and borrowings
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Loans and receivables 18.5 18.1
Derivatives used for hedging – (0.1)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (19.5) (13.5)
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
All bank borrowings are subject to floating interest rates, at LIBOR plus a margin of between 1.35% and 2.35%, depending on the 
leverage covenant. 
The interest rate risk profile of the Group’s gross borrowings for the year was:
Currency
Total 
 £’m
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities 
 £’m
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities
 £’m
Subject to 
interest rate 
collar 
 £’m
Weighted 
average  
interest rates 
%
Sterling at 31 December 2015 69.1 – 65.6 3.5 2.7
Sterling at 31 December 2014 38.2 – 33.7 4.5 2.7
The exposure of Group borrowings to interest rate changes and contractual pricing dates at the end of the year are as follows:
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
6 months or less 69.1 38.2 Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
64 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Interest rate sensitivity
At 31 December 2015, if interest rates had been 50 basis points higher and all other variables were held constant, it is estimated 
that the Group’s profit before tax would be approximately £0.2m (2014: £0.1m) lower. This is mainly attributable to the Group’s 
exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and is based on the change taking place at the beginning of the financial 
year and held constant throughout the year.
The Group’s sensitivity to future interest rates changes has increased during the current year due to the increased debt.
Financial assets recognised in the statement of financial position and interest rate profile
All financial assets are short-term receivables and cash in hand. The cash in hand earns interest based on the variable bank base 
rate and is held with Barclays Bank plc.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Group’s financial liabilities (including interest payments), other than short-term 
trade payables and accruals which are due within one year was as follows:
Bank  
Debt
 £’m
Other 
financial 
liabilities
 £’m
 2015  
Total 
£’m
 Bank  
Debt 
£’m
Other 
financial 
liabilities
 £’m
 2014  
Total 
£’m
Within one year, or on demand 3.7 1.6 5.3 1.2 0.4 1.6
Between one and two years 6.0 – 6.0 0.1 – 0.1
Between two and five years 59.7 – 59.7 37.2 – 37.2
69.4 1.6 71.0 38.5 0.4 38.9
Borrowing facilities
The Group has a finance facility with Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Barclays Bank plc. This facility comprises a term loan of £50.0m, 
a 5 year revolving credit facility (RCF) of £30.0m, both expiring on 4 November 2020, and an on demand net overdraft facility 
of £1.5m (2014: a term loan of £15.0m expiring on 30 June 2016, a 3 year revolving credit facility (RCF) of £3.0m, an on demand 
net overdraft facility of £1.5m). An offset facility is in place and on a gross basis, £8.6m of the overdraft facility was unutilised at 
31 December 2015 (2014: £7.2m). Details of security are given in note 18. Committed but undrawn borrowing facilities as at 31 
December 2015 amounted to £8.6m (2014: £8.3m).
All of the Group’s borrowings are in Sterling.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities bear floating interest rates and are relatively short term in nature. In the opinion of the 
Directors the book values of the assets and liabilities equate to their fair value.
Interest rate management
The Group holds two interest rate swaps. The Group exchanges the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts 
calculated on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on 
the issued variable rate debt held. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at the year end is as follows:
Average contracted  
fixed interest rate
Notional  
principal amount Fair value
2015
 %
2014 
%
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Between one and two years 2.8 2.8 3.5 3.3 – –
Between two and five years – 2.8 – 0.6 – (0.1)
Greater than five years – 1.5 – – – –
The interest rate swap of 2.8% was entered into on 13 July 2011, expires on 30 June 2016 and settles on a quarterly basis. The 
swap was for £5.0m and decreases on a straight-line basis so that it totals 50% of the original term loan facility. A further swap was 
entered into on 13 March 2013 for £1.5m in order to hedge the additional £1.5m term loan, put in place to fund the acquisition 
of Harrow Green. Both of these term facilities were repaid in 2014. As the hedge was not designated as effective on inception the 
movement in fair value has been taken to profit or loss. The valuation of derivatives is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as 
the significant inputs to the valuation are observable. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
65 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
The hierarchy levels have been defined as follows:
• quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1)
• inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) 
or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (Level 2)
• inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs)
21 PROVISIONS
Onerous lease provisions
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
1 January 7.2 2.4
Used during the year (1.1) (0.6)
Arising on the acquisition of Cintas UK 1.6 5.4
31 December 7.7 7.2
The onerous leases provision relates to future payments on onerous leases as required in the lease agreements. £1.3m of costs are 
expected to be incurred within one year and the balance over the next 7 years. This provision has been discounted at 8%.
Provisions are analysed as follows:
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Current 0.8 1.0
Non-current 6.9 6.2
Total 7.7 7.2
The provision arising on the acquisition of Cintas UK, 2015 £5.9m (2014: £5.0m) relates to a number of onerous leases expiring 
between March 2015 and March 2030 in relation to paying over market rent. The provision has been discounted at 6% (2014:8%).
22 DEFERRED TAX
Summary of balances
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Deferred tax liabilities (12.0) (6.2)
Deferred tax asset 4.3 4.2
Net position at 31 December (7.7) (2.0)
The movement in the year in the Group’s net deferred tax position is as follows:
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
1 January (2.0) (2.5)
Charge to profit or loss for the year 0.6 –
Tax credited directly to equity 0.1 1.2
Acquisitions (8.8) (0.7)
Transferred to liabilities held for sale 2.4 –
31 December (7.7) (2.0) Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
66 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
22 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and the movements thereon during the year:
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£’m
On intangible 
assets 
£’m
Properties 
£’m
Total 
£’m
1 January 2014 (0.9) (2.5) (1.1) (4.5)
(Charge)/credit to income for the year (0.3) 0.3 0.1 0.1
Acquisitions (0.1) (1.7) – (1.8)
31 December 2014 (1.3) (3.9) (1.0) (6.2)
Credit to income for the year 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.9
Acquisitions (0.1) (8.9) (0.1) (9.1)
Transferred to liabilities held for sale – 2.4 – 2.4
31 December 2015 (1.3) (9.7) (1.0) (12.0)
Deferred tax assets
Share-based 
payments 
£’m
Losses 
£’m
Depreciation in 
excess of capital 
allowances 
£’m
Provisions 
£’m
Total 
£’m
1 January 2014 1.2 0.3 0.1 0.4 2.0
(Credit)/charge to income for the year 0.2 (0.1) – (0.2) (0.1)
Acquisitions – – – 1.1 1.1
Transactions with owners 1.2 – – – 1.2
31 December 2014 2.6 0.2 0.1 1.3 4.2
(Charge)/credit to income for the year (0.1) (0.2) 0.2 (0.2) (0.3)
Acquisitions – – – 0.3 0.3
Transactions with owners 0.1 – – – 0.1
31 December 2015 2.6 – 0.3 1.4 4.3
A deferred tax asset has been recognised on the share-based payments charge. An amount of £0.1m (2014: £1.2m) has been taken 
directly to equity.
A deferred tax asset of £nil (2014: £0.2m) has been recognised on brought forward tax losses due to greater certainty over 
recoverability of the asset. A potential deferred tax asset amounting to £0.9m (2014: £1.2m) on tax losses of £4.6m (2014: £5.9m) 
has not been recognised due to uncertainty over the recoverability of the asset. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
67 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
23 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Authorised:
199,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 10.0 10.0
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
95,954,760 (2014: 82,213,540) ordinary shares of 5p each 4.8 4.1
The issued ordinary share capital is as follows:
Date
Number of 
ordinary shares Issue price
1 January 2014 74,900,491
3 July 2014 – exercise of share options 80,000 83.0p
18 August 2014 – exercise of share options 20,000 83.0p
7 October 2014 – equity raised to acquire Cintas UK 7,090,049 210.0p
16 October 2014 – exercise of share options 123,000 32.5p
31 December 2014 82,213,540
23 April 2015 – exercise of share options 372,541 5.0p
10 June 2015 – exercise of share options 256,016 5.0p
16 November 2015 – exercise of share options 35,739 5.0p
8 December 2015 – equity raised to acquire Wincanton 13,076,924 260.0p
31 December 2015 95,954,760
24 SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
1 January 35.3 21.3
Premium on shares issued during the year 33.2 14.6
Share issue costs (1.0) (0.6)
31 December 67.5 35.3
The Company may use the reserve to reduce a deficit in the retained earnings of the Company from time to time subject to 
shareholders and court approval, and the Company may release the reserve upon transferring to a blocked trust bank account a 
sum equal to the remaining amount outstanding to non-consenting creditors that existed at the date of the capital reduction.
25 OTHER RESERVES
Share-based payments reserve
2015
£’m
2014
£'m
1 January 3.8 1.9
Charge for the year 0.9 1.0
Deferred tax on share-based payments charge 0.1 1.2
Transfers* (0.1) (0.3)
31 December 4.7 3.8
*  A net amount of £0.1m has been reclassified from share-based payments reserve to retained earnings in respect of lapsed and exercised options, 2014: £0.3m  
(in respect of lapsed and exercised).
The share-based payments reserve comprises charges made to the income statement in respect of share-based payments under 
the Group’s equity compensation schemes. Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
68 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
26  RETAINED EARNINGS
2015
 £’m
2014 
£’m
1 January 23.8 20.2
Profit for the year 6.0 4.9
Dividends paid (2.2) (1.6)
Transfers* 0.1 0.3
31 December 27.7 23.8
*  A net amount of £0.1m has been reclassified from share-based payments reserve to retained earnings in respect of lapsed and exercised options (2014: £0.3m).
Retained earnings are the balance of income retained by the Group. Retained earnings may be distributed to shareholders by a 
dividend payment.
27 CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
£’m
Year ended 
31 December 
2014 
£’m
Profit before tax 6.1 6.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2.8 1.9
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.6 1.9
Net finance costs 1.6 0.8
Share-based payments charge 0.9 1.0
Increase in inventories (0.5) (0.2)
Increase in trade and other receivables (1.5) (2.4)
Decrease in trade and other payables (1.0) (3.5)
Net cash generated from operations 11.0 5.6
28 PENSIONS
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes for all qualifying employees. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. The total cost charged to profit or loss of £0.6m (2014: 
£0.3m) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plan. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
69 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
29  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Share options scheme
The Restore share option scheme was introduced in May 2005. Under the scheme the Remuneration Committee can grant options 
over shares in the Company to Directors and employees of the Group. Options are granted at a fixed price equal to the market 
price of the shares under option at the date of grant. The contractual life of the option is 10 years. Awards under the scheme are 
generally reserved for employees at senior management level and above.
Between 2010 and 2015 the Company made a grant of options to senior management and Directors, on which there are no 
performance conditions and which are exercisable within 0–10 years. 
Options were valued using a stochastic model. The fair value per option and the assumptions used in the calculation are  
as follows:
Grant date
15 June  
2015
2 December 
2014
27 November 
2013
21 June 
2012
30 July 
2011
3 May 
2011
16 April 
2010
Share price at grant date 271.0p 240.0p 149.5p 83.0p 60.0p 53.0p 41.0p
Exercise price 271.0p 240.0p 149.5p 83.0p 69.5p 50.0p 32.5p
Number of employees 1 2 10 13 1 4 7
Share options granted 100,000 200,000 675,000 3,422,588 400,000 1,160,000 3,360,000
Vesting period (years) 3 3 3 2 2 2 2
Expected volatility 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30%
Option life (years) 10 10 10 10 10 10 10
Expected life (years) 6 6 6 6 6 6 6
Risk free rate 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 5.6%
Expected dividends expressed as a 
dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Fair value per option 100.3p 90.2p 55.9p 30.4p 18.9p 21.0p 5.0p
The total fair value of options issued in the year was £0.1m (2014: £0.2m). The volatility is measured by calculating the standard 
deviation of the natural logarithm of share price movements.
A reconciliation of share option movements over the two years to 31 December 2015 is:
Grant date Number
2015  
Weighted average  
exercise price Number
2014  
Weighted average  
exercise price
Outstanding at 1 January 7,036,588 73.1p 7,084,588 68.0p
Granted 100,000 271.0p 200,000 240.0p
Exercised (820,000) 51.5p (223,000) 36.5p
Lapsed – – (25,000) 149.5p
Outstanding at 31 December 6,316,588 79.0p 7,036,588 73.1p
Exercisable at 31 December 5,366,588 60.9p 6,186,588 59.7p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2015 had an exercise price of between 32.5p and 271.0p and a weighted average 
remaining contractual life of 5.9 years (2014: 5.6 years). The weighted average share price at exercise date for options exercised in 
the year was 265.7p. Notes to the Group financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
70 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
29  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
Executive Incentive Plan (EIP)
The Director's interests in the performance units of the EIP is as follows: 
2015 2014
Charles Skinner 66,667 66,667
Adam Councell 16,667 16,667
No payment has been made for the grant of these awards. Performance units will convert into a certain number of ordinary shares 
(in the form of nil-cost options) at the end of a three year performance period, provided that the value created for shareholders 
is in excess of a hurdle ('Threshold Hurdle') calculated by reference to 10% annualised growth in the market capitalisation of 
the Company plus dividend payments minus net shareholder investments, from the start of the performance period being 26 
November 2013. Providing the Threshold Hurdle has been achieved by the end of the performance period, participants will be 
entitled to receive in aggregate 10% of the value created for shareholders above the hurdle. 50% of the entitlement will vest at the 
end of the performance period with 25% at the end of each of the following two years. 
The fair value per unit and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
Date of grant
Share price at 
date of grant 
(pence)
Exercise price 
(pence)
Expected 
dividend yield 
(%)
Expected 
volatility
 (%)
Risk-free rate
 (%)
Term 
(years)
Fair value 
per unit 
(£)
26 November 2013 149.5 – 1.1 37.7 0.7 3 18
30 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES
Staff costs during the year
2015
 £’m
2014
 £’m
Wages and salaries 24.4 17.2
Social security costs 2.4 1.7
Pension costs 0.6 0.3
Share-based payments charge 0.9 1.0
28.3 20.2
Average monthly number of employees during the year Number Number
Directors 2 2
Management 169 107
Administration 82 66
Operatives 886 561
1,139 736
No Directors exercised share options during the year.
Total amounts for Directors’ remuneration and other benefits
2015
 £’m
2014
 £’m
Emoluments for Directors’ services 0.8 0.7
Directors’ remuneration shown above included the following amounts in respect of the 
highest paid Director: 
Salary and benefits 0.4 0.4
2015
 £’m
2014
 £’m
Key management compensation
Short-term employment benefits 2.2 2.3
Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 1.0 1.0
3.3 3.4
The key management of the Group are management attending divisional Board meetings within each division. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
71 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
31 LEASING COMMITMENTS
The Group leases various premises and assets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements of varying terms. The majority of 
the lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
Future aggregate minimum lease payments under  
non-cancellable operating leases
Land and buildings Plant and machinery 
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
– Within one year 9.4 5.4 1.1 1.0
– Within two to five years 28.8 21.6 2.0 1.7
– Over five years 48.9 51.9 0.2
87.1 78.9 3.3 2.7
The operating leases represent rentals payable by the Group for certain properties, vehicles and equipment.
32 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Capital expenditure
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements – 0.1
33 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company has entered into a bank cross guarantee with its subsidiaries. The guarantee amounts to £60.6m at  
31 December 2015 (2014: £30.9m). The assets of the Company and its subsidiaries are pledged as security for the bank borrowings, 
by way of a fixed and floating charge.
34 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND CONTROLLING PARTY
The remuneration of key management personnel and details of the Directors’ emoluments are shown in note 30. Dividends of 
£14,077 and £13,846 (2014: £11,370 and £7,404) were paid to Charles Skinner and Sir William Wells respectively.
The Directors do not consider there to be a controlling party.
35 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 10 March 2016, the Group disposed of Restore Document Management Ireland Limited for €36.0m. 72 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Share 
capital
£’m
Share 
premium
£’m
Other 
reserves
£’m
Retained 
earnings
£’m
Total 
equity
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2014 3.7 21.3 1.9 9.5 36.4
Profit for the year – – – 2.4 2.4
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 2.4 2.4
Transactions with owners
Issue of shares during the year 0.4 14.6 – – 15.0
Issue costs – (0.6) – – (0.6)
Dividends – – – (1.6) (1.6)
Transfers* – – (0.3) 0.3 –
Share based payments charge – – 0.9 – 0.9
Deferred tax on share based payments – – 1.2 – 1.2
0.4 14.0 1.8 (1.3) 14.9
Balance at 31 December 2014 4.1 35.3 3.7 10.6 53.7
Balance at 1 January 2015 4.1 35.3 3.7 10.6 53.7
Loss for the year – – – (3.1) (3.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (3.1) (3.1)
Transactions with owners
Issue of shares during the year 0.7 33.2 – – 33.9
Issue costs – (1.0) – – (1.0)
Dividends – – – (2.2) (2.2)
Transfers* – – (0.1) 0.1 –
Acquisition* – – – 7.2 7.2
Share based payments charge – – 0.9 – 0.9
Deferred tax on share based payments – – 0.1 – 0.1
0.7 32.2 0.9 5.1 38.9
Balance at 31 December 2015 4.8 67.5 4.6 12.6 89.5
*  A net amount of £0.1m has been reclassified from share-based payments reserve to retained earnings in respect of lapsed and exercised options (2014: £0.3m).  
As a result of acquisitions shown in note 36, retained earnings of £7.2m were transferred to the Company (2014: £nil). Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
73 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Company statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2015 
Note
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
ASSETS – Non current assets
Intangible assets 36 43.8 21.7
Property, plant and equipment 37 22.3 13.1
Investments 38 80.6 53.6
Deferred tax asset 47 2.3 2.2
149.0 90.6
Current assets
Inventories 40 0.2 0.1
Trade and other receivables 41 19.9 22.2
Cash and cash equivalents 45 3.9 2.7
24.0 25.0
Assets held directly for sale 39 17.2 –
Total assets 190.2 115.6
LIABILITIES – Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 42 (12.5) (6.1)
Financial liabilities – borrowings 43 (2.3) (2.5)
Current tax liabilities (2.1) (0.5)
(16.9) (9.1)
Non current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 43 (65.4) (34.1)
Other long term liabilities 44 (15.2) (17.4)
Deferred tax liability 47 (3.1) (1.2)
Provisions 46 (0.1) (0.1)
(83.8) (52.8)
Total liabilities (100.7) (61.9)
Net assets 89.5 53.7
Equity
Share capital 48 4.8 4.1
Share premium account 67.5 35.3
Other reserves 4.6 3.7
Retained earnings 12.6 10.6
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 89.5 53.7
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 24 March 2016 and were signed on 
its behalf by:
Charles Skinner  Adam Councell
Chief Executive   Group Finance Director 74 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Company statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
Year ended
31 December 
2015
£’m
Year ended 
31 December 
2014
£’m
Net cash generated (used by) from operations 49 11.8 0.6
Net finance costs (1.1) (0.8)
Income taxes paid (0.8) (0.8)
Net cash generated from operating activities 9.9 (1.0)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and applications software (2.3) (1.6)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings including acquisition costs, 
net of cash acquired (66.6) (30.8)
Purchase of trade and assets (2.0) –
Sale of subsidiary – 1.2
Cash flows used in investing activities (70.9) (31.2)
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from share issues 32.9 14.4
Dividends paid (2.2) (1.6)
Repayment of bank borrowings (47.0) (15.7)
Drawdown of revolving credit facility 28.5 21.9
New bank loans raised 50.0 15.0
Decrease in bank overdrafts – (0.1)
Net cash generated from financing activities 62.2 33.9
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.2 1.7
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 2.7 1.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 3.9 2.7
Cash and cash equivalents shown above comprise:
Cash at bank 45 3.9 2.7 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
75 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Company accounting policies
These Financial Statements for the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 and EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The Directors consider that the 
accounting policies as shown on pages 39 to 46 are suitable, are supported by reasonable judgements and estimates and have  
been consistently applied except where stated below. A summary of the more important accounting policies is set out below.
FIRST TIME ADOPTION OF IFRS
These financial statements are the first financial statements of restore plc prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS). The financial statements of Restore plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 were prepared in 
accordance with UK GAAP.
Some of the IFRS recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure requirements and accounting policy choices differ  
from UK GAAP. Consequently, the directors have amended certain accounting policies to comply with IFRS. The directors have 
 also taken advantage of certain exemptions from the requirements of IFRS permitted by IFRS 1.
Comparative figures have been restated to reflect the adjustments made, except to the extent that the directors have taken 
advantage of exemptions to retrospective application of IFRS permitted by IFRS 1. Adjustments are recognised directly in retained 
earnings at the transition date.
GOING CONCERN
The going concern basis has been applied in these accounts on the basis that funds will be made available from other  
group companies.
The going concern position is discussed further in the consolidated financial statements of the Group on page 39 and applies to  
the Company.
COMPANY PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
In accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own  
profit and loss account. The results for the financial year of the Company are given on page 72 of the financial statements.
  76 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2015
36 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
£’m
Customer 
Relationships
£’m
Applications 
Software & IT
£’m
Total
£’m
Cost
1 January 2014 20.3 – 1.3 21.6
Additions – external – – 0.3 0.3
Acquisitions – – 0.1 0.1
Arising on acquisition 2.6 1.8 – 4.4
31 December 2014 22.9 1.8 1.7 26.4
Cost
1 January 2015 22.9 1.8 1.7 26.4
Additions – external – – 0.3 0.3
Transfer from subsidiaries – – 0.2 0.2
Disposals – – (0.5) (0.5)
Arising on acquisition 10.5 12.1 – 22.6
31 December 2015 33.4 13.9 1.7 49.0
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
1 January 2014 3.1 – 0.4 3.5
Charge for the year 0.7 0.1 0.4 1.2
31 December 2014 3.8 0.1 0.8 4.7
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
1 January 2015 3.8 0.1 0.8 4.7
Charge for the year – 0.5 0.3 0.8
Disposals – – (0.3) (0.3)
31 December 2015 3.8 0.6 0.8 5.2
Carrying amount
31 December 2015 29.6 13.3 0.9 43.8
31 December 2014 19.1 1.7 0.9 21.7
1 January 2014 17.2 – 0.9 18.1
Customer relationships have a life of 5–20 years. Amortisation is charged to profit or loss as an administrative expense. Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
77 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
The changes to goodwill during the year were as follows:
£’m
Cost
1 January 2014 20.3
Acquired – Magnum 2.6
31 December 2014 22.9
Acquired – Wansdyke Security 6.0
Acquired – Filebase 0.2
Acquired – Restore Scan 4.5
Acquired – DIAC (0.2)
31 December 2015 33.4
Accumulated impairment
1 January 2014 3.1
31 December 2014 3.8
31 December 2015 3.8
Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 29.6
Carrying amount at 31 December 2014 19.1
Carrying amount 1 January 2014 17.2
Annual test for impairment
The recoverable amount of the Company is determined from value-in-use calculations. The calculations use pre tax cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by the Directors for year one and cash flow projections for years two and three 
using growth rates that are considered to be in line with the general trends in which the Company operates. Terminal cash flows are 
based on these 3 year projections, assumed to grow perpetually at 1%. In accordance with IAS 36, the growth rates for beyond the 
forecasted three years do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the industry. The key assumptions forming inputs to 
the cash flows are in revenues and margins. Revenues for 2016 have been assessed by reference to existing contracts and market 
volumes. Margins have been assumed to be consistent with those currently achieved in the Document Management division. The 
forecasts have been discounted at a pre-tax rate of 10.3% (2014: 13.1%). This discount rate was calculated using a pre-tax rate 
based on the weighted average cost of capital for the Company.
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are as follows:
Document 
Management 
%
Revenue growth – average over 3 years 4
Revenue growth – remainder 1
Cost growth – employee/overheads, average over 3 years 4
Sensitivity
The Company has not identified any reasonably possible changes to key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of the 
remaining goodwill or intangible to exceed its recoverable amount. 78 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
37 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
land & 
buildings
£’m
Leasehold 
improvements 
£’m
Racking plant 
& machinery
£’m
Office 
equipment 
fixtures & 
fittings
£’m
Motor vehicles
£’m
Total
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 5.0 1.2 3.6 2.2 0.1 12.1
Reclassification – – 1.9 (1.9) – –
Additions – 0.3 0.9 0.1 – 1.3
Acquisitions 0.3 0.2 0.6 0.1 – 1.2
31 December 2014 5.3 1.7 7.0 0.5 0.1 14.6
1 January 2015
Additions 0.4 0.5 0.9 0.2 – 2.0
Disposals – – – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Acquisitions – 3.8 5.0 0.2 0.1 9.1
31 December 2015 5.7 6.0 12.9 0.8 0.1 25.5
Accumulated depreciation
1 January 2014 0.1 0.2 0.4 – – 0.7
Charged in the year – 0.1 0.5 0.2 – 0.8
31 December 2014 0.1 0.3 0.9 0.2 – 1.5
At 1 January 2015
Charged in the year 0.1 0.5 1.0 0.2 0.1 1.9
Disposals – – – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
31 December 2015 0.2 0.8 1.9 0.3 – 3.2
Net book value
31 December 2015 5.5 5.2 11.0 0.5 0.1 22.3
31 December 2014 5.2 1.4 6.1 0.3 0.1 13.1
1 January 2014 4.9 1.0 3.2 2.2 0.1 11.4
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided in the financial statements is shown in note 52.
Depreciation is charged to profit or loss as an administrative expense. £nil (2014: £0.1m) of plant and machinery is held under a 
finance lease.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
79 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
38 INVESTMENTS
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
£’m
Cost
1 January 2014 55.1
Acquired – Magnum 3.2
Acquired – Filebase 0.4
Acquired – Papersafe 0.2
Acquired – Cintas UK 26.6
Capital Contribution – subsidiary share based payments 0.1
Transfer to intangible assets (less deferred taxation) (3.2)
31 December 2014 82.4
1 January 2015
Adjusted – Shred 0.3
Acquired – ITP 7.7
Acquired – DIAC 0.7
Acquired – Wincanton 57.3
Acquired – Diamond 2.5
Capital contribution – subsidiary share based payment 0.1
Transfer to intangible assets (less deferred tax) (19.4)
Transferred to assets held for sale (note 39) (17.2)
31 December 2015 114.4
Provision for impairment
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 28.8
Charge for the year 5.0
31 December 2015 33.8
Net book value
31 December 2015 80.6
31 December 2014 53.6
1 January 2014 26.3 80 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
38 INVESTMENTS CONTINUED
At 31 December 2015 the Company held directly and indirectly equity and voting rights of the following undertakings:
Company
Class of 
holding % held
Country of 
incorporation
Nature of  
business
Document Management Division
*Restore (Spur) Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Records Management
*Restore Document Management  
Ireland Limited** Ordinary 100% Ireland Records Management
*Restore Shred Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Shredding Services
*Restore Scan Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Document Scanning
* Magnum Secure Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Holding Company
*Stapledon Holdings Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Holding Company
*Wansdyke Security Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
Document Control Services Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
*File and Data Storage Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
Magnum Docstore Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
*Filebase Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
Preview Services Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
Keymorr imaging Services Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
Crimson UK Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
AARMS Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
*Sargents Trading Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Dormant
Relocation Division
*Harrow Green Limited Ordinary 100% England and Wales Relocations
Relocom Limited** Ordinary 83% England and Wales Relocations
*Diamond Relocations Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Relocations
*IT Efficient Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales IT Asset Disposal
*ITP Group Holdings Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Holding Company
International technology products (UK) 
Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Printer Cartridge Recycling
International technology products GmbH** Ordinary 100% Germany Printer Cartridge Recycling
Office Green Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Printer Cartridge Recycling
Takeback Limited** Ordinary 100% England and Wales Printer Cartridge Recycling
*  Held directly
**  The Company has taken the exemption from audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
Dormant companies are exempt from filing accounts under section 394 of the Companies Act 2006.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
81 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
39 ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
The assets related to Restore Document Management Ireland Limited (previously Wincanton Ireland) have been presented as held 
for sale (note 55). 
Assets classified as held for sale
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Investments 17.2 –
40 INVENTORIES
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Finished goods and goods for resale 0.2 0.1
£0.1m (2014: £nil) of inventories were recognised as an expense in cost of sales on the year.
41 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Due in less than one year
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
Trade receivables 8.4 5.1
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (0.1) (0.1)
Trade receivables – net 8.3 5.0
Amounts due from group undertakings 2.5 0.4
Other receivables 0.1 0.1
Prepayments and accrued income 4.9 2.9
15.8 8.4
Due after more than one year
Amounts due from group undertakings 4.1 13.8
Total 19.9 22.2
The average credit period is 62 days (2014: 67 days). No interest is charged on the trade receivables for the first 30 days from 
the date of the invoice. Thereafter, interest may be charged at 2% per annum on the outstanding balance. Trade receivables are 
provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts, determined by reference to past payment history and the current financial 
status of the customers.
Movement in the allowance for impairment
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Balance at beginning and end of the year 0.1 0.1
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Company considers any change in the credit quality of the trade 
receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. See note 45 for an analysis of trade receivables that 
were past due but not impaired.
42 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Trade payables 4.9 2.0
Amount due to group undertakings 1.4 0.3
Other taxation and social security 1.3 1.2
Other payables 1.0 0.7
Accruals and deferred income 3.9 1.9
12.5 6.1
Other payables include the fair value of the interest rate swap of £nil (2014: £0.1m), see note 45.
The Company has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame. 
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit 
period for trade purchases is 95 days (2014: 71 days). 82 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
43 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES – BORROWINGS
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Current
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year
Bank loans – secured 2.5 2.6
Deferred financing costs (0.2) (0.1)
2.3 2.5
Non-current
Bank loans – secured 66.0 34.4
Deferred financing costs (0.6) (0.3)
65.4 34.1
The bank debt is due to Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Barclays Bank plc and is secured by a fixed and floating charge over the 
assets of the Group. The interest rate profile and an analysis of borrowings is given in note 45. Under the bank facility the Group is 
required to meet quarterly covenant tests in respect of cashflow cover, interest cover and leverage. All tests were met during the 
year and the Directors expect to continue to meet these tests.
Analysis of net debt
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Cash at bank and in hand 3.9 2.7
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year (2.3) (2.5)
Bank loans due after one year (65.4) (34.1)
(63.8) (33.9)
44 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Amounts due to group undertakings 14.8 17.4
Other long term liabilities 0.4 –
15.2 17.4
45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company’s financial instruments comprise cash, bank and various other receivable and payable balances that arise from its 
operations. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Company operations.
Cash and cash equivalents
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Cash at bank and in hand 3.9 2.7
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £1.3m (2014: £1.2m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of 
independent customers with no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
 
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
60–90 days 0.5 0.4
Greater than 90 days 0.8 0.8
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
83 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
The main financial risks arising from the Company’s financial instruments are interest rate risk and liquidity risk. The Directors 
review and agree policies for managing each of these risks. Interest rates are regularly reviewed to ensure competitive rates are 
paid. Detailed cash flows are produced on a regular basis to minimise liquidity risks.
Carrying value of financial assets and (liabilities) excluding cash and borrowings
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Loans and receivables 10.7 5.4
Derivatives used for hedging – (0.1)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (11.2) (4.8)
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
All bank borrowings are subject to floating interest rates, at LIBOR plus a margin of between 1.35% and 2.35%, depending on the 
leverage covenant. 
The interest rate risk profile of the Company’s gross borrowings for the year was:
Currency
Total 
£’m
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities
£’m
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities
£’m
Subject to 
interest rate 
collar
£’m
Weighted 
average interest 
rates
%
Sterling at 31 December 2015 67.7 – 64.2 3.5 2.7
Sterling at 31 December 2014 36.6 – 32.1 4.5 2.6
The exposure of Company’s borrowings to interest rate changes and contractual pricing dates at the end of the year are as follows:
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
6 months or less 67.7 36.6
Interest rate sensitivity
At 31 December 2015, if interest rates had been 50 basis points higher and all other variables were held constant, it is estimated 
that the Company’s loss before tax would be approximately £0.2m higher (2014: profit £0.1m lower). This is mainly attributable to 
the Company’s exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and is based on the change taking place at the beginning 
of the financial year and held constant throughout the year.
The Company’s sensitivity to future interest rates changes has increased during the current year due to the increased debt.
Financial assets recognised in the statement of financial position and interest rate profile.
All financial assets are short-term receivables and cash in hand. The cash in hand earns interest based on the variable bank base 
rate and is held with Barclays Bank plc. 84 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Company’s financial liabilities (including interest payments), other than short-
term trade payables and accruals which are due within one year was as follows:
Bank 
Debt
£’m
Other 
financial 
liabilities
£’m
 2015 
Total
£’m
 Bank 
Debt
£’m
Other 
financial 
liabilities
£’m
2014 
Total
£’m
Within one year, or on demand 2.3 1.6 3.9 – 0.1 0.1
Between one and two years 6.0 – 6.0 – – –
Between two and five years 60.2 – 60.2 36.6 – 36.6
68.5 1.6 70.1 36.6 – 36.7
Borrowing facilities
The Company has a finance facility with Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Barclays Bank plc. This facility comprises a term loan of 
£50.0m, a 5 year revolving credit facility (RCF) of £30.0m, expiring on 4 November 2020, and an on demand net overdraft facility 
of £1.5m (2014: a term loan of £15.0m expiring on 30 June 2016, a 3 year revolving credit facility (RCF) of £3.0m, an on demand 
net overdraft facility of £1.5m. An offset facility is in place and on a gross basis, £1.8m of the overdraft facility was unutilised 
at 31 December 2015 (2014: £7.2m). Details of security are given in note 43. Committed but undrawn borrowing facilities as at 
31 December 2015 amounted to £8.6m (2014: £8.3m).
All of the Company’s borrowings are in Sterling.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Company’s financial assets and liabilities bear floating interest rates and are relatively short term in nature. In the opinion  
of the Directors the book values of the assets and liabilities equate to their fair value.
Interest rate management
The Company holds two interest rate swaps. The Company exchanges the difference between fixed and floating rate interest 
amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Company to mitigate the risk of changing 
interest rates on the issued variable rate debt held. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at the year end is as follows:
Average contracted fixed 
interest rate
Notional 
principal amount
Fair 
value
2015
%
2014
%
2015
%
2014
%
2015
%
2014
%
Between one and two years 2.8 2.8 3.5 3.3 – –
Between two and five years – 2.8 – 0.6 – (0.1)
Greater than five years – 1.5 – – – –
The interest rate swap of 2.8% was entered into on 13 July 2011, expires on 30 June 2016 and settles on a quarterly basis. The 
swap was for £5.0m and decreases on a straight line basis so that it totals 50% of the original term loan facility. A further swap was 
entered into on 13 March 2013 for £1.5m in order to hedge the additional £1.5m term loan, put in place to fund the acquisition 
of Harrow Green. Both of these term facilities were repaid in 2014. As the hedge was not designated as effective on inception the 
movement in fair value has been taken to profit or loss. The valuation of derivatives is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as 
the significant inputs to the valuation are observable.
The hierarchy levels have been defined as follows:
• quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1)
• inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) 
or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (Level 2)
• inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs).
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
85 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
46 PROVISIONS
Onerous lease provisions
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
1 January 0.1 0.1
Used during the year – –
31 December 0.1 0.1
Provisions are analysed as follows:
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Non–current 0.1 0.1
Total 0.1 0.1
47 DEFERRED TAX
Summary of balances
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Deferred tax liabilities (3.1) (1.2)
Deferred tax asset 2.3 2.2
Net position at 31 December (0.8) 1.0
The movement in the year in the Company’s net deferred tax position is as follows:
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
1 January 1.0 (0.7)
Credit/(charge) to profit or loss for the year 0.2 (0.2)
Tax credited directly to equity 0.1 2.2
Acquisitions (2.1) (0.3)
31 December (0.8) 1.0
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Company and the movements thereon during 
the year:
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances
£’m 
On intangible 
assets
£’m
Total
£’m
1 January 2014 (0.7) – (0.7)
Charge to income for the year (0.2) – (0.2)
Acquisitions – (0.3) (0.3)
31 December 2014 (0.9) (0.3) (1.2)
Credit to income for the year – 0.2 0.2
Acquisitions (0.2) (1.9) (2.1)
31 December 2015 (1.1) (2.0) (3.1) 86 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
47 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED
Deferred tax assets
Share based 
payments 
£’m
1 January 2014 1.0
Transactions with owners 1.2
31 December 2014 2.2
Transactions with owners 0.1
31 December 2015 2.3
A deferred tax asset has been recognised on the share based payments charge. An amount of £0.1m (2014: £1.2m) has been taken 
directly to equity.
48 SHARE CAPITAL
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Authorised:
199,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 10.0 10.0
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
95,954,760 (2014: 82,213,540) ordinary shares of 5p each 4.8 4.1
The issued ordinary share capital is as follows:
Date
Number of 
ordinary shares Issue price
31 January 2014 74,900,491
3 July 2014 – exercise of share options 80,000 83.0p
18 August 2014 – exercise of share options 20,000 83.0p
7 October 2014 – equity raised to acquire Cintas UK 7,090,049 210.0p
16 October 2014 – exercise of share options 123,000 32.5p
31 December 2014 82,213,540
23 April 2015 – exercise of share options 372,541 5.0p
10 June 2015 – exercise of share options 256,016 5.0p
16 November 2015 – exercise of share options 35,739 5.0p
8 December 2015 – equity raised to acquire Wincanton 13,076,924 260.0p
31 December 2015 95,954,760
 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
87 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
49 CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Year ended
31 December 
2015
£’m
Year ended 
31 December 
2014
£’m
(Loss)/profit before tax (3.0) 3.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.9 0.8
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 5.8 1.2
Net finance costs 1.6 0.8
Share based payments charge 0.9 0.9
Increase in inventories (0.1) –
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 2.9 (5.1)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 1.8 (1.7)
Net cash generated from operations 11.8 0.6
50 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
Details of the share based payments can be found in Note 29.
51 LEASING COMMITMENTS
The Company leases various premises and assets under non–cancellable operating lease agreements of varying terms. The majority 
of the lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
 Land and buildings Plant and machinery
Future aggregate minimum lease payments  
under non-cancellable operating leases
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
– Within one year 7.9 3.7 0.4 0.3
– Within two to five years 25.5 13.4 0.4 0.4
– Over five years 28.1 11.5 – –
61.5 28.6 0.8 0.7
The operating leases represent rentals payable by the Company for certain properties, vehicles and equipment.
52 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Capital expenditure
2015 
£’m
2014
£’m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements – 0.1
53 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company has entered into a bank cross guarantee with its subsidiaries. The guarantee amounts to £60.6m at 31 December 2015  
(2014: £30.9m). The assets of the Company and its subsidiaries are pledged as security for the bank borrowings, by way of a fixed 
and floating charge.
54 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND CONTROLLING PARTY
Details of related party transactions can be found in note 34.
55 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT
On 10 March 2016, the Company disposed of Restore Document Management Ireland Limited for €36.0m. 88 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
56 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS
Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity at 1 January 2014
Note
UK GAAP
£’m
Effect of 
transition to  
IFRS
£’m
Restated  
under  
IFRS
£’m
FIXED ASSETS
Intangible assets a, b 17.2 0.9 18.1
Property, plant and equipment b 12.3 (0.9) 11.4
Investments 26.3 – 26.3
Deferred tax asset d – 1.0 1.0
55.8 1.0 56.8
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables 18.1 – 18.1
Cash and cash equivalents 1.0 – 1.0
19.2 – 19.2
TOTAL ASSETS 75.0 1.0 76.0
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables (6.1) – (6.1)
Financial liabilities – borrowings (5.8) – (5.8)
Current tax liabilities (0.2) – (0.2)
(12.1) – (12.1)
NON–CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities – borrowings (10.0) – (10.0)
Other long term liabilities (16.6) – (16.6)
Deferred tax liability (0.7) – (0.7)
Provisions (0.1) – (0.1)
(27.4) – (27.4)
NET ASSETS 35.5 1.0 36.5
SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY
Called up share capital 3.7 – 3.7
Share premium account 21.3 – 21.3
Other reserves d 1.0 1.0 2.0
Retained earnings 9.5 – 9.5
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY 35.5 1.0 36.5
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
89 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2014
Note
UK GAAP
£’m
Effect of 
transition to 
IFRS 
£’m
Restated 
under 
IFRS
£’m
FIXED ASSETS
Intangible assets a, b, c, d 18.5 3.2 21.7
Property, plant and equipment b 13.9 (0.8) 13.1
Investments c 53.8 (0.2) 53.6
Deferred tax asset d – 2.2 2.2
86.2 4.4 90.6
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables 22.2 – 22.2
Cash and cash equivalents 2.7 – 2.7
25.0 – 25.0
TOTAL ASSETS 111.2 4.4 115.6
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables (6.0) (0.1) (6.1)
Financial liabilities – borrowings (2.5) – (2.5)
Current tax liabilities (0.5) – (0.5)
(9.0) (0.1) (9.1)
NON–CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities – borrowings (34.1) – (34.1)
Other long term liabilities (17.4) – (17.4)
Deferred tax liability d (0.9) (0.3) (1.2)
Provisions (0.1) – (0.1)
(52.5) (0.3) (52.8)
NET ASSETS 49.7 4.0 53.7
SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY
Called up share capital 4.1 – 4.1
Share premium account 35.3 – 35.3
Other reserves 1.6 2.1 3.7
Retained earnings a, c 8.7 1.9 10.6
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY 49.7 4.0 53.7 90 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
55 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED
Reconciliation of profit at 31 December 2014
Note
UK GAAP 
£’m
Effect of 
transition to 
IFRS 
£’m
Restated under 
IFRS
£’m
Turnover 23.0 – 23.0
Cost of sales (12.2) – (12.2)
Gross profit 10.8 – 10.8
Distribution costs – – –
Administrative expenses a, c (8.3) 1.9 (6.4)
Operating profit 2.5 1.9 4.4
Interest receivable and similar income 0.2 – 0.2
Interest payable and similar income (1.0) – (1.0)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1.7 1.9 3.6
Taxation (1.2) – (1.2)
Profit on ordinary activities and profit for the financial year 0.5 1.9 2.4
Notes to the reconciliation of shareholders equity
a) Goodwill and intangible assets
The Company has elected not to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ retrospectively to business combinations that took place 
before 1 January 2014. The Company has adopted IFRS 3 ‘Business continuations’ in full for all acquisitions that have occurred 
after this date. 
The Company has recognised customer relationships on acquisition at 31 December 2014 of £1.4m, the amortisation charge on 
these was £0.1m. The Company has elected not to amortise goodwill in line with Company policy.
As a result of expenses which were previously capitalised in investments, £nil at 1 January 2014 and £0.2m at 31 December 2014 
have been reclassified as an administrative expense through profit or loss. 
b) Software classification
Application software, which can be run independently from any specific hardware configuration, is included within intangibles under 
IFRS rather than tangible assets as is the norm under UK GAAP . The effect of this is to reclassify software of £0.9m at 1 January 2014 
and £0.8m at 31 December 2014 from tangible assets to intangible assets. Total net assets remain unchanged by this adjustment.
c) Retained earnings
Retained earnings have been restated due to the removal of amortisation of goodwill of £2.2m and costs of acquisition of 
£0.2m at 31 December 2014.
d) Deferred tax
A deferred tax asset on share options of £1.0m has been recognised at 1 January 2014 and £2.2m at 31 December 2014.  
A deferred tax liability on the customer relationship intangible assets has been recognised of £0.3m at 31 December 2014. The 
unwinding of the liability has been taken to profit or loss in the year.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
91 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
RESTORE PLC
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Restore plc ('the Company') will be held at the offices of Cenkos 
Securities plc, 6.7.8 Tokenhouse Yard, London EC2R 7AS on 23 May 2016 at 2.00pm for the following purposes:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2015, together with the Directors’ report and 
the auditors’ report on those accounts.
2. To re-appoint RSM UK Audit LLP (which has changed its name from Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP) as auditors to the Company to hold 
office from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting at which accounts are laid.
3. To authorise the Directors to set the auditors’ remuneration.
4. To re-appoint Adam Thomas Councell, who retires by rotation pursuant to the Company’s articles of association, as a Director of 
the Company.
5. To declare a final dividend of 2.2 pence per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015. This dividend will be 
paid on 8 July 2016 to the holders of ordinary shares at 6pm on 10 June 2016 (the ex dividend date being 9 June 2016).
SPECIAL BUSINESS
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as to resolution 6 as an 
ordinary resolution and as to resolutions 7 and 8 as special resolutions:
6. That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in substitution for all existing authorities 
(but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such 
authorities) to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot equity securities (as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 
2006 (the 'Act')) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,599,246 (being 31,984,920 ordinary shares of 5 pence each) provided 
that this authority shall, unless renewed, expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the 
passing of this resolution or if earlier on the date which is 15 months after the date of this annual general meeting, except that the 
Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after 
such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offers agreements as if the authority conferred by 
this resolution had not expired.
7. That, subject to the passing of resolution number 6 above, the directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to section 
570 of the Act, to allot equity securities (as defined in section 560 of the Act) for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 
resolution number 6 or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided 
that this power shall be limited to:
 7.1   the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or other pro rata offer in favour of holders of equity 
securities where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those persons at such record dates as the 
directors may determine are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective numbers of equity securities held by them 
subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with treasury 
shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, practical or legal difficulties under the laws of any territory or the requirements of 
any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of equity securities being represented by depositary receipts or any other 
matter whatsoever; and
 7.2  the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 10.1 above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£479,773.80, 
 and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by resolution 6 above, except that the Company may before 
such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and/or shares held by the 
Company in treasury to be sold or transferred after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities and/or sell or transfer 
shares held by the Company in treasury in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred by this resolution had 
not expired.
Notice of Annual General Meeting 92 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued
SPECIAL BUSINESS CONTINUED
8. That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Act, to make 
market purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 5 pence each in the capital of the Company 
('Ordinary Shares') on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine provided that:
  8.1 the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 9,595,476;
 8.2 the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is 5 pence (exclusive of expenses payable by the Company); and
 8.3  the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share (exclusive of expenses payable by the Company) cannot be 
more than 105 per cent. of the average market value of an Ordinary Share for the five business days prior to the day on which 
the Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased.
 The authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or if earlier on the date 
which is 15 months after the date of this annual general meeting except that the Company may before such expiry make a contract 
to purchase its own shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the Board Registered Office
 The Databank
 Unit 5
 Redhill Distribution Centre 
 Salbrook Road
 Redhill
 Surrey RH1 5DY
Sarah Waudby 
Company Secretary 
24 March 2016
  Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
93 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
NOTES: THESE NOTES ARE IMPORTANT AND REQUIRE YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
1. A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint another person of his/her choice as 
that Shareholder's proxy to exercise all or any of that Shareholder's rights to attend and to speak and vote at the meeting on his/
her behalf. A Shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to 
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that Shareholder. A proxy does not need to be a shareholder of 
the Company.
2. A Form of Proxy for use in connection with the meeting is enclosed with the document of which this notice forms part. Completion 
and return of a Form of Proxy will not prevent a Shareholder from attending and voting in person at the meeting. Addresses 
(including electronic addresses) in this document are included strictly for the purposes specified and not for any other purpose.
3. To appoint a proxy or proxies Shareholders must complete a Form of Proxy, sign it and return it, together with the power of 
attorney or, any other authority under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such authority, to the Company's 
registrars, Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF so that it is received no later 
than 2.00pm on 19 May 2016.
4. Only those members entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p.m. on 19 May 2016 or, in the event that this 
meeting is adjourned, in the register of members as at 6.00 p.m. on the day two days before the date of any adjourned meeting, 
shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their names at that 
time. Changes to the entries on the register of members by the close of business on 19 May 2016 or, in the event that this meeting 
is adjourned, in the register of members before the close of business on the day two days before the date of the adjourned 
meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
5. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the 
Annual General Meeting to be held at 2.00pm on 23 May 2016 and any adjournment(s) thereof by using the procedures described 
in the CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have 
appointed a voting service provider should refer to their CREST sponsors or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the 
appropriate action on their behalf. 
 In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a 'CREST 
Proxy Instruction') must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications and must 
contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message must be transmitted so as 
to be received by the Company’s agent, Capita Registrars Limited (CREST Participant ID: RA10), no later than 48 hours before the 
time appointed for the meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp 
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the Company’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry 
to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. 
 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsor or voting service provider should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations 
will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned 
to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, 
to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is 
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their 
CREST sponsor or voting service provider are referred in particular to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical 
limitations of the CREST system and timings.
 The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001.
6. You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. In the event 
of a conflict between a blank proxy form and a proxy form which states the number of shares to which it applies, the specific proxy 
form shall be counted first, regardless of whether it was sent or received before or after the blank proxy form, and any remaining 
shares in respect of which you are the registered holder will be apportioned to the blank proxy form. You may not appoint more 
than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share. To appoint more than one proxy, you should contact Capita Asset 
Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
7. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its 
powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
8. Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal working hours 
on any week day (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted) from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General 
Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting:
 a.  copies of all service agreements or letters of appointment under which the Directors of the Company are employed by the Company.
9. Biographical details of each Director who is being proposed for re-appointment or re-election by shareholders can be found by 
visiting the Company’s website www.restoreplc.com. 94 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS
Resolution 6 – authority to allot shares
At the last AGM of the Company held on 15 May 2015, the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of 
the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of £1,370,225.65 representing approximately one third of the Company’s then 
issued ordinary share capital.
The Directors consider it appropriate that a further similar authority be granted to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the 
Company up to a maximum nominal amount of £1,599,246 representing approximately one third of the Company’s issued ordinary 
share capital as at 24 March 2016 (the latest practicable date before publication of this document) during the shorter of the period 
up to the conclusion of the next annual general meeting in 2017 or 15 months.
As at the date of this notice the Company does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
Resolution 7 – disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights
Resolution 7 will empower the directors to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis:
• in connection with a rights issue or other pro-rata offer to existing shareholders; and
• (otherwise than in connection with a rights issue or other pro-rata offer to existing shareholders) up to a maximum nominal value 
of £479,773.80, representing approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 24 March 2016 
(the latest practicable date before publication of this document). 
Resolution 8 – authority to make market purchases of own shares
Resolution 8 gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 
2006. The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 9,595,476 (representing approximately 
10 per cent. of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 24 March 2016 (the latest practicable date before publication of 
this document)), and sets minimum and maximum prices. This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general 
meeting or, if earlier, 15 months after the resolution is passed.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares but will keep 
the matter under review, taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the Company’s share price and future 
funding opportunities. The authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that to do so would be in the best interest of 
shareholders generally.
Companies purchasing their own shares are allowed to hold them in treasury as an alterative to cancelling them. No dividends are 
paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to treasury shares. 
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
95 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
FORM OF PROXY FOR USE AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
TO BE HELD ON 23 MAY 2016 AT 2.00pm.
I/We 
(Name in full in block capitals please)
of 
being [a] member[s] of Restore plc appoint the Chairman of the meeting or
as my/our proxy to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 23 May 2016 at 
2.00pm and at any adjournment of the meeting, on the resolutions listed below, as indicated by an ‘X’ in the appropriate box and, 
on any other resolutions, as he thinks fit.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made
Resolution Business For Against
Vote 
Withheld
Ordinary Resolutions
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended  
31 December 2015 together with the Directors’ report and the auditor’s report  
on those accounts.
2. To re-appoint RSM UK Audit LLP as auditors.
3. To authorise the Directors to set the auditors’ remuneration.
4. To re-appoint Adam Councell as a Director of the Company.
5. To declare a dividend of 2.2 pence per Ordinary Share
6. To authorise the Directors to allot shares pursuant to section 551 Companies  
Act 2006.
Special Resolutions
7. To disapply section 561 Companies Act 2006.
8. To authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Signature: Date:  2016
RESTORE PLC
(the 'Company')
(registered in England – No. 5169780)
To return your completed Proxy form
please use the reply paid envelope provided 96 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
NOTES 
1. A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and to vote 
instead of him/her provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights in respect of different shares. To appoint more than one 
proxy (an) additional proxy form(s) may be obtained by contacting Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF, or you may photocopy this page indicating on each copy the name of the proxy you wish to appoint and 
the number of shares in respect of which the proxy is appointed. All forms must be signed and should be returned to Capita Asset 
Services in the same envelope. 
2. A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent you. To appoint as your proxy a person 
other than the Chairman of the meeting, insert their full name in the space provided. If you sign and return this proxy form with no 
name inserted as such, the Chairman of the meeting will be deemed to be your proxy. Where you appoint as your proxy someone 
other than the Chairman, you are responsible for ensuring that they attend the meeting and are aware of your voting intentions.
3. If someone else signed the form on your behalf, you or that person must send the power of attorney or other written authority 
under which it is signed to the address detailed in Note 6 below. 
4. In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to 
the exclusion of the votes of any other of the joint holders. For these purposes, seniority shall be determined by the order in which 
the names stand on the register of members.
5. In the case of a corporation, this Form of Proxy must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by a duly 
authorised officer. 
6. To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be:
 a. completed and signed;
 b. sent or delivered to Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF; and
 c. received by Capita Asset Services no later than 2.00pm on 19 May 2016.
7. Completion of a Form of Proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
8. To direct your proxy how to vote on the resolutions mark the appropriate box on your proxy form with an ‘X’. To abstain from 
voting on a resolution, select the relevant 'Vote withheld' box. A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote 
will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution. If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or 
abstain from voting at his or her discretion. Your proxy will vote (or abstain from voting) as he or she thinks fit in relation to any 
other matter which is put before the meeting.
9. Shares held in uncertificated form (i.e. in CREST) may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the 
procedures set out in the CREST Manual. The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the Company’s agent, Capita 
Asset Services Limited (CREST Participant ID: RA10), no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting. For this 
purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST 
Application Host) from which the Company’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed 
by CREST.
10. You may not use any electronic address provided either in this form of proxy or any related documents (including the notice of 
meeting) to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 97 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Officers and advisers
COMPANY SECRETARY 
Sarah Waudby
REGISTERED NUMBER AND OFFICE
05169780
The Databank, 
Unit 5 Redhill Distribution Centre
Salbrook Road
Redhill
Surrey
RH1 5DY
NOMINATED ADVISER & BROKER
Cenkos Securities plc
6.7.8 Tokenhouse Yard
London
EC2R 7AS 
PUBLIC RELATIONS
FTI Consulting
200 Aldersgate
Aldersgate Street
London
EC1A 4HD
INVESTOR RELATIONS CONSULTANTS
Capital Access Group 
Sky Light City Tower 
50 Basinghall Street 
London 
EC2V 5DE
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR 
RSM UK Audit LLP 
Chartered Accountants
25 Farringdon Street
London
EC4A 4AB
SOLICITORS
Brabners LLP
55 King Street
Manchester
M2 4LQ
BANKERS
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London 
E14 5HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Floor 9
280 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4RB
REGISTRARS 
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham Kent
BR3 4TU
Trading Record 
Year ended 31 December
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
2012
£’m
2011
£’m
Revenue 91.9 67.5 53.6 43.3 18.8
Adjusted profit before taxation* 16.3 12.0 10.0 6.2 3.7
Adjusted earnings per share* 15.6p 12.3p 10.5p 7.4p 4.3p
Net debt (60.6) (30.9) (16.0) (17.8) (11.6)
Net assets 104.7 67.0 47.1 36.3 23.3
*  Before exceptional items (including exceptional finance costs), amortisation of intangible assets, share based payments and other finance costs.
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting Held in May
Half year results September
Financial year end 31 December
Full year results March Head Oﬃce 
66 Grosvenor Street 
London W1K 3JL 
T: 020 7409 2420 
E: info@restoreplc.com 
W: www.restoreplc.com 
Restore Document Management 
T: 01293 446 270 
E: admin@restore.co.uk 
W: www.restore.co.uk 
The Databank 
Unit 5 Redhill Distribution Centre 
Salbrook Road 
Redhill Surrey 
RH1 5DY 
Harrow Green 
T: 0345 603 8774
E: info@harrowgreen.com 
W: www.harrowgreen.com
2 Oriental Road 
Silvertown
London
E16 2BZ 
Relocom 
T: 0345 313 1491 
E: contactus@relocom.co.uk 
W: www.relocom.co.uk 
ITP Group
T: 0118 943 8001
E: info@itp-group.com
W: www.itp-group.com
Unit 1 Stadium Way
Tilehurst
Reading Berkshire
RG30 6BX
Restore IT Eﬃcient
T: 01462 813 132 
E: ite@iteﬃcient.com 
W: www.restore.co.uk/it-disposal
Unit 4B-4F Sheﬀord Industrial Park 
St Francis Way 
Sheﬀord Bedfordshire 
SG17 5DZ
LOCATIONS
Restore Shred 
T: 01869 238 521 
E: admin@restoreshred.com 
W: www.restore.co.uk/shred
234 Heyford Park 
Upper Heyford 
Oxfordshire 
OX25 5HA 
Restore Scan 
T: 01293 446 270
E: enquiries@restorescan.co.uk 
W: www.restore.co.uk/scan 
Unit 3 The Links
Popham Close
Feltham
TW13 6JE
Report & Financial Statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
