 201 5 Annual report riotinto.com/ar2015
riotinto.com/ar2015
201 5 Annual report
201 5 Annual report
3923-RIO-AR-cover-AN-010316.indd   3 01/03/2016   20:48
riotinto.com/ar2015
Get more information online
Find out more about our business and performance:
riotinto.com
View our 2015 Annual report:
riotinto.com/ar2015
View our 2015 Sustainable development online report:
riotinto.com/sd2015
3923-RIO-AR-cover-AN-010316.indd   1 01/03/2016   20:48 Printed by Park Communications 
on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified company and its 
Environmental Management System is 
certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based,  
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further  
use and, on average 99% of any waste associated  
with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Inaset Offset, a paper 
containing fibre sourced from well-managed, 
responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an 
elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
Design and produced by SampsonMay  
Telephone 020 7403 4099 
sampsonmay.com
Typesetting and formatting by RR Donnelley 
rrdonnelley.com
3923-RIO-AR-cover-AN-010316.indd   6 01/03/2016   20:48
Contents
Navigating through Rio Tinto’s Annual and Strategic report
The first 43 pages of Rio Tinto’s 2015 Annual report constitute its 2015 Strategic report. References to 
page numbers beyond 43 are references to pages in the full 2015 Annual report. This is available online at 
riotinto.com/ar2015 or shareholders may obtain a hard copy free of charge by contacting Rio Tinto’s 
registrars, whose details are set out on page 244 of this document.
Please visit Rio Tinto’s website to learn more about the Group’s performance in 2015.
This Annual report, which includes the Group’s 2015 Strategic report, complies with Australian and UK reporting requirements.
Copies of Rio Tinto’s shareholder documents – the 2015 Annual report and 2015 Strategic report, along with the 2016 Notices
of annual general meeting – are available to view on the Group’s website: riotinto.com/ar2015
Cautionary statement about forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and 
business of the Rio Tinto Group. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the  
US Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “intend”, “aim”, “project”, 
“anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan”, “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “should”, “will”, “target”, “set to” or similar expressions,  
commonly identify such forward-looking statements.
Examples of forward-looking statements in this Annual report include those regarding estimated ore reserves, anticipated 
production or construction dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors. Forward-looking statements 
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set forth in this document that are beyond the 
Group’s control. For example, future ore reserves will be based in part on market prices that may vary significantly from current 
levels. These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments. Other factors include the ability to 
produce and transport products profitably, demand for our products, changes to the assumptions regarding the recoverable  
value of our tangible and intangible assets, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, 
and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from projected future results 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements which speak only as to the date of this Annual report. Except as 
required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any 
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. The Group cannot guarantee that its 
forward-looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.
Strategic report
Performance highlights  1
Group overview  2
Chairman’s letter  4
Chief executive’s statement  5
Strategic context  7
Key performance indicators  8
Group strategy  10
Business model  12
Principal risks and uncertainties  16
Sustainable development  22
 Independent assurance statement  29
Capital allocation  30
Product groups
 Aluminium  32
 Copper & Coal  34
 Diamonds & Minerals  36
 Iron Ore  38
Exploration  40
Technology & Innovation  41
Financial overview  42
Five year review  43
Directors’ report
Contents  45
Directors’ report  46
Board of directors  51
Executive Committee  54
Corporate governance  55
Remuneration Report
 Annual statement by the
 Remuneration Committee chairman  67
 Remuneration Policy Report  70
 Remuneration Implementation Report  78
Financial statements
Contents  106
Group income statement  107
Group statement of
 comprehensive income  108
Group cash flow statement  109
Group balance sheet  110
Group statement of changes in equity  111
Notes to the 2015 financial statements  113
Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet  190
Rio Tinto financial information by
 business unit  194
Australian Corporations Act – summary
 of ASIC relief  199
Directors’ declaration  200
Auditor’s independence declaration  201
Independent auditors’ report  202
Financial summary 2006-2015  209
Summary financial data  211
Production, reserves and operations
Contents  212
Metals and minerals production  213
Ore reserves  217
Mineral resources  221
Competent Persons  226
Mines and production facilities  228
Additional information
Shareholder information  236
UK Listing Rules cross reference table  242
Financial calendar  243
Contact details  244
To be more environmentally friendly, Rio Tinto is reducing the print  
run of all publications. We encourage you to visit: riotinto.com for  
more information, and view all available PDFs of this Annual report.
Page reference for more information within this report
Denotes key performance indicators KPI
Key
3923-RIO-AR-cover-AN-010316.indd   4 01/03/2016   20:48 Performance highlights
2015 results demonstrate decisive
early actions taken with focus on cash
Against a highly challenging environment,
Rio Tinto delivered a strong performance in
2015 with underlying earnings of
US$4.5 billion. The Group continued to take
decisive action to preserve cash through
further cost reductions, lower capital
expenditure and the release of working capital.
This focus on cash resulted in operating cash
flows of US$9.4 billion.
A net loss of US$0.9 billion reflected non-cash
exchange rate and derivative losses of
US$3.3 billion and impairment charges of
US$1.8 billion. The impairments mainly related
to the Simandou iron ore project, Energy
Resources of Australia (ERA) and the
Roughrider uranium project. In addition, the
Group recognised legacy remediation costs of
US$0.2 billion and general restructuring and
headcount reduction costs of US$0.3 billion.
In 2015, the Group returned US$6.1 billion to
shareholders, including the 2014 final dividend
of US$2.2 billion, the 2015 interim dividend of
US$1.9 billion and US$2.0 billion of share
buy-backs, comprising US$0.4 billion off-market
in Rio Tinto Limited and US$1.6 billion
on-market in Rio Tinto plc. Rio Tinto maintained
the full year dividend at 215 US cents per share.
The continued deterioration in the macro
environment has generated widespread market
uncertainty. The Group is embarking on a new
round of pro-active measures to cut operating
costs by a further US$1 billion in 2016 followed
by an additional goal of US$1 billion in 2017. It
is also reducing capital expenditure to
US$4 billion in 2016 and US$5 billion in 2017,
an overall reduction of US$3 billion compared
with previous guidance.
These significant actions provide Rio Tinto with
the confidence that it remains robustly
positioned to both maintain balance sheet
strength and deliver shareholder returns
through the cycle.
Year to 31 December 2015 2014 Change
KPI 126 Underlying earnings
(1)
(US$ millions) 4,540 9,305 -51%
Net (loss)/earnings
(1)
(US$ millions) (866) 6,527 n/a
KPI 109 Net cash generated from operating activities (US$ millions) 9,383 14,286 -34%
KPI 109 Capital expenditure
(2)
(US$ millions) 4,685 8,162 -43%
Underlying earnings per share (US cents) 248.8 503.4 -51%
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (US cents) (47.5) 353.1 n/a
Ordinary dividends per share (US cents) 215.0 215.0 –
As at 31 December 2015 2014 Change
KPI 143 Netdebt(US$millions) 13,783 12,495 +10%
Gearing ratio
(3)
24% 19% +5%
The financial results are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
(1) Underlying earnings is a key financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess performance. It is presented here to provide greater understanding of the
underlying business performance of the Group’s operations. Net and underlying (loss)/earnings relate to (loss)/profit attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto. Underlying earnings is defined
and reconciled to net (loss)/earnings on pages 126 and 127.
(2) Capital expenditure is presented gross, before taking into account any disposals of property, plant and equipment.
(3) Gearing ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt and total equity at each period end.
Revenues and earnings
– Consolidated sales revenues of
US$34.8 billion, US$12.8 billion lower than
last year, reflecting a US$13.1 billion
reduction from the sharp decline in
commodity prices.
–EBITDA
(1)
margin of 34 per cent, compared
with 39 per cent in 2014.
– Underlying earnings of US$4.5 billion,
US$4.8 billion lower than 2014, with cash
cost improvements, higher volumes, lower
energy costs, positive currency and other
movements (totalling US$2.9 billion) partly
offsetting the US$7.7 billion (post-tax)
impact of lower prices.
– Underlying earnings per share of
248.8 US cents compared with
503.4 US cents in 2014.
Cash flow and balance sheet
– Achieved US$1.3 billion of sustainable
operating cash cost improvements
(2)
(including exploration and evaluation
savings) in 2015, 35 per cent over target,
bringing the total to US$6.2 billion
compared with the 2012 base.
– Generated net cash from operating
activities of US$9.4 billion in 2015, as lower
taxes paid and further improvements in
working capital partly offset the impact of
lower prices.
– Tight management of working capital
generated a further US$1.5 billion cash
inflow in 2015, aided by lower commodity
prices. This was in addition to the
US$1.5 billion inflow in 2014.
– Reduced capital expenditure by
US$3.5 billion to US$4.7 billion, including
US$2.1 billion of sustaining capex,
benefiting from the completion of major
projects and continued capital discipline.
– Announced US$0.8 billion of agreed coal
divestments in 2015 and 2016 year to date.
– Maintained a strong balance sheet with net
debt of US$13.8 billion and gearing of
24 per cent, in the lower half of the targeted
range. Free cash flow
(3)
of US$0.7 billion
partly funded the US$2.0 billion share
buy-back.
(1) EBITDA margin is defined as Group underlying EBITDA
divided by product group total revenues as per the
Financial information by business unit on page 195
where it is reconciled to profit on ordinary activities
before finance items and taxation.
(2) Operating cash cost improvements represent the
difference between the current and prior year full
cash cost of sales per unit based on the prior year
volume sold.
(3) Free cash flow is defined as net cash generated from
operating activities less cash used in investing activities.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 1
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group overview
Introduction to Rio Tinto
Rio Tinto is a leading global mining and
metals group that focuses on finding, mining,
processing and marketing the Earth’s
mineral resources.
We have been in business for more than
140 years and remain focused on a
long-term horizon. Our approach is driven by
an enduring and proven strategy (see
page 10). It sees us invest in and operate
long-life, low-cost, expandable operations in
the most attractive industry sectors.
Our world-class assets are run by a company
of world-class people: a 55,000-strong
workforce spanning more than 40 countries.
We foster a culture where our people keep
their safety, and that of their workmates, at
the top of their minds; where every person
understands how they can create and
preserve value for the business; and where
diversity and innovation are embraced.
We produce a diverse suite of minerals and
metals that enable the world to grow and
develop.Theseproductsgiveusexposureto
markets around the world, and across the
economic development spectrum, from basic
infrastructure needs, through industrial
growth, and to consumer-led demand.
Supporting our four product groups are our
Exploration and Technology & Innovation
teams, central support functions, shared
services, and headquarters-based activities.
Our contribution to sustainable development
is integral to how we do business. It is a
fundamental consideration in how we
manage the business, seeking long-term
mutually beneficial outcomes for our
business and our stakeholders. Find out
more on page 22.
Our approach is underpinned by our values
of respect, integrity, teamwork and
accountability. Combined with the strength
provided by our people and our assets,
they help form the foundations of our
long-term success.
Aluminium product group
Building on more than a century of experience
and expertise, Rio Tinto is a global leader in the
aluminium industry. Our business includes
high-quality bauxite mines, large-scale alumina
refineries, and some of the world’s lowest-cost,
most technologically-advanced primary
aluminium smelters.
Products
Bauxite
Bauxite is the natural ore used to make
aluminium. It is refined into alumina which is
smelted into aluminium metal. Our wholly and
partly owned bauxite mines are located in
Australia, Brazil and Guinea.
Alumina
Alumina (aluminium oxide) is extracted from
bauxite via a refining process. Approximately
four tonnes of bauxite are required to produce
two tonnes of alumina, which in turn makes
one tonne of aluminium metal. Our wholly and
partly owned alumina refineries are located in
Australia, Brazil and Canada.
Aluminium
Aluminium is a unique and versatile modern
metal. Light, strong, flexible, corrosion-
resistant and infinitely recyclable, aluminium is
one of the most widely-used metals in the
world. Its largest markets are transportation,
machinery and construction. Our smelters are
mainly concentrated in Canada. We also have
plants in France, Australia, New Zealand,
Iceland, the UK and Oman.
Strategic advantages
– Access to the largest and best-quality
bauxite ore reserves in the industry,
strategically located to serve growing
Chinese bauxite demand.
– One of the lowest-cost bauxite producers.
– Outstanding hydropower position, which
delivers significant cost and other
advantages in an energy intensive industry
and today’s carbon-constrained world.
– Rio Tinto has a first-quartile average cost
position for aluminium smelting, with
industry- leading smelting technology.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
–Canada – Asia
– Australia – Americas
–Europe – Europe
Full operating review 32
Copper & Coal product group
Rio Tinto’s Copper & Coal product group
was formed in February 2015 following a
corporate restructure. At the end of 2015, the
product group had four copper operating
assets–intheUS,Mongolia,Chileand
Indonesia – and six coal operations in Australia
and South Africa, as well as attractive
development projects.
Products
Copper
Precious metals aside, copper is the best
conductor of heat and electricity, and
70 per cent of the copper the industry produces
is used in conductive applications. Copper wires
the world, bringing vital infrastructure and
information to all corners of the globe, and
helps to power economic and societal
improvement and growth. Copper is also a key
component of green technologies, from wind
energy and solar collection to high-efficiency
buildings and electric vehicles. We also
produce gold, silver and molybdenum as
co-products of our copper production.
Coal
Coal is a cost-effective and abundant energy
source that will continue to be part of the
global energy solution for years to come.
Thermal coal is used for electricity generation
in power stations. The thermal coal from our
Hunter Valley operations is world class,
featuring the low ash and sulphur content
necessary for modern lower-emissions power
stations. We produce high-value coking or
metallurgical coal, which produces steel when
mixed in furnaces with iron ore.
Gold
Gold is used as a store of value. It is also highly
conductive, malleable and inert. These
properties make it a key component in the
electronics, chemical production, jewellery,
aerospace and medical industries.
Silver
Alsoapreciousmetal,silverhasthehighest
electrical and thermal conductivity of any
metal and is used in many electronic devices.
It is also used in aerospace and medical
applications, to make jewellery and as
an investment.
Molybdenum
Molybdenum enhances toughness, high-
temperature strength and corrosion resistance
when combined with other metals. It is
frequently used to produce stainless steel and
other metal alloys.
2 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Strategic advantages
– A portfolio of high-quality assets in copper
and coal.
– Attractive growth opportunities in copper.
– Large, low-cost, expandable copper and
coal assets located close to existing
infrastructure and growing Asian markets.
– Industry-leading technology
and innovation.
– Strong product stewardship.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
– Australia – China
– Chile – Japan
– Mongolia – South Korea
–US – Taiwan
–US
Full operating review 34
Diamonds & Minerals product group
The Diamonds & Minerals product group
consists of industry-leading, demand-led
businesses, which include mining, refining and
marketingoperationsacrossfivesectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is one of the world’s
leading diamond producers, and manufactures,
sells and markets diamonds from its mines in
Australia and Canada. Rio Tinto Minerals is a
world leader in borates, with a mine in the US,
processing plants, and commercial and
research facilities. Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is
an industry leader in high-grade titanium
dioxide feedstocks, with operations in Canada,
Madagascar and South Africa. Dampier Salt,
basedinAustralia,isoneoftheworld’slargest
producers of seaborne salt and the Uranium
business includes production facilities in
Australia and Namibia. The product group also
includestheSimandouironoreprojectin
Guinea, one of the largest known undeveloped
high-grade iron ore resources in the world.
Products
Diamonds
Diamonds are an important component in both
affordable and higher-end jewellery. We are
able to service all established and emerging
marketsasweproducethefullrangeof
diamonds in terms of size, quality and colour
distribution.
Titanium dioxide
Themineralsilmeniteandrutile,togetherwith
titanium dioxide slag, can be transformed into a
white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium
metal. The white pigment is a key component
in paints, plastics, paper, inks, textiles, food,
sunscreen and cosmetics. Titanium metal is
light weight, chemically inert and strong,
making it ideal for use in medical applications
and in the aerospace industry.
Borates
Refined borates are used in hundreds of
products and processes. They are a vital
ingredient of many building materials and glass
applications and are essential micro-nutrients
for crops. They are commonly used in glass and
ceramic applications including fibreglass,
television screens, floor and wall tiles, and
heat-resistant glass.
Salt
Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the
chemicals industry and is indispensable to a
wide array of automotive, construction and
electronicproducts,aswellasforwater
treatment, food and healthcare.
Uranium
Uranium is one of the most powerful known
natural energy sources, and is used in the
production of clean, stable, base-load
electricity.Afteruraniumoreismined,itis
processed into uranium oxide. This product is
sold for processing into fuel rods for use in
nuclear power stations.
Other products from the Diamonds & Minerals
product group include high purity iron, metal
powders and zircon.
Strategic advantages
– Portfolio of industry-leading businesses
operating in attractive markets.
– Demand-led, integrated operations that are
responsive to the changing external
environment.
– Poised to benefit from mid to late-
development-cycle demand growth as
consumption increases in emerging
markets.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
– North America – North America
– Australia – South East Asia
– Africa – India
Full operating review 36
Iron Ore product group
Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore
portfolio, supplying the global seaborne iron
oretrade.Wearewellpositionedtobenefit
from continuing demand across China and the
developing world. In Australia, where the
majority of our iron ore is produced, we have
industry-leading margins.
Products
Iron ore
Iron ore is the key ingredient in the production
of steel, one of the most fundamental and
durable products for modern-day living, with
uses from railways to paperclips. Our iron ore
mines are located in Australia and Canada.
Strategic advantages
– Proximity of the Pilbara operations in
Australia to key Asian markets.
– The lowest cost major iron ore producer in
thePilbara,withaPilbaracashunitcostof
US$14.9 in 2015.
– World-class assets, comprising a seamless
supply chain with extensive optionality.
– A premium product suite, which drives
strong customer relationships, supported
by technical and commercial marketing
expertise.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
– Australia – China
– Canada – Japan
–SouthKorea
Full operating review 38
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 3
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Chairman’s letter
Dear shareholders,
Last year I noted that in times of challenging
markets, investors sought strength
and reliability.
It is pleasing to report that during 2015 your
company has displayed such qualities and
delivered a solid performance, despite an
exceptional level of economic volatility.
The continued deterioration in the macro
environment has generated widespread market
uncertainty. Global economic growth was
subdued last year and reflected a deepening
of the cyclical downturn in most
commodity markets.
Even before the recent challenges, we took
measures to reshape Rio Tinto – a plan that has
deliveredresults.Thisisasignificant
achievement for Sam Walsh and his team, but
ofcoursethereismorewemustdo.
The year ahead will be challenging for our
industry and we are taking further pre-emptive
action to ensure the company’s ongoing
strength. We will continue to run the business
with the long-term interests of you, our
shareholders, in mind.
Strength in turbulent times
In 2015, your company achieved underlying
earnings of US$4.5 billion and operating cash
flows of US$9.4 billion. Our underlying earnings
were US$4.8 billion lower than in 2014 due to the
significant impact of reduced commodity prices.
This impact was partly offset by management’s
drive to significantly reduce cash costs and
improve productivity at all of our businesses.
The net loss of US$0.9 billion reflects non-cash
exchange rate and derivative losses of
US$3.3 billion, and impairment charges of
US$1.8 billion. The impairments mainly relate
to the Simandou iron ore project, Energy
Resources of Australia and the Roughrider
uranium project.
These results reflect continued investment
over many decades in long-life, low-cost,
expandable operations in the most attractive
industry sectors. This strategy ensures that
Rio Tinto owns the best assets for delivering
long-term value. At a time of significant
industry change and curtailments, your
company has the resilience and strength to
continue to progress world-class growth
projects in bauxite, copper and iron ore.
Global growth
The slowdown in emerging markets limited
global growth to around three per cent in 2015.
The impact on commodity demand was much
stronger, led by a further deterioration in key
metal-intensive sectors in China.
China’s gross domestic product (GDP)
growth slowed moderately to just below seven
per cent, as the transition to its “New Normal”
was further impacted by the industrial cycle.
Consumption supported the economy but
investment and exports weighed on growth.
In particular, the slowing growth of China’s
construction and industrial sectors, as the
transition to a service-based economy takes
place, has negatively impacted
commodity demand.
The US Federal Reserve’s first interest rate
hike since the financial crisis has been
interpreted as a sign that the US economy
continued to strengthen in 2015. Consumer
demand is strong but growth momentum was
dampened by the impact of lower oil prices.
Against this backdrop, prices for several
commodities are at levels not seen since 2005
or only briefly at the depth of the global
financial crisis.
The economic environment represented
significant challenges for industry margins
during the year and this is likely to persist
in 2016.
Returns to shareholders
The strength of the company’s performance
gave the board the confidence to announce, in
February 2016, a 2015 full year dividend of
215 US cents per share. In 2015, we returned
US$6.1 billion to our shareholders, through a
combination of dividend payments and
buy-backs.
Over the last five years we have returned more
than US$25 billion to our shareholders,
underlining our commitment to
shareholder returns.
However, with the continuing uncertain market
outlook, the board has determined that
maintaining the progressive dividend policy
wouldhaveconstrainedthebusinessand
acted against shareholders’
long-term interests.
We have therefore replaced the progressive
dividend policy with an approach that will allow
the distribution of returns to better reflect the
company’s position and outlook.
We recognise that this decision may disappoint
some of our shareholders but we believe our
new dividend policy better reflects the cyclical
nature of our industry. For 2016, we intend that
the full year dividend will be no less than
110 US cents per share.
Our goal is to maintain balance sheet strength
and deliver shareholder returns through the
cycle. We believe the quality of our assets
provides a sound base for future returns.
Our public and community role
Over the past year, considerable action has
taken place to reduce trade barriers, lift
people from poverty and protect the
environment. As a leading global company,
Rio Tinto has publicly engaged in
support of these efforts.
During 2015 we were an active participant in
the business community advisory group to
G20 leaders, providing a business perspective
on drivers for economic growth and supporting
public policy that advances sustainable
economic development.
In October, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP)
was secured after seven years of negotiations
among 12 countries in the growing
Pacific region. The TPP promises to
open markets in the region and secure the
rules-based trading system upon which
companies like Rio Tinto and our
customers depend.
In December, during the annual Conference of
Parties 21 (COP21), a global agreement was
reached to address climate change. Rio Tinto
signed the Paris Pledge for Action to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions, which is a further
example of our commitment to be part of the
climate solution.
Central to this, we set quantified emissions
intensity reduction goals. Over the last
sevenyearswehaveachievedareductionof
(a) Summarised on page 24.
more than 21 per cent in our emissions
intensity, exceeding the targets we set. We
have extended our GHG emissions intensity
targetto2020.Thenewtargetisfora
24 per cent reduction from our 2008 baseline.
For the long term, we are committed to
significantly decarbonising our business by
2050 and making our businesses and projects
resilient to climate change impacts. To drive
this internally, we are building climate change
related metrics into our planning, risk and
investment decisions.
Society’s expectations are increasing, both in
terms of the visibility of our public promises and
the transparency of our local actions. In light of
the restructuring occurring across the extractive
sector, some of our stakeholders may question
the value of our industry and the role we play.
But when you consider that in the five years to
the end of 2015, Rio Tinto’s direct economic
contribution
(a)
has exceeded US$265 billion,
webelievethevaluewebringisclear.We
also lead our industry in tax transparency,
through the publication since 2010 of our
annual Taxes paid report.
Active governance
In May 2015, Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick
stepped down as non-executive directors after
many years of significant service on the board.
In May 2016, Richard Goodmanson will retire
from the board after 11 years. I am very
grateful to them all for their considerable
contribution and tremendous commitment to
Rio Tinto over many years.
A key role of the board is to ensure adherence
to the company’s strategy and plan for future
growth.Withthisinmindtheboardvisited
two of our world-class businesses in 2015 to
get a first-hand view of the company’s assets
and people: our modernised aluminium
smelter at Kitimat in British Columbia, Canada,
and our bauxite operations at Weipa in
Queensland, Australia.
Moving forward with confidence
Despite the uncertain conditions that we
currently face, the long-term outlook for our
sector remains positive.
Inthenext15years,theworld’spopulation
will increase by more than one billion people
and almost half a billion people in China,
India and the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN) region will move from rural to
urban environments.
Thesefactorsdrivedemandfortheminerals
andmetalsweproduce,asessential
ingredients of modern life.
I would like to congratulate our diverse team of
talented employees around the world. Without
their enthusiasm and commitment to integrity
we would not be the strong values-driven
company we are. On behalf of the board, thank
you for your continued support.
Jan du Plessis
Chairman
2 March 2016
4 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Chief executive’s statement
Dear shareholders,
The past year created significant challenges
for our industry, and against this backdrop we
have again delivered robust financial and
operational performance.
In 2015 our focus on cash generation was
relentless. We reduced our cost base by
US$1.3 billion, exceeding our revised target of
US$1 billion. We lowered our capital
expenditure to US$4.7 billion and we ended the
yearwithnetdebtatUS$13.8billion.
Our performance is important because we
delivered on our targets, and because we did
what we said we would do: focus on value and
meet our commitments to improve the
business for you, our shareholders.
Rio Tinto’s proactive actions over the past
three years mean we have one of the strongest
balancesheetsintheindustry.Wehave
reduced our costs by over US$6 billion since
the start of 2013, reshaped and strengthened
our portfolio, and reduced capital expenditure
and working capital. As a result of these
actions, we have returned over US$13 billion of
cash to shareholders since 2012.
This performance is due to the hard work of our
talented employees around the world, the
superior quality of our Tier 1 assets and our
operating and commercial excellence.
Whilewehaveachievedagreatdeal,we
recognise the current market environment
requires even more from us. This is why we
have announced a new pre-emptive package
of measures. Over the next two years, we
aim to cut operating costs by a further
US$2 billion, remove US$3 billion of capital
expenditure, compared with our previous
guidance, and implement a new dividend
policy,asexplainedbyourchairmaninhis
letter on the previous page.
These significant actions provide us with the
confidence that we remain well positioned to
maintain balance sheet strength and deliver
shareholder returns through the cycle.
Safe and reliable operations
Safeandreliableoperationswillalwaysbeour
number one goal.
We have made real progress to reduce
employee injury rates across our business. In
2015 we achieved the lowest injury frequency
rate in Rio Tinto’s history but we must do more
to eliminate fatalities.
Tragically, four of our colleagues lost their lives
at our operations in 2015 and our thoughts are
with their families and friends.
In January at QIT Minerals in Madagascar,
Todson Rafaralahiniriko drowned when the
excavator he was operating slid down a tailings
embankment into water.
In February at Zululand Anthracite Colliery in
South Africa, security officer Themba Thusi
died when the car he was driving rolled on a
bend on a gravel road.
In May at Rio Tinto Fer et Titane in Canada,
LucTrudeldiedwhileworkinginateamusing
a high-pressure water hose to perform a
cleaning task.
In August in Guinea, Mohamed Lamine Cherif
drowned when a bridge on a public road to our
Simandou operation collapsed and his truck
became submerged.
To help us eliminate fatalities we will
implement a new programme, critical risk
management (CRM), across the Group. CRM
involves every person identifying the risks in a
given task, and verifying appropriate controls
are in place before starting the activity.
World-class assets and
performance
The steep fall in a range of commodity prices
has been particularly challenging for our
industry and has had a direct impact on our
earnings. Within this environment, the
company’s world-class businesses remain
focused on generating superior margins
and cash.
In 2015 our iron ore business delivered
underlying earnings of US$3.9 billion and
closed the year with Pilbara FOB EBITDA
marginsof60percent.
The focus of our iron ore business in 2015
centred on extracting full value from the
investmentswehavemadeinourassets
and infrastructure.
During 2016 we will celebrate 50 years of iron
ore exports from Australia and our business
remains the cost and quality standard by which
others seek to be measured.
Rio Tinto has the world’s best aluminium
business with global smelting assets averaging
in the first quartile of the industry cost curve
and a leading position in bauxite.
The product group achieved a solid
performance in 2015, with underlying earnings
of US$1.1 billion despite lower prices.
Integrated EBITDA margins increased year-on-
year to 31 per cent.
The Copper & Coal product group, impacted by
lower prices, delivered underlying earnings of
US$274 million.
Rio Tinto’s share of mined copper production
waslower,asanticipated,principallydrivenby
Rio Tinto Kennecott where efforts were
undertaken to de-weight and de-water the
east pit wall, following the slide in 2013.
Coking coal production increased in 2015
versus 2014, and thermal coal production was
broadly in line with 2014.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group
continues to focus on cash generation.
Underlying earnings of US$189 million were
30 per cent lower than 2014, primarily driven
by lower sales prices and reduced volumes in
response to soft market conditions. The
product group continues to optimise
production to align with market demand.
The Argyle diamond underground mine
continued to ramp up throughout 2015.
Portfolio renewal and growth
In 2015 we announced the sale of our interest
in the Bengalla thermal coal joint venture. This
completedon1March2016andRioTinto
received consideration of US$0.6 billion. In
January 2016 we announced the sale of our
share of the Mount Pleasant thermal coal
assets in Australia. That sale is expected to
close in the second half of 2016.
Duringtheyearwealsosoldourinterestinthe
Murowa diamond mine in Zimbabwe and a
number of Rio Tinto Aluminium’s ancillary
businesses in Europe.
Asset sales announced or completed since
the end of 2012 have realised more than
US$4.7 billion, which has been used to
reduce debt, deliver returns to shareholders,
or fund growth.
In 2015, we cut our capital expenditure to
US$4.7 billion but not at the expense of
facilitating high value growth options. The four
major projects we progressed last year
exemplify the diverse nature of our portfolio
and commitment to quality growth: the
completion of the Pilbara iron ore
infrastructure; the pouring of first hot metal at
the modernised Kitimat smelter; the project
financing package agreed for Oyu Tolgoi
underground; and the approval of the Amrun
bauxite project.
Each is unique. All are world-class and ideally
positioned on the cost curve to deliver value for
many years.
In the Pilbara in Australia all key elements of
our growth infrastructure are now largely
complete and our focus has shifted to
generating maximum value from our assets
andinstalledcapacity.
Kitimat in Canada is now one of the world’s
most modern large-scale aluminium smelters.
It uses our energy efficient proprietary
technology. Its ramp-up is well under way and
it is expected to achieve nameplate capacity in
the first half of 2016.
In December the development of the
Oyu Tolgoi underground copper mine in
Mongolia took an important step forward with
the signing of the US$4.4 billion project
financing agreement. Next steps include
securing all necessary permits, finalising the
feasibility study, and consideration of approval
of the project by the various boards.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 5
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Chief executive’s statement
continued
The planned output from the Amrun bauxite
mine in Australia, due from 2019, is partly
expected to replace production from the
depleting East Weipa mine which has been a
reliable supplier of quality bauxite for more
than 50 years.
Technology and environmental
leadership
Technology and innovation has been one of
Rio Tinto’s strengths for decades.
In 2015, at our iron ore operations in the
Pilbara we deployed our 71st automated truck
and we are progressing advancement of the
world’s first fully autonomous, heavy-haulage,
long-distance rail system.
We are also trialling drones to measure
stockpiles and assist with many tasks,
including maintenance and
environmental programmes.
Technology can also drive energy and
water efficiency and reduce our
environmental footprint.
As a business, we must ensure our operations
are safe and well managed from an
environmental perspective.
In August we further strengthened our tailings
andwaterstoragestandards.AcrosstheGroup
we have a provision of US$8 billion for future
rehabilitation and closure costs.
We have many award-winning examples of
mine rehabilitation and restoration. In March
2015, we agreed to relinquish
175,000 hectares of land on the Mitchell
Plateau to help establish Australia’s largest
national park, covering over two million
hectares across the Kimberley region of
Western Australia.
Our Sustainable development section provides
more details on our performance in this critical
area (see page 22).
Ready for new challenges
ItisasourceofgreatpridetoseeRioTinto
people in action, at work and in the community
helping us build a more resilient and trusted
business.
The actions of all of our people around the
world sustain a vibrant and values-driven
culture which is at the heart of our company.
The year ahead is expected to be particularly
tough for our industry but we have taken
further proactive measures from a position
of strength.
In my time in the industry I have seen many
cycles. Those companies, like ours, with the
highest-quality assets and the financial
strength to invest through the cycle are those
that can deliver long-term value.
So we have set stretching but realistic
ambitions and we will make best use of
our strengths.
In the year ahead we will do all we can to
improve our safety and business performance,
continue our focus on cash, and preserve the
strength of our balance sheet.
I would like to close by thanking our
stakeholders for their trust, and you, our
shareholders, for investing in Rio Tinto.
Sam Walsh AO
Chief executive
2 March 2016
6 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Strategic context
Global economy
For the fourth year running, the global
economy grew at a moderate rate of around
three per cent in 2015, below consensus
expectations at the start of the year. Global
growth was held back by slowing emerging
economies that faced a challenging dynamic of
subdued global trade and falling commodity
prices. Developed economies were on a
stronger footing, but seven years on are still
struggling to fully extricate themselves from
the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
China’s GDP growth slowed moderately to just
below seven per cent, but this had a strong
impact on metals and minerals demand,
because most of 2015’s economic weakness
was concentrated in the commodity-intensive
construction and industrial sectors. Some signs
of stabilisation started to appear during the
second half of the year, although from a weak
base. In particular, policy measures introduced
by the Chinese Government supported a pick-
up in housing sales. While this stopped the rise
in property inventories, these remain elevated,
delaying growth in construction activity.
China’s central bank also gradually shifted
exchange rate policies throughout the year.
The US Federal Reserve’s first interest rate
hike since the financial crisis was initially
interpreted by the markets as a sign that the
US economy continued to strengthen in 2015.
Consumer demand is strong and was
supported by improvements in the labour
market. However, growth momentum was
dampened by the impact of lower oil prices on
US energy sector investment and by a
manufacturing sector struggling with a
stronger dollar. The rally in the US currency,
which started in the second half of 2014,
continued throughout 2015, with the trade-
weighted index reaching levels last seen in
2003.Europebenefitedfromthecurrency
trends, and while growth remains modest,
2015 saw the most solid performance in the
eurozone since 2011. This enabled the Greek
crisis, which unfolded throughout the year, to
remain relatively well contained.
Growth in developed economies was not
sufficient to support strong global trade. This
negatively impacted emerging markets, with
currencies, debt and fiscal positions of
commodity exporters under further stress from
low oil and minerals prices. Currencies in
developed commodity-dependent economies
such as Australia and Canada were under
lesser pressure but still depreciated against
theUSdollarby11and16percent
respectively through the year.
Drivers of commodity prices
Long-term structural economic trends are
important drivers of future commodity prices
through their effects on commodity demand.
The economic development and urbanisation of
emerging countries goes through an initial
investment-led growth phase, which is
particularly commodity-intensive. This benefits
commodities such as the steel and copper used
in construction and infrastructure. As
economies evolve over time, other
commodities such as light metals, energy
products and industrial minerals tend to take
over as the main enablers of consumption-led
growth models.
Combined with high capital intensity and long
project lead times, the long-term nature of
mining investment tends to result in cyclical
investment patterns in the industry, which
translates into cyclical commodity prices. Over
thepastcoupleofyears,theindustryhas
moved into the low phase of the cycle.
Investments made during the previous period
of high prices and margins have started to
deliver new supply, into a context of
decelerating demand from China. With markets
for most metals and minerals moving into
oversupply, the focus of the industry has
shifted away from capital investment and
toward strategies focused on strengthening
balance sheets through productivity and cost
reduction initiatives.
Commodity markets
The cyclical downturn deepened in most
commodity markets in 2015. The iron ore price
dipped below US$40/dry metric tonne CFR
(cost and freight) towards the end of the year,
representing an 80 per cent fall from the peak
of the market in 2011. Given its exposure to
property and investment trends, domestic
finished steel consumption in China fell by
between four and five per cent. China’s iron ore
requirement proved more stable due to a
combination of record steel products exports
andadecliningshareinscrapuse.
Nevertheless, this was far from sufficient to
absorb the growth in low-cost seaborne
supplies from the iron ore majors. Price
pressures led to about 130 million tonnes in
high-cost production cuts from China and
marginal seaborne suppliers, in addition to the
125milliontonnesofexitsin2014.
Prices for several other commodities, such as
aluminium, and thermal and metallurgical coal,
areatlevelsprecedingthestartoftheChina
boom in 2005 or only seen briefly in the depth
of the global financial crisis. Strong Chinese
supply and slow curtailments have exacerbated
global market imbalances in each of these
threecommodities.Asaresult,pricesare
cutting deep into global cost curves despite
significant reductions in costs, weaker
currencies and lower energy input prices.
Revenues for aluminium producers also
suffered from a rapid fall in regional
market premia.
Bauxite and copper have not experienced
prices cutting as deep into their respective
global cost curves, although downward
pressures have gradually been building up.
Malaysia has replaced Indonesia as the main
source of bauxite imports into China, meaning
that stockpiles that were built up ahead of the
Indonesian export ban are not being drawn
down as expected. Nevertheless, with further
additions of alumina refining capacity in China’s
coastal province of Shandong, demand for
imported bauxite remained strong. In the
copper market, a combination of mine
disruptions, mine shutdowns and project
deferrals dampened the ramp-up in new
supply. Reported copper inventories drifted
downthroughthesecondhalfof2015and
remained at levels representative of a
balanced market. This was not sufficient to
stop a gradual erosion in price, with
expectations of continued supply growth from
expansions reaching their commissioning
phase late in the year.
The absorption of excess titanium dioxide
pigment and feedstocks inventories has been a
drawn-out process since 2012. It continued into
2015, with producers of high-grade feedstocks
curtailing more capacity.
Outlook
The macro and market environment in 2015
presented significant challenges for industry
margins. High-cost marginal supply is seen
exiting across most commodity markets. But
this is a long process and in the absence of a
turnaround in demand, it is difficult to see
supply withdrawals having a strong positive
impact on commodity prices in the short term.
The macroeconomic consensus points to a
moderate improvement in global growth in
2016. Meanwhile, China is expected to further
progress the transition towards its “New
Normal”, resulting in a less commodity-
intensive and slower growth path.
This is a context in which producers at the
lower end of the cost curve and those working
hard to reduce costs and improve productivity
should outperform the broader industry.
Longer-term demand prospects remain
positiveandweexpectthiswillsupporta
recovery out of the current cyclical low phase.
For some commodities, especially those facing
stronger mine depletions, this will be amplified
by recent cutbacks in capital spend.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 7
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Key performance indicators
Our key performance indicators
(KPIs) enable us to measure our
financial and sustainable
development performance. Their
relevance to our strategy and our
performance against these
measures in 2015 are explained on
these pages.
Some KPIs are used as a measure in
the long-term incentive
arrangements for the remuneration
of executives. These are identified
with this symbol:
Indicator
All injury frequency rate (AIFR)
Per 200,000 hours worked
Underlying earnings (a) (b)
US$ millions
Net cash generated from
operating activities (a)
US$ millions
Relevance to strategy
Thesafetyofourpeopleiscoreto
everything we do. Our goal is zero
harm, including, above all, the
elimination of workplace fatalities.
We are committed to reinforcing
our strong safety culture and
improving safety leadership.
This is a key financial performance
indicator used across the Group. It
gives insight to cost management,
production growth and
performance efficiency. We are
focused on reducing operating
costs further to help us deliver
returns to shareholders through
the cycle.
Net cash generated from
operating activities is a
complementary measure
demonstrating conversion of
underlying earnings to cash. It
provides additional insight to how
we are managing costs and
increasing efficiency and
productivity across the business.
See the Remuneration Report
67 Performance
KPI trend data
The Group’s performance against
each KPI, and explanations of the
actions taken by management to
maintain and improve performance
against them, are covered in more
detail in later sections of this Annual
report. Explanations of the actions
taken by management to maintain
and improve performance against
each KPI support the data.
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
0.59
0.65
0.67
0.67
0.44
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
9,269
15,572
10,217
9,305
4,540
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
15,078
9,430
9,383
20,235
14,286
Our AIFR has improved by
34percentoverthelastfive
years. We improved our AIFR by
25 per cent from 2014. However,
we did not meet our goal of zero
fatalities and four people died
while working at Rio Tinto
managed operations in 2015.
Underlying earnings of
US$4.5 billion, were US$4.8 billion
lower than 2014, with cash cost
improvements, higher volumes,
lower energy costs, positive
currency and other movements
(totalling US$2.9 billion) partly
offsetting the US$7.7 billion
(post-tax) impact of lower prices.
The Group generated net cash
from operating activities of
US$9.4billion,aslowertaxespaid
and further improvements in
working capital partly offset the
impact of lower prices.
Notes:
(a) The accounting information in
these charts is extracted from the
financial statements.
(b) Underlying earnings is a key financial
performance indicator which
management uses internally to
assess performance. It is presented
here as a measure of earnings to
provide greater understanding of the
underlying business performance of
the Group’s operations. Items
excluded from net earnings to arrive
at underlying earnings are explained
in note 2 to the 2015 financial
statements. Both net earnings and
underlying earnings deal with
amounts attributable to the owners
of Rio Tinto. However, IFRS requires
that the profit for the year reported
in the income statement should also
include earnings attributable to non-
controlling interests in subsidiaries.
Definition
AIFR is calculated based on
the number of injuries per
200,000 hours worked. This
includes medical treatment
cases, restricted work-day and
lost-day injuries for employees
and contractors.
More Information
Items excluded from net
earnings to arrive at underlying
earnings are explained in note 2
“Operating segments” to the
2015 financial statements.
Net cash generated from
operating activities represents the
cash generated by the Group’s
consolidated operations, after
payment of interest, taxes, and
dividends to non-controlling
interests in subsidiaries.
24 194-195 109
8 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Total shareholder return (TSR)
%
Net debt
(a)
US$ millions
Capital expenditure
(a)
US$ millions
Greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
(2008 being equivalent to 100)
The aim of our strategy is to
maximise shareholder value.
This KPI measures performance in
terms of shareholder wealth
generation. We also monitor
relative TSR performance against
the Euromoney Global Mining
Index of peers and the MSCI
World Index.
Netdebtisameasureofhowwe
are managing our balance sheet
and capital structure. A strong
balance sheet is essential for
withstanding external pressures
and seizing opportunities through
the cycle.
We are committed to a disciplined
and rigorous investment process –
investing capital only in assets
that, after prudent assessment,
offer attractive returns that are
well above our cost of capital.
We are committed to reducing
the energy intensity of our
operations and the carbon
intensity of our energy, including
through the development and
implementation of innovative
technologies. Our GHG
performance is an important
indicator of this commitment and
our ability to manage exposure to
future climate policy and
legislative costs.
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
14.8
(31.2)
2.1
(9.7)
(26.6)
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
18,055
19,192
13,783
8,342
12,495
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
13,001
17,615
4,685
12,573
8,162
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
70
80
90
81.8
83.2
95.9
94.1
78.9
Rio Tinto’s TSR performance from
2011 to 2015 has been impacted
by volatility in global equity
markets, with particular impacts
on the mining sector. Rio Tinto plc
and Rio Tinto Limited share prices
ended significantly lower in 2015.
With a TSR of (26.6) per cent in
2015, the Group outperformed
the Euromoney Global Mining
Index of peers by ten percentage
points but underperformed the
wider market measured by the
MSCI World Index which was up
2.6 per cent in 2015.
Netdebtincreasedfrom
US$12.5 billion to US$13.8 billion,
with free cash flow partly funding
the US$2.0 billion share buy-
backs, which were completed
during 2015.
We have reduced capital
expenditure by US$3.5 billion to
US$4.7 billion in 2015, including
US$2.1 billion of sustaining capital
expenditure, benefiting from the
completion of major projects and
continued capital discipline.
We have exceeded the targeted
ten per cent reduction in GHG
emissions intensity from 2008. At
the end of the target period we
have reduced our total GHG
emissions intensity by 21.1 per
cent between 2008 and 2015.
This is largely a result of the
aluminium smelter divestments
(Ningxia in 2009, Sebree and
Saint Jean in 2013, Alucam in
2014); closures of the Anglesey
smelter in 2009 and the
Lynemouth smelter in 2012; and
commencement of low-intensity
operations (Kitimat smelter and
the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine)
in 2015.
TSR combines share price
appreciation and dividends paid
to show the total return to
the shareholder.
Netdebtiscalculatedas:thenet
borrowings after adjusting for
amounts due to equity accounted
units originally funded by
Rio Tinto, cash and cash
equivalents, other liquid resources
and derivatives related to net debt.
This is further explained in note 24
“Consolidated net debt” to the
2015 financial statements.
Capital expenditure comprises the
cash outflow on purchases of
property, plant and equipment,
and intangible assets.
Our GHG emissions intensity
measure is the change in total
GHG emissions per unit of
commodity production relative to
a base year. Total GHG emissions
are direct emissions, plus
emissions from imports of
electricity and steam, minus
electricity and steam exports
and net carbon credits
purchased from, or sold to,
recognised sources.
93 143 196-197 26
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 9
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group strategy
Challenging market conditions
The mining sector is facing very challenging
market conditions. In response to these
challenges, we have redoubled our focus on
productivity, cost reductions and capital
discipline across our business – squeezing the
maximum possible returns from our existing
businesses and ensuring only the best growth
projects attract fresh capital. While others in
the sector have embarked on similar paths, our
early and decisive action in this area is bearing
fruit. Financial strength has become a key
differentiator in the sector, and our balance
sheet remains strong relative to industry peers.
Looking beyond the current challenges and
uncertainty, the long-term outlook for the
mining sector remains positive. In the period
to 2030, we expect 220 million new urban
residents in China alone. In India and ASEAN,
current trends indicate that around
250 million people will urbanise over that
same period. GDP growth in emerging Asian
economies outside China is expected to
average around five to six per cent per
annum over the next 15 years. These
factors drive demand for the minerals and
metals we produce, as essential ingredients
of modern life.
Consistent strategy underpinned by
six value drivers
A clear and effective strategy is critical to
surviving and outperforming in today’s
challenging market conditions. We remain
convinced that our longstanding and
consistent strategy is the right one: to invest
in and operate long-life, low-cost,
expandable operations in the most attractive
industry sectors.
Six critical drivers underpin our value
proposition, and combine to create a unique
platform for our ongoing success.
1. World-class portfolio
At the heart of Rio Tinto is a portfolio of world-
class assets – from our Pilbara iron ore
business, to our Queensland bauxite ore
reserves, our hydro-powered aluminium
smelters, our global suite of copper mines and
our sector-leading energy, diamonds and
minerals assets. We use a clear strategic
framework to assess our existing assets and
new opportunities – taking into account the
industry attractiveness and the competitive
advantage of each asset, and its capacity to
deliver best-in-class returns.
In 2015, we:
– Announced increases of our Pilbara iron ore,
Diavik diamond, Escondida copper and Hail
Creek coal reserves.
– Achieved first production from the
modernised Kitimat aluminium smelter
in Canada.
– Agreed the sale of our interest in the
Bengalla coal joint venture in Australia
which completed on 1 March 2016.
– Announced that we supported Energy
Resources of Australia’s decision not to
proceed with the Final Feasibility Study of
theRanger3Deepsproject.Wealso
determined that we did not support any
further study or the future developmement
of Ranger 3 Deeps due to the project’s
economic challenges.
– Completedthesaleofourinterestsin
Murowa Diamonds and Sengwa Colliery
in Zimbabwe.
Our six value drivers
A world-class
portfolio
Sustainable
shareholder
returns
Quality growth
Free cash
flow generation
Capital
allocation
discipline
Operating
and commercial
excellence
Balance sheet
strength
10 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 2. Quality growth
We have a high-quality pipeline of both near-
term and longer-dated projects across the
portfolio. By reinforcing capital discipline and
reshapingourprojects,wehaveretained
significant, high-quality growth despite further
reducing our capital expenditure. Our project
pipeline has a compelling internal rate of
return and is expected to deliver strong
volume growth.
In 2015, we:
– Reduced capital expenditure from
US$8.2 billion in 2014 to US$4.7 billion.
– Completed the Pilbara infrastructure
project on time and with the rail and port
components of this project at a capital cost
below initial estimates.
– Approved US$1.9 billion capital expenditure
for the Amrun bauxite project due to
commence production in 2019.
– Signed a US$4.4 billion project financing
agreement for the proposed Oyu Tolgoi
underground expansion.
3. Operating and commercial excellence
The safety of our people is core to everything
we do. A well-run operation is a safe operation.
Our commercial activities ensure we reap the
maximum value from each of our businesses.
Our marketing teams work hand-in-hand with
our operations, so that our resource
management is fully aligned to the market.
We have established a leading position in the
development and use of technology and
innovation – allowing us to deliver more
tonnes, more cheaply and with less risk. As the
industry faces increasingly complex geological,
environmental and cost pressures, technology
will be an increasingly important value driver.
Over the years we have leveraged our
understanding of customer needs to create
new markets for our products, including
champagne and pink diamonds. We deploy
industry-leading capabilities in supply chain
optimisation and a variety of logistics solutions
across the Group – and have in-house centres
of excellence for value-in-use analysis, pricing
and contracting strategies. Together, these
activitiesallowustomanageriskandcapture
value in all market conditions.
In 2015, we:
– Reduced our all injury frequency rate to
0.44 per 200,000 hours worked at the end
of the year, compared with 0.59 in 2014.
Regrettablywedidnotmeetourgoalof
zero fatalities.
– Achieved US$1.3 billion of sustainable
operating cash cost improvements
(including exploration and evaluation
savings), 35 per cent above target.
– Reduced exploration and evaluation spend
by a further US$0.2 billion.
– Streamlined our organisational structure
by reducing from five to four product
groups and reshaping a number of
corporate functions.
4. Balance sheet strength
In a cyclical and capital intensive industry such
as mining, a strong balance sheet is essential in
order to preserve optionality and generate
shareholder value through the cycle. We target
a net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent in order
to maintain our robust balance sheet. This
target positions us favourably to withstand
current industry pressures and seize any
opportunities these market conditions create.
At the end of 2015 our net gearing ratio
was 24 per cent, in the lower half of our
target range.
5. Capital allocation discipline
We adopt a consistent and disciplined approach
to capital allocation. Our first allocation is to
necessary sustaining capital. Next, we fund our
primary contract with our shareholders – the
ordinarydividend.Finally,weassessthebest
use of the remaining capital between
alternatives of compelling growth, debt
reduction and further cash returns to
shareholders.Ateachstage,weapplystringent
governance and assessment criteria to ensure
that every dollar is spent in the right way.
In 2015, we adhered to our disciplined capital
allocation framework, resulting in: sustaining
capitalofUS$2.1billion,dividendsof
US$4.1 billion, compelling growth capital of
US$2.6 billion and a share buy-back of
US$2.0 billion.
6. Free cash flow generation
Overrecentyearswehavemadeongoing
improvements to our business – increasing our
productivity, reducing operating and capital
costs and delivering incremental volume
expansions from high quality projects.
Together with the quality of our asset base,
these actions enhance our capacity to generate
free cash flows.
In 2015, tight management of working capital
generated a cash inflow of US$1.5 billion, aided
by lower commodity prices.
Our 2016 strategic priorities
We will continue to focus on our critical value
drivers in 2016.
As always, we will maintain our relentless
focus on safety, continuing to target fatality
elimination, catastrophic event prevention
and injury reduction.
We will continue to build strong and lasting
relationships with local and regional host
communities and governments, and mitigate
the impacts that our activities and products
have on the environment.
Generating and conserving cash will be a key
business imperative during 2016. We will
continue to ensure our capital is deployed in
the most efficient way, and will continue to
reshape our portfolio to focus on the
highest-returning assets in our preferred
industry sectors.
We will further enhance our portfolio as we
progress a number of key growth projects,
including the Amrun bauxite project and the
preparatory work for the proposed
underground expansion of Oyu Tolgoi.
Importantly, we will deliver measured, value-
adding growth while maintaining our capital
expenditure at around US$4.0 billion in 2016.
Our strong focus on costs will continue in
2016, as we target further operating,
exploration and evaluation cost savings of
US$1.0 billion and continue to reduce our
working capital.
We will continue to leverage our strength in
technology and innovation, and our leading
commercial capabilities, to ensure we remain
the supplier of choice to our customers and
maximise the cash generated from every
business.
Maintaining our balance sheet strength will
remain a core priority. We aim to maintain our
gearing ratio between 20 per cent and
30 per cent.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 11
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Business model
Howwecreatevalue
Rio Tinto owns a global and diversified
portfolio of world-class assets: the result of
investmentdecisionsmadeinlinewithour
longstanding strategy (see page 10).
We create value through the way we find,
develop and operate these assets, how we
market the minerals and metals they
produce, and the legacy we leave at the end
of their lives.
To optimise the value of our portfolio over
time, we pursue opportunities for productivity
improvements, cost reductions and prudent
growth. We are committed to running and
growing our business in ways that are
increasingly safer, smarter and more
sustainable.
Our competitive advantages stem from the
capabilities and behaviours of our people
and the quality of our assets. Coupled with
our framework for managing risk effectively,
these provide strength across the cycle, and
through the challenges that the external
environment presents (see page 14).
Our approach is described in our business
lifecycle below, along with examples
showing some of the ways we differentiate
ourselves.
We look for deposits in our preferred
commodities at both new, “greenfield”
locations and within the orbit of our current
operations. Our in-house exploration team
has a multi-decade track record of discovery
of Tier 1 orebodies in both greenfield and
brownfield settings. To maintain our focus on
targets that are important to Rio Tinto, we run
most exploration programmes ourselves, but
we will partner with others if it gives us
access to skills or opportunities that we do
not possess in-house.
Our exploration teams are often the first
contact with people we may work alongside
for decades, so we explore respectfully and
make sure we engage with communities from
an early stage.
Using our orebody knowledge, we develop our
resources and position our products in the
marketplaceinwaysthataddvalueand
support the Group’s investment decision-
making. Our geological expertise gives us the
confidence to keep looking for the most
elusive discoveries. And we have a strong
tradition of developing innovative
technologies to resolve specific exploration
challenges.
Our approach is to develop orebodies so that
they deliver value over the long term. We
apply rigorous assessment and review
processes that ensure we only approve
investments that offer attractive returns well
above our cost of capital. We assess the
spectrum of risk and how we will manage it
(see page 14).
Once we have confirmed the value of a
resource and received internal and external
approvals to develop it, the project moves
into the implementation phase and is handed
to the product group to manage. The product
groups work in partnership with Rio Tinto
Projects – part of the Technology &
Innovation group
(see page 41).
As we develop an operation, we plan the most
efficient configuration for mining the orebody
andgettingtheproductstomarket.Wework
closely with our customers to create demand
that maximises the value of the deposit over
its lifetime. We also work in partnership with
host governments and communities,
identifying ways in which we can deliver
mutual benefits from the development of our
operations.
We create value by operating our assets
safely and efficiently, and by building on our
leadership position in low-cost operations.
With a global operating model, we can apply
standard processes and systems across the
Group in areas such as health, safety,
environment and communities, procurement,
operations and maintenance. This extends
the life of our equipment and optimises the
extraction of ore, meaning higher production,
lower costs and maximised value. Our
operations bring benefit to local economies by
providing employment opportunities,
procurement, and the transparent payment of
tax and royalties.
Our commitment to technology and
innovation also sets Rio Tinto apart. It enables
us to take advantage of opportunities that
may not be available to others, improves our
productivity and helps us tailor our products
to customer needs. We can use our network
of partnerships with academia, technology
suppliers and other experts to tap into
knowledge and technical prowess that
augment our own capabilities.
Differentiation in action: Differentiation in action: Differentiation in action:
Globally, we have offered to analyse rock
samples from prospective joint venture
partners using breakthrough mineralogical
technology. By detecting and analysing
“indicator minerals” in samples, this
technology can identify and prioritise targets
on exploration sites, potentially with great
precision. This approach supports our
commitment to boost exploration activity and
potentially allows us to find new exploration
partners.
In December 2015 the Rio Tinto board
approved investment of US$1.9 billion in the
Amrun project in Australia, one of the highest
quality bauxite projects in the world. Amrun
involves the construction of a bauxite mine
and associated processing and port facilities
ontheCapeYorkPeninsulainnorth
Queensland.Aswellasbeingalong-life,low-
cost, expandable asset, Amrun will provide
jobs and strengthen the region’s economy for
many decades.
RioTinto’sironorebusinessisaleaderin
automated mining technologies. In the
Pilbara, our fleet of 71 autonomous haulage
trucks has cut load and haul operating costs
by 13 per cent and increased effective
utilisation by up to 14 per cent. At the West
Angelas mine, fully autonomous drilling has
raised productivity, cut cost, and improved
safety and ore recovery.
12 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Delivering value for our
stakeholders
Shareholders
Our primary focus is on delivering shareholder
returnsthroughthecycle.Wedothisby
balancing disciplined investment with prudent
management of our balance sheet and
shareholderreturns–asshowninour
approach to capital allocation (see page 30).
Through our global footprint and diverse
portfolio, we are also able to create value for
our other stakeholders in a variety of ways.
Customers
We supply our customers with the right
products at the right time, so they can add
value by turning them into the end products
that society needs to sustain and enhance
modern life.
Communities
Ouroperationscreatejobsforlocal
communities and can open up new markets for
local suppliers. Communities often benefit
fromtheinfrastructureweputinplaceand
once our operations are closed, we restore the
sites – for instance for community use, new
industry, or back to native vegetation.
Our people
We invest in our people throughout their
careers, offering diverse employment
prospects, opportunities for development, and
competitive rewards and benefits that have a
clear link to performance.
Governments
We are often a major economic contributor
to the local, state and national jurisdictions in
whichweoperate.Ourtaxandsovereign
equity contributions enable governments
to develop and maintain public works, services
and institutions. We help create growth
thatenduresfarbeyondtheactivelifeof
our operations.
Suppliers
By seeking the right balance of global, national
and local supply capability, and supporting
local supplier development wherever possible,
we drive value for our shareholders and deliver
economic benefits for the communities in
which we operate.
Our business is based on the supply of high-
quality products that have been developed to
meet our customers’ needs. The minerals and
metals we supply – mostly to industrial
companies that process them further – are the
building blocks of value-added goods. Our
diverse portfolio allows us to respond to
demand throughout countries’ economic
development cycles, including in infrastructure,
transport, machinery, energy and consumer
goods.
Rio Tinto’s marketing teams work with our
operations to align our resource management
with market needs and to make sure we
improve our products and services in a way that
maximises value to customers. What we learn
from our markets and customers helps us to
refine our investment decisions. In many cases
we deliver products ourselves, with logistics
capabilities that include our own networks of
rail, ports and ships.
Closure planning is part of every asset’s life
cycle, from the earliest stages of
development. We aim to progressively
rehabilitate as much land as possible before
closure. And when a resource reaches the
end of its life, we seek to minimise its
financial, social and environmental impact
by finding sustainable and beneficial future
land uses. We identify post-closure options
that take into account stakeholders’
concerns and priorities.
Differentiation in action: Differentiation in action:
Our Diamonds & Minerals business takes a
“market-to-mine” approach, working closely
with customers to understand their needs,
provide solutions to their problems and
maximise the value we achieve for our products.
A partnership between Rio Tinto Minerals and
Australia’s University of Wollongong is seeking
to find new energy-related applications for
boron – found in our borate minerals, such as in
hydrogen storage and advanced batteries.
Working in land management and
rehabilitation at the Weipa bauxite mine in
Australia provides Indigenous employees
with professional opportunities that align
closely with their cultural connection to the
land.Someofthisworkisdoneintheon-site
nursery, where seedlings are nurtured
before being planted out to restore the
forest canopy, and benefits from our
Indigenous employees’ unique
understanding of the geography and climate.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 13
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Risk management
Rio Tinto is exposed to a variety of risks that
can have financial, operational and compliance
impacts on our business performance,
reputation and licence to operate. The board
recognises that creating shareholder returns is
the reward for taking and accepting risk. The
effective management of risk is therefore
critical to supporting the delivery of the
Group’s strategic objectives.
Risk management framework
Rio Tinto’s risk management framework
reflects our belief that managing risk
effectively is an integral part of how the Group
creates value, and fundamental to the Group’s
business success. The responsibility for
identifying and managing risks lies with all of
Rio Tinto’s managers and business leaders.
They operate within the Group-wide framework
to manage risks within understood thresholds.
The framework includes clearly defined
oversight responsibilities for the board and the
Executive Committee, who are supported by
the Risk Management Committee (an executive
management committee chaired by the chief
executive) and central support functions
including Group Risk and Group Audit and
Assurance, to enable effective risk
identification, evaluation and management
across Rio Tinto.
This approach reflects a “three lines of
defence” model for the management of risks
and controls:
– First line of defence: ownership of risk by
the operations.
– Second line of defence: control of risk by
central support functions and the Risk
Management Committee.
– Third line of defence: assurance of systems of
internal control by Group Audit & Assurance.
The key risk management responsibilities
throughout the Group are outlined below.
Approach
The Group’s approach to risk management,
underpinned by the Risk policy and standard, is
aimed at embedding a risk-aware culture in all
decision-making, and a commitment to
managing risk in a proactive and effective
manner. This includes the early identification
and evaluation of risks, the management and
mitigation of risks before they materialise, and
dealing with them effectively in the event they
do materialise. Accountability for risk
management is clear throughout the Group and
isakeyperformanceareaoflinemanagers.
To support risk understanding and
management at all levels, the Group Risk
function provides the necessary infrastructure
to support the management and reporting of
material risks within the Group, and escalates
key issues through the management team and
ultimately to the board where appropriate.
Group Risk also supports the Risk Management
Committee in its review of risk.
Product groups
and central
functions,
executive / audit
forums
Board – Determine the nature and extent of risk that is acceptable in pursuit of strategic objectives
– Confirm that management’s risk thresholds reflect the level of risk the board is willing to
 accept in pursuit of strategic objectives
– Provide oversight across the risk management process
Board committees
Group Audit
& Assurance
Executive
Committee
Risk Management
Committee
Group Risk
Other central
support functions
and management
committees 
Product groups
and business units
Risk managers
and Risk Forum
– Identify, assess and manage risks in operations and projects, utilising risk registers and our 
 Group-wide risk data system: RioRisk
– The Audit Committee monitors and reviews at least annually the maturity and effectiveness of 
    management processes and controls designed to identify, assess, monitor and manage risk 
– The Audit and Sustainability Committees review periodic reports from management: 
identifying the Group’s material business risks within the committees’ scope; and the risk 
    management strategies and controls applied 
– Provide reasonable assurance that the systems of risk management, internal control and
    governance are adequate and effective 
– Set risk strategy and assess risks inherent in key investments and in strategic, 
– Oversee the risk management framework to facilitate the identification of significant risks
 business or annual plans
 to Group-level objectives and ensure effective risk management processes are in place
– Provide targeted expertise and support to risk owners
– Develop and maintain specific controls, including policies, standards and procedures,
 to support the effective management of material Group-level risk within the agreed thresholds
– Monitor material risks and track activities to manage risk within their business activities, 
 and escalate where appropriate
– Consider risk and uncertainty in strategic and business planning and capital allocation proposals
– Provide technical expertise and risk management for line leaders and the product group 
 executive management teams
– The Risk Forum (risk managers across the Group) supports alignment, consistency and 
    continuous improvement of risk management
 First line
– Provide co-ordination and support of Group-level risk management activity and reporting 
– Embed risk management into core business processes, such as planning and capital allocation
– Build risk management capability and a risk culture throughout the Group 
– Assure first line of defence compliance with controls
Oversight
 Third
 line
 Second line
Risk appetite and tolerances; strategic objectives; accountability to manage, audit and assurance 
Escalation as appropriate, transparency and formal reporting
Risk management framework
14 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report The process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the material business risks is designed
to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and where
appropriate accept risk to generate returns.
Certain risks, for example natural disasters,
cannot be managed using internal controls. Such
major risks are transferred to third parties in the
international insurance markets, to the extent
considered appropriate or possible.
The Group has material investments in a number
of jointly controlled entities. Where Rio Tinto does
not have managerial control, it is not always able
to ensure that management will comply with
Rio Tinto standards.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties outlined in
this section reflect the risks that could materially
affect Rio Tinto or its ability to meet its strategic
objectives, either directly or by triggering a
succession of events that in aggregate become
material to the Group. Rio Tinto’s business units
and functions assess the potential economic and
non-economic consequences of their respective
risks using the framework defined by the Group’s
Risk policy and standard. Once identified, each
principal risk or uncertainty is reviewed and
monitored by the relevant internal experts and by
the Risk Management Committee, the relevant
board committees and the board.
There may be additional risks unknown to
Rio Tinto and other risks currently not believed to
be material which could turn out to be material. In
previous years the Group has reported risks
related to climate change, community disputes,
discount rates, short-term cash generation
initiatives, technology and innovation, supply
chain and third party exposure, industrial
relations, availability of skilled resources, and
closure. The Group remains exposed to these
risks but does not consider them to be principal
risks currently (as defined below). Therefore they
are not discussed in detail in this section.
A number of them are, however, referred to in the
sustainable development section of this Annual
report on pages 22 to 28.
The principal risks and uncertainties listed in
this section may materialise individually,
simultaneously or in combination and could
significantly threaten the Group in the
following respects:
Business model
The basis on which the Group generates or
preserves value over the longer term, given its
market positioning as a global diversified
mining and processing business.
Future performance
The Group’s ability to deliver its financial plan
in the short to medium term.
Solvency
The Group’s ability to maintain an appropriate
capital structure and to meet its financial
liabilities in full.
Liquidity
The Group’s ability to meet its financial
liabilities as they fall due.
Health, safety, environment and communities
(HSEC)
The Group’s ability to send our employees
and contractors home safe and healthy every
day and work with our communities and
partners to achieve our sustainable
development goals.
Group reputation
The Group’s ability to maintain investor
confidence and our social licence to operate.
Robust assessment
The board confirms that, with the assistance
of management, it has carried out a robust
assessment of the principal risks of the Group
as detailed below (including those that would
threatenthebusinessmodel,future
performance, solvency or liquidity) and has
also tested the financial plans of the Group for
each of these principal risks, and for a series
ofseverebutplausiblescenarios,madeupof
the concurrence or close sequence of a
number of principal and material risks.
Longer-term viability statement
Current business planning processes within
Rio Tinto require the preparation of detailed
financial plans over a three-year time
horizon. The Group’s strategy is developed,
and capital investment decisions are made,
based on an assessment of cash flows over a
multi-decade horizon, with financial
investment capacity regularly tested to
ensure capital commitments can be funded
in line with the Group’s capital allocation
model. This multi-year planning approach
reflects our business model of investing in,
and operating, long-life mining assets,
whose outputs we sell into commodity
markets over which we have limited
influence.
The planning process requires modelling
under a series of macroeconomic scenarios
and assumptions of both internal and
external parameters. Key assumptions
include: projections of economic growth,
and thus commodity demand in major
markets, primarily China; commodity prices
and exchange rates, often correlated; cost
and supply parameters for major inputs
such as labour and fuel; and a series of
assumptions around the schedule and cost
of implementation of organic and inorganic
growth programmes.
Reflecting the speed and degree of change
possible in a number of these parameters,
such as Chinese demand, commodity
prices, and exchange rates, Rio Tinto has
deemed a three-year period of assessment
appropriate for the long-term viability
statement, consistent with the Group’s
detailed planning horizon.
Additional robust stress-testing has been
undertaken during the past year, utilising
the models used for business planning, to
further test and confirm the long-term
viability of the Group, beyond commodity
price and exchange rate movements.
Production and social licence to operate
related assumptions were also stressed,
individually and collectively, to levels
considered severe but plausible and well
beyond those expected in the normal
course of business.
The viability of the Group under these
scenarios remained sound with the use of
a suite of management actions available
to redress the situation, including accessing
lines of credit, changing capital allocation
levers, and, if necessary, selling
(down) assets.
Therefore, taking into account the Group’s
current position and principal risks, the
directors have assessed the prospects of
theGroup,overthenextthreeyears,and
have a reasonable expectation that the
Group will be able to continue in operation
and meet its liabilities as they fall due
over that period.
It is impossible to foresee all risks, and the
combinations in which they could manifest,
and there may be risks that currently or
individually do not appear material that
could turn out to be material, particularly if
occurring in close sequence.
None None
None None None
Increasing
risk
External Internal Internal and external
Decreasing
risk
No change
in risk
Commodity prices
China development
pathway
Strategic partnerships 
Jurisdictional risk 
Capital project development 
Execution of acquisitions
and divestments
Business misconduct
HSEC 
Liquidity
Business interruption
Exploration and resources
Principal risks and uncertainties at a glance (2015 trend)
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 15
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties in this section have been
categorised into Financial risks (Market, Financial and Strategic);
Operational risks (HSEC, Resources, Operations, Projects and People);
and Compliance risks (Stakeholder, Governance).
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection
with any forward-looking statements in this Annual report and the
cautionary statement on the inside front cover.
Financial risks
Inherent risk and uncertainty 2015
trend
Potential impact on viability,
HSEC and reputation
Potential upside impact 
(opportunities)
Market risks:
Rio Tinto operates in global markets and accepts the impact of exchange rate movements
and market-driven prices for our commodities, seeking premiums where possible.
Rio Tinto maintains a strong blance sheet and liquidity position to preserve financial
flexibility through the cycle.
Commodity prices, driven by demand and 
supply for the Group’s products, vary 
outside of expectations over time. 
Exchange rate variations and geopolitical 
issues may offset or exacerbate this risk.
External risk
Future performance
Solvency
Liquidity
Business model
A rise in commodity prices, or favourable 
exchange rate movement, allows the Group to 
pursue strategic capital expansions and/or  
increase returns to shareholders.
China's development pathway could 
impact demand for the Group's  products 
outside of expectations.
External risk
Future performance
Business model
Strong growth, positive policy decisions and 
reforms drive demand for commodities, 
resulting in rising prices which enable capital 
expansion and increased shareholder returns in 
the short to medium term.
Financial risks:
External events and internal discipline may 
impact Group liquidity.
External risk
Internal risk
Liquidity
Group reputation
Solvency
Future performance
Favourable market conditions and strong 
internal discipline could increase Group 
liquidity and/or balance sheet strength and 
allow it to pursue investment opportunities 
and enhance returns to shareholders.
16 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Potential downside impact 
(threats)
Mitigating actions include:
Falling commodity prices, or adverse exchange rate 
movements, reduce cash flow, limiting profitability
and dividend payments. These may trigger 
impairments and/or impact rating agency metrics. 
fall in demand for the Group's products, and 
Extended subdued prices may reflect a longer-term
consequent reduced revenue streams may limit 
investment opportunities.
–
price cycle.
Pursue low cost production, allowing profitable supply throughout the commodity
– Maintain a diverse portfolio of commodities across a number of geographies. 
– Maintain global portfolio of customers and contracts with key customers.
– Maintain a strong balance sheet.
– Monitor multiple leading indicators and undertake detailed industry analysis to 
develop more accurate assumptions in our commodity price and exchange rate 
forecasting used for capital allocation and planning process.
– Comply with the Group’s Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the fundamental 
principles that govern the Group’s financial risk management practices.
An economic slowdown in China, and/or a material 
change in policy, results in a slowdown in demand 
and reduced investment opportunities.
planned expenditure, such as capital growth and/
The Group’s ability to raise sufficient funds for
to weather a major economic downturn could be 
or mergers and acquisitions, as well as the ability
compromised by a weak balance sheet and/or 
inadequate access to liquidity.
– Comply with the Group’s Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the fundamental 
principles that govern the Group’s financial risk management practices.
–
commensurate with a strong investment-grade credit rating.
Target a net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent and other financial metrics
–
sensitivity analysis tools to actively monitor, determine and enable access to the 
Manage the liquidity and financing structure of the Group using forecasts and
appropriate level, sources and types of financing required.
Subject funds invested by the Group to credit limits and maturity profiles based on
board-approved frameworks, to promote diversification and maintain appropriate liquidity.
–
– Embed Finance teams within the business support management and develop accurate 
financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Report financial performance monthly to senior management and the board.
Seek board approval of the financial strategy, long-term planning and
case flow forecasting.
–
–
F
flow generation
ree cash
F
flow generation
ree cash
Value drivers
Balance sheet
strength
World-class
portfolio 
Quality
growth
Value drivers
Balance sheet
strength
Operating and
commercial excellence
Capital allocation
discipline
World-class
portfolio 
Quality
growth
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 17
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties
continued
Financial risks continued
Operational risks
Inherent risk and uncertainty 2015
trend
Potential impact on viability,
HSEC and reputation
Potential upside impact 
(opportunities)
HSEC risks: 
to operate and ensure our employees and contractors go home safe and healthy. 
Our operations and projects are inherently 
hazardous with the potential to cause 
illness or injury, damage to the 
environment, disruption to a community or 
a threat to personal security.
Internal risk
HSEC
Group reputation
Delivering leading health, safety, 
environment and communities 
performance is essential to our business 
success. Meeting our commitments in 
these areas contributes to sustainable 
development and underpins our continued 
access to resources, capital and a diverse 
workforce to sustain the organisation.
Good performance in legacy management 
(of closed sites) and closure can enhance our 
reputation and enable us to maintain access 
to land, resources, people and capital, so we 
can continue to establish new projects with 
the support of local communities.
Resources risks: 
underpinning our operations and projects. 
The success of the Group’s exploration 
activity may vary. In addition, estimates of 
ore reserves are based on uncertain 
assumptions that, if changed, could result 
in the need to restate ore reserves.
External risk
Internal risk
Future performance
Group reputation
Business model
The discovery of a new orebody can 
significantly improve future growth options.
The volume of ore is based on the available 
geological and technical information which is 
by its nature, incomplete. As new information 
comes to light the economic viability of some 
ore reserves can change and thus the 
reserves can be restated upwards. As a result,
projects may be more successful and of 
longer duration than initially anticipated.
Inherent risk and uncertainty 2015
trend
Potential impact on viability,
HSEC and reputation
Potential upside impact 
(opportunities)
Strategic risks:
(organic and inorganic growth projects or returns to shareholders).
Rio Tinto enforces disciplined capital allocation to the best returning opportunities
Rio Tinto’s operations are inherently dangerous. We lead responsibly to preserve our social licence
Rio Tinto invests materially to accurately identify new deposits and develop orebody knowledge,
by successfully executing divestments and 
Rio Tinto’s ability to secure planned value
acquisitions may vary.
Internal risk
Future performance
Solvency
Business model
Group reputation
Liquidity
Proceeds realised from divested assets are 
greater than planned, allowing more capital to 
be redeployed into higher returning or more 
productive uses. The Group is successful in 
and/or future growth optionality, above that 
acquiring business that provide case flow
anticipated at the time of acquisition.
The Group’s ability to develop new projects 
successfully may vary. 
Internal risk
Solvency
HSEC
Group reputation
Future performance
An ability to develop projects on time and  
within budget enhances social licence to 
operate and investor confidence.
18 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Potential downside impact 
(threats)
Mitigating actions include:
Failure to manage our health, safety, environment 
or community risks, could result in a catastrophic 
event or other long-term damage which could in 
turn harm the Group’s social licence to operate.
Recognised hazards include, among others, 
underground operations, aviation, pit slope 
instability, tailings facilities, vector-borne and 
pandemic disease, chemicals, gases, vehicles and 
machinery, extreme natural environments, 
endangered flora or fauna, areas of cultural
heritage significance, water supply stress and
climate change.
– Continue focus on HSEC as a core priority at all operations, and projects, overseen 
Clearly define and ensure compliance with Group HSEC strategy, policy and
by the Sustainability Committee.
–
performance standards.
– Regularly review and audit HSEC processes and controls to promote and improve 
effectiveness.
– Monitor HSEC performance measurement metrics at the Group level monthly.
– Report, investigate and share learnings from HSEC incidents.
– Build safety targets into personal performance metrics to incentivise safe behaviour 
and effective risk management (see Remuneration Implementation Report).
–
establishment of appropriate social performance targets.
Develop mutually beneficial partnerships with local communities and the
– Report annually on performance on greenhouse gas emissions, water, land use and 
rehabilitation, among others.
– Focus on fatality elimination through implementation of a programme to verify safety 
risk controls.
A failure to discover new orebodies could 
undermine future growth prospects.
The risk that new information comes to light or 
operating conditions change means that the 
economic viability of some ore reserves can 
change and thus the reserves need to be restated 
downwards. As a result, projects may be 
initially anticipated, and/or the asset value 
less successful and of shorter duration than
may be impaired.
– Comply with the Group’s resources and reserves standard.
– Recruit and retain skilled and experienced personnel.
– Provide stable funding for exploration activities.
– Prioritise the exploration portfolio continuously.
– Utilise new technologies where appropriate.
– Develop and leverage third-party partnerships.
Operating and
commercial excellence
Value drivers
Value drivers
F
flow generation
ree cash Capital allocation
discipline
World-class
portfolio 
Quality
growth
Potential downside impact 
(threats)
Mitigating actions include:
Divestment and acquisition activity incurs 
transaction costs that cannot be recouped, or 
result in value destruction by realising less than 
planned value for divestments or paying more than 
fair value for acquisitions. This could result in 
unforeseen pressure on the Group’s cash position 
or reduce the Group’s ability to expand operations. 
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, 
omissions or liabilities of assets it has acquired 
that were unforeseen or greater than anticipated 
at the time of acquisition. The Group may also face 
liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to 
honour commitments or the Group agrees to retain 
certain liabilities.
– Complete detailed, independent due diligence on all material potential divestments 
and acquisitions, including technical review, commercial review and functional sign 
offs, before consideration by the Investment Committee and board where appropriate.
– Resource Business Development team appropriately, supported by external 
specialists as required.
– Involve business unit leaders early in process to recognise integration planning and 
synergies, or separation threats and opportunities.
– Undertake post-investment reviews on divestments and acquisitions, to identify key 
learnings to  embed into future initiatives.
– Consistently approach development of large-scale capital projects, through a 
specialised projects division.
– Follow rigorous project approval and stage-gating process, including monitoring and 
status evaluation, as articulated in Project evaluation standard and guidance.
A delay or overrun in the project schedule could 
negatively impact the Group’s profitability, cash
flows, asset carrying values, growth aspirations
and relationships with key stakeholders.
Value drivers
Balance sheet
strength
Operating and
commercial excellence
Capital allocation
discipline
World-class
portfolio 
Quality
growth
F
flow generation
ree cash
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 19
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties
continued
20 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 2015 Annual report riotinto.com 21
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development
Rio Tinto’s vision is to be a company that is
admired and respected for delivering superior
business value as the industry’s trusted
partner. Our contribution to sustainable
development is an essential part of this vision.
Ithelpsustomanagerisk,buildlong-term
value for all of our stakeholders, and maintain
our licence to operate.
We face a complex mix of challenges: global
and local issues that include regional
development, climate change and water. Our
success depends on dealing with the risks
they present.
Oursitesmustmeetperformancestandards
for health, safety, environment, community
and social performance, and closure. These
standards ensure that we meet and in many
cases go beyond our statutory and regulatory
requirements. They are backed by systems
and processes, which assist management to
achieve outcomes that are socially and
environmentally sustainable.
The Sustainability Committee helps ensure
consistently high standards of corporate
governance: further information on this
committee can be found on page 60 and page 61
oftheDirectors’report.
We measure ourselves against other leading
companies both within and outside our sector.
Overmanyyearswehaveplayedakeyrolein
setting sustainability standards in the mining and
metals sector, through organisations such as the
International Council on Mining and Metals, and
national bodies.
Materiality
Materiality has become the guiding principle
for sustainability reporting. Our annual
materiality assessment focuses our report on
the issues that matter the most to our
stakeholders and to our business.
Our process was developed in line with the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidance on
materiality and completeness
(globalreporting.org). This guidance specifies
that sustainable development reporting
should cover topics and indicators that
“reflect the organisation’s significant
economic, environmental and social impacts”
or that “substantively influence the
assessments and decisions of stakeholders”.
It involves identifying and prioritising issues
affecting our business and stakeholders over
the next three years, taking internal and
external perspectives into account.
In 2015 we consulted with investors,
suppliers, industry groups, NGOs and peer
companies, and used media reviews to assign
external ratings for each issue.
We create a materiality matrix, which plots
external stakeholders’ level of concern
against the current or potential impact on our
business. Each issue is given a rating of “low”,
“medium” or “high”, from both internal and
external perspectives. An impact can be either
positive or negative.
Having determined the topics for our 2015
materiality matrix, we reviewed their validity
and relative importance with internal experts
from each of our sustainability focus areas.
The Sustainability Committee then reviewed
and approved the results of this assessment.
Issues that are highly material to both our
external and internal stakeholders and at
least high-to-medium are reported in this
section of our Annual report. Those of
medium-to-high importance are reported in
the full Sustainable development report, and
will continue to be published on our website.
Performance overview
Tragically, four colleagues lost their lives
while working at our managed operations in
2015. The elimination of workplace fatalities is
a high priority focus area for us and the work
we are undertaking in this regard is covered in
our safety section on page 24. It will augment
the ongoing work which led to improvements
during the year in reducing injuries. At 0.44,
our all injury frequency rate (AIFR) this year
was the lowest in our company history, as was
thelosttimeinjuryrateof0.25.Theseare
significant achievements and illustrate the
strength of our safety processes and culture.
As a result of changing our noise-induced
hearing loss reporting criteria, along with an
increased focus on reporting health incidents,
we saw the rate of new cases of occupational
illness increase by 78 per cent, missing our
target of a year-on-year improvement.
Although we did not meet our diversity goal
for women to represent 20 per cent of senior
management by 2015, at 18.1 per cent, the
2.6 percentage point improvement from 2014
givesusconfidenceweareheadinginthe
right direction.
In 2015 we adopted a definition of “significant
environmental incidents
(1)
”. This provides an
objective measurement of incidents that
distinguishes those which could have a major
or catastrophic actual impact from lower level
incidents. In accordance with this we reported
no significant environmental incidents. In
2014 we reported 12 environmental incidents.
However, only one incident with a major or
catastrophic actual impact would have been
reported in 2014 when restated in accordance
with the new definition of “significant
environmental incidents”.
Further information on the Group’s
environmental regulation, including incidents
andfines,islocatedintheDirectors’reporton
page 49.
(1) See riotinto.com/sd2015/glossary
Low
Low
Level of concern to stakeholders
Issues addressed
through direct
communications,
not reported in
normal channels
Issues reported
in the sustainable
development
website 
Material issues
reported in the
Annual report 
Current or potential impact on our business
High
High
Medium
Medium
22 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Performance progress in 2015 included:
– Refreshing The way we work, our global
code of business conduct, to ensure it is
relevant to our employees, the business
andtherisksweface.
– A 25 per cent reduction in AIFR compared
with 2014.
– A 32 per cent reduction in our lost time
injury frequency rate (LTIFR) compared
with 2014.
– Receiving the US National Mining
Association’s Sentinels of Safety Award at
Rio Tinto Kennecott for their outstanding
safety performance in 2014 (large metal/
non-metal mill category).
– Commencing the independent
epidemiological study of the workforce
at Rössing Uranium Limited.
– A 21.1 per cent reduction in our greenhouse
gas emissions intensity from 2008.
– Updating all our Health, Safety,
Environment & Communities (HSEC)
and Closure standards.
– Beating our 2015 target (40 per cent)
of graduate gender diversity intake
(with 43 per cent female).
– Beating our 2015 target (15 per cent)
of intake to be nationals from regions
where we are developing new businesses
(at 33.3 per cent).
– Receiving the American Exploration and
Mining Association’s (AEMA)
Environmental Excellence Award for our
clean-up of the Holden Mine site.
– Receiving the Indonesian Government’s
“Caring Company Forest Reclamation”
award for rehabilitation at the Kelian Mine.
– Conducting a Group level security and
human rights audit review.
– Retaining and improving our listing as a
leading company on the FTSE4Good and
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, which
investors use to monitor businesses’
sustainability performance.
Our priorities for 2016 are to:
– Fully implement the critical risk
management programme described in
the safety section on page 24.
– Commence implementation of the updated
Process safety standard to improve the
effectiveness and rigour in the
management of process safety risks.
– Implement the updated management of
tailings and water storage facilities standard.
– Improve our risk-based and locally relevant
management of material health risks.
– Improve performance on diversity targets and
focus on creating a more inclusive workplace.
– Advance our talent pipeline to ensure a
robust organisation for the future.
– Implement the new global Communities
and Social Performance target.
– Implement the new greenhouse gas
emissions intensity target.
– Implement the new closure controls, which
include the refreshed standard
and procedures.
– Continue to work with PT Freeport
Indonesia on the implementation of a
fatality prevention programme at the
Grasberg joint venture in Indonesia.
– Further strengthen procedures to identify
and manage human rights risks in our
supply chain.
Goals and targets
To drive continuous improvement, we have set Group targets for a range of sustainability metrics. These help us to improve performance and
manage risk. Further information on the risk framework Rio Tinto applies to identify these metrics can be found on pages 14 to 21.
Targets Outcomes in 2015
Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of workplace
fatalities.
4 fatalities at managed operations in 2015.
Performance against this goal is measured by the number of fatalities
and a year-on-year improvement in our all injury frequency rate (AIFR)
per 200,000 hours worked.
25 per cent reduction in our AIFR compared with 2014.
A year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational
illness per 10,000 employees annually.
78 per cent increase in the rate of new cases of occupational illness
compared with 2014, due primarily to the change in criteria for
noise-induced hearing loss consistent with US Occupational Safety
and Health Administration (OSHA) standards.
All managed operations will have reviewed – and increased their focus
on managing – their health risks, through implementation of critical
control management plans (CCMPs) to address their specific material
health risks, by the end of 2015
(a)
.
96 per cent of managed operations have identified their critical health risks
and implemented CCMPs with the remainder on track to do so in 2016.
Ten per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity
between 2008 and 2015
(a)
.
We exceeded our target with 21.1 per cent reduction in our total
greenhouse gas emissions intensity compared with 2008.
All managed operations with material water risk will have achieved
their approved local water performance targets by 2018.
60 per cent of managed operations with a material water risk are on track
to meet their approved local water performance targets.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements that
represent the diversity of our surrounding communities
(a)
.
We are targeting:
– Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management by
2015. – Women represented 18.1 per cent of our senior management in 2015.
– Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake. – Women represented 43 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
– 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from
regions where we are developing new businesses.
– 33.3 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake were nationals from regions
where we are developing new businesses.
By 2015, all operations have in place locally appropriate, publicly
reported social performance indicators that demonstrate a positive
contribution to the economic development of the communities and
regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development
Goals
(a)
.
We met our target in 2014, ahead of schedule, and now all operations have
locally appropriate, publicly reported indicators in place.
(a) The target period is complete.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 23
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development
continued
Performance data 2011-2015
(a)
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Social
Fatalities at managed operations from safety incidents 4 2326
Fatalities at managed operations from health incidents – –– 1–
All injury frequency rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.44 0.59 0.65 0.67 0.67
Number of lost time injuries 220 381 500 535 470
Lost time injury frequency rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.25 0.37 0.42 0.37 0.37
New cases of occupational illness (per 10,000 employees) 30 17* 16 15 13
Employees (number)
(b)
55,000 60,000 66,000 71,000 68,000
Environment
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (indexed relative to 2008) 78.9 81.8* 83.2 94.1 95.9
Total energy use (petajoules) 433 450 484 502 516
Freshwater used (billion litres) 456 465 436 446 465
Land footprint – disturbed (square kilometres) 3,629 3,592 3,556 3,530 3,485
Land footprint – rehabilitated (square kilometres) 533 502 472 446 422
Direct economic contribution
Value add (US$ million)
(c)(d)
18,888 29,178 31,818 26,195 38,193
Payments to suppliers (US$ million)
(c)
17,896 21,370 26,054 30,271 28,444
Community contributions (US$ million) 184 264* 332* 291 294
* Numbers restated from those originally published to ensure comparability over time.
(a) Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification processes detect material errors, or if changes are required to ensure comparability over time. Wherever possible, data for
operations acquired prior to 1 October of the reporting period are included. Divested operations are included in data collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
(b) These figures include the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates (rounded to the nearest thousand).
(c) These figures include the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates.
(d) Value add is the sum of labour, payments to governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
Performance data
Our sustainability performance data are reported
for calendar years and, unless stated otherwise,
represent 100 per cent of the parameters at each
managed operation, even though Rio Tinto may
have only partial ownership.
We have incorporated the requirements of the
ten sustainable development principles of the
International Council on Mining and Metals
(ICMM) and the mandatory requirements set
out in ICMM Position statements into our own
policies, strategies and standards, and report in
linewiththeGRIguidelines.Thisisthefirst
year that we will report in accordance with
GRI G4 guidelines.
Further information on our data definitions, our
GRI G4 report and our alignment with the ICMM
sustainable development principles and
supporting position statements can be found
at: riotinto.com/sd2015
Safety
We strive to develop a culture in which
everyone believes all incidents are preventable.
Our safety strategy focuses on three core
areas: fatality elimination, catastrophic event
prevention and injury reduction. By identifying
and controlling critical risks, we believe we can
achieve our vision of an injury and illness-free
workplace where everyone goes home safe and
healthy each day.
Strong and engaged leadership is essential to
ourapproach.Weexpectourleaderstobe
visible and passionate champions for safety.
They accept accountability for the safety of
everyone working in their teams and
consistently set high standards through their
behaviour. We are building a positive safety
culture, where everyone contributes to
improving our safety performance and is
confident to stop work if necessary to ensure it
is safe.
Our focus on critical risk management (CRM) is
part of a broader approach at Rio Tinto to
prevent fatalities. It is based on the successful
approach implemented at the Escondida copper
mine, in which we are a joint venture partner. To
eliminate workplace fatalities, CRM ensures that
critical controls are well designed, understood,
in place and working before a job starts. The
process uses visual icons for easy identification,
together with management processes, to verify
that controls for these risks are in place and are
effective. CRM is aligned with our safety
standards, which were updated in 2015 to
ensure they cover all critical risks and reflect
current best practice. CRM is complemented by
behavioural safety tools such as safety
interactions, pre-start meetings, incident
investigations and leadership in the field.
Our all injury frequency rate (AIFR), which
includes data for employees and contractors, was
0.44 at the end of 2015. Over the last five years,
we have reduced our AIFR by 34 per cent. Our
lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), was
0.25 per 200,000 hours worked in 2015.
Despite having a good year in terms of injury
frequency rate, we have not reached our target
of zero fatalities. Four people lost their lives
while working at Rio Tinto managed operations
in 2015. Todson Rafaralahiniriko drowned when
his excavator became submerged in a tailings
pond due to slope failure at QIT Madagascar
Minerals. Themba Thusi was killed due to a
vehicle roll-over incident at Zululand
Anthracite Colliery in South Africa. Luc Trudel
died due to an equipment incident during
maintenance activities at Rio Tinto Fer et
Titane in Canada. Mohamed Lamine Cherif
drowned when his vehicle became submerged
due to a bridge collapse on a public road near
the Simandou project in Guinea. These are
tragic events that affect families, friends and
colleagues. We provide support and
counselling to those who have lost loved ones
and ensure we identify and share the lessons to
be learned from these tragic events.
During2015,wepilotedanewprocessfor
learning from incidents, based on sharing of
practice with leading operators in the mining
and oil and gas sectors. The revised focus on
translating lessons learned into frontline
application and improvement will help us avoid
repeat incidents in the future.
Process safety management is a priority for
Rio Tinto. During 2015, we developed a Process
safety standard to further strengthen
management of process safety risks.
Implementation will begin in 2016.
Health
We aim to eliminate occupational illness and
create workplaces that protect health and
promote wellbeing. We focus on identifying key
occupational health risks and put in place
practices to control exposures. Employee
wellbeing has a beneficial effect on safety and
productivity as well as families and
communities.
We are targeting a year-on-year improvement
in the rate of new cases of occupational illness
24 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report per 10,000 employees. In 2015, our rate of new
cases of occupational illness increased by
78 per cent from 2014. A number of factors
have contributed to this increase, including the
change to the US OSHA reporting criteria for
noise-induced hearing loss; better awareness
of surveillance and reporting requirements; and
an improving health management culture. The
main types of occupational illnesses recorded
are related to noise-induced hearing loss
(42 per cent), stress (26 per cent) and
musculo-skeletal disorders (24 per cent).
Because occupational risks vary by operation,
our health programmes consider local factors
affecting people at work. To help our
businesses focus on the right issues and
mitigate significant workplace health risks, our
Group target was for all managed operations to
have reviewed – and increased their focus on
managing – their health risks, through
implementation of critical control management
plans (CCMPs) that address their specific
material health risks by 2015. By the end of the
2013-2015 target period, we fell just short of
meeting our target for 100 per cent of our
managed operations to have achieved this.
Work under way in the remaining four per cent
of businesses will see this target achieved in
2016. The logical extension of our focus to date
is to ensure these CCMPs are effective in
managing each site’s health risks and are
meeting targets set within individual site plans.
From 2016 we will report the number of
businesses achieving this.
In 2015, we updated our health standards and
guidance documents to incorporate
contemporary knowledge and practice for
managing health risks in a consistent way.
Fatigue is a critical risk that we continue to take
active steps to tackle, and we are further
strengthening our mental health programme.
In2015,wecreatedweb-basedworkspacesto
help people share best practices in both areas
and,inthecaseoffatigue,learnfromincidents.
We successfully responded to the 2014 Ebola
outbreak in partnership with the Government of
Guinea, World Health Organization and other
international organisations. We remain
committed to supporting our local employees
and communities to control this deadly disease.
In 2015, we began an epidemiological study of
theworkforceattheRössinguraniumminein
Namibia, which is being carried out by
independent experts from the University of
Manchester. The final results will be published
in a peer-reviewed journal and our own
communication channels.
People
We accomplish more through collaboration,
treating each other fairly and living our values
of respect, integrity, teamwork and
accountability. This is why we are building a
workforce that represents the diversity of the
many countries where we operate. Our global
code of business conduct, The way we work,
sets out the principles that are the foundation
of our business.
In 2015, we employed 55,000 people, including
theGroup’sshareofjointventuresand
associates. Of these, approximately 29,000 were
located in Australasia, 15,000 in North America,
7,000 in Africa, 3,000 in Europe, and 1,000 in
Central and South America. See page 196 for a
breakdown of employees by business units.
We employ on the basis of job requirements
and do not discriminate on grounds of age,
ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual
orientation, politics, religion, disability or any
other status. We do not employ forced, bonded
or child labour. We recognise the right of all
employees to choose to belong to a union and
seek to bargain collectively. We employ people
with disabilities and make considerable efforts
to offer suitable alternative employment and
retraining to employees who become disabled
and can no longer perform their regular duties.
Throughout 2015, we remained one of the
largest private sector employers of Indigenous
Australians, with over 1,500 full time
Indigenous employees who represented
approximately 7.3 per cent of our Australian
workforce. In addition to our permanent
Indigenous workforce, additional Indigenous
contractors also worked on our Australian mine
sites. Our local employment commitments are
often managed through directly negotiated
agreements with Traditional Owners.
Acrossourlocalandglobalteams,wegrowand
develop through diversity and inclusive
practices. In 2015, women represented 43 per
cent (female: 40; male: 53) of our graduate
intake, 25 per cent (female: 3; male: 9) of the
board, 18.1 per cent (female: 108; male: 490)
of our senior management, and 18.5 per cent
(female: 9,237; male: 40,818)
(1)
of our total
workforce. 33.3 per cent of our graduate intake
in 2015 comprised nationals from regions
where we are developing new businesses. Our
continued focus on graduates as a future talent
pipeline has seen us exceed our target for
2015. Further information on inclusion and
diversity can be found in the Corporate
governance section on page 63.
To meet employees’ expectations and keep
them informed of Group updates, news and
announcements we use a number of
communication tools including myRioTinto, an
employee portal dedicated to their
employment needs.
(1) Gender distribution for our total workforce is based on
managed operations (excludes non-managed operations
and joint ventures) as of 31 December 2015. Less than
one per cent of the workforce gender is undeclared.
Communities and
regional development
We strive to build relationships with our host
communities based on trust and mutual
respect. We engage with them to understand
the social, environmental and economic
implications of our activities, to minimise
negative impacts and bring shared value to the
places where we work.
Our Communities and Social Performance
(CSP) framework is the basis on which we build
knowledge, engage with communities and
develop programmes that reflect their
priorities. We use it to identify and manage
social risks, and build relationships that secure
community support for our work. In 2015 we
updated our CSP standard to reflect new Group
commitments and changes in external CSP
global performance practices and principles.
The updated standard responds to the Group’s
material and strategic risks by focusing on
achieving community approval and land access,
increasing partnerships and minimising
communities’ incidents.
During 2015 we worked with the University of
Queensland to compile an additional CSP
guide. Why agreements matter covers
practices related to community agreements,
enabling sharing of best practices with others.
It will be published in early 2016.
During 2015, our business contributed to
approximately 1,800 socioeconomic
programmes covering a wide range of activities
such as health, education, environmental
protection, housing, agricultural and business
development. In 2015, we spent US$184 million
on these community contribution programmes.
There was a decrease in overall community
contributions of 30 per cent compared with
2014. This result reflects a reduction in overall
business unit expenditure in prevailing market
conditions. This includes reduced agreement
related payments arising from lower production
and less land disturbance.
Having fully achieved our previous
Communities target a year ahead of plan, we
have now reset our target to better reflect local
conditions and community needs. Starting from
2016, our new Group target requires all
operations to report locally each year on how
they are building economic capacity through
local employment and procurement, and to
capture, manage and reduce the number of
community complaints.
In 2015, we worked with our US and Canadian
operations to increase regional economic
development by building strong relationships
with local suppliers and strengthening our local
community linkages. We also signed a
communities agreement at our Oyu Tolgoi
mine, where we work in partnership with the
local Soum leadership and communities, and
invest significantly in early education and
youth programmes.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 25
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development
continued
On 3 July 2015, Rio Tinto proudly announced
its support for the Recognise campaign to
recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
peoples in Australia’s Constitution.
Environment
Climate change and energy
In 2008 we set a target of ten per cent
reduction in total greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissionsintensity,tobeachievedby2015.
We have exceeded this target and reduced our
total GHG emissions intensity by 21.1 per cent
compared with 2008. This represents a
reduction in our total GHG emissions of
18.1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide
equivalent (CO
2
-e) over the same period. We
have extended our GHG emission intensity
target period to 2020. The new target is for a
24 per cent reduction in emissions intensity
from our 2008 baseline.
Our climate change programme focuses on
reducing the energy intensity of our operations,
as well as the carbon intensity of our energy.
Our total GHG emissions were 31.3 million
tonnes of CO
2
-e in 2015, 2.5 million tonnes
lower than in 2014.
Our business is inherently energy intensive. The
majority of our GHG emissions are generated as
a result of energy use (electricity, fuel) and
chemical processes (anodes and reductants)
during mining, milling and smelting activities at
our sites. The majority (67 per cent) of the
electricity we use is from hydro, wind and solar
power. In 2015 we commissioned a 1.7MW
hybrid photovoltaic/diesel solar project to
supply power to our mining operations at
Weipa. This is the first time a remote operation
has been supplied with power from solar
photovoltaics on this scale.
Transportation, processing and use of our
products also contribute significantly to GHG
emissions. In 2015, the three most significant
sources of indirect emissions associated with
our products were:
– Approximately 5.6 million tonnes of CO
2
-e
associated with third party transport of our
products and raw materials.
– An estimated 118 million tonnes of CO
2
-e
associated with customers using our coal in
electricity generation and steel production.
– Approximately 509 million tonnes of CO
2
-e
associated with customers using our iron
ore to produce steel (these emissions are
not all in addition to the coal-use emissions
above, as some customers use both our iron
ore and our coal to produce steel).
Carbon policy and regulation have the potential
to affect our businesses in the short and long
term. We monitor both national and
international climate and energy policy
developments and participate in selected
industry organisations to advocate for efficient
and effective policy development.
We have had a long-term public position
statement on climate change which can be
found on our website. This describes how we
manage carbon risks. When considering the
long-term future of our business – including the
economic viability of our existing ore reserves,
the strategic focus of our exploration activity
and the evaluation of new capital investment –
we consider a range of scenarios for carbon
regulation and carbon pricing. These correspond
to a range of outcomes for atmospheric
concentration of greenhouse gases and
temperature rise. We factor the scenarios
directly into the economics of capital
investment decisions, including through
projections of carbon prices in different
jurisdictions. We also look at the long-term
resilience of our business to carbon regulation.
Information published both in this Annual report
and our sustainable development report on our
website describes this work in more detail.
Water
We use water at every stage of the business
and acknowledge our role in using it
responsibly. Each of our operations has its own
set of water risks and opportunities: some
operations are located in water-scarce
environments, while others must manage
intense periods of rainfall during tropical and
subtropical wet seasons. A number of sites
manage impacts from mine dewatering
including aquifer drawdown and excess water
disposal. Most sites must manage the quality
of water we use and return to the environment,
and all sites are experiencing some change in
theirlocalwaterregimeduetochanging
weather patterns.
We take a risk-based approach in managing
water, analysing the impact of our operations
on local water resources and water-dependent
ecosystems and the degree to which water
supply and discharge capacity affect our ability
to run our operations. We track and respond to
risks arising from increasing stringency of
environmental regulation.
The Group water target requires that by 2018,
all managed operations with material water risk
will have reviewed and improved their
management of these material water risks, and
will have achieved their approved local water
performance targets.
Asiteisidentifiedashavingamaterialwater
risk where there is potential for a high or
critical impact on the environment,
production, community, compliance or
reputation. Local water performance targets
cover three areas: water supply, ecological
impacts, and surplus water management.
Each site has a target that is appropriate to its
specific operational circumstances.
At the end of 2015, 60 per cent of managed
operations with material water risks were on
track to meet their approved local water
performance targets by 2018. The remaining
sites are progressing with action plans to
address these targets.
We use our annual assessment of performance
against the targets to focus attention and effort
on those sites and businesses that need support
to improve their water management performance.
Waste
Effective waste management practices are
critical to protecting the environment and
reducing liabilities and long-term risks. We
characterise our waste, predict how it will
behave over the long term, carry out
monitoring and where waste is managed on
site, close our facilities responsibly.
During our mining and processing operations,
we generate both non-mineral and mineral
waste. Non-mineral waste includes used oil,
tyres, batteries and office waste, as well as
more specialised waste streams such as spent
pot liners from aluminium smelters.
Mineral wastes include waste rock, tailings and
slag. Waste rock is composed of rock that has
uneconomic mineral content and must be
removed to access ore during mining. Tailings
are finely ground rock that remains after the
minerals of economic interest have been
removed from ore. Slag is generated in
smelting operations and is a glassy material
that remains after metals have been separated
during the smelting process.
Acid and metalliferous drainage (AMD) from
reactive mineral waste is one of the most
significant long-term environmental risks for
the mining industry. It is created when rocks
that contain naturally occurring sulphide or
other reactive minerals are disturbed and
exposed to air and water. To prevent or
minimise potential AMD environmental
impacts, we evaluate the risks and provide
controls at all stages of the mining process.
We have mineral waste management and
disposal programmes and regularly seek
independent, external review of our site-level
strategies and performance. We support
responsible management of mineral waste at
non-managed operations by participating in
technical committees and sharing good practice.
In 2015, we disposed of or stored 1,740 million
tonnes of mineral waste (predominantly waste
rock and tailings) and 286,837 tonnes of non-
mineral waste.
Management of tailings and water storage
facilities
Rio Tinto operates tailings and large water
storage facilities on 29 sites across the Group
and has five facilities in closure. The assurance
over these mineral waste storage facilities has
long been a focus of Rio Tinto’s Health, Safety,
and Environment programme. In August 2015,
Rio Tinto implemented an updated standard,
“Management of tailings and water storage
facilities”, to further strengthen our
management at these facilities beyond what
was already required by the prior standards.
The standard specifies risk control for
planning and design, implementation and
26 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report operation, monitoring and inspection, and
disaster management.
Rio Tinto will participate in the ICMM review of
tailings dam management amongst its
member companies, sharing our practices,
protocols and assurance processes.
TheoutcomesfromthisICMMrevieware
anticipated to be announced in the second
quarter of 2016.
Closure
Careful planning throughout the life of our
operations, and ongoing consultation with local
stakeholders and regulators, will make a
significant difference to closure outcomes. It
minimises the social and economic impact on
local communities and the surrounding region
and helps identify possible post-operational
usefortherelevantsites.Weestablishclosure
objectives, including final land forms, well in
advance of closure, and increase oversight of
sites if they are nearing the end of mine life,
with particular focus on sites that are less than
ten years from closure.
We aim to progressively rehabilitate land as we
operate at a mine site. We test and confirm
rehabilitation methodologies, control dust and
erosion, and meet regulatory requirements. In
2015, 26 per cent of our disturbed land
(excluding land disturbed for hydroelectricity
dams) had been rehabilitated.
We collaborate with and listen to our
stakeholders to identify options for post-
closure land uses. We have found that by
working with local communities – including
traditional landowners, governments, and
employees – and through careful
management, we can apply innovative
solutions in some instances to transform sites
into community assets.
Environmental regulation
Along with our own internal standards, we are
subject to various environmental regulations
and are required to disclose Group-level
environmental incidents and fines. Further
information on the Group’s environmental
regulation is included in the Directors’ report
on page 49.
Economic
Economic contributions
Our operations can have a substantial impact
on the regions and countries in which we
operate through our tax payments to local and
national governments, the direct and indirect
employment we generate and our community
programmes. We are committed to ensuring
our impact is sustainable long after mining
operations have ceased.
We ensure that the benefits of mining flow
through to host communities
and governments. We do this by being
transparent in the payments we make and by
striving to provide local employment and
procurement opportunities.
Globally, the Group’s direct economic
contribution was US$37 billion in 2015.
This includes:
– US$19 billion in value add, made up of
payments to employees, payments to
governments and returns to capital.
– US$18 billion as payments to suppliers.
These figures presented here include the
Group’s share of joint ventures and associates.
Details of the payments to governments will be
published in our Taxes paid in 2015 report, which
will be made available on the Group’s website.
Non-managed operations and joint ventures
Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and joint
ventures that it does not manage, the two
largest being the Escondida copper mine in
Chile and the Grasberg copper-gold mine in
Indonesia. We actively engage with our
partners around sustainable development
through formal governance structures and
technical exchanges. In this way we endeavour
to ensure that the principles in The way we
work are respected at all times and encourage
our partners to embed a strong safety and
security culture in their workforces.
Escondida
Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in
Escondida, which is managed by BHP Billiton.
Our seats on the Owners’ Council enables us to
provide regular input on strategic and policy
matters. Sadly, there was one BHP Billiton
Major Projects-related fatality in 2015 involving
a vehicle collision. A bus transporting
contractors from La Calera was involved in a
crash with a truck on a main highway. The bus
driver subsequently died from his injuries.
Construction of the Escondida Water Supply
seawater desalination project progressed well
in 2015. Initial start-up of the desalination
plant is expected in late 2016, and when fully
operational in 2017 it will significantly
decrease the demand on groundwater from
operations at Escondida.
Grasberg
PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI), a subsidiary of
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc., owns
and operates the Grasberg mine in Papua,
Indonesia.Wehaveajointventureinterest
attributable to the 1995 mine expansion, which
entitles Rio Tinto to a 40 per cent share of
production above specified levels until the end
of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production after
2021.WeengagewithPTFIthroughfive
forums: the Operating, Technical, Exploration
and Sustainable Development committees and
theTailingsManagementboard.
The largest of these, the multidisciplinary
Technical Committee enables discussion of
Joint venture activities such as environmental
management, orebody knowledge, project
execution, worker health and safety,
communities, mine planning, processing and
tailings management.
Rio Tinto is represented by a senior
environmental manager on the PTFI Tailings
Management board, which meets twice a year
at Grasberg and includes third-party experts.
Tragically, there were two fatalities at PTFI in
2015:oneatthesurfacemineinvolvinga
worker caught between a light vehicle and a
building and one involving a worker entangled
with a tail pulley on a conveyor belt. When
requested,wesupportthePTFIleadership
team in the investigations and in the
post-investigation lesson implementation to
help avoid a repeat of these accidents.
Governance
Business integrity
We operate within all relevant laws and
regulationsandarededicatedtoopenand
transparent dealings with our stakeholders.
Acting with integrity and being accountable for
our actions are the foundations on which we do
business.Thechoiceswemakeeveryday
reflect who we are and what we stand for.
The key principles that guide our behaviour are
embodied in The way we work, which helps us
live our company values of respect, integrity,
teamwork and accountability. It helps us
maintain the highest ethical standard of
behaviour that earns the trust of others.
In 2015 we updated The way we work to
make it clearer and to link it directly with
our core values.
To ensure our integrity and compliance
programme remains aligned with the
risk-based approach included in our Business
integrity standard, we improved our guidelines
for assessing business integrity risks, making it
easier for the business to consider these risks
as part of their overall risk analysis framework.
We regularly review and refresh our training
material and methods of delivery to ensure
they remain relevant to the risks that
employees encounter in their jobs.
Speak-OUT, the Group’s confidential and
independently-operated whistleblowing
programme, enables employees to report
anonymously, subject to local law, any
significant concerns about the business, or
behaviour of individuals. This could include
suspicion around safety violations,
environmental procedures, human rights,
financial reporting, or business integrity issues
in general. We are committed to a culture of
transparency and encourage employees to
speak up about their issues and concerns,
whether through their management, human
resources, or through Speak-OUT.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 27
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development
continued
In 2015, 600 Speak-OUT reports were made,
representing an increase of approximately
two per cent on last year. Given the reduction
in overall headcount, this report volume
represents an average incident rate of
10.7 per 1,000 employees (up from 9.7 in
2014). We believe this trend reflects both
increased trust in the process and restructuring
within the Group as a whole. Twenty eight per
cent of cases raised were substantiated,
resulting in corrective and preventative actions.
We issue information in a timely way on the
Group’s operational, financial and sustainable
development performance through a number
of channels, such as media releases and
regulatory filings. We communicate views to
governments and others on matters affecting
our business interests.
Human rights
Our human rights approach is founded in The
way we work and in our human rights policy.
We respect and support human rights
wherever we operate, consistent with the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our
approach is consistent with the UN Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights
(UNGPs). In implementing our policies, we are
subject to local laws and where our policies and
proceduresaremorestringent,weoperateto
these standards.
Our Human rights policy, which reaffirms our
commitment to respecting human rights was
updated in 2015. This is supplemented by
internal guidance documentation which
supports our employees to implement the
policy in practice.
In line with the human rights due diligence
process in the UNGPs, we embed human rights
across the business and integrate human rights
considerations into existing corporate
processes including supplier due diligence,
social and environmental risk analysis, impact
assessment and complaints handling. We also
conduct standalone human rights studies and
programmes in high-risk sites if necessary.
To avoid our involvement in human rights harm
through a third party we work with business
partners to manage human rights risks and to
promote human rights. The way we work and
our Procurement principles apply to suppliers
and contractors working with Rio Tinto or on its
behalf. The principles reiterate that we oppose
and prohibit forced, bonded or child labour.
They specify that suppliers should maintain
human rights policies and have a process to
assure compliance.
Web-based human rights training is available for
all employees. Approximately 2,100 employees
have completed online human rights training
since its inception in 2013. We are refreshing our
online training to help our employees identify
and manage human rights risks.
Rio Tinto has made voluntary commitments to
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD) Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, UN Global Compact
and the Voluntary Principles on Security and
Human Rights (VPSHR). We provide training for
security personnel and conduct security and
human rights analysis in support of our security
arrangements. Our online VPSHR training is
mandatory for all security personnel at high-
risk sites and is strongly recommended for all
other Rio Tinto businesses. In 2015 we
conducted VPSHR and Use of Force training for
security providers at five of our businesses in
Mongolia, South Africa, Jamaica and Guinea.
In 2015, we completed a Group level review of
the Security and Human rights framework.
Overall findings indicate that the framework
and its internal controls were operating
effectively and providing support to achieve our
business objectives.
Under our Communities standard, all sites
must have a complaints, disputes and
grievance mechanism in place, in line with the
UNGPs’ effectiveness criteria for such
mechanisms. The Sustainability Committee
reviews any human rights complaints received
through Speak-OUT.
We respect the land connection of Indigenous
communities and seek mutually beneficial
agreement with affected communities in the
development and performance of our
operations.Westrivetoachievethefree,prior
and informed consent of Indigenous
communities as defined in the 2012
International Finance Corporation Performance
Standard 7 and the 2013 ICMM Position
Statement on Indigenous Peoples and Mining.
We seek consent as defined in relevant
jurisdictions, and ensure agreement-making
processes are consistent with such definitions.
Assurance
We engaged an independent external
assurance organisation,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, to provide the
directors of Rio Tinto with assurance on
selected sustainable development subject
matters, as explained on the next page.
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ assurance
statement satisfies the requirements
of subject matters 1 to 4 of the
ICMM assurance procedure.
Further information on external auditors and
internal assurance is included in the Directors’
report under the Corporate governance section
on pages 60 and 66.
28 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Independent limited assurance report
What we found
Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected
subject matter for the year ended 31 December 2015 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in
accordance with the Reporting criteria.
To the directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Limited (together Rio Tinto),
What we did
Rio Tinto engaged us to perform a limited
assurance engagement on the selected subject
matter within the Sustainable development
sections of the Rio Tinto 2015 Annual report
and the Rio Tinto 2015 Strategic report for the
year ended 31 December 2015.
Selected subject matter
– Rio Tinto’s assertion that it has incorporated
the requirements of the 10 sustainable
development principles of the International
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and
the mandatory requirements set out in
ICMM Position Statements into its own
policies, strategies and standards
– Rio Tinto’s assertions regarding the
approach that it has adopted to identify and
prioritise its material sustainable
development risks and opportunities
– Rio Tinto’s assertions regarding the
existence and status of implementation of
systems and approaches used to manage
the following selected sustainable
development risk areas:
–Safety
– Greenhouse gas emissions
–Energyuse
– Water management
– The following Rio Tinto performance data
related to the selected sustainable
development risk areas:
– Number of fatalities
– All injury frequency rate
– Lost time injury frequency rate
– Number of lost time injuries
– Total greenhouse gas emissions
– Greenhouse gas emissions intensity
– Total energy use
– Percentage of managed operations with
material water risk that are on track to
achieving their approved local water
performance targets
Reporting criteria
The subject matter above has been assessed
against the definitions and approaches which
will be presented at: riotinto.com/sd2015 as
at 3 March 2016.
Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with relevant independence
requirements and other ethical requirements of
the Code for Ethics for Professional
Accountants issued by the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants, which is
founded on fundamental principles of integrity,
objectivity, professional competence and due
care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
PricewaterhouseCoopers applies International
Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly
maintains a comprehensive system of quality
control including documented policies and
procedures regarding compliance with ethical
requirements, professional standards and
applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Responsibilities
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion
based on the work we performed.
Rio Tinto
Rio Tinto management is responsible for the
preparation and presentation of the selected
subject matter in accordance with the
Reporting criteria.
What our work involved
We conducted our work in accordance with the
International Standard on Assurance
Engagements 3000 (Revised) Assurance
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information and (for
selected subject matter relating to greenhouse
gas emissions) the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements.
TheseStandardsrequirethatwecomplywith
independence and ethical requirements and
plantheengagementsothatitwillbe
performed effectively.
Main procedures performed
– Making enquiries of relevant management
of Rio Tinto regarding the processes and
controls for capturing, collating and
reporting the performance data within the
selected subject matter, and evaluating the
design and effectiveness of these processes
and controls
– Validating the operation of controls over the
accuracy of injury classification and
assessing the final injury classification
applied for a sample of injuries reported
during the year ended 31 December 2015
– Testing the arithmetic accuracy of a sample
of calculations of performance data within
the selected subject matter
– Assessing the appropriateness of the
greenhouse gas emission factors
applied in calculating the Total
greenhouse gas emissions and
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity
– Testing performance data, on a selective
basis, substantively at both an operational
and corporate level, which included testing
at a selection of operations from across
Aluminium, Energy, Iron Ore, Copper &
Coal, and Diamonds & Minerals
– Undertaking analytical procedures over the
performance data within the selected
subject matter
– Reviewing a sample of relevant
management information and
documentation supporting assertions made
in the selected subject matter
We believe that the information we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our conclusion.
Liza Maimone
Partner
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Canberra
2 March 2016
Liability limited by a scheme approved under
Professional Standards Legislation
Inherent limitations
Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements due to
the selective testing of the information being examined.
Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not
be detected. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to
more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its
nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and
sampling or estimating such data.
Restrictiononuse
This report has been prepared in accordance with our
engagement terms to assist Rio Tinto in reporting its
sustainable development performance. We do not accept or
assume responsibility for the consequences of any reliance
on this report for any other purpose or to any other person or
organisation. Any reliance on this report by any third party is
entirely at its own risk.
We consent to the inclusion of this report in the Rio Tinto
2015 Annual report and the Rio Tinto 2015 Strategic report
to assist Rio Tinto’s members in assessing whether the
directors have discharged their responsibilities by
commissioning an independent assurance report in
connection with the selected subject matter.
Limited assurance
This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance
for our conclusions. As a limited assurance engagement is
restricted primarily to enquiries and analytical procedures
and the work is substantially less detailed than that
undertaken for a reasonable assurance engagement, the
level of assurance is lower than would be obtained in a
reasonable assurance engagement.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 29
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Capital allocation
Rio Tinto has a programme of high-quality projects delivering industry-leading returns across a broad range of commodities. The Group is taking
further pre-emptive action to protect shareholder value given market uncertainty. The current status of all capital projects is under review, with timing
and total expenditure expected to be revised. In 2015, Rio Tinto funded its capital expenditure with net cash generated from operating activities and
aims to continue funding its capital programme from internal sources, except for the proposed Oyu Tolgoi underground mine development for which
there is a separate project financing arrangement.
Essential
sustaining capex
Ordinary
dividends
Iterative
cycle of:
2 13
Further
cash
returns to
shareholders
Compelling
growth
Debt
management
Major capital projects (>US$1bn)
(Rio Tinto 100% owned unless otherwise stated)
Total approved
capital cost
(100%)
Approved
capital
remaining to
be spent from
1 January 2016 Status/milestones
In production
Iron ore–expansionofthePilbaraport,railand
power supply capacity to 360 Mt/a. Rio Tinto’s
share of total approved capex is US$3.5bn.
US$5.9bn US$0.4bn The phase two expansion to 360 Mt/a includes investment in
the port, rail and power supply and an investment in
autonomous trains.
Iron ore – investment to extend the life of the
Yandicoogina mine in the Pilbara to 2021 and
expand its nameplate capacity from 52 Mt/a to
56 Mt/a.
US$1.7bn – Approved in June 2012, first production from the wet plant took
place in March 2015 and from the dry plant in April 2015. The
project was completed in July 2015. The wet processing plant is
expected to maintain product specification levels.
Aluminium – expansion and modernisation of
Kitimat smelter in British Columbia, Canada, to
increase annual capacity from 280kt to 420kt.
US$4.8bn US$0.1bn First production took place at the end of the first half of 2015
with full capacity expected to be reached in early 2016.
Copper – development of Organic Growth Project 1
(OGP1) a new 152kt per day capacity
concentrator at Escondida (Rio Tinto 30%), Chile.
US$1.3bn
(Rio Tinto
share)
<US$0.1bn
(Rio Tinto
share)
Approved in February 2012, OGP1 achieved mechanical
completion in the second quarter of 2015. The ramp-up is
progressing ahead of plan and is expected to reach full capacity
during 2016. The remaining spend is related to commissioning.
Ongoing and approved
Copper – Construction of a desalination facility to
ensure continued water supply and sustain
operations at Escondida (Rio Tinto 30%), Chile.
US$1.0bn
(Rio Tinto
share)
US$0.3bn
(Rio Tinto
share)
Approved in July 2013, the project is designed to provide a
long-term sustainable supply of water for the operations. It
remains on schedule and on budget and is 76 per cent complete,
with commissioning scheduled in 2017.
Aluminium – Investment in the Amrun
bauxite mine on the Cape York Peninsula in
north Queensland with a planned initial output
of 22.8 million tonnes a year
(a)
.
US$1.9bn $1.9bn Approved in December 2015, output includes an expected
10 million tonne increase in annual exports with production
commencing in the first half of 2019.
(a) Refer to the statements related to this production target on page 32.
30 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Acquisitions and divestments
There were no material divestments completed during 2015.
Asset
Consideration
US$m Status
Divested in 2014
Clermont Joint Venture 1,015
(a)
Sold to GS Coal Pty Ltd.
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique 50
(a)
Sold to International Coal Ventures Private Limited.
Søral Undisclosed Sold to Norsk Hydro.
Alucam Undisclosed Sold to the Government of Cameroon.
Divested in 2013
Northparkes mine 820 Sold to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd.
Constellium 671 Shares sold to general public.
Palabora Mining Company Limited 373 Sold to a consortium led by Industrial Development Corporation of
South Africa and Hebei Iron & Steel Group.
Eagle nickel – copper project 315 Sold to Lundin Mining Corporation.
Altynalmas Gold 235 Sold to Sumeru Gold B.V.
Inova Resources Limited 81 Sold to Shanxi Donghui Coal Coking & Chemicals Group Co.
Sebree 48 Sold to Century Aluminum Co.
(a) Before working capital and completion adjustments.
There were no material acquisitions in 2015, 2014 or 2013.
Further information on acquisitions and divestments is included in note 37 to the financial statements on page 164.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 31
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Aluminium
Financial performance
2015
US$ million
2014
US$ million
Revenue 10,117 12,123
Net cash generated
from operating
activities
2,413 2,550
Underlying earnings 1,118 1,248
Capital expenditure 1,682 2,021
Net operating assets 15,949 18,297
EBITDA 2,742 2,930
Strategy and strategic priorities
Rio Tinto’s Aluminium product group continues
to focus on delivering industry-leading
performance through the cycle. The product
group has a sector-leading bauxite position,
large-scale alumina refineries and a first-
quartile smelter portfolio. Each of the three
areas of the business – bauxite, alumina and
primarymetal–hasitsowntargetsand
strategies, summarised below:
– Inbauxite,capturingvaluefromthe
expanding seaborne demand. This involves
continuing to enhance performance and
output at current operations while
developing Tier 1 opportunities. The
approval of the Amrun project was an
important step in the execution of this
strategy.
– In alumina, providing security of supply to
the group’s smelter portfolio. The focus is
on aggressively driving down costs to
improve the refineries’ position on the
industry cost curve, especially in the current
challenging price environment.
– In primary metal, leveraging the group’s
sustainable low-cost power competitive
advantage in smelting and aggressively
pursuing productivity and cost reduction
opportunities to further reduce its cost
position and generate increased cash flow.
– Across the Aluminium group’s
operations, aggressive cost and
productivity improvement initiatives
aimed at further driving out costs,
generating incremental cash and
reducing working capital requirements.
The three product areas are supported by a
single global commercial organisation that
focuses on maximising value from mine to
market, while providing customers with
higher-margin, value-added products and
services.
(a) Life cycle analysis approach takes into account the
entire production process, electricity generation, and
the product’s use and end-of-life.
(b) Rio Tinto internal analysis which includes adjustments
to externally reported EBITDA margins, trading,
procurement and marine revenues to report
performance on a comparable basis. Analysis excludes
the Gove alumina refinery. Competitors included in the
analysis are Rusal, Hydro, Alcoa and Chalco.
Safety
In 2015, Aluminium achieved a fatality-free year.
The product group’s all injury frequency rate
continued its steady downward trend, ending the
year at 0.48 compared with the 0.53 rate
recorded at the end of 2014. The group is
committed to achieving a zero harm workplace.
It aims to improve its overall safety performance
further with a systems-based approach, which
includes critical risk management and human
performance initiatives, and a strong emphasis
on process safety.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Rio Tinto’s Aluminium group has one of the
lowest carbon footprints in the aluminium
industry.Since2008,thegrouphasreduced
greenhouse gas emissions intensity by
31percent.Almost80percentofitstotal
power needs are supplied by low-carbon
sources, with 55 per cent coming from self-
generated hydropower. This compares with a
global industry average for non fossil fuel-
based power of approximately 35 per cent.
As a result, the carbon footprint from the
group’s smelters is around half the industry
average, with less than six tonnes of carbon
dioxide (CO
2
) equivalent per tonne of
aluminium compared with an industry average
of around 11 tonnes on a life cycle analysis
approach
(a)
.Furthermore,tenofthegroup’s
sites are able to produce metal with a carbon
footprint of around two tonnes of CO
2
equivalent per tonne of aluminium.
On top of the direct environmental benefits,
this positions Rio Tinto to address increasing
market demand for responsible metal
produced with a low CO
2
footprint.
Review of operations
The group’s position as a sector-leading
business is demonstrated in its financial
performance in 2015. The Aluminium
group achieved underlying earnings of
US$1,118 million (2014: US$1,248 million).
Key to this result was the strong delivery of
ongoing cash cost savings, which partially
offset the 14 per cent reduction in realised
pricing as market conditions deteriorated
through the year. Cash cost improvements of
US$326 million (pre-tax) were delivered, and
further entrenched the group’s integrated
industry-leading EBITDA margin
(b)
.
The resilience of the group’s underlying
EBITDA, combined with further reductions in
working capital levels, resulted in net cash
generated from operating activities of
US$2,413 million, a decline of only five per cent
year-on-year.
(c) This production target was disclosed in a release to the
market on 27 November 2015. All material assumptions
underpinning that target continue to apply and have not
materially changed. See pages 217 and 221 for details
on Weipa ore reserves and mineral resources.
The solid financial results reflected many
ongoing initiatives to reduce costs through
production and procurement efficiencies, and
by reducing support costs. This was
supplemented by the impact of the weaker
Australian and Canadian dollars. In addition,
productivity improvement initiatives enabled
higher production levels across each of the
bauxite, alumina and primary metal segments,
helping to reduce unit costs further.
The average London Metal Exchange price for
aluminium was US$1,661 per tonne in 2015,
which compares with an average of
US$1,867 per tonne in 2014. Rio Tinto’s
average realised price for primary metal
products – including regional and product
premia – was US$2,058 per tonne in 2015,
compared with US$2,395 per tonne in 2014.
In 2015, record bauxite production was achieved
at the Weipa mine in Australia. Global Rio Tinto
bauxite production was four per cent higher in
2015 compared with 2014, while third-party
exports were 14 per cent higher this year.
Alumina production increased by four per cent
in 2015, reflecting continued consistent
performances across Rio Tinto’s refineries.
Following operational and design
improvements, the Yarwun refinery in
Queensland, Australia achieved record annual
production in 2015.
Rio Tinto’s share of aluminium production for
2015 totalled 3.3 million tonnes, which was
broadly in line with 2014. Nine sites achieved
record annual production. The modernised and
expanded Kitimat smelter, commissioned in
thefirsthalfof2015,isrampinguptowards
nameplate capacity of 420 thousand tonnes
that is expected to be achieved in the first half
of 2016.
In 2015, Rio Tinto divested two of its ancillary
businesses, ECL and Alesa, and received a
binding offer for Carbone Savoie.
Development projects
The Aluminium group’s development pipeline
focuses on its competitive advantages in
energy and bauxite.
In November 2015, the Rio Tinto board
approved the development of the Amrun
bauxiteproject,southoftheEmbleyRiveron
Cape York, Queensland, in Australia. With
mining costs projected to be in the first quartile
of the industry cost curve and industry-leading
returns, Amrun is a an exceptional project –
long life, low cost and expandable –
strategically placed to satisfy increasing
demand for seaborne bauxite in China and the
Middle East as well as the Aluminium group’s
own refineries in Australia. With an approved
capital cost of US$1.9 billion, the project
includes mine, port and infrastructure
elements, with a planned initial output of 22.8
Mt/a beginning in 2019
(c)
.Theprojectwill
partly replace the depleting East Weipa mine
with lower cost production while also delivering
additional volumes of around 10 Mt/a in the
future. The majority of the capital expenditure
is scheduled for 2017 and 2018.
32 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report The Kitimat Modernisation Project, which uses
the Aluminium group’s wholly-owned Kemano
hydropower resource and high-efficiency AP
smelting technology, increases production
capacity at the smelter by more than
48 per cent, while reducing overall
environmental emissions by nearly 50 per cent.
Energy efficiency also increased by 33 per cent
and workforce productivity by some
60 per cent. Once at full capacity, Kitimat will
be one of the lowest-cost smelters in the world,
strategically located to supply “responsible”
metal to key markets in North America and
Asia – namely Japan and South Korea.
Outlook
The long-term demand outlook for aluminium
is robust. The consensus view foresees a
strong and steady increase in demand,
averaging four per cent per year. This
translates into additional consumption of
around 24 million tonnes by 2025, compared
witha2014baseof57milliontonnes.
This outlook is driven mainly by rising
utilisation intensity and more diverse end-use
applications. In the automotive sector for
example, manufacturers are planning to use
significantly more aluminium in the future to
make lighter vehicles that consume less fuel
and produce fewer emissions.
Developing economies, where current
consumption is low, also provide solid growth
potential for aluminium. In India, consumption
is less than two kilograms of aluminium per
capita compared with 20 kilograms in more
developed economies.
Despitethispositivelong-termview,2015was
a very difficult time for the aluminium industry,
with London Metal Exchange (LME) prices
retreating to levels seen during the global
financial crisis and physical delivery premia
falling significantly from their elevated levels
earlier in the year.
Looking forward, many suppliers are expected
to remain under pressure both inside and
outside China, with demand continuing its
positive trend. This should help inventories
move to a more balanced level over the next
few years.
Prospects for bauxite – a sector where Rio Tinto
maintains an unrivalled position – are positive.
The projected growth rate, driven mostly by
seaborne bauxite traded into the China market,
is outpacing that of aluminium.
In 2015, Rio Tinto supplied 19 million tonnes of
bauxite to China, making it the largest single
seaborne bauxite supplier in the world – a
position the Group aims to develop further.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 33
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Copper & Coal
Financial performance
2015
US$ million
2014
US$ million
Revenue 7,705 9,957
Net cash generated
from operating
activities
(a)
1,775 2,064
Underlying earnings 274 831
Capital expenditure
(b)
786 1,177
Net operating assets 12,832 13,706
EBITDA 1,968 2,682
(a) Excludes operating cash flows from equity accounted
units (EAUs) (mainly Escondida) but includes dividends
from EAUs.
(b) Excluding EAUs.
Strategy and strategic priorities
The Copper & Coal product group was formed
in late February 2015, following an
organisational restructure. In 2015, the product
group delivered safety improvements across its
operations, improved the productivity of its
existing assets, reduced costs and drove
increased operating efficiency. During the year,
Copper & Coal also made selective investments
and divestments to deliver longer-term growth
and maximise value.
The Copper & Coal product group’s strategy is
to deliver sustainable value by:
– driving continuous improvements in safety;
– maximising value from existing operations;
– developing brownfield growth options and
new, world-class greenfield projects in
low-risk jurisdictions;
– focusing on cost control, productivity gains
and cash generation, to earn the right to
grow; and
– developingstrongleadersandanaligned,
capable, engaged and collaborative
workforce.
Safety
In 2015, Copper & Coal delivered a step change
in safety, with an all injury frequency rate of
0.44, compared with 0.61 in 2014
(a)
.
Kennecott’s Concentrator, Tailings and Water
Services teams were recently recognised with
the US National Mining Association’s
“Sentinels of Safety” Award for outstanding
performance, after achieving more than
662,000 hours during the year without an
injury. Rio Tinto Coal Australia achieved a
significant improvement in safety performance
in 2015, ending the year with the lowest all
injury frequency rate in its history.
Sadly in February 2015, there was a fatality at
the Zululand Anthracite Colliery (ZAC), a
managed operation in South Africa, when a
vehicle rolled over, and the driver was killed.
Since that time, a comprehensive programme
of safety enhancements, supported by experts
from across Copper & Coal, has improved
ZAC’s safety systems and culture.
As part of a Group-wide critical risk management
programme aimed at identifying and mitigating
the common dangers that can lead to fatalities,
leaders in Copper & Coal completed more than
112,000 critical control verifications in 2015.
Eleven per cent of these resulted in mitigation of
a potentially fatal risk. Having started in the
copper business, the programme is now being
implemented across the group’s coal assets,
beginning in August 2015 with the Hail Creek
Mine and Kestrel Mine operations.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Copper & Coal group’s 2015 greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions were 8.54 tonnes of
carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of copper
cathode produced, compared with 8.57 tonnes
in 2014. The marginal increase in efficiency
resulted from better ore grades. Rio Tinto Coal
Australia’s (RTCA) emissions intensity
increased slightly to 0.057 tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalent per tonne of coal produced,
compared with 0.056 tonnes in 2014. Copper
concentrate emissions intensity significantly
improvedto1.8tonnesofcarbondioxide
equivalent per tonne of copper concentrate
produced, compared with 2.4 tonnes in 2014.
The improvement is due in part to the Oyu
Tolgoi operation, where its percentage increase
in copper concentrate production significantly
outweighed its increase in GHG emissions.
Review of operations
Following the rationalisation of its portfolio, the
integrated Copper & Coal group had four
copper assets and six coal assets in production
at the end of 2015.
In 2015, total mined copper decreased by 16 per
cent, while total coal production increased by
three per cent
(b)
. The product group produced
504 thousand tonnes of mined copper (Rio Tinto
share), 22.3 million tonnes of semi-soft and
thermal coal (Rio Tinto share) and 7.9 million
tonnes of metallurgical coal (Rio Tinto share).
Copper & Coal also produced 376 thousand
ounces of mined gold, 3,311 thousand ounces of
mined silver and 7.6 thousand tonnes of
molybdenum as by-products. Rio Tinto was the
world’s seventh largest copper supplier based
on 2015 mine production.
The Copper & Coal group’s underlying earnings
of US$274 million were 67 per cent lower than
2014, driven by lower commodity prices and
partially offset by movements in exchange
rates and cost reductions. The group has
generated sustainable cost reductions of nearly
US$2.0 billion since 2012. In 2015, the
Copper & Coal group collectively reduced
working capital by US$195 million.
In September 2015, Rio Tinto and Mitsubishi
Development agreed to a change in the
ownership structure of Coal & Allied. Under this
agreement Rio Tinto agreed to assume 100 per
cent ownership of Coal & Allied and Mitsubishi
Development agreed to move from holding a
20 per cent stake in Coal & Allied to holding a
direct 32 per cent stake in the Hunter Valley
Operations mine. The restructure completed on
3 February 2016.
As part of ongoing work to rationalise its assets
and focus on those with suitable scale, in
September 2015, Rio Tinto also agreed to a
sale of its 40 per cent interest (on completion
of the restructure referred to above) in the
Bengalla Joint Venture to New Hope
Corporation. This transaction completed on
1 March 2016 and Rio Tinto received
consideration of US$617 million.
In January 2016, Rio Tinto signed an
agreement for the sale of its Mount Pleasant
thermal coal assets to MACH Energy Australia
Pty Ltd for US$224 million plus royalties. This
sale is expected to close in 2016.
In February 2016, Rio Tinto signed an
agreement to sell its 74 per cent interest in
Zululand Anthracite Colliery (ZAC). This sale is
expected to close in 2016. ZAC is an anthracite
coal mine in South Africa. Rio Tinto’s share of
2015 thermal coal production from ZAC was
415 thousand tonnes.
Operating assets
Copper
Rio Tinto Kennecott
(Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Kennecott supplies approximately seven per
cent of US refined copper requirements. In
2015, Kennecott produced 115 thousand
tonnes of refined copper, 179 thousand ounces
of refined gold, and 7.6 thousand tonnes of
molybdenum.
Production in 2015 was impacted by ongoing
recovery from the 130 million-tonne landslide
on the north east wall of the Bingham Canyon
Mine that occurred in April 2013. The operation
continued work to stabilise the east wall in
2015, and expects volumes to recover as this
work is completed in 2016 and 2017.
Kennecott maximised smelter utilisation by
receiving 414 thousand tonnes of third-party
concentrate for processing in 2015.
Oyu Tolgoi
(Rio Tinto: 50.8 per cent interest in Turquoise
Hill Resources)
Located in Mongolia’s South Gobi Desert, Oyu
Tolgoi is one of the world’s largest copper-gold
development projects. Oyu Tolgoi’s open-pit
mine is now fully operational and, in 2015, it
produced 202 thousand tonnes of copper and
653 thousand ounces of mined gold (100 per
cent basis). In September 2015, the operation
delivered its 1.5 millionth tonne of concentrate.
(a) Excludes Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, the sale of which
completed in October 2014
(b) Year-on-year comparison excludes production from
Clermont mine, which was divested during 2014.
34 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Escondida
(Rio Tinto: 30 per cent interest)
Located in Chile’s Atacama Desert, Escondida
is the world’s largest copper-producing mine. In
2015, Escondida produced 1,148.8 thousand
tonnes of mined copper (100 per cent basis).
Production in 2015 was comparable with 2014,
as higher throughput and recoveries from
leaching more than offset lower grades.
Grasberg
Through a joint venture with Freeport-
McMoRan Inc. (Freeport), Rio Tinto is entitled
to 40 per cent of material mined above an
agreed threshold as a consequence of
expansions and developments of the Grasberg
facilities in Indonesia since 1998. Production in
2015 did not exceed the metal attributable to
Rio Tinto and, accordingly, Rio Tinto’s share of
joint venture production was zero.
Rio Tinto expects to receive a metal share in
2016, which is included in its 2016 production
guidance
(c)
.
Coal
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
(Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
In Queensland, RTCA manages the Hail Creek
(Rio Tinto: 82 per cent) and Kestrel (Rio Tinto:
80 per cent) coal mines. In New South Wales,
RTCA manages Coal & Allied’s coal mines
which include, as of 31 December 2015, Hunter
ValleyOperations(RioTinto:80percent),
Mount Thorley (Rio Tinto: 64 per cent) and
Warkworth (Rio Tinto: 44.5 per cent) and
Bengalla (Rio Tinto: 32 per cent).
RTCA saw improved coal production rates in
2015 as a result of the longwall ramp-up at
Kestrel, increased semi-soft production at
Hunter Valley and higher thermal coal
production at Hail Creek.
For the full year, these operations produced
22.3 million tonnes of semi-soft and thermal
coal (Rio Tinto share), and 7.9 million tonnes of
metallurgical coal (Rio Tinto share), an 11 per
cent increase from 2014. Despite ongoing price
challenges, all RTCA mines remained cash flow
positive in 2015 with a minimal working capital
balance, as well as implementing a programme
of cost and productivity improvements.
RTCA declared a significant increase in its
managed resources and reserves in
Queensland and New South Wales, Australia,
most notably at Hail Creek and Hunter Valley
Operations. Run of mine (ROM) reserves
increased from 2,106 million to 2,504 million
tonnes. Total mineral resources, exclusive of
ROM reserves increased from 5,429 million to
6,804 million tonnes.
Development projects
Productivity and mine life extension
Rio Tinto Kennecott
Kennecott is at the early stages of its South
Pushback project, which is expected to extend
thelifeofBinghamCanyonbyaccessing
additional copper units from approximately
510 million tonnes of ore reserves
(d)
.
Grasberg
Work to develop the large-scale, high-grade
underground orebodies located beneath and
nearby the Grasberg open pit continues. The
underground orebodies are expected to ramp
up over several years to approximately
240,000 tonnes of ore per day following the
anticipated transition from the Grasberg open
pit in early 2018.
Oyu Tolgoi
In May 2015, Rio Tinto signed an agreement
with the Government of Mongolia to enable
development of Oyu Tolgoi’s underground
mine to move forward. In December 2015, Oyu
Tolgoi signed a US$4.4 billion agreement to
finance the project. Oyu Tolgoi is working to
complete permitting and seek final project
approvals from the boards of Rio Tinto,
Turquoise Hill Resources and Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Mount Thorley Warkworth
In November 2015, after more than six years
planning the Mount Thorley Warkworth Mine
received approval from the NSW Planning
Assessment Commission (PAC) to continue to
mine. This consent supports an additional
21 years of operation, providing certainty for
the mine’s 1,300 employees and community
stakeholders for the operation’s future. A
challenge to the consent was filed by the
Bulga Milbrodale Progress Association Inc on
26 February 2016 and will be defended
by RTCA.
Greenfield projects
La Granja
(Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Located in northern Peru, the La Granja
project is one of the world’s largest
undeveloped copper resources. In 2015, the
Government of Peru granted an eight-year
extension of the Transfer Agreement that
allows Rio Tinto to continue to study and
explore the La Granja resource.
Resolution Copper
(Rio Tinto: 55 per cent)
The Resolution Copper project, located in
Arizona, US, is one of the world’s largest
undeveloped copper deposits. Drilling,
underground development and engineering
studies continue and the company expects a
comprehensive environmental review required
by National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
to begin in 2016.
Innovation
The Copper & Coal group is testing and
evaluating technologies to drive safety,
sustainability and productivity at its current
mines and expansions. The innovation portfolio
is being prioritised to ensure that the best
projects are being pursued, and that there is a
balance between short and long-term initiatives.
In copper, innovation efforts focus on four key
areas – primary sulphide leaching, large-scale
underground mining, energy and water
efficiency, and the application of automation
and information technologies.
In coal, the product group is implementing
projects to increase coal production and better
tailor its products to meet customer
specifications using existing infrastructure.
These include an integrated operations centre
in the Hunter Valley that opened in March 2015
and greater coal recovery through improving
wash plant performance.
Outlook
Copper
Rio Tinto continues to expect near-term
volatility in the copper market before a supply
gapbeginstoemergetowardsthelatterpartof
this decade. While near-term demand has
slowed, Rio Tinto expects China to continue to
be a key driver of commodity markets in the
next decade, after which demand from
emerging markets including India, South East
Asia,MiddleEast,LatinAmericaandAfricawill
make a growing contribution to overall
demand. Green technologies are also expected
to further support demand into the medium
term while the market is also likely to see
pressure from potential substitute materials in
some segments.
Coal
In 2015, thermal and metallurgical coal prices
have continued along the declining trend they
followed through most of the previous year.
Global seaborne coal trade is reducing in
response to lower pricing and strong domestic
production growth in India. In both thermal and
metallurgical coal, the influence of lower
Chinese demand has resulted in reduced net
import levels. Rio Tinto expects the difficult
price environment for coal to continue in the
medium term.
(c) See sales guidance in Freeport McMoran’s fourth
quarter 2015 earnings conference call presentation,
dated 26 January, and Rio Tinto’s Chartbook (available
on riotinto.com) for current guidance on metal strip
thresholds.
(d) This is only a portion of Rio Tinto Kennecott’s current
ore reserves. See Ore reserves section of this report for
Rio Tinto Kennecott’s ore reserves including breakout of
all metals and classifications.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 35
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Diamonds & Minerals
Financial performance
2015
US$ million
2014
US$ million
Revenue 3,674 4,783
Net cash generated
from operating
activities
1,010 1,184
Underlying earnings 189 269
Underlying earnings
excluding Simandou 230 324
Capital expenditure 446 562
Net operating assets 5,189 7,977
EBITDA 833 1,045
Strategy and strategic priorities
The Diamonds & Minerals product group has an
attractive portfolio of businesses that connect
customers and consumers all around the world
with products that enhance their quality of life.
Demand growth for diamonds and industrial
minerals typically comes mid-to-late in the
economic development cycle, following peak
requirements for commodities such as iron ore
and copper.
The product group’s strategy is focused on
operating low-cost, demand-led businesses.
Through its integrated marketing strategies
and insight, the product group creates and
grows global markets for its products to deliver
value for Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
The product group’s strategy is focused on:
– Operating demand-led, integrated
operations that can respond quickly to the
changing external environment.
– Creating and growing global markets
through technical research and
development and market insight.
– Improving operating performance by
reducing costs, driving productivity and
streamlining the organisation.
– Strengthening its position in traditional
segments and entering attractive
new markets.
Safety
In its pursuit of zero harm, the Diamonds &
Minerals product group continues to focus on
fostering a culture of accountability and
awareness among employees and improving
contractor safety. The product group’s all injury
frequency rate (AIFR) fell to 0.42 in 2015 from
0.53 in 2014. However despite this
improvement, there were three fatalities in the
product group during the year: at QIT
Madagascar Minerals (QMM), at Rio Tinto Fer
et Titane (RTFT) and at the Simandou project
inGuinea.Thegroupisredoublingitseffortsto
eliminate fatalities by placing an emphasis on
critical controls and robust process safety,
including rolling out a critical risk management
programme across the business.
With a workforce spanning multiple
geographies, languages and cultures, the
group faces unique health and safety
challenges. Managers use innovative strategies
and visible safety leadership to address these
and to train the workforce.
TheEbolaoutbreakinGuinea,whichtheWorld
Health Organization has now declared ended,
was a critical issue for the product group during
the year. The priority for Diamonds & Minerals
has been to ensure the health and safety of
employees, contractors and their families while
supporting the wider response to this epidemic.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
intensity across the product group improved
slightly in 2015 compared with 2014.
Emissions intensity for Rio Tinto Iron &
Titanium and Rio Tinto Diamonds improved
compared with 2014, while GHG emissions per
tonne of product were marginally higher at
Rio Tinto Minerals. The product group
continues to invest in the implementation of
more efficient equipment and technology, such
as the wind farm at Diavik.
Review of operations
The Diamonds & Minerals product group’s
underlying earnings of US$189 million were
30 per cent lower than 2014. This reflected
lower sales prices and reduced volumes in
response to soft market conditions, partly
offset by weaker exchange rates. In absolute
terms, cash operating costs were
US$832 million lower than 2014 (including a
US$342 million benefit from exchange rate
movements), although the earnings impact
waspartlyoffsetbytheunitcostimpactof
lower production. Net cash generated from
operating activities of US$1,010 million was
15 per cent lower than in 2014, due to lower
prices and sales volumes, partly mitigated by
further reductions in working capital. Capital
expenditure of US$446 million was 21 per cent
lower than in 2014.
Rio Tinto Diamonds (RTD)
RTD is a leading producer of rough diamonds,
with a product portfolio that provides a
presence in all major markets and market
segments. Rio Tinto’s diamonds assets
comprise the Argyle Diamond Mine in Australia
(Rio Tinto: 100 per cent), the Diavik Diamond
Mine in Canada (Rio Tinto: 60 per cent) and the
Bunder diamond project in India (Rio Tinto:
100 per cent). During 2015, Rio Tinto sold its
78 per cent interest in Murowa Diamonds in
Zimbabwe.RTDmarketsitsshareofrough
diamond production through a centralised
sales and marketing office.
It also has a high-end branded business based
in Perth, Australia, which polishes, markets and
sellsitsveryrareArgylepinkdiamonds.
RTD produced 17.4 million carats of rough
diamonds in 2015, 25 per cent higher than
2014. At Argyle, the ramp-up of production
from the underground mine delivered a
47 per cent increase in carats produced
compared with 2014. At Diavik, carats
recovered were 11 per cent lower than in
2014, attributable to processing plant pauses
in the fourth quarter and the absence of
stockpiled ore processed in 2014. Both
DiavikandArgylenowoperateasfully
underground mines.
Revenue in 2015 was 23 per cent lower
than in 2014, reflecting the impact of lower
prices and the disposal of Murowa, partially
offset by higher sales volumes from Argyle.
At US$79 million, 2015 earnings were
US$25 million lower than in 2014.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium (RTIT)
RTIT is the world’s largest producer of
high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks. It
mines ilmenite at its wholly-owned RTFT
operation in Canada, its managed operation
Richards Bay Minerals (RBM) in South Africa
(Rio Tinto: 74 per cent), and its QMM operation
in Madagascar (Rio Tinto: 80 per cent). RTIT
produces high-grade titanium dioxide
feedstocks at its world-class metallurgical
complexesatRTFTandRBMaswellas
valuable co-products including high purity iron,
steel, metal powders and zircon.
Titanium dioxide slag production was
25 per cent lower in 2015 than in 2014 at
1.1 million tonnes as RTIT continues to
optimise production to reflect weaker demand.
Two of nine furnaces at RTFT and one of four
furnaces at RBM are currently idled, reflecting
lower demand for high-grade feedstocks.
RTIT’s revenues fell by 28 per cent due to
lower sales volumes and lower prices for
titanium dioxide feedstocks, metallic products
and zircon. Earnings fell by 53 per cent to
US$116 million.
Rio Tinto Minerals (RTM)
RTM(RioTinto:100percent)suppliesover
30 per cent of the world’s refined borates from
its world-class deposit in Boron, California.
RTMalsohasboratesrefineriesand/or
shipping facilities in China, France, Malaysia,
the Netherlands, Spain and the US together
with the Jadar lithium-borate project
(Rio Tinto: 100 per cent) in Serbia.
Borates production of 476,000 tonnes boric
oxide equivalent was six per cent lower than in
2014, driven primarily by lower market
demand. Revenue was eight per cent lower
than in 2014, and earnings of US$103 million
were 15 per cent lower. During the year,
Rio Tinto Minerals successfully commissioned
the modified direct dissolving of kernite
(MDDK) facility, which allows for more
efficient orebody utilisation.
36 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Dampier Salt (DSL)
DSL (Rio Tinto: 68 per cent), the world’s largest
solar salt exporter, produces industrial salt by
solar evaporation of seawater at Dampier and
Port Hedland, and from underground brine at
Lake MacLeod, all in Western Australia. Salt is
sold principally to base chemical industry
markets in Asia.
Salt production of 5.5 million tonnes (Rio Tinto
share) was 18 per cent lower than 2014 as a
result of weaker demand. Earnings increased
33 per cent to US$24 million.
Uranium
The Uranium business comprises Energy
Resources of Australia Ltd (ERA, Rio Tinto:
68.4 per cent), which operates the Ranger Mine
in the Northern Territory of Australia and
Rössing Uranium Limited (Rio Tinto:
68.6 per cent) in Namibia, together with the
Roughrider project (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent) in
Canada’s Athabasca Basin. The Uranium
business became part of the Diamonds &
Minerals product group during 2015.
Uranium production of five million pounds
(Rio Tinto share) was 20 per cent higher than in
2014, with lower grades and recoveries more
than offset by a full year of production at ERA.
ERA continues to process existing stockpiles.
Revenues fell 25 per cent due to lower sales
volumes, however losses of US$42 million were
64 per cent lower than in 2014, including the
effect of cash cost savings and favourable
exchange rates.
On 11 June 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it
supported ERA’s decision not to proceed with
the Final Feasibility Study of the Ranger 3
Deeps project. Rio Tinto also determined that it
did not support any further study or the future
development of Ranger 3 Deeps due to the
project’s economic challenges. The group
recognised an impairment charge of
US$262 million (net of non-controlling
interests and tax) relating to its shareholding in
ERA at the half year.
Development projects
The development of the A21 kimberlite pipe
at Diavik is advancing as planned and will
provide an important source of incremental
production to maintain current volumes up
to the end of mine life. A21 is estimated to
cost US$350 million (Rio Tinto share
US$210 million), with first production
expected in 2018.
Work continued on the feasibility study for the
Zulti South mine expansion at RBM, which will
maintain low-cost RBM smelting capacity. The
mineral sands exploration programme in
Mozambique and other brownfield studies at
the group’s operations also continued
throughout the year.
TheSimandouironoreprojectinGuineaisone
of the largest-known undeveloped high-grade
iron ore orebodies in the world. On 26 May
2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project
partners signed an Investment Framework with
the Government of Guinea which provided the
legal and commercial foundation for the project
and formally separated the infrastructure and
mine development plan. The Simandou project
partners are currently finalising an integrated
Bankable Feasibility Study (BFS) for the mine,
port and infrastructure elements of the project,
which is scheduled to be submitted to the
Government of Guinea in May 2016. Given the
uncertainties associated with funding the
infrastructure, coupled with the volatility of the
current and near-term outlook for commodity
prices, the Group has undertaken a review of
the carrying value of the asset and determined
an impairment charge of US$1,118 million (net
of non-controlling interests and tax). In
finalising the integrated BFS, Rio Tinto will
maintain a dialogue with potential
infrastructure investors, in order to preserve
the potential of this world-class orebody.
The Bunder diamond project is progressing its
prefeasibility studies, which began in July 2010.
The project is seeking environmental and
forestry approvals before commencing the next
stage of the study.
The Jadar project in Serbia is a potentially
world-class lithium-borate deposit discovered
by Rio Tinto in 2004. If developed, it could
supply a significant proportion of global
demand for lithium and borates. Findings so
far are encouraging and prefeasibility
assessments are ongoing to confirm the
economic business case and advance the
environmental and social-economic impact
assessments for the project.
The Roughrider project is a uranium
exploration site located in Canada’s Athabasca
Basin in north-east Saskatchewan. The basin
supplies approximately 20 per cent of the
world’s uranium. In late 2015, Rio Tinto
completed an Order of Magnitude study on the
project. This led to the Group recognising a
post-tax impairment charge of US$199 million
relating to goodwill and intangible assets.
Technical oversight of the Roughrider project
has transitioned to Exploration.
In 2011, Diamonds & Minerals re-entered the
potash business through an exploration joint
venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc. (NAPI),
a subsidiary of JSC Acron. Acron is a world
leader in fertiliser production and holds
multiple potash exploration permits in
Saskatchewan, Canada. Rio Tinto remains in
discussions with NAPI and Acron regarding
the optimum development pathway for the
joint venture.
Outlook
Since 2013, demand softened in Diamonds &
Minerals’ markets in response to broader
economic trends. Markets are still challenging,
with the pace of recovery expected to be slower
than previously anticipated. However, the
medium- to long-term outlook continues to be
positive across all products as urbanisation and
rising standards of living, particularly in China,
drive higher levels of demand.
Demand for borates is expected to remain
relatively stable in the near term, with strong
demand growth in some end-use sectors being
partially offset by excess inventory build in the
valuechainsofothers.Thelong-termindustry
fundamentals remain attractive. RTM will focus
on increasing refined borates capacity to meet
higher-than-GDP demand growth while
achieving world-class safety performance and
improving its cost position.
Titanium dioxide pigment and feedstock
inventories across the supply chain remain
elevated. In response to weak demand and in
order to reduce operating costs and inventory,
RTIT has taken action at a number of its
operations, including temporary closures of
mining and processing facilities across the
business. Whilst the short-term market
conditions remain challenging, demand for
titanium dioxide feedstock is expected to
continue to grow in the medium- to long-term,
in line with improving global economic
conditions, urbanisation and demand growth in
emerging markets supported by rising per
capita incomes.
Rough and polished diamond inventories
remain high throughout the pipeline. Combined
with subdued demand from India and China,
this has led to lower prices in the short term.
Despite this downturn, the medium to
long-term fundamentals for the diamond
industry remain positive and are expected to
support sustainable future price growth as
inventories deplete and markets recover. The
global mineral resource base is steadily
declining, exacerbated by limited exploration
investment and success, and reductions in
supply over the medium to longer term.
Demand in India and China is estimated to pick
up as conditions improve. Demand in mature
markets is expected to continue to grow in line
with GDP.
The uranium market remains challenged due to
the lingering effects of the Fukushima accident
and delays in new reactor projects around the
world. However, some Japanese reactors
resumed operation in 2015, and China’s
new-build programme is gathering momentum.
Furthermore, increased global attention to
climate change and carbon emissions will
benefit the longer-term growth of nuclear
power around the world.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 37
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Iron Ore
Financial performance
2015
US$ million
2014
US$ million
Revenue 15,305 23,281
Net cash generated
from operating activities 6,061 10,274
Underlying earnings 3,952 8,107
Capital expenditure 1,726 4,211
Net operating assets 18,005 20,987
EBITDA 7,872 14,244
Strategy and strategic priorities
The Iron Ore product group focuses on three
strategic goals to maintain its position as the
best iron ore business in the world:
– Production at the right cost, with a total
focus on safety.
– Value-driven growth from disciplined
phasing and low-cost growth options.
– Maximising portfolio value through
specialist sales and marketing expertise.
Safety
In 2015, Iron Ore achieved a fatality-free year.
Theallinjuryfrequencyrateacrossthegroup
was 0.49 compared with 0.73 in 2014, a
32.9 per cent improvement. This improvement
is attributable to a number of ongoing
programmes that have strengthened safety
interactions and focus in the field.
Further engagement and visibility from
leadership teams continues positively
influencing safety culture, driving better
safety performance year-on-year across the
product group.
Iron Ore has also adopted critical risk
management as part of a fatality elimination
strategy aimed at embedding critical controls
across Rio Tinto’s managed operations. This
programme was introduced to supervisors in
2015 and will continue in 2016.
In Western Australia, Iron Ore launched a
wellbeing strategy across the business. Key
activities included a peer support programme
and a leader education programme focusing on
mental health awareness, managing stress and
building resilience. During 2015, Rio Tinto
Marine improved the safety culture aboard its
vessels, with training and welfare programmes
and critical risk controls, inspections and safety
performance reviews that will continue in 2016.
In a challenging year, Iron Ore Company of
Canada’s (IOC) (Rio Tinto share 58.7 per cent)
all injury frequency rate was 0.74 compared
with 0.66 last year. The continued roll-out of
critical risk management will ensure the focus
is on achieving the goal of zero harm.
The Pilbara Utilities team was named the
winner of the Chief Executive Safety Award in
2015 for the second year running. The award
recognises sites and teams with the best
annual safety performance, culture
and leadership.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Throughout 2015, Iron Ore continued to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions across mine, rail
and port operations.
Productivity projects in the Pilbara have also
focused on improving energy efficiency. For
example, fuel saving software has improved
fuel burn in excavators and trucks across
the operations.
Greenhouse gas intensity of saleable
production at IOC improved by 18 per cent
compared with the 2008 baseline. This was due
to an increase in the ratio of concentrate sales,
combined with operational efficiencies.
In total, the product group’s greenhouse gas
emissions intensity has improved by 7.6 per
cent on the baseline target set in 2008.
Review of operations
Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore
portfolio, with major operations and projects
spanning four continents. This includes
operations in the Pilbara region of Western
Australia and in Canada, and projects in
Guinea (see page 37) and India.
In the Pilbara region of Western Australia,
Rio Tinto operates the world’s largest
integrated portfolio of iron ore assets. This
system comprises 15 mines, four independent
port terminals, over 1,700km of the largest
privately-owned heavy freight railway in
Australia, and supporting infrastructure, all
linkedbytheOperationsCentreinPerth.
IOC operates a mine, concentrator and
pelletising plant in the Canadian province of
Newfoundland and Labrador, together with port
facilities in Sept-Îles, Quebec.
Rio Tinto Marine delivers shipping services to
the wider Rio Tinto Group, including Iron Ore.
In 2015 Iron Ore achieved underlying earnings
of US$3,952 million. Despite record sales
volumes and continued cash cost savings,
weaker iron ore prices, down 43 per cent on
average year-on-year, reduced earnings by
US$5,541 million on 2014.
Iron Ore shipments for 2015 were
336.6 million tonnes globally (Rio Tinto share:
270.9 million tonnes) an increase of 11.2 per
cent on 2014. This included IOC’s delivery of
9.6 million tonnes of pellets and 8.4 million
tonnes of concentrate for sale in 2015.
Iron ore production was 327.6 million tonnes
globally (Rio Tinto share: 263 million tonnes).
Sales exceeded production in 2015 due to the
drawdown of stockpiled iron ore inventory,
which is now largely depleted.
Strong quarterly production and sales were
achieved throughout the year as expanded
Pilbara infrastructure continued to integrate
with operations. Increased asset reliability
and performance also resulted in a record
year for IOC.
The Pilbara performance remained strong
despite interruptions throughout the year,
including a train derailment temporarily
blocking the rail access to the Dampier port,
and tropical cyclones Olwyn and Quang
interrupting coastal operations in the second
quarter. Inland Pilbara mines were also
impacted by unseasonal wet weather during
the second quarter and bush fires caused by
lightning strikes in the fourth quarter.
Contestable iron ore demand in 2015
decreased marginally to 1.72 billion tonnes.
During the year around 110 Mt of additional
iron ore supply entered the market with
approximately 130 Mt exiting. Chinese
domestic supply continues to struggle with
high operating costs due to the nature and
location of its iron ore reserves, which require
more processing than most seaborne supply.
Non-traditional supply (Iran, Russia, Ukraine,
Kazakhstan, Mexico, Indonesia and others),
whichpeakedin2013,hasalsodeclined
significantly due to sustained low prices.
In 2015, the iron ore price averaged around
US$50 per dry metric tonne (Platts 62 per cent
Fe FOB), down from an average of around
US$88 per dry metric tonne in 2014.
Rio Tinto Marine shipped 265 Mt of dry bulk
cargoonbehalfoftheentireRioTintoGroup,
an increase of 11 per cent on 2014. By volume,
Rio Tinto is the largest dry bulk shipping
business in the world, operating 17 vessels of
its own and contracting a fleet of around 200
vessels at any given time. Average freight rates
in 2015 tracked below 2014 and forward
voyage rate curves are flat, reflecting ongoing
vessel oversupply and low bunker fuel prices.
The construction and commissioning of the
Pilbara port and rail infrastructure expansion
were completed in mid-2015. Iron Ore
continues to ramp up this integrated system to
full capacity to generate maximum value.
A range of initiatives undertaken throughout
2015 resulted in pre-tax cash cost reductions
of US$428 million and have now delivered
US$1.1 billion of cumulative savings compared
with the 2012 base, making a significant
contribution to the wider Rio Tinto Group
pre-tax savings. Further efficiency
improvements reduced the Pilbara cash unit
costs to US$14.9 per tonne in 2015, compared
with US$19.5 per tonne in 2014. At the same
time, working capital levels across Iron Ore
were reduced by 83 per cent year on year
compared with 2014. These savings have been
achieved while increasing production by more
than ten per cent and improving safety
performance in 2015.
Initiatives included inventory reduction
measures that have reduced warehouse-
managed inventory by A$129 million
(US$94 million) for the year. Savings were also
achieved through supplier negotiations, and by
reducing 400,000 hours of maintenance time
with new “failure mode”-based tactics aimed at
improving asset reliability and removing all
38 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report low-value tasks from sites. Other initiatives
have improved train cycle time, increased plant
utilisation, and extended the life of heavy
mobile equipment across the Pilbara fleet.
IronOrecontinuestobetheworld’slargest
autonomous truck operator and a proud leader
in automated mining technologies. The Pilbara
fleet of autonomous haulage trucks and
autonomous drills continued to improve
performance in 2015.
The autonomous haulage system (AHS) truck
fleet is deployed across three sites in the
Pilbara, decreasing load and haul operating
costs by up to 13 per cent, and increasing
effective utilisation by up to 14 per cent
compared with a manned fleet. Software
upgrades during the year also improved
reliability. The AHS fleet currently comprises
71 trucks with 19 Komatsu 830E AHS trucks at
HopeDowns4,30Komatsu930EAHStrucks
at Nammuldi and 22 Komatsu 930E AHS
trucks at Yandicoogina.
This year, Iron Ore expanded the number of
fully autonomous drills operating at the West
AngelasmineinthePilbaratosevenand
successfully trialled their remote operation
from the Operations Centre in Perth.
Once implemented, AutoHaul
®
will be the
world’s first fully autonomous, heavy-haulage,
long-distance rail system. In 2015, the physical
installation work neared completion and trains
are being operated under controlled conditions
to demonstrate the safety and performance of
thesystem.Asattheendof2015,morethan
70,000km of mainline train trials have been
completed. AutoHaul
®
development will
continue, including submission of regulatory
approvals, completion of full system
functionality and, improvement of system
performance and reliability.
Iron Ore maintained its focus on supporting
local communities, Aboriginal Traditional
Owners, businesses and people located within
its operational footprint. The product group
continued actively implementing participation
agreements with Traditional Owners in the
Pilbara,whichsecurelandaccessforthelifeof
mining operations. These agreements
incorporate mutual obligations to deliver
outcomes in employment, financial
compensation, education and training, heritage
surveys and practices, environmental care and
land use.
Iron Ore also supported Pilbara Aboriginal
businesses to secure contracts in the Pilbara
and remains one of the largest private-sector
employers of Indigenous people in Australia,
with approximately 1,000 Indigenous
employees, including more than 350 Pilbara
Aboriginal people. Rio Tinto joined the
Australian campaign for constitutional
recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander people by formally supporting the
Recognise campaign in June 2015.
Iron Ore continues to support programmes and
initiatives across the Pilbara, our “fly in, fly out”
(FIFO) source communities in regional Western
Australia and Perth. Two keystone partnerships
include the Community Infrastructure and
Services Partnerships with the City of Karratha
andtheShireofAshburton.Thesefocuson
working together to make the Pilbara region a
better place to live and work through a shared
vision of improving town amenities and
revitalising communities.
IOC continued as a supplier of high-quality,
premium pellets and high-quality, low-
contaminant concentrate. The company
remains focused on increasing production to
nameplate capacity following completion of the
Concentrate Expansion Project in 2014 and
further reducing costs. Through effective
employee engagement, highly visible
leadership and improved asset management,
IOC shipped 26.2 per cent more tonnes in 2015
versus 2014. A C$45.3 concentrate operating
unit cost was achieved following a 19 per cent
reduction from 2014.
IOC continued to focus on building and
maintaining strong relationships with
Aboriginal groups through engagement,
consultation and collaboration. The company is
actively implementing two Aboriginal
agreements in Labrador to promote access to
Aboriginal business development and
employment opportunities. IOC also provided
support to Group-wide initiatives and
partnerships across Canada to encourage
opportunities for Aboriginal youth, including
support to undertake education and training.
Development projects
The Pilbara infrastructure expansions were
completed in mid-2015, delivering expanded
port and shipping capacity at Cape Lambert,
increased rail network capacity, improved
power and fuel supply and distribution, as well
as expanded and improved accommodation
and town facilities in the Pilbara.
A number of mine developments were also
completed throughout 2015 to sustain existing
operations and as part of the growth
programme. The West Angelas Deposit B
project achieved full production rates, allowing
the West Angelas operation to achieve 35 Mt/a
in the first quarter of the year, and the
Nammuldi Below Water Table project was fully
commissioned, achieving nameplate capacity.
The Yandicoogina project delivered first ore,
which will sustain the existing Yandicoogina
operation and increase capacity to 60 Mt/a. At
Western Turner Syncline 2, a road train
operation that began in May 2015 delivered an
additional 7 Mt/a at Tom Price.
Thebrownfieldminegrowthisbeingachieved
at an average mine production capital intensity
of approximately US$9 per tonne. It is expected
that the full infrastructure expansion will be
delivered at an industry-leading capital
intensity of US$100-110 per tonne.
Pilbara mine production capacity increased
through a series of low-cost brownfield
expansions and operational improvements
which were undertaken during 2015.
Following completion of the Pilbara
infrastructure and brownfield expansions in the
first half of 2015, the focus has shifted to the
Nammuldi Incremental Tonnes (NIT) project,
which delivers high-grade, low-phosphorous
ore into the Pilbara Blend. The initial phase,
with a five million tonne per annum capacity,
started production in the fourth quarter of
2015. Construction has begun on the second
phase, which will take annual capacity from the
NIT project up from five to ten million tonnes
and is due to come into production in the fourth
quarter of 2016.
The Wickham town upgrade project was
completed in September 2015. This
US$300 million project supports the Cape
Lambert port and rail operations workforce
and included the construction of more than
240 houses, the Wickham Lodge FIFO
accommodation and the Julutharndu Maya
Central Facilities building as well as new parks,
roads and other community infrastructure.
Construction of the A$18 million Dampier
Community hub began in the second quarter of
2015, followed by the announcement in the
fourth quarter of an A$8 million contribution for
construction and operation of the Wickham
community hub. These projects at the coastal
operations will improve community amenity by
providing childcare and after-school services,
youth services, library services and facilities for
other community groups and activities.
During 2015, engagement continued with our
partners (Orissa Mining Corporation
(44 per cent) and the National Mineral
Development Corporation (5 per cent) on the
Odisha iron ore project in India. The current
focusisonprogressingjointventure
arrangements with project partners and the
Odisha state government.
Outlook
Continuing low prices will challenge many iron
ore suppliers. However seaborne supply is
expected to continue to outpace demand
growth in the near term.
Contestable iron ore demand is likely to remain
flat in 2016 with new iron ore supply entering
themarketlikelytobeoffsetbythecontinued
exits of marginal production. Over the medium
term we expect contestable iron ore demand to
grow by around 1.3 per cent CAGR until 2030.
This equates to approximately 370 Mt of
incremental demand, with around 20 per cent
expected to be driven by China.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 39
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Exploration
Rio Tinto has had a sustained commitment to
exploration since 1946, with an exceptional
track record in mineral discovery. Mature
operations such as Weipa and the Pilbara were
Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto
Exploration where value is still being realised
after more than 50 years of production.
Strategy and strategic priorities
Exploration creates value for Rio Tinto by
discovering or acquiring well-located,
high-grade Tier 1 resources. Its work spans
greenfield and brownfield exploration
programmesaswellasresearchand
development that supports exploration.
Greenfield exploration aims to establish
completely new operating business units,
including diversifying into new commodities or
geographic areas. Brownfield exploration looks
to sustain or grow existing Group businesses in
the orbit of existing operations.
The Exploration group also supports a range of
projects across the business, providing orebody
knowledge, helping evaluate merger and
acquisition opportunities and providing resource
insights to support supply forecasts. During
2015, Exploration reviewed the orebody
knowledge content for all projects that were
progressed to the Investment Committee.
Community, sustainability and investment
requirements mean it can take over 20 years to
progress from initial exploration through to
discovery and on to a final development
decision. Rio Tinto’s core exploration capability
and rigorous global prioritisation process has
consistently delivered Tier 1 discoveries, which
inthelasttenyearsinclude:
Year Discovery Commodity Location
2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia
2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique
2009 Jadar Lithium/
borates
Serbia
2011 Amargosa Bauxite Brazil
2013 KP405 Potash Canada
2014 Yandi Braid Iron ore Australia
2015 Mount
Thorley
Warkworth/
Hunter
Valley
Coking coal Australia
At the end of 2015, the Exploration group was
active in 18 countries and assessing
opportunities in other countries across a range
of commodities including copper, nickel, iron
ore, bauxite, coking coal, uranium, diamonds
and mineral sands. Exploration activities in
China were conducted through CRTX, the joint
venture between Chinalco (51 per cent) and
Rio Tinto (49 per cent). The Exploration group is
organised into regional multi-commodity teams
based in Melbourne, London, Salt Lake City,
Perth, Brisbane and Beijing, which are
supported by a team of technical and
commodity professionals. This structure
provides a global reach with a local presence
that allows for effective community
engagement and development of the Group’s
social licence to operate.
Safety
In 2015, Exploration achieved a fatality-free year.
At the end of 2015 the Exploration group’s all
injury frequency rate was 0.43, sustaining the
improvement from the 0.47 rate at the end of
2014. A multi-year change programme across the
Exploration group has helped to sustain the
significant safety improvement gained in 2013.
During 2015, Exploration undertook a review of
past incidents that had resulted in fatalities on
exploration projects. The aim was to understand
how and why those fatal events occurred and try
to ensure that they do not happen again. The
findings were compiled as a series of case studies
for the group to learn from. This increased focus
on fatality prevention across the Exploration
group continued, with planning for a number of
pilot projects under way to trial the roll-out of the
Rio Tinto critical risk management programme.
Performance
During 2015, with the support of a more visible
communication strategy, commercial activities
increased, providing access to new projects and
supporting the progression of projects through
the Exploration project pipeline. Exploration
joint ventures were established in the US, Chile,
Serbia and Australia. Divestment activities
continue for projects not of interest to Rio Tinto.
At the Roughrider uranium project in
Saskatchewan, orebody knowledge progressed
with geological and structural interpretation
and resource modelling. At the Sanxai bauxite
project in Laos, ongoing exploration provided
greater certainty around resource quality, while
infrastructure studies targeted a range of
options for transporting the ore to a suitable
port location. The Amargosa bauxite project in
Brazil has progressed, with drilling and mapping
advancing a number of brownfield areas in the
Amargosa orbit as well as adding new prospects
in the region. Brownfield projects generated
good drilling results at iron ore projects in the
Pilbara, coking coal projects in the Hunter
Valley and Bowen Basin, and for bauxite in the
Weipa orbit in Australia. In the Bingham orbit in
the US, drilling continued to extend the
mineralisation envelope.
Exploration activities are underpinned by data
and information management. Targeted capture
of publicly available data and a focus on data
accuracy and availability has continued to drive
efficiency improvements. Research and
development projects have progressed in 2015.
New analytical techniques for mineral
geochemistry that support exploration targeting
were applied across a number of regions and
are proving attractive to potential exploration
joint venture partners. Progress continued on
the development of the VK1 airborne gravity
gradiometer, with a continuing improvement in
detection levels achieved in 2015.
In addition to Exploration’s projects, the Group’s
major evaluation projects in 2015 were:
Project Commodity Country
La Granja Copper Peru
Resolution Copper US
Pilbara Iron ore Australia
Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia
Hunter Valley Thermal coal Australia
Zulti South Mineral sands South Africa
Jadar Lithium/borates Serbia
Simandou Iron ore Guinea
Weipa Bauxite Australia
In 2015, the Group reduced its exploration and
evaluation expenditure to US$576 million
(a)
.
This represented a 23 per cent decrease
compared with 2014 expenditure of
US$747 million. Of the 2015 spend,
US$141 million relates to centrally-controlled
exploration and evaluation activity. In total,
Rio Tinto’s 2015 exploration and evaluation
activity covered eight commodities across a
range of greenfield and brownfield
environments.
Outlook
In 2016 the Exploration group will continue to
work on a prioritised portfolio of greenfield and
brownfield projects. The continued downturn in
commodity prices is expected to produce
further cost-effective commercial opportunities
to gain access to high-quality exploration
properties. However, challenges are expected to
continue around timeframes to access ground,
the need to increasingly explore for orebodies
beneath cover rocks, and the decreasing grade
and quality of potential orebodies. The
Exploration group will focus on project
generation in a number of key geographies, as
well as testing of targets within the portfolio.
For 2016, exploration projects at a more
advanced stage are listed in the table below:
Project Commodity Country Type Stage
Tamarack Nickel US Greenfield Project of Merit
Roughrider
(b)
Uranium Canada Greenfield Order of Magnitude
Sanxai Bauxite Laos Greenfield Project of Merit
Amargosa orbit Bauxite Brazil Greenfield Order of Magnitude
Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia Brownfield Project of Merit
Pilbara Iron ore Australia Brownfield Project of Merit
(a) An additional US$8 million gain on disposal of undeveloped evaluation projects was recorded separately in profit/(loss)
relating to interest in undeveloped projects in the income statement.
(b) As noted on page 37, an impairment charge has been recognised on this project.
40 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Technology & Innovation
In close partnership with our product groups,
Technology & Innovation (T&I) provides
leadership in the fields of technical excellence,
productivity, major capital projects, technical
assurance and strategic planning. It has a track
record of creating value and implementing
step-change initiatives that help maintain the
Group’s competitive advantage. Gross costs in
2015 were US$204 million compared with
US$340 million in 2014 and US$370 million
in 2013.
Strategy and strategic priorities
T&I’s strategic priorities are to deliver
world-classprojectsanddriveoperating
excellence. In 2015 the productivity team was
restructured to focus on selected Group-wide,
high-value projects.
Safety
In 2015, T&I achieved a fatality-free year. T&I is
committed to the safety of our employees. The
all injury frequency rate for T&I was 0.44 in
2015 compared with 0.57 in 2014. This
improvement is a result of a leadership focus
on zero harm, particularly areas of risk that
have the potential for fatal injury. This year,
Rio Tinto Projects, the team that is responsible
for major project delivery in the Group, focused
on five areas of improvement: incorporating
health, safety, environment and communities
(HSEC) aspects in project design; leadership
and engagement to build a safety culture;
critical risk management; learning from
incidents; and being work-ready.
Performance
Projects
In 2015, T&I successfully completed
construction of the Kitimat Modernisation
ProjectinCanadainaccordancewiththe
revised schedule and budget. In the Pilbara, T&I
completed the infrastructure components of
theIronOrePilbaraexpansion.Thisincluded
the expansion of port and shipping capacity at
Cape Lambert, laying additional track and rail
infrastructure, fuel facilities and the expansion
of accommodation and town facilities. It has
been delivered on time and more than
US$800 million below budget. During the year,
T&I completed the following mine expansions
in the Pilbara:
– 21 Mt/a Nammuldi below-water-table project
– West Angelas Deposit B project, increasing
capacity to 35 Mt/a
– Yandicoogina sustaining project, increasing
capacity to 60 Mt/a
– Western Turner Syncline 2 road
train operation
T&I continued execution of the Holden
Environmental Remediation project, US; East
Waste Rock Extension project, Rio Tinto
Kennecott; and AutoHaul
®
project, Pilbara. It
commenced project execution of the
US$1.9 billion Amrun bauxite project. T&I also
provided execution planning and preparation
work into the following studies:
– Oyu Tolgoi underground copper project,
Mongolia
– Hail Creek coal project, Australia
– Zulti South, mineral sands, South Africa
– Jadar lithium-borate deposit, Serbia
– Simandou iron ore project, Guinea
– Silvergrass and Koodaideri iron ore mines,
Pilbara, Australia
T&I’s capital effectiveness programme applies
capital intensity tools to focus on cost
reduction and has already delivered strong
results at the Amrun and Silvergrass projects.
The Technical Assurance team independently
assesses investment decisions for the Rio Tinto
Investment Committee and board. Its work has
helped ensure the right projects are supported
and prioritised in line with the capital
expenditure plan for the year. In 2015,
the post-investment review programme,
which extracts the lessons from past
investments in order to improve future
projects, continued to help improve the
assurance process for investments.
Productivity
The Productivity programme, which aims to
generate more out of every dollar invested in
Rio Tinto’s business, made significant progress
during 2015. This included establishing:
– Technical Discipline Leadership group to
identify and embed world-class practices
that will improve Group productivity,
manage technical risk and improve
discipline health across the Group.
– World-Class Asset Management
productivity programme to improve
Group-wide asset performance through
optimising asset servicing, standardised
maintenance and predictive asset health.
– Energy Productivity programme to
increase performance in energy sourcing,
consumption and productivity of the
Group’senergy-intensiveassetsthrough
transparent energy measurement, power
optimisation, diesel efficiency initiatives
and alternative energy sources.
The programme also implemented T&I’s
smart-data architecture, metrics and analytics
strategy, enhancing the Group’s ability
to predict performance and increase
productivity gains.
Innovation
The Mine of the Future™ programme continued
to progress and deliver value to Rio Tinto in the
areas of productivity and HSEC improvement:
– Autonomous Haulage System:
71 autonomous trucks in operation across
threesitesinthePilbaraatyearend.
– Testing and verification of the AutoHaul
®
autonomous rail system continued, with
70,000km of mainline trials completed by
end of 2015.
– Expansion of the autonomous drill fleet at
theWestAngelasmine,theworld’sfirst
fully autonomous drill mine, has
contributed to more than 2.5 million metres
of drilling in autonomous mode.
– Automated train load-out systems were
installed, helping Iron Ore deliver
approximately 1.6 Mt of extra rail capacity.
– Remote Draft Survey technology is being
deployed to make ship loading safer by
calculating the air and water draft around a
bulk carrier. A functional enhancement is
being developed to improve loading times
and volumes.
– Resistate Indicator Minerals technology was
applied to improve the productivity of
copper and diamonds exploration.
– RTVis™: Extension of this visualisation
software to all sites in the Pilbara enabled
an increase in the recovery of high-grade
oreandsavingsinexplosivescosts.
Outlook
In2016,T&I’sfocuswillbeonthree
strategic capabilities:
• delivery of major projects;
• technical excellence; and
• improving performance through
innovation and analytics.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 41
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial overview
ThekeymetricsforGroupfinancial
management and planning are summarised
below:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Underlying
earnings
(a)
4,540 9,305 10,217
Net (loss)/
earnings
(a)
(866) 6,527 3,665
Net cash generated
from operating
activities 9,383 14,286 15,078
Net debt 13,783 12,495 18,055
Total capital
(b)
57,911 67,089 71,557
(a) Underlying earnings is a key financial performance
indicator which management uses internally to assess
performance. It is presented here as a measure of
earnings to provide greater understanding of the
underlying business performance of the Group. Items
excluded from net (loss)/earnings to arrive at
underlying earnings are explained in note 2 to the
financial statements. Both net (loss)/earnings and
underlying earnings deal with amounts attributable to
the owners of Rio Tinto. However, IFRS requires that the
profit for the year reported in the income statement
should also include earnings attributable to
non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
(b) Total capital is defined as equity attributable to owners
of Rio Tinto plus equity attributable to non-controlling
interests plus net debt.
Underlying earnings of US$4.5 billion was
US$4.8 billion lower than 2014. Cash cost
improvements, higher volumes, lower energy
costs, positive currency and other movements
(totalling US$2.9 billion post-tax) partly offset
the US$7.7 billion (post-tax) impact of lower
commodity prices.
The main items excluded from underlying
earnings which resulted in the net loss of
US$0.9 billion were non-cash exchange losses
of US$3.3 billion (post-tax), impairment
charges of US$1.8 billion (post-tax) and
US$0.3 billion (post-tax) in restructuring costs,
including global headcount reductions.
Net cash generated from operating activities,
which include dividends from equity accounted
units,reflectthenegativeimpactoflower
commodity prices partially offset by lower
taxes paid and further improvements in
working capital.
Net debt increased from US$12.5 billion at
31 December 2014 to US$13.8 billion at
31 December 2015 as free cash flow only
partially funded the US$2.0 billion share
buy-back.
Netdebttototalcapital(gearingratio)
increased from 19 per cent at 31 December
2014 to 24 per cent at 31 December 2015.
Interest cover was seven times down from
13 times coverage in 2014. Much of the
increase in the gearing ratio was driven by the
US$10.5 billion decline in shareholders’ equity
from 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2015,
mainly attributable to weaker Australian and
Canadian currencies along with the share
buy-back and dividend payments.
In addition to the information provided on the
product groups on pages 32 to 39, further
information on their financial performance can
be found in note 2 and 3 to the financial
statements on pages 125 to 128 and the
financial information by business unit on
pages 194 to 197.
42 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Five year review
Selected financial data
The selected consolidated financial information below has been derived from the historical audited consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto
Group. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with, and qualified in their entirety by reference to, the 2015 financial
statements and notes thereto. The primary financial statements and notes as included on pages 107 to 189 have been prepared in accordance with
IFRS as defined in note 1.
Rio Tinto Group
Income statement data extracts
For the years ended 31 December
Amounts in accordance with IFRS
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Consolidated sales revenue 34,829 47,664 51,171 50,942 60,529
Group operating profit/(loss)
(a)
3,615 11,346 7,430 (1,925) 14,037
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (1,719) 6,499 1,079 (3,020) 6,800
Loss after tax from discontinued operations – – – (7) (10)
(Loss)/profit for the year (1,719) 6,499 1,079 (3,027) 6,790
Basic (losses)/earnings per share
(b)
– From continuing operations (US cents) (47.5) 353.1 198.4 (163.4) 303.9
– From discontinued operations (US cents) – – – (0.4) (0.5)
Basic (loss)/profit for the year per share (US cents) (47.5) 353.1 198.4 (163.8) 303.4
Diluted (losses)/earnings per share
(b)
– (Loss)/profit from continuing operations (US cents) (47.5) 351.2 197.3 (163.4) 302.0
– Loss after tax from discontinued operations (US cents) – – – (0.4) (0.5)
Diluted (loss)/profit for the year per share (US cents) (47.5) 351.2 197.3 (163.8) 301.5
Dividends per share 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Dividends declared in respect of the year
US cents
–interim 107.5 96.0 83.5 72.5 54.0
–final 107.5 119.0 108.5 94.5 91.0
UK pence
–interim 68.92 56.9 54.3 46.4 33.1
–final 74.21 78.0 65.8 60.3 57.3
Australian cents
–interim 144.91 103.1 93.0 68.5 49.8
–final 151.89 153.0 120.14 91. 7 84.2
Dividends paid during the year (US cents)
–ordinary 226.5 204.5 178.0 163.5 117.0
Weighted average number of shares – basic (millions) 1824.7 1,848.4 1,847.3 1,849.1 1,923.1
Weighted average number of shares – diluted (millions)
(b)
1824.7 1,858.7 1,857.7 1,849.1 1,935.5
Balance sheet data extracts
at 31 December
Amounts in accordance with IFRS
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Total assets 91,564 107,827 111,025 118,437 120,152
Share capital/premium 8,474 9,053 9,410 10,189 10,024
Total equity/net assets 44,128 54,594 53,502 57,740 58,884
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 37,349 46,285 45,886 46,553 52,199
(a) Group operating profit or loss includes the effects of charges and reversals resulting from impairments (other than impairments of equity accounted units) and profit and loss on disposals
of interests in businesses. Group operating profit or loss amounts shown above excludes equity accounted operations, finance items, tax and discontinued operations.
(b) The effects of dilutive securities have not been taken into account when calculating diluted loss per share for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2012, in accordance with IAS 33
“Earnings Per Share”.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 43
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ approval statement
This Strategic report is delivered in accordance
with a resolution of the board, and has been
signed on behalf of the board by:
Jan du Plessis
Chairman
2 March 2016
44 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Contents
Directors’ report
Dual listed structure
and constitutional documents 46
Operating and financial review 46
Risk identification, assessment
and management 47
Share capital 47
Purchases 48
Substantial shareholders 49
Dividends 49
Directors 49
Secretaries 49
Corporate governance 49
Indemnities and insurance 49
Employment policies and communication 49
Political donations 49
Government regulations 49
Environmental regulations 49
Greenhouse gas emissions 50
Exploration, research and development 50
Auditors 50
Fees for audit and non-audit services 50
Financial instruments 50
Board of directors 51
Executive Committee 54
Corporate governance 55
Remuneration Report 67
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 45
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ report
The directors present their report and audited
consolidated financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2015.
Dual listed structure and
constitutional documents
An explanation of the dual listed companies
(DLC) structure of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Limited, and aspects of the Companies’
constitutional provisions can be found on pages
236 to 242. That section provides a description
of voting arrangements, including restrictions
whichmayapplyinrespectofthesharesof
either Company under specified circumstances.
Operating and financial review
The Strategic report set out on pages 1 to 43
provides a comprehensive review of Rio Tinto’s
operations, its financial position and its
business strategies and prospects, and is
incorporated by reference into, and forms part
of,thisdirectors’report.
Rio Tinto’s principal activities during 2015 were
minerals and metals exploration, development,
production and processing.
Pages42to43oftheStrategicreportprovidea
comprehensive review of the performance of
Rio Tinto’s operations for the year ended
31 December 2015 and the outlook for
those operations.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings
principally affecting the profits or net assets of
the Group in the year are listed in notes 33 to
36 to the financial statements.
Significant changes and events affecting the
Group during 2015 and until the date of this
report have been:
– On 12 February 2015, the Group
announced a proposed US$2 billion capital
return programme, comprising the
repurchase of a targeted A$500 million of
Rio Tinto Limited shares by way of an
off-market buy-back tender, and the
balance of approximately US$1.6 billion
by way of an on-market buy-back of
Rio Tinto plc shares.
– On 27 February 2015, the Group
announced that it would streamline its
product groups and corporate functions as
part of the continued focus on efficiency
and costs. Under the revised
arrangements, Rio Tinto’s world-class
portfolio of assets was condensed into four
product groups: Aluminium, Copper & Coal,
Diamonds & Minerals, and Iron Ore.
– On 24 March 2015, Rio Tinto and joint
venture partner Alcoa agreed to terminate a
historic State Agreement Act intended to
facilitate the mining of bauxite and the
development of an alumina refinery in the
north Kimberley region, clearing the way for
the area to be included in the Kimberley
National Park.
– On 7 April 2015, Rio Tinto successfully
completed the off-market buy-back tender
of Rio Tinto Limited shares. That buy-back
was increased to A$560 million from the
indicative A$500 million announced, due to
strong demand. The buy-back price was
A$48.44 per share which represented a
discount of 14 per cent to the market price
for Rio Tinto Limited shares. Rio Tinto
Limited bought back around 11.6 million
shares, at an aggregate cost of
approximately A$0.6 billion (US$0.4 billion).
This represented 2.65 per cent of Rio Tinto
Limited’s issued capital (0.63 per cent
of the Rio Tinto Group’s issued capital)
at the time.
– On 18 May 2015, the Government of
Mongolia, Turquoise Hill Resources and
Rio Tinto signed the Underground Mine
Development and Financing Plan (UDP)
which provides a pathway forward in
addressing shareholder matters to restart
underground development. Next steps
included approval of the underground
feasibility study, as well as securing all
necessary permits for operating the
underground mine.
– On 11 June 2015, Rio Tinto acknowledged
Energy Resources of Australia Ltd’s (ERA)
release to the Australian Securities
Exchange in which ERA announced it had
decided it would not proceed with the Final
Feasibility Study of the Ranger 3 Deeps
project in the current operating
environment. Rio Tinto agreed with the
decision not to progress the study. After
careful consideration, Rio Tinto determined
that it did not support any further study or
the future development of Ranger 3 Deeps
due to the project’s economic challenges.
Rio Tinto recognised the importance of
ongoing rehabilitation work at the Ranger
mine site, which is surrounded by the
KakaduNationalPark.RioTintoisengaged
with ERA on a conditional credit facility to
assist ERA to fund its rehabilitation
programme, should additional funding be
required beyond ERA’s existing cash
reserves and the future earnings from
processing ore stockpiles.
– On 12 June 2015, Rio Tinto announced that
ithadpricedUS$1.2billionof10-yearfixed
rate SEC-registered debt securities. The
bonds were issued by Rio Tinto Finance
(USA) Limited and are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc
and Rio Tinto Limited. The notes will pay a
coupon of 3.75 per cent and will mature on
15 June 2025.
– On 26 June 2015, Rio Tinto announced that
ithadcompletedthesaleofits78percent
interest in Murowa Diamonds and
50 per cent interest in Sengwa Colliery Ltd
(Sengwa) to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited.
RioZim Limited, an independent
Zimbabwean mining company listed on the
Zimbabwean Stock Exchange, already held
a 22 per cent interest in Murowa Diamonds
and a 50 per cent interest in Sengwa and
has assumed the overall management of
both entities.
– On 7 July 2015, Rio Tinto announced it was
planning its first shipments of metal from
its world-class Kitimat aluminium smelter
in Canada following an extensive
modernisation and expansion of the facility.
– On 30 September 2015, Rio Tinto
announced that it had reached a binding
agreementforthesaleofits40percent
interest (on completion of the restructure
outlined below) in the Bengalla coal Joint
Venture in Australia to New Hope
Corporation Limited for US$606 million.
Rio Tinto also announced that it and
Mitsubishi Development had agreed a
change to the ownership structure of Coal &
Allied. Under that agreement, Rio Tinto
agreed to assume 100 per cent ownership
of Coal & Allied and Mitsubishi
Development agreed to move from holding
a20percentstakeinCoal&Alliedto
holding a direct 32.4 per cent stake in the
Hunter Valley Operations mine.
– On 27 November 2015, Rio Tinto
announced that it will expand output from
one of the world’s premier bauxite deposits
following approval of the US$1.9 billion
Amrun project.
– On 15 December 2015, Rio Tinto
announced that Oyu Tolgoi in Mongolia had
secured project finance for the underground
mine development with commitments by
international financial institutions and
export credit agencies representing the
governments of the United States, Canada
and Australia, along with 15 commercial
banks.
– On 18 December 2015, Rio Tinto
successfully completed the US$2 billion
share buy-back programme of which
US$1.6 billion approximately was
completed through the on-market purchase
of Rio Tinto plc shares.
– On 27 January 2016, Rio Tinto announced
that it had reached a binding agreement for
the sale of its Mount Pleasant thermal coal
assets to MACH Energy Australia Pty Ltd for
US$224 million plus royalties.
Detailsofeventsafterthebalancesheetdate
are further described in note 43 to the financial
statements.
46 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Risk identification, assessment and
management
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties
are set out on pages 14 to 21. The Group’s
approach to risk management is discussed on
page 14.
Share capital
DetailsoftheGroup’ssharecapitalasat
31 December 2015 can be found at notes 27
and 28 to the financial statements. Details of
therightsandobligationsattachedtoeach
classofsharescanbefoundonpages240to
241 under the heading “Voting”.
Where under an employee share plan operated
bytheCompany,participantsarethebeneficial
owners of the shares, but not the registered
owners, the voting rights are normally
exercised by the registered owner at the
direction of the participant.
Details of certain restrictions on holding shares
in Rio Tinto and certain consequences triggered
on a change of control are described on page
237 under the heading “Limitations on
ownership of shares and merger obligations”.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer
of ordinary Rio Tinto shares save for:
– restrictions that may from time-to-time be
imposed by laws, regulations or Rio Tinto
policy (for example, those relating to
market abuse or insider dealing or share
trading or those relating to Australian
foreign investment);
– restrictions on the transfer of shares that
may be imposed following a failure to supply
information required to be disclosed, or in
relation to unmarketable parcels of shares;
– restrictions on the transfer of shares held
under certain employee share plans while
they remain subject to the plan.
At the annual general meetings held in 2015,
shareholders authorised:
– the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc or
Rio Tinto Limited or its subsidiaries, of up to
141,381,390 Rio Tinto plc shares
(representing approximately ten per cent of
Rio Tinto plc’s issued share capital,
excluding Rio Tinto plc shares held in
Treasury, at that time);
– the off-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc of
up to 141,381,390 Rio Tinto plc shares
acquired by Rio Tinto Limited or its
subsidiaries under the above authority; and
– the off-market and/or on-market buy-back
by Rio Tinto Limited of up to 43.5 million
Rio Tinto Limited shares (representing
approximately ten per cent of Rio Tinto
Limited’s issued share capital at the time).
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 47
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ report
continued
Purchases
Rio Tinto plc shares of 10p each and Rio Tinto plc ADRs
(m)
Total number
(a)
of shares
purchased
Average price
(b)
paid per
share US$
Total number
of shares
purchased to
satisfy company
dividend
reinvestment
plans
Total number
of shares
purchased to
satisfy employee
share plans
Total number
(c)
of shares
purchased as
part of publicly
announced plans
or programmes
Maximum
number of
shares that may
be purchased
under plans
or programmes
(d)
2015
1 to 31 Jan – – – – – 141,340,869
(f)
1 to 28 Feb 872,900 49.33 – – 872,900 140,467,969
(f)
1 to 31 Mar 3,284,549 44.14 – – 3,284,549 137,183,420
(f)
1 to 30 Apr 3,097,730 43.01 704,316 67,250 2,326,164 140,201,426
(g)
1 to 31 May 2,898,800 45.56 – – 2,898,800 137,302,626
(g)
1 to 30 Jun 3,335,900 43.75 – – 3,335,900 133,966,726
(g)
1 to 31 Jul 4,594,612 39.65 – – 4,594,612 129,372,114
(g)
1 to 31 Aug 4,385,676 37.94 – 44,576 4,341,100 125,031,014
(g)
1 to 30 Sep 6,307,627 35.59 1,108,716 81,667 5,117,244 119,913,770
(g)
1 to 31 Oct 4,181,712 36.89 – 4,181,712 115,732,058
(g)
1 to 30 Nov 6,030,000 34.86 – 760,000 5,270,000 110,462,058
(g)
1 to 31 Dec 4,689,900 30.27 – – 4,689,900 105,772,158
(g)
Total 43,679,406
(e)
38.44 1,813,032 953,493 40,912,881 –
2016
1 to 31 Jan – – – – – 105,722,158
(g)
1 to 15 Feb – – – – – 105,722,158
(g)
Rio Tinto Limited shares
Total number
(a)
of shares
purchased
Average price
(b)
paid per
share US$
Total number
of shares
purchased to
satisfy company
dividend
reinvestment
plans
Total number
of shares
purchased to
satisfy employee
share plans
Total number
(c)
of shares
purchased as
part of publicly
announced plans
or programmes
Maximum
number of
shares that may
be purchased
under plans
or programmes
(d)
2015
1 to 31 Jan – – – – – 43,500,000
(i)
1 to 28 Feb – – – – – 43,500,000
(i)
1 to 31 Mar – – – – – 43,500,000
(i)
1 to 30 Apr 12,654,874 37.60
(j)
1,060,925 27,641 1,566,308
(k)
31,933,692
(i)
1 to 31 May – – – – – 43,500,000
(l)
1 to 30 Jun 5,000 43.44 – 5,000 – 43,500,000
(l)
1 to 31 Jul 5,000 39.49 – 5,000 – 43,500,000
(l)
1 to 31 Aug 9,161 37.62 – 9,161 – 43,500,000
(l)
1 to 30 Sep 1,196,925 37.11 1,160,344 36,581 – 43,500,000
(l)
1 to 31 Oct – – – – – 43,500,000
(l)
1 to 30 Nov 695,000 34.38 – 695,000 – 43,500,000
(l)
1 to 31 Dec 304,968 32.15 – 304,968 – 43,500,000
(l)
Total 14,870,928 37.30
(j)
2,221,269 1,083,351
(h)
11,566,308 –
2016
1 to 31 Jan – – – – – 43,500,000
(l)
1 to 15 Feb – – – – – 43,500,000
(l)
(a) Monthly totals of purchases are based on settlement date.
(b) The shares were purchased in the currency of the stock exchange on which the purchases took place and the sale price has been converted into US dollars at the exchange rate on the day
of settlement.
(c) Shares purchased in connection with the dividend reinvestment plans and employee share plans are not deemed to form part of any publicly announced plan or programme.
(d) On 12 February 2015, Rio Tinto announced a US$2.0 billion buy-back programme comprising a targeted A$500 million (c. US$425 million) off-market share buy-back tender of Rio Tinto
Limited shares and the balance of approximately US$1.6 billion for an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares.
(e) This figure represents 3.15 per cent of Rio Tinto plc issued share capital at 31 December 2015.
(f) At the Rio Tinto plc annual general meeting held in 2014, shareholders authorised the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited, and its subsidiaries of up to 141,340,869
Rio Tinto plc shares.
(g) At the Rio Tinto plc annual general meeting held in 2015, shareholders authorised the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited, and its subsidiaries of up to 141,381,390
Rio Tinto plc shares.
(h) The average price of shares purchased on-market by the trustee of Rio Tinto Limited’s employee share trusts during 2015 was US$34.19.
(i) At the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting held in 2014 shareholders authorised off-market or on-market buy-back of up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited shares.
(j) The ‘Average price paid per share’ includes the off-market share buy-back by Rio Tinto Limited.
(k) The shares were puchased at A$48.44 per share under the Rio Tinto Limited off-market share buy-back, representing a 14 per cent discount to the relevant market price.
(l) At the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting held in 2015 shareholders authorised off-market and/or on-market buy-back of up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited shares.
(m) The table does not include 5,743 units repurchased pursuant to a Rio Tinto rescission offer in March 2015. That offer related to the purchase of ordinary shares of Rio Tinto plc in the form
of ADSs included in 93,043 units in the Company Stock Fund by persons who acquired such units from 9 September 2013 to 8 September 2014 through the following US employee share
plans: Rio Tinto America Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan and Investment Partnership Plan for Represented Employees and the U.S. Borax Inc. 401(k) Savings and Retirement Contribution Plan for
Represented Employees. The average price per unit purchased was US$58.29.
48 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Substantial shareholders
Details of substantial shareholders can be
found on page 238.
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and the Company’s
dividend policy can be found on page 240.
Directors
Thenamesofthedirectorswhoservedduring
the year, together with their biographical
details and other information, are shown on
pages 51 to 53.
All directors, save for Richard Goodmanson,
will stand for re-election at the 2016 annual
general meetings.
A table of directors’ attendance at board and
committee meetings during 2015 is on
page 57.
Secretaries
Eleanor Evans is the Group company secretary.
SheiscompanysecretaryofRioTintoplcand
joint company secretary, along with Tim Paine,
of Rio Tinto Limited. Their qualifications and
experience are set out on page 53.
Corporate governance
A full report on corporate governance can be
found on pages 55 to 66 and forms part of this
Directors’ report.
Indemnities and insurance
The Articles of Association and Constitution of
the Companies provide for them to indemnify,
to the extent permitted by law, directors and
officers of the Companies, including officers of
certain subsidiaries, against liabilities arising
from the conduct of the Group’s business. The
directors of the Companies, the Group
company secretary and the joint company
secretary of Rio Tinto Limited, and certain
employees serving as directors of certain
eligible subsidiaries at the Group’s request
have also received direct indemnities
consistent with these provisions. No amount
has been paid under any of these indemnities
during the year. The Group has purchased
directors’ and officers’ insurance during the
year. In broad terms, the insurance cover
indemnifies individual directors and officers
against certain personal legal liability and legal
defence costs for claims arising out of actions
taken in connection with Group business. It is a
condition of the insurance policy that detailed
terms and premiums paid cannot be disclosed.
Employment policies and
communication
Information about the Group’s employment
policies and our employees is available on
page 25.
Political donations
Nodonationsweremadeduring2015for
political purposes in the EU, Australia or
elsewhere, as defined by the UK Companies
Act 2006.
Government regulations
Our operations in over 40 countries are subject
toextensivelawsandregulationsimposedby
local, state, provincial and federal
governments. These regulations govern many
aspects of our operations – how we explore,
mine and process ore, conditions of land tenure
and use, health, safety and environmental
requirements,howweoperateasacompany
including laws regarding securities, taxation,
intellectual property, competition and foreign
investment, provisions to protect data privacy,
conditions of trade and export and
infrastructure access. In addition to these laws,
several operations are also governed by the
provisions of specific agreements which have
been made with governments. Some of these
agreements are enshrined in legislation.
The geographic and product diversity of our
operations reduces the likelihood of any single
law or government regulation having a material
effect on the Group’s business as a whole.
Environmental regulations
Rio Tinto is subject to various environmental
laws and regulations in the countries where it
has operations. Rio Tinto measures its
performance against environmental regulation
by tracking and rating incidents according to
their actual environmental and compliance
impacts using five severity categories (minor,
medium, serious, major, or catastrophic).
Incidents with a consequence rating of major or
catastrophic are of a severity that require
notification to the relevant product group chief
executive and the Rio Tinto chief executive
immediately after the incident occurring.
In 2015, there were no environmental incidents
at managed operations with a major or
catastrophic impact.
During 2015, five operations incurred
fines amounting to US$130,371
(2014: US$319,513). Details of these fines
are reported in the performance section of
the sustainable development report at:
riotinto. com/sd2015.
Australian corporations that exceed specific
greenhouse gas emissions or energy use
thresholds have obligations under the
Australian National Greenhouse and Energy
Reporting Act 2007 (NGER). All Rio Tinto
entities covered under this Act have submitted
their annual NGER reports by the required
31 October 2015 deadline.
Further information on the Group’s
environmental performance is included in the
sustainable development section of this
Annual report, on pages 22 to 28, and on
the website.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 49
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ report
continued
Greenhouse gas emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions (in million tCO
2
-e)
(a)(b)
2015 2014
Scope 1
(c)
19.8 21.9
Scope 2
(d)
12.0 12.4
(g)
Total emissions
(e)
31.3 33.8
(g)
Ratios
GH intensity index
(f)
78.9 81.8
(g)
GH intensity
(tCO
2
-e/t of product) 0.070 0.081
(g)
(a) Rio Tinto’s greenhouse gas emissions for managed
operations are reported in accordance with
requirements under Part 7 of The UK Companies Act
2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report)
Regulations 2013. Our approach and methodology used
for the determination of these emissions are available
at: riotinto. com/sd2015/climate_change and riotinto.
com/sd2015/glossary.
(b) Rio Tinto’s greenhouse gas emission inventory is based
on definitions provided by The World Resource Institute/
World Business Council for Sustainable Development
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Carbon Reporting and
Accounting Standard, March 2004.
(c) Scope 1 emissions include “emissions from combustion
of fuel and operation of managed facilities”. It includes
emissions from land management and livestock
management at those facilities.
(d) Scope 2 emissions include “emissions from the
purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling”.
(e) Total emissions is the sum of scope 1 and scope 2
emissions minus emissions that are associated with the
generation of electricity, heat, steam or cooling supplied
to others. These emissions exclude indirect emissions
associated with transportation and use of our products
reported on page 26.
(f) Rio Tinto greenhouse gas intensity index is the weighted
emissions intensity for each of Rio Tinto’s main
commodities relative to the commodity intensities in the
2008 base year (set to 100). This index incorporates
approximately 98 per cent of Rio Tinto’s emissions from
managed operations.
(g) Number restated to ensure comparability over time.
Amendment due to changes in measurement and
calculation methodologies or immaterial updates to data.
Exploration, research and
development
The Group carries out exploration as well as
research and development in support of its
activities as described more fully under
Exploration and Technology & Innovation on
pages 40 and 41. Amounts charged for the
year, net of any gains on disposal, generated a
net loss before tax for exploration and
evaluation of US$568 million (2014: US$783
million). Research and development costs were
US$104 million (2014: US$112million).
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and
PricewaterhouseCoopers (together, PwC) are
the auditors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Limited respectively. PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP have indicated their willingness to continue
in office as auditors of Rio Tinto plc and a
resolution to reappoint them as auditors of
Rio Tinto plc will be proposed at the 2016
annual general meetings. A separate resolution
will seek authority for the Audit Committee to
determine the remuneration of PwC.
PricewaterhouseCoopers will continue in office
as auditors of Rio Tinto Limited.
A copy of the declaration given by
PricewaterhouseCoopers, as the Group’s
external auditors, to the directors in relation to
the auditors’ compliance with the
independence requirements of the Australian
Corporations Act 2001 and the professional
code of conduct for external auditors is set out
on page 201 in the financial statements.
No person who was an officer of Rio Tinto during
2015 was a director or partner of PwC at a time
when they conducted an audit of the Group.
Each person who held the office of director at
thedatetheboardresolvedtoapprovethis
report makes the following statements:
– so far as the directors are aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the
auditors are unaware; and
– each director has taken all steps that he or
she ought to have taken as a director to
make him or herself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the
auditors are aware of that information.
Fees for audit and non-audit
services
The amounts payable to the Group’s auditors,
PwC, were:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Audit fees
(a)
14.4 14.7
Assurance services
(b)
1.8 2.1
Taxation services 0.9 0.9
All other fees
(c)
1.3 0.4
18.4 18.1
(a) Audit fees relating to statutory audits.
(b) Assurance services in 2015 were mainly related to half
year review procedures, sustainability assurance and
other project related assurance services.
(c) All other fees include services in connection with other
corporate projects.
Further information on audit and
non-auditfeesissetoutinnote39to
the financial statements.
During the year, the Audit Committee
reviewed the effectiveness of PwC for Group
audit and local, statutory audit work. The
evaluation took the form of a survey
comprising a range of questions covering
objectivity, quality and efficiency and was
completed by individual Rio Tinto business
units. The results of this survey and review
were presented to the Audit Committee which
concluded that PwC continued to provide a
high-quality audit and an effective and
independent challenge to management. The
Audit Committee was satisfied with the
external audit process and the independence
of the external auditors.
PwC have been the external auditors since
before the formation of the dual listed
companies structure in 1995. For the reasons
noted on page 60 the Audit Committee does
notconsideritnecessaryatthepresenttimeto
undertake a tender process for the Group’s
external audit. Since 2002, PwC have followed
the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
2002 and APB Ethical Standards and rotated
both the lead UK and Australian audit partners
at least every five years. In the UK, the audit
engagement partner was appointed in 2011,
and in Australia the audit engagement partner
wasappointedin2012.Theyareduetorotate
after 2015 and 2016 respectively. This
continued refreshing of the team brings new
perspectives to the audit and promotes healthy
debate between auditors and management as
well as the Audit Committee.
Based on advice provided by the Audit
Committee as set out in the report of the Audit
Committee on pages 58 to 60, the directors are
satisfied that the provision of non-audit
services by PwC is compatible with the general
standard of independence for auditors and the
standards imposed by Australian, UK and US
legislation.
Financial instruments
DetailsoftheGroup’sfinancialrisk
management objectives and policies and
exposure to risk are described in note 30 to the
2015 financial statements.
50 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Board of directors
Key for committee memberships:
(A) Audit Committee
(R) Remuneration Committee
(N) Nominations Committee
(S) Sustainability Committee
(C) Chairman’s Committee
(I) Independent
JanduPlessis(R,NandC)
Chairman, BCom, LLB, CA (SA), age 62
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2008.
Jan was appointed chairman in 2009. He is the
chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: Jan, a South African and
British citizen, became group finance director
of Compagnie Financière Richemont, the Swiss
luxurygoodsgroup,in1988.In2004,hewas
appointed chairman of British American
Tobacco plc, a position which he held until
2009. Non-executive director and senior
independent Non-executive director of Marks
and Spencer Group plc from 2008 and 2012
respectively until March 2015.
External appointments (current and recent):
Non-executive director and chairman of
SABMiller plc since 2014 and July 2015
respectively.
Sam Walsh AO (C)
Chiefexecutive,BCom(Melbourne),age66
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2009.
He was appointed chief executive in 2013.
Skills and experience: Sam, an Australian
citizen, joined Rio Tinto in 1991, following
20 years in the automotive industry at General
Motors and Nissan Australia. He has held a
number of management positions during his
career at Rio Tinto, including chief executive of
the Aluminium group from 2001 to 2004, chief
executive of the Iron Ore group from 2004 to
2009 and chief executive, Iron Ore and
Australia from 2009 to 2013. Sam is a Fellow of
the Australian Institute of Management, the
Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy,
the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply Management, the Australian Institute of
Company Directors and the Australian
Academy of Technical Science and
Engineering. In 2010, he was appointed
an Officer in the General Division of the
Order of Australia.
External appointments (current and recent):
Trustee of the Royal Opera House since 2014,
Member of the Council of the International
Council on Mining & Metals and a director of
The International Council on Mining and Metals
(UK) Limited since 2013, non-executive
director of Seven West Media Limited from
2008 until 2013.
Chris Lynch (C)
Chief financial officer, BCom, MBA, age 62
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2011
(non-executive) and chief financial officer
since 2013.
Skills and experience: Chris, an Australian
citizen, has nearly 30 years’ experience in the
mining and metals industry. He was chief
executive officer of the Transurban Group, an
international toll road developer and manager
with interests in Australia and North America,
until 2012. His career has included seven years
at BHP Billiton, where he was chief financial
officer and then executive director and group
president – Carbon Steel Materials. Prior to
this, Chris spent 20 years with Alcoa Inc. where
he was vice president and chief information
officer based in Pittsburgh, and chief financial
officer Alcoa Europe in Switzerland. He was
also managing director of KAAL Australia
Limited, a joint venture company formed by
Alcoa and Kobe Steel.
External appointments (current and recent):
Chief executive officer of the Transurban Group
Limited from 2008 until 2012, commissioner
of the Australian Football League from 2008
until 2014.
RobertBrown(A,NandI)
Non-executive director, BSc, age 71
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2010.
Skills and experience: Bob is a Canadian citizen
and contributes his considerable experience in
large, high-profile Canadian companies. He is
chairman of Aimia Inc., a customer loyalty
management provider, and serves on the board
of BCE Inc. (Bell Canada Enterprises), Canada’s
largest communications company. He was
previously president and chief executive officer
of CAE Inc., a world leader in flight simulation
and training. Before that he spent 16 years at
Bombardier Inc., the aerospace and
transportation company, where he was firstly
head of the Aerospace Group and then
president and chief executive officer. He has
also served as chairman of Air Canada and of
the Aerospace Industries Association of
Canada. Bob was inducted to the Order of
Canada as well as l’Ordre National du Québec.
He has been awarded honorary doctorates
from five Canadian universities.
External appointments (current and recent):
Non-executive director of BCE Inc. and Bell
Canada since 2009, non-executive director and
chairman of Aimia Inc. since 2005 and 2008
respectively, non-executive director of Fier
CPVC-Montreal L.P. from 2005 until 2014.
MeganClarkAC(S,NandI)
Non-executive director, BSc, PhD, age 57
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2014.
Skills and experience: Megan, an Australian
citizen, was chief executive of the
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation (CSIRO) from 2009 until
2014. Prior to CSIRO, Megan held various
mineral exploration, mine geology and strategy
roles with Western Mining Corporation, was a
director at NM Rothschild and Sons (Australia)
and was vice president, Technology and
subsequently vice president, Health, Safety,
Environment, Community and Sustainability
with BHP Billiton from 2003 to 2008. She holds
a PhD in economic geology from Queen’s
University, Canada and is a Fellow of the
Australian Academy of Technological Sciences
and Engineering, the Australian Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy and the Australian
Institute of Company Directors. In 2014
she was appointed a Companion of the
Order of Australia.
External appointments (current and recent):
Member of the Monash University Council since
2014, non-executive director of CSL Limited
since February 2016, member of the Australian
advisory board of Bank of America Merrill
Lynch since 2010, member of the Global
Foundation board from 2014 until March 2015,
member of the advisory board of the World
Economic Forum’s 2015 Global Risk Report
from 2014 until February 2015, chief executive
and director of CSIRO from 2009 to 2014,
member of the Prime Minister’s Science,
Industry and Engineering Council from 2009
to 2014.
AnnGodbehere(A,NandI)
Non-executivedirector,FCPA,FCGA,age60
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto and
chairman of the Audit Committee since 2010.
Skills and experience: Ann, a Canadian and
British citizen, has more than 25 years’
experience in the financial services industry.
She spent ten years at Swiss Re, a global
reinsurer, latterly as chief financial officer from
2003 until 2007. She was interim chief
financial officer and executive director of
Northern Rock bank after its nationalisation.
Ann is a qualified accountant.
External appointments (current and recent):
Non-executive director of UBS Group AG since
2014 and non-executive director of UBS AG
since 2009, non-executive director of British
American Tobacco plc since 2011, non-
executive director and chairman of the audit
committee of Prudential Public Limited
Company since 2007 and 2009 respectively,
non-executive director of Atrium Underwriting
Group Limited from 2007 until 2014, non-
executive director of Arden Holdings Ltd from
2007 until 2014.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 51
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board of directors
continued
RichardGoodmanson(R,S,NandI)
Non-executive director, B. Econ, BCom, MBA,
MCE, age 68
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2004
and chairman of the Sustainability Committee.
Skills and experience: Richard, a US citizen, was
executive vice president and chief operating
officer of DuPont until 2009. Prior to this he
was president and chief executive officer of
America West Airlines and senior vice
president of operations for Frito-Lay, Inc., a
subsidiary of PepsiCo. Richard has worked at
senior levels for McKinsey & Co, where he led
client service teams on major programmes of
strategy development. He spent ten years in
heavy civil engineering project management,
principally in South East Asia, including
the construction of the Hong Kong
Subway System.
External appointments (current and recent):
Non-executive director of Qantas Airways
Limited since 2008.
Anne Lauvergeon (S, N and I)
Non-executive director, PhD, age 56
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2014.
Skills and experience: Anne, a French citizen,
started her professional career in 1983 in the
steel industry and in 1990 was named Adviser
for Economic International Affairs at the French
PresidencyandDeputyChiefofitsStaffin
1991. In 1995 she became a Partner of Lazard
Frères & Cie, subsequently joining Alcatel
Telecom as Senior Executive Vice President in
1997, where she was responsible for
international activities and the Group’s
industrial shareholdings in the energy and
securities sectors. She served as chairman
and chief executive officer of COGEMA from
1999 until 2011 and chief executive officer
of AREVA Group from 2001 until 2011.
External appointments (current and recent):
Chairman of SIGFOX since 2014, non-executive
director of American Express Company since
2013, non-executive director of Airbus Group
NV since 2013, chairman and chief executive
officer of French advisory company, A.L.P. SAS,
non-executive director of Total SA from 2000
until May 2015, non-executive director of GDF
SUEZ from 2001 until 2012, chief executive
officer of AREVA Group from 2001 until 2011,
and non-executive director of Vodafone plc
from 2005 until 2014.
Michael L’Estrange AO (S, N and I)
Non-executivedirector,BA,MA(Oxon),age63
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2014.
Skills and experience: Michael, an Australian
citizen, joined the Australian Government’s
Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet in
1981. From 1989 to 1994, he worked in a range
of policy advisory positions before he was
appointed the inaugural executive director of
the Menzies Research Centre in Canberra in
1995.In1996,hewasappointedbytheprime
minister as secretary to cabinet and head of the
Cabinet Policy Unit. He served in that role until
2000 when he became Australia’s high
commissioner to the United Kingdom. He
returned to Australia as secretary of the
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade from
2005 to 2009. In 2007, he was appointed as an
Officer in the Order of Australia. Michael served
as head of college of the National Security
College at the Australian National University
from 2009 until 2014 and he is a professor at
the college.
External Appointments (current and recent):
Director of the University of Notre Dame,
Australia since 2014, and head of college of
the National Security College at the Australian
National University in Canberra from 2009
until 2014.
Hon. Paul Tellier (A, R, N and I)
Non-executive director, LLL, BLitt (Oxon),
LL.D, C.C. age 76
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2007.
Skills and experience: Paul, a Canadian citizen,
enteredthecivilserviceinthe1970s.Hewas
clerk of the Privy Council Office and secretary
to the Cabinet of the Government of Canada
from 1985 to 1992. He became president and
chief executive officer of the Canadian National
Railway Company from 1992 to 2002. From
2002 until 2004, he was president and chief
executive officer of Bombardier Inc., the
aerospace and transportation company.
External appointments (current and recent):
Member of the advisory board of General
Motors of Canada since 2005, Chairman of
Global Container Terminals Inc. from 2007 until
December 2015, trustee of the International
Accounting Standards Foundation from 2007
until 2012, co-chair of the Prime Minister of
Canada’s Advisory Committee on the Renewal
of the Public Service from 2006 until 2014,
strategic adviser to Société Générale (Canada)
from 2005 until 2013, director of BCE Inc. (Bell
Canada Enterprises) from 1999 until 2010,
director of Bell Canada from 1996 until 2010,
director of McCain Foods Limited from 1996
until 2014.
SimonThompson(S,NandI)
Non-executive director, MA (Oxon), age 56
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2014.
Skills and experience: Simon, a British citizen,
was an executive director of Anglo American
plc, chairman and chief executive of the Base
Metals Division, chairman of the Exploration
Division and chairman of Tarmac. Prior to his
career with Anglo American he held
investment banking positions at S. G. Warburg
and N M Rothschild.
External appointments (current and recent):
Non-executive director and chairman of
3i Group plc since April and June 2015
respectively, chairman of Tullow Oil plc since
2012, non-executive director and senior
independent director of AMEC Foster Wheeler
plc from 2009 and 2014 respectively until
May 2015, non-executive director of Sandvik AB
from 2008 until May 2015, and non-executive
director of Newmont Mining Corporation from
2008 until 2014.
JohnVarley(A,R,NandI)
Non-executivedirector,BA,MA(Oxon),age59
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto and
chairman of the Remuneration Committee
since 2011 and senior independent director
since 2012.
Skills and experience: John, a British citizen,
joined Barclays PLC in 1982 after working as a
solicitor. He was chief executive of Barclays
from 2004 until 2010. During a 28-year career
with the bank he held several senior positions,
including chairman of the Asset Management
division, group finance director and deputy
chief executive.
External appointments (current and recent):
Non-executive director of BlackRock Inc. since
2009, director of Barclays PLC and Barclays
Bank PLC from 1998 until 2010, non-executive
director and senior independent director of
AstraZeneca plc from 2006 and 2012
respectively until April 2015, chairman of
Marie Curie Cancer Care since 2011 and
chairman of Business Action on Homelessness
since 2006.
52 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Directors who left the board
Michael Fitzpatrick
Non-executive director, BEng, BA (Oxon),
age 63
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto from 2006
until May 2015.
Skills and experience: Michael is chairman of
Treasury Group Limited, a Sydney-based
incubator of fund management companies,
chairman of the Australian Football League and
a former chairman of the Australian Sports
Commission. After leaving professional football
in 1983 and working for the Treasury of the
State of Victoria and with investment banks in
New York, Michael founded the pioneering
infrastructure asset management company
Hastings Funds Management Limited in 1994.
He was a Rhodes Scholar in 1975.
External appointments (current and recent):
Non-executive director of LatAm Autos Limited
since November 2014, non-executive director
of Carnegie Wave Energy Limited since 2012,
non-executive director and chairman of
Infrastructure Capital Group Limited since
2009, chairman of the Treasury Group Limited
since 2005, commissioner and chairman of
the Australian Football League since 2003
and 2007 respectively, director of the
Walter & Eliza Hall Institute of Medical
Research since 2001.
Lord Kerr of Kinlochard (S, N and I)
Non-executive director, GCMG, MA (Oxon),
age 74
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto from 2003
until May 2015.
Skills and experience: John, a British citizen,
was a member of the UK Diplomatic Service for
36 years and headed it from 1997 to 2002 as
permanent undersecretary at the Foreign
Office.HepreviouslyservedinHMTreasury
and in the former Soviet Union and Pakistan,
and was ambassador to the European Union
and the US. He has been an Independent
member of the House of Lords since 2004.
External appointments (current and recent):
Advisory board member of Edinburgh Partners
Limited since 2012, director and vice chairman
of Scottish Power Limited since 2009 and 2012
respectively, chairman of the Centre for
European Reform (London) since 2008, vice
president of the European Policy Centre
(Brussels) since 2007, trustee of the Carnegie
Trust for the Universities of Scotland since
2005, director of The Scottish American
Investment Company plc since 2002, deputy
chairman of Royal Dutch Shell plc from 2005
until 2012, chairman of the Court and Council
of Imperial College London from 2005 until
2011, advisory board member of BAE Systems
from 2008 until 2011, trustee of the National
Gallery in London from 2002 until 2010,
trustee of the Rhodes Trust from 1997
until 2010.
Company secretaries
Eleanor Evans
LLB (Lond), Solicitor, age 49
Appointment: Group company secretary of
Rio Tinto since 2013.
Skills and experience: Eleanor joined the Group
as Group company secretary in 2013. She is
company secretary of Rio Tinto plc and joint
company secretary of Rio Tinto Limited. She is
a member of the Disclosure Committee and the
Ore Reserves Steering Committee, and
secretary to the Investment Committee.
Prior to joining Rio Tinto, Eleanor was general
counsel and company secretary at Amec Foster
Wheeler plc and chief legal officer and
company secretary at Cobham plc. In both
roles Eleanor was responsible for legal,
compliance and secretariat matters globally,
was a member of the executive committee and
the risk committee, and was secretary to the
board of directors and their principal
committees. Eleanor commenced her career as
a solicitor specialising in corporate and
financial law with Norton Rose Fulbright and in
her earlier career held senior legal roles at The
BOC Group plc and Corus Group plc.
External appointments (current and recent):
Eleanorisamemberoftheexecutive
committee of GC100, the Association of
General Counsel and Company Secretaries of
theFTSE100,andatrusteeoftheStepChange
Foundation UK, a charity.
Tim Paine
BEc,LLB,FGIA,FCIS,age52
Skills and experience: Tim joined the Group as
joint company secretary of Rio Tinto Limited in
2012. He has over 20 years’ experience in
corporate counsel and company secretary
roles, including at ANZ Bank, Mayne Group,
Symbion Health and Skilled Group. Tim
commenced his career as a solicitor in private
practice and has also managed his own
consulting company.
External appointments (current and recent):
He has no external appointments.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 53
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Executive Committee
Hugo Bague
MA (Linguistics), age 55
Hugo Bague was appointed Group executive,
Organisational Resources in 2013 after joining
Rio Tinto as global head of Human Resources
in 2007. Previously he worked for
Hewlett-Packard where he was the global vice
president, Human Resources for the
TechnologySolutionsGroup,basedintheUS.
Prior to this he worked for Compaq Computers,
Nortel Networks and Abbott Laboratories
based in Switzerland, France and Germany.
He has been a non-executive director and
member of the nominating and governance and
compensation committees of Jones Lang
LaSalle Incorporated, a global real estate
services firm, since 2011.
Alfredo Barrios
PhD (Energy Economics), BSc (Physics), MSc
(Management), age 50
Alfredo was appointed chief executive,
Aluminium in 2014. He joined Rio Tinto after a
wide-ranging career in leadership positions
with BP plc. His most recent role was executive
director and executive vice president
Downstream at TNK-BP, based in Moscow,
where he was directly responsible for the
refining, trading, supply, logistics, and
marketing businesses.
Alfredo has held board positions in a number of
companies, including CLH (Spain) from 2007 to
2011 where he was chairman of the Audit
Committee, and OAO NGK Slavneft (Russia)
from 2012 until 2013. He was president of the
Spanish National Oil Industry Association
(AOP) from 2009 until 2011.
Alan Davies
BBus(Acctcy)LLB,LLM,FCA,age45
Alan was appointed chief executive, Diamonds
& Minerals in 2012. He joined the Group in
1997 and has held management positions in
Australia, London and the US for the Iron Ore
and Energy businesses. Prior to his current
role, Alan was president, international
operations for Rio Tinto’s Iron Ore business
with global accountability for operations and
projects in Canada, India and Guinea, and was
also previously chief financial officer of the Iron
Ore business. Alan assumed responsibility for
the Uranium business in February 2015. Alan is
a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in Australia.
He was a director of the Art Gallery of Western
Australia from 2010 to 2012. In 2015, Alan was
appointed to the Rolls Royce Holdings plc
board of directors as an independent, non-
executive director, and a member of the audit
and nominations and governance committees.
Andrew Harding
BEng (Mining Engineering), MBA, age 49
Andrew Harding was appointed chief executive,
Iron Ore in 2013. Prior to his current role,
Andrew spent three years as chief executive,
Copper, where he was responsible for a range
of mines and projects including the
development of the world-class Oyu Tolgoi
copper-gold mine in Mongolia. Andrew joined
Rio Tinto in 1992 and spent seven years in Iron
Ore. He has also held a range of positions in
Technology & Innovation, Energy and
Aluminium and was president and chief
executive officer of Kennecott Utah Copper.
He was a director of Turquoise Hill Resources
Ltd between 2009 and 2010 and between
2011 and 2013.
Jean-Sébastien Jacques
MSc, age 44
Jean-Sébastien Jacques was appointed chief
executive officer of Rio Tinto’s Copper group in
January 2013 and chief executive of the
Copper & Coal group in February 2015.
Jean-Sébastien joined Rio Tinto in October
2011 as the president, International Operations
in the Copper group. Prior to joining Rio Tinto,
Jean-Sébastien spent more than 15 years
working globally across Europe, South East
Asia, India and the US in a wide range of
operational and functional positions in the
aluminum, bauxite and steel industries.
He served as group director, Strategy for
Tata Steel Group from 2007 to 2011.
Jean-Sébastien holds a Master of Science
fromÉcoleCentraleParis.Heiscurrently
serving as chairman of the International
Copper Association.
Greg Lilleyman
BEng (Construction), age 49
Greg was appointed Group executive,
Technology & Innovation in January 2014. He
joined the Group in 1990 and held a number of
operational roles across the Pilbara, Hunter
Valley and Canada with both the Iron Ore and
Energy businesses. In 2011 Greg was
appointed president, Pilbara Operations for
Rio Tinto Iron Ore and in 2013 assumed the
role of head of Productivity Improvement with
Technology & Innovation.
Greg was a board member of the Australian
Institute of Management of Western Australia
from 2012 until 2013, a board member of the
Energy & Minerals Institute from 2011 until
2013, and a director of the Chamber of
Minerals and Energy of Western Australia from
2008 until 2013, holding the position of
president from 2011 until 2013 and a board
member of the Curtin University Foundation
from 2012 until 2015.
Debra Valentine
BA (History), JD, age 62
Debra was appointed Group executive, Legal &
Regulatory Affairs in 2009 having joined
Rio Tinto as global head of Legal in 2008. She
previously worked at United Technologies
Corporation in the US where she was vice
president, deputy general counsel and
corporatesecretary.Beforethen,shewasa
partner with the law firm O’Melveny & Myers, in
Washington DC. Debra served as general
counsel at the US Federal Trade Commission
from 1997 to 2001.
She was appointed non-executive director of
Lamprellplcin2015andamemberofthe
remuneration and nominations and governance
committees. She has been a member of the
North American Advisory Council at Chatham
House since 2013, the UK-Japan 21st Century
Groupsince2014andthe“YourLife”
Corporate Advisory Council Board since 2014.
Executive director members
Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch were also
members of the Executive Committee in 2015
through their positions as chief executive and
chief financial officer respectively. Their
biographies are shown on page 51.
54 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Corporate governance
Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate
governance to comply with the regulatory
obligations associated with its three principal
stock exchange listings in the UK, Australia
and the US.
Statement of compliance with
governance codes and standards
in 2015
In compiling this report, the directors have
referred to the September 2014 edition of the
UKCorporateGovernanceCode(theCode),the
ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate
Governance Principles and Recommendations
(3
RD
edition) (the ASX Principles), and the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Corporate
Governance Standards (the NYSE Standards).
Throughout 2015, and at the date of this
report, the Group applied the principles of, and
wascompliantwiththeprovisionsof,theASX
Principles and, except in the one instance
noted below, with the Code.
TheGrouphasnot,asrequiredbyCode
provision C.3.7, put its external audit contract
out to tender within the last ten years. A
discussion of the Group’s position on the timing
of the audit tender and the reason for the delay
is set out on page 60 of this report.
Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American
Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE, is
obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any
significant ways in which its practices of
corporate governance differ from the
NYSE Standards.
The Company has reviewed the NYSE
Standards and believes that its practices are
broadly consistent with them, with the
following exceptions where the literal
requirements of the NYSE Standards are not
met due to differences in corporate governance
between the US and UK/Australia.
The NYSE Standards state that companies
must have a nominating/corporate governance
committee composed entirely of independent
directors which, in addition to identifying
individuals qualified to become board
members, develops and recommends to the
board a set of corporate governance principles
applicable to the company. Rio Tinto has a
Nominations Committee comprising the
chairman and independent non-executive
directors, information about which is set out on
page61.Thatcommitteedoesnotdevelop
corporate governance principles for the
board’s approval. The board itself develops
such principles.
Under US securities law and the NYSE
Standards, the company is required to have an
audit committee that is directly responsible for
the appointment, compensation, retention and
oversight of the work of external auditors.
While the Rio Tinto Audit Committee makes
recommendations to the board on these
matters, and subject to legal and regulatory
requirements on oversight of audit tenders,
the ultimate responsibility for the
compensation of the external auditors and the
appointment of the external auditors of
Rio Tinto plc rests with the shareholders.
Further information about the corporate
governance framework is available in the
“Corporate governance” section of
Rio Tinto’s website.
The board
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a
common board of directors. The directors are
responsible for the success of the Group and,
through the independent oversight of
management, are accountable to shareholders
for the performance of the business.
Role and responsibilities
The principal role of the board is to set the
Group’s strategy and to review regularly its
strategic direction. In doing this, the board also
has responsibility for corporate governance.
A formal schedule of matters reserved by the
board has been established by the directors.
ThiscoversareassuchastheGroup’sstrategy,
major investments, acquisitions and
divestments and oversight of risk. It is available
on the website.
Responsibility for day-to-day management of
thebusinessisdelegatedtothechiefexecutive
and other members of the Executive
Committee under a Group delegation of
authorities. A number of management
committees support the chief executive and
the Executive Committee in the performance of
their duties.
As part of the annual financial planning
process, the board sets annual performance
targets, which include personal and business
performance measures, under the Group’s
short-term incentive plan (detailed on page 80)
for the chief executive. These performance
targets are determined by the Remuneration
Committee on behalf of the board. The chief
executive establishes targets for the Executive
Committee. Those objectives are cascaded
throughout management teams.
Details of the terms of appointment of the
directors and members of the Executive
Committee are discussed in the Remuneration
Policy section of the Remuneration Report on
pages75and77.Detailsoftheperformanceof
the executive directors and other members of
the Executive Committee are discussed in the
Implementation Report section of the
Remuneration Report on pages 79, 81 to 85
and pages 86 to 88 respectively.
Board balance and independence
Board composition
The names, skills and experience of each
director together with their terms in office are
shown in the biographical details on pages 51
to 53. Details of changes to the board during
2015 and in the year to date are set out in the
Directors’ report on page 53.
Director independence
The tests of independence of a non-executive
director vary between the jurisdictions where
Rio Tinto has listings. The Nominations
Committee has adopted a formal policy for the
determination of the independence of the
non-executive directors.
Among the key criteria of the independence
policy are independence from management
and the absence of any business relationship
which could materially interfere with the
director’s independence of judgement and
ability to provide a strong, valuable
contribution to the board’s deliberations, or
which could interfere with the director’s ability
to act in the best interests of the Group. Where
contracts in the ordinary course of business
exist between Rio Tinto and a company in
which a director has declared an interest, these
are reviewed for materiality both to the Group,
and the other party to the contract. “Material”
is defined in the policy as being where the
relationship accounts for more than two
per cent of either party’s consolidated gross
revenue per annum, although the test also
takes other circumstances into account. The
Code includes criteria to assess independence
where a director has served on the board for
more than nine years from the date of their first
election by shareholders.
The chairman was considered independent
upon his appointment under the Code, and in
the board’s view he continues to satisfy the
tests for independence under the ASX
Principles and the NYSE Standards.
After rigorously applying the criteria of the
independence policy, the board is satisfied that
all of its non-executive directors are and
remain independent. Richard Goodmanson,
who was elected by shareholders in 2005, is
not standing for re-election in 2016 and will
retire at the end of the annual general meeting
of Rio Tinto Limited in May 2016.
Executive directors’ other directorships
Executive directors may be invited to become
non-executive directors of other companies.
The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the
board, operates a procedure under which
approval may be given to accept such
invitations, recognising the benefit to be
derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from
such appointments. Details of the chief
executive’s external appointments are set out
on page 51.
Election and re-election
The directors may appoint additional members
to join the board during the year. Directors
appointed in this way will be subject to election
by shareholders at the first annual general
meetings after their appointment. In
subsequent years, the directors are expected
to submit themselves for re-election at the
annual general meetings each year.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 55
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance
continued
Non-executive directors are normally
expected to serve at least six years and would
not typically serve more than nine years.
Non-executive directors serving more than
nine years are subject to rigorous
independence review by the Nominations
Committee.
All directors apart from Richard Goodmanson
will offer themselves for re-election at the
annual general meetings in 2016 and further
details about each of them are set out on pages
51 to 53 and in the notices of the annual
general meetings.
Governance processes
In 2015, there were nine scheduled board
meetings. Details of the directors’ attendance
at all of the board and committee meetings
held in 2015 are set out on the following page.
Theboardhasregulardiscussionswithsenior
management on the Group’s strategy. These
discussions typically include presentations
given by senior management during the year.
The board attends an annual two-day strategy
meeting with the Executive Committee, which
includes broader, detailed review sessions on
the Group’s strategic direction. The outputs
from this event help underpin the board’s
annual financial planning exercise and provide
strategic direction and focus to the Executive
Committee.
Directors receive timely, regular and
appropriate information to enable them to fulfil
their duties. They also have direct access to the
advice and services of the Group company
secretary, who is accountable to the board and
advisesthechairman,and,throughthe
chairman, the board on all governance matters.
Thedirectorsarealsoabletoobtain,through
the Group company secretary, independent
professional advice at the Group’s expense.
The chairman and non-executive directors
meet, typically at the start of each board
meeting, without the executive directors
present, to create an opportunity for non-
executive directors to raise any issues
in private session.
In addition, the directors are in regular
informal communication with members of the
Executive Committee and other members of
senior management. This helps to foster an
open and regular exchange of knowledge
and experience.
All new non-executive directors undertake a
full, formal and tailored induction on joining the
board. The board is provided with training and
development opportunities during the year.
The directors regularly attend site visits to the
Group’soperationsaroundtheworldandto
meet with employees and, from time to time,
shareholders and other key stakeholders. In
2015, new members of the board visited our
iron ore mines, rail and port facilities in the
Pilbara, Western Australia, and the full board
visited our recently modernised aluminium
smelting operations in Kitimat, Canada as well
as our bauxite mining operations in Weipa,
Australia. These visits are designed to ensure
directors have appropriate knowledge of the
company and access to its operations and staff.
Progress against our priorities
Progress made towards achieving the priorities
set by the board during 2015 is set out on
pages 10 and 11.
Performance evaluation
An exercise is undertaken periodically to
evaluate the effectiveness of the board, board
committees and individual directors.
In February 2015 the board reviewed the
outcome of the 2014 evaluation of its
performance. The Chairman’s Committee
reviewed progress against the recommended
actions from that evaluation in July 2015, and
reported its findings to the board in August
2015.
The board decided to adjust the timetable for
the 2015 evaluation to better suit its annual
schedule. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the
board engaged Lintstock Limited, a specialist
corporate governance consultancy with no
other connections to the company, to
undertake an independent evaluation of the
board and its committees.
The first stage of the process involved agreeing
questions with the chairman and the
committee chairmen for discussion with
directors and the Group company secretary in
interviews to be conducted by Lintstock during
the first half of 2016.
The findings from these questionnaires and
interviews will form the basis of evaluation
reports for the board and its committees.
These will contain recommended actions which
will be discussed with the chairman and the
chairmen of the committees ahead of a full
review at meetings of the board and its
committees expected to occur in mid-2016.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior
independent director, are responsible for the
performance evaluation of the chairman.
Lintstock will also facilitate this review through
a questionnaire and interviews and report to
the senior independent director. Non-executive
directors will meet to give their views and the
senior independent director will also seek the
views of the executive directors. The senior
independent director will give feedback on the
chairman’s performance to him at the
conclusion of this process.
The chairman continues to be responsible for
the assessment of each individual director’s
performance and contribution.
56 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Directors’ attendance at board and committee meetings during 2015
Board
scheduled
(c)
Audit
Committee
(c)
Remuneration
Committee
(c)
Sustainability
Committee
(c)
Nominations
Committee
(c)
Chairman’s
Committee
(c) (d)
Jan du Plessis 9/9 – 7/7 – 4/4 13/13
ChrisLynch 9/9–––– 11/13
SamWalsh 9/9–––– 12/13
Robert Brown 9/9 6/6 – – 4/4 –
Megan Clark 9/9 – – 5/5 – –
Michael Fitzpatrick
(a)
4/4 2/2 4/4 – 2/2 –
Ann Godbehere 9/9 6/6 – – 4/4 –
Richard Goodmanson 9/9 – 7/7 5/5 4/4 –
Lord Kerr
(b)
4/4 – – 2/2 2/2 –
Anne Lauvergeon 9/9 – – 5/5 4/4 –
Michael L’Estrange 9/9 – – 5/5 4/4 –
Paul Tellier 9/9 6/6 7/7 – 4/4 –
Simon Thompson 9/9 – – 5/5 4/4 –
John Varley 9/9 6/6 7/7 – 4/4 –
(a) Stood down from the board on 7 May 2015.
(b) Stood down from the board on 7 May 2015.
(c) The number of meetings attended/maximum number the director could have attended.
(d) This included two meetings during which Mr Lynch was in transit to Australia to present the full and half year results. In both cases, Mr Lynch attended a sub-committee meeting with the
Group company secretary to finalise the results announcements.
Governance structure
The board has established committees which
are responsible for audit, remuneration,
sustainability and nominations issues. In
addition, a Chairman’s Committee operates
under delegated authority between scheduled
board meetings. These committees support
the board in ensuring that high standards of
corporate governance are maintained across
the Group.
The committees are governed by terms of
reference, set and approved by the board,
which are reviewed annually. The terms of
reference of the Audit, Nominations,
Remuneration and Sustainability Committees
may be viewed in the “Corporate governance”
section of the website.
The chief executive is assisted by the key
management committees noted below in
monitoring performance and delivering
Rio Tinto’s strategy.
Audit
Committee
Disclosure
Committee
Investment
Committee
Executive
Committee
Closure
Committee
Ore Reserves
Steering Committee 
Risk Management
Committee
Board committees Management committees
Board of directors
Chief executive
Sustainability
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nominations
Committee
Chairman’s
Committee
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 57
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance
continued
Board committees
Audit Committee report
Chairman’s introduction
Dear shareholders
The Audit Committee fulfils an important oversight role on behalf of the board and is focused on the quality of the Group’s financial reporting and the
effectiveness both of the Group’s systems of internal control and its risk management processes. In 2015 our activities included:
– Reviewing asset carrying values, cash generating units, pension valuations and other material accounting matters.
– Reviewing Group Audit & Assurance findings and approving the Internal Audit Plan and budget and the associated resources.
– Reviewing internal controls over financial reporting (SOx) testing results.
– Monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls systems.
– Reviewing reports from the head of Group Compliance.
– Monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems.
– Monitoringlegalandtaxmattersandreviewingassociatedaccountingprovisions.
– Considering the requirement for the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
– Assessing management’s projections under different scenarios to allow the board to make its assessment of the longer-term viability of the
company.
We have also focused on ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the external audit processes, having regard to the legal and regulatory
requirement to tender the external audit by 2020. This included:
– Holding discussions between the Committee and the external auditor regarding the rotation of the UK audit engagement partner after the 2015
year end and the introduction to the Committee from November 2015 of PwC’s agreed replacement, Mr Paul Barkus. The Committee also agreed
the replacement of the Australian audit engagement partner after the 2016 year end.
– Conducting ongoing monitoring of all non-audit activities performed by the Group’s external auditors and approval of their audit engagement
contracts and compensation.
– Reviewing management’s evaluation of the effectiveness of PwC for Group audit and local statutory audit work, discussed in more detail below, as
well as the outcomes of the Audit Quality Review of PwC by the Financial Reporting Council in the UK and the Quality Assurance Department of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Committee’s additional work during 2015 included undertaking training and development on relevant accounting topics, considering the findings
from the 2014 evaluation of the Committee’s performance, and reviewing the impact of the EU Statutory Audit Amending Directive both on the
regulatory environment in which the Group operates and on the way that the Committee will discharge our terms of reference in 2016.
In early 2016, the Committee considered, at the request of the board, the draft 2015 Annual report and accounts, to assess whether it is, taken as a
whole, fair, balanced and understandable.
During the remainder of 2016 the Committee will follow our annual schedule of meetings and topics for discussion and approval and we will report on
thesamein2017.
Ann Godbehere
Audit Committee chairman
2 March 2016
58 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Membership
Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere
(chairman), Robert Brown, Paul Tellier and
John Varley. Michael Fitzpatrick stepped down
from the Committee with effect from 7 May
2015 upon his retirement from the board.
Key responsibilities
TheobjectiveoftheAuditCommitteeisto
assist the board in monitoring decisions and
processes designed to ensure the integrity of
financial reporting, sound systems of internal
control and risk management.
The Committee’s terms of reference set out its
main responsibilities, and are available to view on
the website. The Committee is responsible for:
– financial reporting;
– internal control, including internal control
over financial reporting;
– internal audit and assurance;
– the external auditors (appointment and
relationship);
– the effectiveness of the risk management
framework; and
– the integrity and compliance programme
including the Group’s Speak-OUT
whistleblowing programme.
In carrying out its responsibilities, the
Committee has full authority to investigate all
matters that fall within its terms of reference.
Accordingly, the Committee may:
– obtain, through the Group company
secretary, independent professional advice
in the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of
theGroup;and
– havedirectaccesstotheresourcesof
the Group as it may reasonably
require including the external and
internal auditors.
Significant issues relating to the
financial statements
The significant issues considered by the
Committee in relation to the financial
statements are set out in the table below,
together with a summary of how the issue was
addressed by the Committee. In addition, the
Committee and the external auditors have
discussed the significant issues addressed by
the Committee during the year and the areas of
particular audit focus, as described in the
Independent Auditors’ Report on
pages 202 to 208.
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Review of carrying value of
cash-generating units and
impairment charges
The Committee assessed management’s determination of cash-generating units, review of
impairment triggers and consideration of potential impairment charges and reversals over the
course of the year. For cash-generating units dependent upon major capital spend (Oyu Tolgoi and
Simandou) and for commodities with weak demand outlook (eg uranium) the Committee
considered the key judgments made by management in relation to discount rate, forecast
commodity prices and actions being taken to recover value. The Committee reviewed disclosures
related to the sensitivity of recoverable amounts in note 6 on page 130 and the impairment charge
of US$2.8 billion recorded in 2015.
Estimate of provision for closure, restoration
and environmental obligations
The Committee reviewed the significant changes in the estimated provision for closure, restoration
and environmental obligations by product group and legacy management. It considered
management’s proposed accounting for such changes in this complex area including, where
appropriate, the treatment of long-dated monitoring and maintenance costs. At 31 December
2015, the Group’s balance sheet included provision for close-down, restoration and environmental
obligations of US$8.4 billion as described in note 26 on page 144.
Policy for items excluded from
underlying earnings
The Committee approved the Group’s policy for exclusion of certain items from underlying
earnings and confirmed consistent application of this policy year on year. The Committee reviewed
action taken by management in late 2015 to reduce the foreign currency retranslation volatility
arising from currency exchange gains and losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances by
converting US dollar debt to local currency in Canada and Australia. The items excluded from
underlying earnings amounted to US$5.4 billion and are described in note 2 on page 125.
The Group’s tax exposures The Committee considered management’s assessment of the Group’s tax exposures including the
recoverability of deferred tax assets and the appropriateness of provisions for uncertain tax
positions. At 31 December 2015, the Group’s balance sheet included a net tax payable liability of
US$234 million.
Defined benefit pension plan
surpluses and deficits
During 2015 the Committee received a comprehensive update on the status of funding, investment
and governance of pensions and other retirement benefits provided to current and former
employees of the Group.
Going concern basis for the preparation
of the financial statements
The Committee critically assessed the projections of future cash flows under different scenarios
and compared these with cash balances and committed facilities available to the Group. The
Committee satisfied itself that it was appropriate to recommend to the board the adoption by the
Group of the going concern basis of preparation.
Finance transformation The Committee reviewed the progress of the Group’s finance transformation programme which
includes the centralisation and outsourcing of certain finance activities (excluding key controls) to
a third-party provider. Group Audit & Assurance has performed a series of point-in-time reviews
of the effectiveness of the finance transformation governance structure and the transition of
certain processes to the outsourcing provider and reported on the findings from these reviews to
the Committee.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 59
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance
continued
Governance processes
The Committee met six times in 2015. The
chairman of the board, chief financial officer,
other senior management and external and
internal auditors regularly attended the
Committee’s meetings. The Committee carries
out its business following an agreed annual
cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
ThemembersoftheCommitteeare
independent and free of any relationship that
would affect their impartiality in carrying out
their responsibilities. The members meet the
independence requirements of the Code, the
ASXPrinciplesandtheNYSEStandards.The
Committee meets the composition, operation
and responsibility requirements of the
ASX Principles.
The Committee is also bound by SEC
requirements for audit committees’ financial
experts and the requirements of the Code and
ASX Principles that at least one committee
member should have recent and relevant
financial qualifications and experience. Ann
Godbehere, chairman of the Committee, is
considered by the board to have recent and
relevant financial experience, and financial
qualifications, and has been designated the
Committee’s financial expert. All other
members of the Committee are, in the opinion
oftheboard,deemedtobefinanciallyliterate
by virtue of their business experience.
The Committee considered reports from
management in order to assess the quality and
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control
systems, including the effectiveness of the
Group’s internal controls over financial
reporting and the Group’s disclosure controls
and procedures in accordance with sections
404 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
The Committee separately received objective
reports from PwC and Group Audit & Assurance
on the activities undertaken in reviewing and
auditing the control environment.
TheCommitteemeetsprivatelywiththeheads
of Group Audit & Assurance and Compliance
from time to time without management
present and the chairman of the Committee
has regular discussions with them.
The Committee maintains a clearly defined
policy for the pre-approval of permitted
services provided by the Group’s external
auditors, PwC. For non-audit services, because
of their knowledge, experience and/or for
reasons of confidentiality, it can be more
efficient or necessary to engage the external
auditor rather than another party.
At half year and year end, the chief financial
officer and the external auditors submit to the
Committee a schedule of the services that were
performed by PwC during the period. The
Audit Committee may impose a financial limit
on the total value of other permitted services
that can be provided. Any non-audit service
provided by the external auditors, where the
expected fee exceeds a pre-determined level,
must be subject to the Group’s normal
tender procedures.
In exceptional circumstances, the chief
financial officer is authorised to engage the
external auditors to provide such services
without going to tender, but if the fees are
expected to exceed certain pre-determined
limits the chairman of the Committee must
give prior approval of the engagement. All of
the engagements for services provided by PwC
were either within the pre-approval policies or
separately approved by the Committee. The
Committee members are satisfied that the
provision of non-audit services by PwC in
accordance with this procedure is compatible
with the general standard of independence for
auditors imposed by relevant regulations.
A breakdown of the categories of permitted
non-audit services and the fees paid to PwC for
suchservicesisshowninnote39onpage166.
The external auditors attended all six
Committee meetings during the year. In
advance of the Committee meetings, the audit
partners brief the chairman of the Committee
on key matters. Private discussion sessions
were held between PwC and the Committee
without management present to discuss the
status of the audit and the nature of
interactions with management.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the
effectiveness of PwC for Group audit and local
statutory audit work. The evaluation, managed
by the Group’s financial controllers, took the
form of a survey comprising a range of
questions covering objectivity, quality and
efficiency, and was completed by individual
Rio Tinto business units. The results of this
survey and review were assessed by the
Committee which concluded that PwC
continued to provide a high-quality audit and
effective and independent challenge to
management. The Committee was satisfied
with the external audit process and that the
independence of the external auditors was in
no way compromised.
PwC have been the external auditors since
before the formation of the DLC structure in
1995, and their reappointment has not been
subject to a tender during that time. In the UK,
the audit engagement partner Richard Hughes
was appointed in 2011 and will rotate off the
account after the 2015 year-end audit process.
As noted above his role will be assumed by
Paul Barkus. In Australia the audit engagement
partner Paul Bendall was appointed in 2012
and is due to transition off the account after the
December 2016 year-end audit process. His
role will be assumed by Debbie Smith.
The Committee considers its recommendations
to the board on the appointment and
reappointment of auditors annually, and
specifically has responsibility for establishing
formal and transparent arrangements with
PwC. The Committee has reviewed the
timetable for tendering, taking into account all
relevant regulation and guidance. In light of
this, the Committee proposes to tender the
audit in 2018 with the new auditors appointed
no later than for the 2020 financial year.
The Committee continues to believe that the
requirements of good governance and the
needs of Rio Tinto are best served by
tendering in the above timeframe for the
following reasons:
– The Group continues to undergo significant
business process change through the cost
saving programme, which includes
outsourcing of certain activities (including
the finance transformation programme).
A measured rotation timetable maintains
stability in the independent oversight
provided by the external auditors while the
business fully implements the changes to
maximise efficiency and effectiveness.
– Rio Tinto draws on expertise from other
accounting firms and therefore a rotation of
external audit services will require careful
planning of transition periods to ensure that
all services are fully contracted
throughout the rotation process.
Rio Tinto ensures independence through other
means, including detailed review, challenge
and reporting of all work performed by
accounting firms. A summary is presented
annually to the Audit Committee of the fees
incurred and nature of work performed. Further
information on fees paid to PwC in 2015 for
audit and non-audit services are set out on
page 50 of the Directors’ report.
However, the Committee keeps the external
audit arrangements under regular review and if
it deemed it appropriate may accelerate the
planned appointment of new auditors at
any time.
The Company confirms that it complied
with the provisions of the Competition and
Markets Authority’s Order for the financial
year under review.
Sustainability Committee report
Members of the Committee are Richard
Goodmanson (chairman), Anne Lauvergeon,
Michael L’Estrange, Simon Thompson and
Megan Clark. Lord Kerr stood down from the
Committee with effect from 7 May 2015 upon
his retirement from the board. Megan Clark will
assume chairmanship of the Committee upon
Richard Goodmanson’s retirement from the
board in May 2016.
Key responsibilities
The Committee assists the board with
overseeing strategies designed to manage
social and environmental risks, overseeing
management processes and standards, and
achieving compliance with social and
environmental responsibilities and
commitments. The Committee reviews the
effectiveness of management policies and
procedures relating to safety, health,
employment practices, relationships with
neighbouring communities, environment,
human rights, land access, political
involvement and sustainable development. The
Committee’s terms of reference set out its
main responsibilities, and are available to view
on the website.
60 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Governance processes
In 2015, the Committee met five times. The
chairman of the board, chief executive, and
other senior management regularly attend its
meetings. The Committee carries out its
business following an agreed annual cycle of
meetings and topics for consideration.
ThemembersoftheCommitteeareall
independent in accordance with the
independence policy adopted by the
Nominations Committee.
2015 activities
In 2015 the Committee:
– Reviewed key risks associated with process
safety and communities and social
performance, and management’s plans for
tackling them.
– Reviewed work plans formulated for health,
safety, environment, communities and
employment practices, and assurance over
selected areas within the Committee’s
terms of reference.
– Undertook reviews around major risk areas,
including geotechnical risk and water
management, as well as a review of the
framework in place to manage the Group’s
material risks for which the Committee has
oversight.
– Receivedupdatesonfindingsfollowingthe
fatalities at IOC (in late 2014), QIT
Madagascar Minerals, Zululand Anthracite
Colliery, Sorel-Tracey and Guinea.
– Considered the findings from the 2014
evaluation of the Committee’s performance.
We draw to your attention the Sustainable
development report on pages 22 to 28 of this
report. In 2016 the Committee will conduct its
agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics for
consideration including the outcome of the
2015 evaluation of the Committee.
Chairman’s Committee report
Members of the Committee are Jan du Plessis
(chairman), Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch.
Key responsibilities
The Committee acts on behalf of the board
between scheduled board meetings either in
accordance with authority delegated by the
board or as specifically set out within its terms
of reference. It supports the functioning of the
board and ensures that the business of the
board and its committees is properly planned
and aligned with management. When
mandated by the board, the Chairman’s
Committee will consider urgent matters
between board meetings. Other than for the
chairman of the board whose remuneration is
set by the Remuneration Committee, the
Committee performs the annual review of
non-executive directors’ fees and makes a
recommendation to the board.
Nominations Committee report
Members of the Committee comprise
Jan du Plessis (chairman) and all
non-executive directors.
Key responsibilities
The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the
board, for regularly assessing the balance of
executive and non-executive directors and the
composition of the board in terms of the skills,
experience, diversity and capacity required to
oversee the delivery of Rio Tinto’s strategy.
The Committee develops and agrees in
advance the desired profiles of potential
candidates for board membership. It oversees
the recruitment process and engages external
search consultants to manage searches on its
behalf, including constructing shortlists
comprising candidates from diverse
backgrounds and conducting appropriate
background and reference checks on
shortlisted candidates. Following a final review
of shortlisted candidates, the Committee
makes recommendations for new board
members to the board for approval.
The Committee engages Egon Zehnder from
time to time. Egon Zehnder conducts searches
and executive evaluations for a number of
Rio Tinto positions and not only at board and
Executive Committee level. Egon Zehnder has
no other connection with the company.
On behalf of the board, the Committee also
reviews proposals for appointments to the
Executive Committee and monitors executive
succession planning.
The Committee’s terms of reference set out its
main responsibilities, and are available to view
on the website.
Governance processes
The Committee meets as required and in 2015,
met four times. The members of the
Committee are independent in accordance with
the independence policy adopted by the
Nominations Committee.
The Committee in its proceedings takes
account of the Group’s Inclusion and diversity
policy, and progress in the inclusion and
diversity arena, discussed further below.
In 2015, the Committee:
– Continued regular executive and
non-executive succession planning reviews.
– Considered the findings from the 2014
evaluation of the Committee’s performance.
– Reviewed the mix of skills and experience
required for non-executive directors and
briefed the search firm accordingly.
– Received and considered leadership
assessments and development reports on
senior management from Egon Zehnder,
and discussed the same with them.
In 2016, the Committee will continue its
regular executive and non-executive
succession planning reviews and consider
the outcome of the 2015 evaluation of
the Committee.
Remuneration Committee
The report of the Remuneration Committee is
set out on pages 67 to 104. It has been
recommended by the Committee for approval
bytheboard,andwasapprovedbytheboard
on2March2016.Onpage79wehaveincluded
sections dealing with the responsibilities of the
Remuneration Committee and how it spent its
time in 2015.
Members of the Committee are John Varley
(chairman), Jan du Plessis, Richard
Goodmanson and Paul Tellier. Michael
Fitzpatrick stood down from the Committee
with effect from 7 May 2015 upon his
retirement from the board.
Richard Goodmanson will retire from the
Committee when he retires from the board on
5 May 2016. Megan Clark will join the
Committee with effect from 1 May 2016.
Key responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee assists the
board with fulfilling its oversight responsibility
to shareholders. In particular, the Committee
seeks to spend compensation resource fairly
and responsibly to ensure that remuneration
policy and practices are properly linked to
corporate and individual performance and to
the delivery of the Group’s strategy on behalf
of our owners. The Committee’s terms of
reference set out its main responsibilities, and
are available to view on the Group’s website.
Governance processes
The Committee met seven times in 2015.
The Committee carries out its business
following an agreed annual cycle of meetings
and topics for consideration.
In addition to the matters noted on page 79,
the Committee considered the findings from
the 2014 evaluation of the Committee’s
performance. In 2016 the Committee will
consider the outcome of the 2015 evaluation
of the Committee.
As set out in the Committee chairman’s
annual statement on pages 67 to 69, we
are committed to a continuing dialogue
with our owners.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 61
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance
continued
Board skills, experience and diversity
More information about the board’s process for the selection,
appointment and election of directors is available in the “Corporate
governance” section of the Group’s website.
In leading a large global mining and metals company, the board aims to
evolve its membership by seeking non-executive directors with diverse
and complementary skills and experience. The board recognises that the
evolution of the mix of skills and diversity (gender and nationality) is a
long-term process and it weighs the various factors relevant to board
balance and diversity when vacancies arise. The key attributes relevant
for our board are set out below.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving large-scale capital outlays and long-term
investment horizons.
Executive leadership Sustainable success in business at a senior executive level.
Financial Proficiency in financial accounting and reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls,
corporate funding, and the associated risks.
Global Experience in multiple global locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and
business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standard of governance, including experience with a major organisation that
demonstrates rigorous governance standards.
Government relations/geopolitical Interaction with government and regulators and involvement in public policy decisions.
Health, safety and environment Familiarity with issues associated with workplace health and safety, environment and social responsibility,
and communities.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing, and development of product and/or customer
management strategies.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining organisation involved in the discovery, acquisition,
development and marketing of natural resources.
Remuneration Understanding of the link between strategy, performance and remuneration outcomes.
Risk management Experience in developing an asset or business portfolio over the long term that remains resilient to
systemic risk, and establishing risk management frameworks, setting risk appetite and overseeing
organisational risk culture.
Strategy Proven ability in developing and implementing successful strategies, including appropriately probing and
challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic objectives.
Technology A strong understanding of technology and innovation, and the development and implementation
of initiatives to enhance production.
62 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Inclusion and diversity
Our commitment to inclusion and diversity
We are a global company and, wherever we
operate and across every part of our business,
we strive to create an inclusive culture in which
difference is recognised and valued. By bringing
together men and women from diverse
backgrounds and giving each person the
opportunity to contribute their skills, experience
and perspectives, we believe that we are able to
develop the best solutions to challenges and
deliver value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
What inclusion and diversity mean
for Rio Tinto
– Embracing workforce diversity – age,
gender, race, national or ethnic origin,
religion, language, political beliefs, sexual
orientation and physical ability.
– Valuing diversity of perspective –
leveraging the diverse thinking, skills,
experience and working styles of our
employees and other stakeholders.
– Building a flexible organisation – providing
opportunities for work arrangements that
accommodate the diverse needs of
individuals at different career and life stages.
– Respecting stakeholder diversity –
developing strong and sustainable
relationships with diverse shareholders,
communities, employees, governments,
customers and suppliers.
How we support inclusion and diversity
We use the following to drive action and build
awareness about inclusion and diversity:
– Governance models
– Policies, practices and targets
– Leadership and cultural competence
– Stakeholder relationships
– Education and communication
We prioritise long and short-term programmes
based on need and impact. Read a summary of
our Inclusion and diversity policy in the
“Corporate governance” section of our website.
Our current focus
Ourgoalistohaveaworkforcethatis
representative of the countries and
communities in which we operate. Currently,
our focus is to improve the representation of
women and of people from nationalities which
are under-represented in our workforce, and to
continue to build an inclusive culture in which
all talent can thrive.
Some of the activities and initiatives relating to
diversity during the year are:
– Sam Walsh took over as the executive
champion for inclusion and diversity in
January 2015.
– A Group-wide inclusion and diversity
steering committee was formed, chaired by
the chief executive and including a number
of senior executives.
– Inclusion and diversity discussions were on
the agenda at Rio Tinto’s senior leader
conference, as part of engaging the entire
leadership group on the topic.
– Inclusion and diversity progress focused on
four key levers – leadership, inclusion,
integration and business rationale.
– Accountability for inclusion and diversity
was placed more clearly with the leaders of
the product groups and functions. Progress
was linked to incentive plans.
– Inclusion was made a central part of the
initiatives, to ensure that progress is
sustainable over the long term and that the
organisation can make the most of the
diversity we have.
– Significant time was invested in integrating
inclusion and diversity into the core
practices and competencies of the business
in order to ensure that we can deliver an
irreversible change.
Inclusion and diversity action groups have been
working within product groups and functions to
assess issues and help leaders develop focused
plans.
– Active involvement with Women in Mining
groups, professional women’s associations
and other targeted recruiting efforts to
raise awareness about Rio Tinto and to
increase the attraction, development and
retention of talented women wherever
we operate.
– The expansion of training programmes
aimed at countering unconscious bias.
These have targeted senior leaders, hiring
managers and recruiters to help minimise
the impact of bias in recruitment and
development practices, as well as to
improve the cross-cultural interactions and
relationship-building needed to globalise our
business.
– The continuation of a three-year
commitment by the chairman to mentoring
high-potential female board candidates
through the FTSE100 Cross-company
Mentoring Programme.
Proportion of women employees and board
members
In 2015, the proportion of women on the board
was 25 per cent (ie three out of 12), in senior
management 18.1 per cent and in the overall
workforce 18.5 per cent.
“Senior management” includes the business
unit or functional unit leaders who are direct
reports of Executive Committee members, and
those at general manager, Group adviser and
chief adviser levels.
Measurable objectives and progress
The board established the following five-year measurable objectives for workforce diversity at the
start of 2011:
Measurable objective Progress during 2015
Women to represent 20 per cent of our
senior management by 2015.
Women represented 18.1 per cent of our senior
management in 2015.
Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015
graduate intake.
Women represented 43 per cent of our 2015
graduate intake.
15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to
be nationals from regions where we are
developing new businesses.
33.3 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake were
nationals from regions where we are developing
new businesses.
We will continue to report against these
objectives yearly going forward.
Subsidiary board diversity
Women represented 10.1 per cent of the
directors of our principal controlled subsidiary
undertakings during 2015 (14 female;
125 male).
Other disclosures
Policies and standards
Rio Tinto’s commitment to integrity and
compliance is set out in The way we work,our
global code of conduct, which is available on our
website. It contains universal principles that
guide our behaviour, and inspires us to commit
to our company values of respect, integrity,
teamwork and accountability. It is supported by
a number of Group policies and standards.
These are adopted after wide consultation and,
once adopted, are communicated globally, to all
our business units, together with related
procedures, guidelines and resources to
support
implementation. Management is required to
adhere to these policies and standards and any
mandated procedures and to monitor their
effectiveness.
Rio Tinto policies and standards address a
variety of important topics which apply to all our
managed businesses. Where the Group does
not have operating responsibility for a business,
Rio Tinto’s policies and standards are
communicated to our business partners. We
make every effort to ensure that the standards
we espouse are respected at all times and to
encourage non-managed businesses to adopt
similar policies and standards of their own.
Rio Tinto employees are required to undertake
training on the requirements of The way we
work and various policies and standards.
“Whistleblowing” programme
Speak-OUT is the Group’s confidential and
independently operated whistleblowing
programme. It offers an avenue through which
employees, contractors, suppliers and
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 63
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance
continued
customers of Rio Tinto managed sites can
report concerns, anonymously if they so
choose, subject to local law. This can include
any significant concerns about the business, or
the behaviour of individuals, including suspicion
of violations of financial reporting, safety or
environmental procedures or business integrity
issues in general. The programme features
telephone and web submissions, a case
management tool to manage cases, and a
reporting tool to allow for improved analysis of
case statistics and reporting. Rio Tinto
continuously considers ways to promote
positive awareness of Speak-OUT. The Audit
Committee receives a report twice annually on
Speak-OUT activity, with the Sustainability
Committee receiving an annual report on
Speak-OUT relating to sustainable
development issues.
Dealing in Rio Tinto securities
Rio Tinto operates rules which restrict the
dealing in Rio Tinto securities by directors and
employees with access to “inside information”.
Theserulesrequirethosepeopletoseek
clearance before any proposed dealing and
placerestrictionsonwhensomepeople
can deal.
These rules also prohibit persons discharging
managerial responsibility from engaging in
hedging or other arrangements which limit the
economic risk in connection with Rio Tinto
securities issued, or otherwise allocated as
remuneration that are either unvested, or that
have vested, but remain subject to a holding
period.Therearealsorestrictionsapplyingtoa
broader group of employees requiring them to
seek clearance before engaging in similar
arrangements over any Rio Tinto securities.
Communication with stakeholders
Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective
and timely communication with shareholders
and the wider investment community.
To ensure that trading in its securities takes
place in an informed marketplace, Rio Tinto
has adopted procedures to ensure
Rio Tinto’s compliance with its continuous
disclosure obligations.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for
determining whether information relating to
Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets
under the continuous disclosure requirements
in the jurisdictions in which Rio Tinto is listed.
The specific focus of the Disclosure Committee
is to consider and determine on a timely basis
whether information would, to the extent that
the information is not public and relates
directly or indirectly to Rio Tinto, be likely to
have a material impact on the price of
Rio Tinto Securities if that information was
generally available.
ThemembersoftheCommitteearethechief
executive, chief financial officer, Group
company secretary, Group executive Legal
& Regulatory Affairs, the head of Investor
Relations and the head of External Affairs
& Communications.
Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure (unless
an exemption applies allowing a delay) to the
relevant listing authorities in accordance with
their rules of any information that a reasonable
person would expect to have a material effect
on its share price. All information released to
the markets is posted on the Media section of
our website.
In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tinto’s
website features information on corporate
governance, and general investor information.
Annual and half year results, as well as any
major presentations, are webcast and the
materials are available on our website.
Presentation material from investor seminars
is also made available on our website.
The annual general meetings present an
opportunity to provide a summary business
presentation, to inform shareholders of recent
developments and to give them the
opportunity to ask questions. Generally, the
chairs of all board committees will be available
to answer questions raised by shareholders
and all directors are expected to attend where
possible. In 2015 all of the directors attended
the annual general meetings, save for
Ann Godbehere who was unable to attend the
Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting due
to her attendance at the UBS AG annual
general meeting. Rio Tinto’s external auditors,
PwC, attend the annual general meetings and
are available to answer questions about the
conduct of the external audit and the
preparation and content of the Independent
auditors’ report. Any such questions received
and answers provided ahead of the annual
general meetings are made available to
shareholders, who also have the opportunity
to meet informally with directors after
the meetings.
Rio Tinto provides shareholders with the option
to receive communications from, and send
communications to, the Companies and the
shareregistrarselectronically.Thecontact
detailsfortheregistrarsareavailableon
page 244 and on our website.
The main channels of communication with the
investment community are through the
chairman, chief executive and chief financial
officer, who have regular meetings with the
Companies’ major shareholders. The senior
independent director has a specific
responsibility to be available to shareholders
who have concerns, and where contact with the
chairman, chief executive or chief financial
officer has failed to resolve their concerns, or
for whom such contact is inappropriate. In his
capacity as Remuneration Committee
chairman, the senior independent director
meets shareholders to discuss
remuneration issues.
During 2015, meetings with the investment
community focused on the issues of strategy,
board succession, corporate governance,
executive remuneration, and the operational
and financial performance of the Group.
Regular investor seminars provide a two-way
communication opportunity with investors and
analysts. On 17 March 2015, a corporate
governance forum was hosted in London to
provide investors with an opportunity to
engage with the chairman and the chairs of the
board committees, a similar seminar having
been held in Sydney in November 2014.
Feedback from such engagement is routinely
communicated to the board. Surveys of major
shareholders’ opinions are presented to the
board by the Group’s investor relations
advisers on a regular basis.
Risk management
A description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that could affect Rio Tinto and the
Group’s framework of risk governance and
reporting and the mitigation strategies relating
to them may be found on pages 14 to 21. On an
annual basis, the board conducts a robust
assessment of those principal risks, with the
support of management.
The Audit Committee has completed the
annual review of the Group’s risk management
system for 2015 and concluded that the
system remains effective.
Internal controls
ThedirectorsareresponsiblefortheGroup’s
system of internal controls and for reviewing
annually the effectiveness of the internal
control system. The Audit Committee supports
the board in this regard. This includes
reviewing material financial, operational and
compliance controls. The Audit Committee has
completed the annual review and assessment
for 2015 and concluded that the system
remains effective.
Two of the Group’s management committees,
the Executive Committee and the Disclosure
Committee, regularly review reports related to
the Group’s control framework in order to
satisfy the internal control requirements of the
Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards
andsection404oftheSarbanes-OxleyAct
2002. The Group Audit & Assurance function
performs reviews of the integrity and
effectiveness of control activities and provides
regular reports to the Audit Committee,
Sustainability Committee and other
management committees.
Each year, the leaders of the Group’s businesses
and functions complete a representation letter
confirming that adequate internal controls are in
place, are operating effectively and are designed
to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses,
if any exist, and that action is taken promptly,
as appropriate.
64 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report The following chart represents, at a high level, the Group’s internal control framework.
Lines of 
defence
Organisational 
structures and 
internal 
controls
Financial 
risk
Operational risk
Compliance 
risk
Resource Operations 
and projects
Services People HSEC and 
security
Oversight Board and its committees
Third Internal audit Group Audit & Assurance
Second
Framework 
documents
 operating model, delegation of authorities The way we work,
Chief executive
Executive Committee
Risk Management Committee
Management
committees
Plan Review 
Committee
Investment 
Committee
Ore Reserves 
Steering 
Committee
Global 
Benefits
Committee
Closure
Committee
Disclosure
Committee
HQ and central 
support
Finance Technology 
& Innovation
Technology 
& Innovation
Organisational 
Resources
Organisational 
Resources
Organisational 
Resources
Legal & 
Regulatory 
Affairs
Speak-OUT
Management 
assurance, 
reporting, 
monitoring and 
Internal
Control
over
Financial
Reporting
Programme
Local 
statutory 
accounts
Managing 
Annual reporting suite certifications (Executive Committee and managing directors)
director & 
Competent 
Person 
reporting
Ore Reserves 
& Mineral 
Resources 
reporting
Insurance 
critical risk 
assessments
Regulatory 
energy & 
greenhouse 
gas reporting
Regulatory 
HSE reporting
HSEC 
assurance
Subsidiary 
entity boards
Annual integrity 
Mandatory 
certificates
certification
certifications
compliance 
training
Compliance 
reports and 
Group policies 
and standards
Group 
Treasury
Group Tax
Project 
evaluation
Resources & 
reserves
Asset 
management
Acceptable use 
of information 
& electronic 
resources
Procurement
Employment
Inclusion and 
diversity
HSEC
HSE 
management 
system
Closure
Security
Technical 
safety 
(eg process 
safety and 
underground) 
Governance
Risk 
management
Human rights
Business 
integrity
Data privacy
Antitrust
External 
communications
First Line 
management
Product groups: Aluminium, Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals, Iron Ore
Group functions
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 65
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance
continued
Internal assurance
Group Audit & Assurance
Group Audit & Assurance is an internal function
which provides independent and objective
assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness
of the Group’s systems for risk management,
internal control and governance together with
recommendations to improve the effectiveness
of the relevant systems and processes. The
function has an internal audit methodology
which is aligned with international auditing
standards set by the Institute of Internal
Auditors (IIA).
The function operates independently of
management, under a mandate approved by
the Audit Committee, and has full access to all
functions, records, property and personnel of
the Group. The head of Group Audit &
Assurance administratively reports to the chief
executive and has direct communication lines
with the chairs of both the Audit Committee
and Sustainability Committee and regularly
attends their meetings.
A risk-based approach is used to focus
assurance activities on high-risk areas and
audit plans are presented annually to the
Audit Committee and Sustainability Committee
for approval.
In support of its internal audit function,
Rio Tinto utilises the services of external
service providers. The function has a policy
which addresses conflicts of interest in relation
to engagements of the service provider that are
requested by management. The policy
complies with the IIA’s standards on
independence. Certain services are
pre-approved under the policy as they are not
in conflict with the internal auditor’s role. There
is a list of prohibited services which may not be
undertaken without approval of the head of
Group Audit & Assurance, and guidance on the
consideration of services which may give rise to
a conflict of interest.
Financial reporting
Financial statements
The directors are required to prepare financial
statements for each financial period which give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Group as at the end of the financial period, and
theprofitorlossandcashflowsforthatperiod.
This includes preparing financial statements in
accordance with UK company law which give a
true and fair view of the state of the Company’s
affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report
which includes the information required by
Regulation 11, Schedule 8 of the Large and
Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts
and Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended and
the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
In addition, the Code requires that the board
provides a fair, balanced and understandable
assessment of the Company’s position and
prospects in its external reporting.
Management conducts extensive review and
challenge in support of the board’s obligations
in this regard, seeking to ensure balance
between positive and negative statement and
good linkages throughout the Annual report.
The directors were responsible for the
preparation and approval of the Annual report
for the year ended 31 December 2015. They
consider the Annual report, taken as a whole,
to be fair, balanced and understandable, and
that it provides the information necessary for
shareholders to assess the Company’s position
and performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for maintaining
proper accounting records, in accordance with
UK and Australian legislation. They have a
general responsibility for taking such steps as
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities. The directors are
also responsible for ensuring that appropriate
systems are in place to maintain and preserve
the integrity of the Group’s website. Legislation
in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may
differ from current and future legislation in
other jurisdictions. The work carried out by the
auditors does not involve consideration of such
developments and, accordingly, the external
auditors accept no responsibility for any
changes, should any be made, to the financial
statements after they are made available on
the Group’s website.
The directors, senior executives, senior
financial managers and other members of staff
who are required to exercise judgment in the
course of the preparation of the financial
statements are required to conduct themselves
with integrity and honesty and in accordance
with the ethical standards of their profession
and the business.
The directors consider that the 2015 Annual
report presents a true and fair view and has
been prepared in accordance with applicable
accounting standards, using the most
appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tinto’s
business, and supported by reasonable
judgments and estimates. The accounting
policies have been consistently applied. The
directorshavereceivedawrittenstatement
from the chief executive and the chief financial
officer to this effect. In accordance with the
internal control requirements of the Code and
the ASX Principles Recommendation 4.2, this
written statement confirms that the
declarations in the statement are founded on a
sound system of risk management and internal
controls,andthatthesystemisoperating
effectively in all material respects in relation to
financial reporting risks.
Disclosure controls and procedures
TheGroupmaintainsdisclosurecontrolsand
procedures as such term is defined in US
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Management,
with the participation of the chief executive and
chief financial officer, has evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the
Group’s disclosure controls and procedures
pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of
the end of the period covered by this report and
has concluded that these disclosure controls
andprocedureswereeffectiveatareasonable
assurance level.
Management’s report on internal control over
financial reporting
Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting. The Companies’ internal
control over financial reporting is a process
designed under the supervision of the chief
executive and chief financial officer to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation and
fair presentation of the Group’s published
financial statements for external reporting
purposes in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by
the European Union (IFRS).
The Group’s internal control over financial
reporting includes policies and procedures that
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail:
– accurately and fairly reflect transactions
and dispositions of assets;
– provide reasonable assurances that
transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements
in accordance with IFRS, and that receipts
and expenditures are being made only in
accordance with authorisations of
management and directors of each of the
Companies; and
– provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of
unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition
of the Group’s assets that could have a
material effect on its financial statements.
Due to inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting cannot provide
absolute assurance, and may not prevent or
detect all misstatements whether caused by
error or fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto
plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Management conducted an assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on
the Internal Control – Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) issued in 2013, and concluded that it
was effective.
There were no changes in the internal controls
over financial reporting that occurred during
the period that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the
internal controls over financial reporting of
each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
66 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the
Remuneration Committee chairman
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our 2015 directors’
remuneration report (the Remuneration Report), for which we seek your
support at our annual general meetings (AGMs), in London in April, and
in Brisbane in May.
The Remuneration Report is designed to demonstrate the link between
the Group’s strategy, its performance, and the remuneration outcomes
for our executives, particularly the executive directors.
Withaviewtodeliveringshareholderreturnsthroughthecycle,RioTinto
takes a long-term approach to its activities, and this means
concentrating on developing long-life, low-cost, expandable operations
that are capable of providing competitive returns throughout business
cycles. Our executives’ performance objectives are set accordingly.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with
applicable legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and
Australia. Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of “key
management personnel”, being those persons having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the
Group. The key management personnel are, in addition to the Executive
Directors, the non-director members of the Executive Committee. The
Executive Committee comprises the executive directors, product group
chief executive officers and Group executives. Throughout this
Remuneration Report, the members of the Executive Committee are
collectively referred to as “executives”. They are listed on pages 51
and 54, which also show the positions held during the year and dates
of appointment.
ShareholderswillbeawarethatwehavetocomplywithUKand
Australian legislation in the remuneration arena and that the rules differ.
We have structured the voting arrangements such that all shareholders
vote on both remuneration resolutions that we are putting to our AGMs.
This Remuneration Report is divided into two parts: the statement of
remuneration policy, which summarises our compensation policies and
practices (the Remuneration Policy); and the annual report on
remuneration, which shows how the Remuneration Policy has been
applied (the Implementation Report).
The Remuneration Policy was subject to a binding vote for UK law
purposes in 2015 and became effective in respect of payments to
directors from 7 May 2015. Minor changes have been made to the
Remuneration Policy since then; these do not require shareholder
approval this year. A version of the Remuneration Policy which highlights
these changes can be found on our website. There will be no vote for UK
law purposes on the Remuneration Policy.
The Implementation Report (including this statement) is subject to an
advisory vote for UK law purposes. The Remuneration Report as a
whole is subject to an advisory vote for Australian law purposes. Both
resolutions are to be voted on at the AGMs as Joint Decision Matters by
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders.
In the absence of circumstances which may necessitate a change to the
Remuneration Policy, it is our intention that it will next be put before
shareholders for a vote, for UK law purposes, at our AGMs in 2018.
Although, as a matter of UK law, the Remuneration Policy only applies
to the remuneration of our directors, it is the Committee’s intention that
its broad policy principles will continue to inform the way in which our
non-director key management personnel on the Executive Committee
are remunerated.
The Remuneration Policy describes, among other things: our executive
remuneration structure; the details of the discretions available to the
Committee; our approach to remuneration on recruitment; the details of
executives’ service contracts; and how we treat leavers.
Remuneration for executives comprises fixed compensation in the form
of base salary, participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund
and/or a cash allowance to contribute to a pension fund, the receipt of
certain benefits, and performance-related remuneration. Each element is
described in the Remuneration Policy.
The majority of the remuneration of executives will normally be
performancerelated,andisprovidedintheformofvariableshortand
long-term incentives, weighted towards the long-term in shares.
In relation to the short-term incentive plan (STIP), the Committee each
year sets performance criteria relative to three benchmarks: threshold,
target and outstanding. Target performance is intended to be stretching,
andistypicallyequivalenttothebusinessplanfortheyear.
Our approach to the disclosure of measures, weightings and targets
remains unchanged. In relation to the long-term incentive plan (LTIP),
these will all be disclosed in advance, at the beginning of each five-year
performance period. In relation to the STIP, we will, when it comes to
disclosure, distinguish between safety goals and financial and individual
goals. In the area of safety goals, we will continue to disclose the
measures, weightings and targets at the beginning of each year. In the
area of financial and individual goals, we will continue to disclose, at the
beginning of each year, the measures and weightings only, because we
regard the targets as commercially sensitive. However, as we said in the
Remuneration Report last year, we intended to disclose, and have in the
Implementation Report disclosed, the targets and outcomes for 2015
retrospectively. In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on
grounds of commercial sensitivity, I will seek to explain why, and give an
indication of when they would be disclosed.
The chart on page 89 demonstrates the usual timeframe for the delivery
of the components of remuneration, using 2015 as an example. This
emphasises the long-term nature of our remuneration arrangements.
You will see several mechanisms in the Remuneration Report that are
intended to create alignment of interest between shareholders and
executives (I show some of these at work later in this statement). We
have, for our executives, a mandatory conversion of 50 per cent of any
annual short-term bonus payment into shares, with vesting deferred for
three years. The performance measures under our long-term
remuneration plans are structured to support and incentivise the
creation of long-term shareholder value. In addition, should
circumstances warrant, we have reserved to the Committee such
discretions as enable it to safeguard against the return experience
of shareholders being materially misaligned with the reward experience
of executives. We want the remuneration outcomes properly to reflect
theGroup’soverallperformance.Wealsohavemeaningfulshare
ownership requirements for our executives as described in the
Implementation Report.
There are many examples in the Remuneration Policy and practice of
how our dialogue with shareholders has influenced the Committee’s
decisions. In 2013, we added a new performance measure to our
Performance Share Plan (PSP), namely the relative EBIT margin
improvement measure. We did this because many of our owners had
expressed a wish that our PSP should incorporate some diversification
beyond total shareholder return (TSR). We extended the performance
period of the PSP from four to five years and we materially reduced the
pay-out for threshold performance. We have adjusted the safety
measures in our STIP targets to reflect lost time injuries and all injury
frequency rates. In addition, from and including 2016, we have included
performance metrics relating to a key programme to support our goal of
fatality elimination, called Critical Risk Management, which is described
in more detail on page 24.
The decisions relating to base pay changes for executive directors and
executives are broadly guided by pay changes for the wider employee
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 67
STRATEGIC REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the
Remuneration Committee chairman
continued
population, which means that this year there has been a salary freeze for
the executives.
Building on the dialogue at our corporate governance round table
meetings in 2014 and 2015 (which were well attended and provided an
opportunity for me to discuss remuneration related topics with
shareholders), I plan to discuss the topic of remuneration with our large
institutional shareholders in the UK and Australia during the course of
this year.
2015 performance and remuneration
On page 80 and 82 of this Report, we retrospectively disclose the
financial and individual targets set by the Board for 2015. I won’t repeat
here the details of performance against targets, save to say that, in the
main, targets were met, especially when looking at the financial targets
ona‘flexed’basis.Ibelievethat,despitetheinescapableimpacton
earnings of the sharp downdraft in commodity prices, shareholder
interests were well protected by the energetic management of capital,
costs, working capital, debt and production during 2015.
I know that shareholders expect to see strong alignment between the
value of their own shareholdings and the wealth of executives. The
remuneration outcomes shown in the single total figure of remuneration
testify clearly to this alignment. Fifty per cent of the annual STIP awards
are deferred into shares (through the Bonus Deferral Plan (BDP)) for
three years, specifically to ensure that a material proportion of
short-term pay is exposed over the medium term to fluctuations in our
share price. The value of the 2015 and 2016 PSP awards also reflects the
downward movement in share price. The alignment is further evidenced
by our share ownership policy, which is designed to create and maintain
significant individual exposure through share ownership to upwards and
downwards movements in the value of our equity.
The single total figure of remuneration is lower in 2015 for the chief
executive, chief financial officer and most executives, due mainly to the
significantly lower value of LTIP awards compared to 2014. This was
caused both by a lower vesting level for the PSP awards and a lower UK
and Australian share price at the date the 2012 PSP awards vested in
February 2016 (£18.51 versus £31.64 and A$42.22 versus A$63.55
respectively).
The2015STIPawardsforbothExecutiveDirectorsandthemajorityof
the other executives are lower, and in some cases significantly lower,
than last year, with a broad variability of outcomes, reflecting
performance against stretching safety, financial and individual targets.
I will talk in a moment about the aggregate STIP financial score, but
before that I will talk about the 2015 safety performance.
Looking at achievement against our 2015 safety STIP targets, the
Group’s all injury frequency rate improved from 0.59 in 2014 to a new
all-time low of 0.44 in 2015, which out-performed the Group’s
“outstanding” target of 0.45. There were 220 lost time injuries in 2015
compared to 381 in 2014. This also out-performed the level set for
“outstanding” performance for the Group of 231 lost time injuries.
This has led to the maximum total safety outcome for the Group, of
200 per cent.
However, reductions were applied to the safety performance component
of the STIP where a fatality occurred. For example, the safety result for
the chief executive was halved from 200 per cent to 100 per cent due to
the compensation impact of fatalities in 2015. Such adjustments reflect
the level of oversight which the chief executive and other executives had
for safety leadership during the year and the level of management
control over the causal factors of the fatalities. There were also safety
related downward adjustments to the remuneration of the chief financial
officer and of certain other executives, particularly those with portfolios
where a fatality occurred.
In terms of achievement against our 2015 financial STIP targets, the
Committee determined that the threshold level for underlying “unflexed”
earnings set by the board was not met. However, the “unflexed” free
cash flow target and “flexed” earnings and free cash flow targets were
exceeded. Cash flow performance was close to “outstanding” with a
significant contribution from cost reductions, which substantially
exceeded target.
To remind you, in considering financial performance against the annual
plan, we measure half against the original plan; the other half is “flexed”
to exclude the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates, and quoted
metal and other prices during the year, which are outside management’s
control. We have used this approach consistently since 2005 for
measuring our earnings performance, and have flexed the cash flow
outcomes since the introduction of this measure in the STIP in 2009.
When commodity prices rise, or there are favourable exchange rate
variations, we protect shareholders by ensuring that 50 per cent of the
STIP opportunity is denied the benefit of that rise. When the reverse
happens, and commodity prices fall or there are negative exchange rate
variations, the STIP opportunity is safeguarded (as to 50 per cent)
against the fall. Our view is that this approach maintains appropriate
incentive for executives, even in times of significant earnings volatility.
Taking all these points into consideration, the Committee determined
that the prima facie STIP financial score for 2015 should be 132 per cent
out of a maximum of 200 per cent. However, the Committee seeks to
ensure, in making its year end determination of STIP awards, that actual
performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of
the year. This resulted in the Committee making certain minor
adjustments to the targets in 2015 to take account of events outside
management’s control and to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Following review by management and the Committee, both upward and
downward adjustments were made to the targets, with reference to
principles agreed by the Committee which have been consistently
applied over many years, to ensure the outcomes are fair. An example of
such an adjustment was in relation to severe weather events, which were
in excess of what was incorporated in the business plan. The
consequence of this process was that we reduced the 132 per cent
referred to above to 131 per cent.
Turning to the LTIP, both the amount of the original award, and the
actual value of the awards vesting to executives in 2015 were lower than
2014. The PSP awards granted in 2012 have two performance metrics –
the Euromoney Global Mining index and the MSCI World Index (weighted
50 per cent each). I believe that the award outcome clearly demonstrates
that our decision some years ago to have these two indices operate
alongside each other has protected shareholders against windfall gains
for executives. For while our TSR against the Mining Index demonstrated
significant outperformance, we underperformed against the MSCI. The
outcome, which is explained in the Implementation Report, was an award
of65.4percentoutofapotential150percent.
The Committee considered the Group’s overall performance during the
four-year performance period and concluded that the vesting of awards,
based upon the achievement of the TSR measures, was justified.
As we announced in February 2015, Harry Kenyon-Slaney, chief
executive of the former Energy group, left the Group on 18 March, 2015.
The details of his departure terms are summarised on page 88, and the
terms are compliant with our Remuneration Policy and precedent.
The Company continues to monitor gender pay and is satisfied that
awards made between male and female employees demonstrate
equality.
2016 decisions
There will be no annual salary increases for executives, in keeping with
the salary freeze for other employees (other than those protected by
legislation or prior industrial agreements). This was a difficult but
68 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report necessary decision reflecting the exigencies of the commodities cycle,
but it is no reflection on the performance and contribution of our people.
For 2016, the STIP measures and opportunities for executives remain
weighted 50 per cent for financial, 30 per cent for individual and
20 per cent for safety measures. The Group financial targets relate to
earnings and free cash flow. The individual targets include objectives
relating to business transformation, cost reduction, performance delivery
and leadership and engagement. The 2016 safety measures, weightings
and targets are fully disclosed on page 89. The financial measures and
weightings are also described on page 89. We expect to describe the
financial and individual targets retrospectively in the 2016
Implementation Report.
The level of LTIP awards to be granted to executives in March 2016, as a
percentageofbasesalary,willbelowerthanthosemadein2015.The
number of conditional shares awarded will be announced to the market
in due course and is calculated using the average share price over the
previous calendar year, and as such, the awards granted in 2016 will be
calculated using the 2015 average share prices of £26.346 and A$54.184
respectively.ThiscompareswiththemarketpriceofRioTintoplcand
Rio Tinto Limited shares at 15 February 2016 of £18.51 and A$42.22
respectively. Executives do not therefore benefit (via a larger number of
conditional shares being issued because of a lower price) when the spot
sharepriceisloweratthetimeofgrantthantheaveragesharepriceover
the previous calendar year. This is a further example of our
Remuneration Policy operating in a way which aligns the interests of
shareholders and executives.
The performance conditions for the 2016 PSP awards are outlined in the
Implementation report. The 2016 comparator group for the EBIT margin
measure has been reviewed and Fortescue Metals Group will replace
Peabody in the comparator group for awards made from 2016, our
judgment being that in terms of size and likeness to Rio Tinto, Fortescue
now offers a better comparator.
Retirements from the Committee
I would like to thank Mike Fitzpatrick, who retired from the Committee in
May, 2015, and Richard Goodmanson, who will retire from the
Committee in May, 2016, for their valued advice and guidance over many
years. I will miss their contributions.
Meanwhile I welcome Megan Clark, who will be joining the Committee in
May, 2016.
Governance and owners’ views
It has been and continues to be our intention to be alert to evolving best
practice as well as to the views and guidance given to us in the
conversations we have with our owners. The Committee reaffirms its
commitment to keep under review the level of vesting for threshold
performance under the PSP. We are committed to a continuing dialogue
with shareholders, including listening to views about this report, which are
most welcome.
Yours sincerely,
John Varley
Remuneration Committee chairman
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 69
STRATEGIC REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy
Remuneration Policy introduction
This Remuneration Policy applies to our
executive and non-executive directors and to
the chairman. It also sets out, in conformance
with Australian law, the broad policy principles
which generally apply to the non-director
members of the Executive Committee. The
policy applying to our chairman and non-
executive directors is set out at the end of the
Remuneration Policy.
Shareholders should note that this
Remuneration Policy is binding only in so far as
it relates to directors.
Our remuneration policies,
principles and practices
Our first objective is to spend remuneration
resource wisely in pursuit of the
implementation of the Group’s strategy. We
want our pay policies to be regarded as fair by
shareholders and employees alike. Although
we have remuneration structures which are fit
for purpose, the Committee retains
appropriate discretions, enabling it to override
inappropriate mechanistic outcomes, if it
thinks fit, but always within the confines of the
Remuneration Policy.
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets
where it competes for a limited pool of talented
executives. High-quality people, who are
capable of achieving stretching performance
targets, are essential to generating superior
returns for the Group. Our compensation
strategies aim to provide this support by
enabling the Group to attract and retain people
whose contribution will increase shareholder
value over time.
We aim to engage our people over the long
term by fostering diversity, providing
challenging work and development
opportunities, and encouraging strong
delivery by good performance. This people
strategy is underpinned by our values of
respect, integrity, teamwork and
accountability and by our commitment to
provide sustainable growth and development
for both Rio Tinto and its employees.
Our policy is based on the principle of aligning
remuneration outcomes with the successful
delivery of strategy. The remuneration
strategy and the policies which support it,
together with a description of how we believe
they will help Rio Tinto achieve its vision, are
set out below and under the heading
“Executive remuneration structure – policy
table”. Complementary remuneration
structures are designed for other employees,
drawing on these strategies and policies.
Competitive, performance-related
remuneration
We aim to provide competitive rewards that
attract, retain and motivate executives of the
high calibre required to lead the Group, while
ensuring that rewards remain appropriate and
proportionate when compared both to market
practice and to remuneration arrangements for
other employees in the Group.
– The majority of remuneration is linked to
demanding performance targets over both
the short and long term to ensure that
executive rewards are directed at
delivering good performance for
shareholders.
– For the purposes of assessing the
appropriate level of executive
remuneration, the Committee refers to the
FTSE30 (excluding financial services
companies) as the initial comparator group.
The FTSE30 is considered the most
relevant comparator group as it largely
comprises organisations broadly
comparable to the Group in terms of global
reach, revenue, market capitalisation and
complexity. References are also made to
other relevant supplementary comparator
groups, including a cross-section of
comparable international industrial
organisations and other international
mining companies.
– Typically we aim to position base salaries at
the median of these comparator groups,
while our incentive plans are designed with
the potential to deliver total remuneration
outcomes across the full market range
according to business and individual
performance.
– Benchmarking is undertaken periodically,
but not annually, and our intention is to
apply judgment in evaluating market data.
We will take salary increases in the broader
employee population into account in
determining any change to the base pay of
executives. We normally use three-year
average exchange rates, in order to
mitigate the impact of exchange rate
volatility, to help determine the
appropriate positioning of executive
remuneration against internal and external
comparators.
– We regularly consult with shareholders on
the design of our policies and programmes,
most recently on the subjects of the safety
measure component of the STIP, the
ceasing of the use of share options as a
mechanism for long-term reward, and the
performance conditions and the
performance period for the Performance
Share Plan (PSP).
– Employee share plans provide the
opportunity for employees to participate
in the voting on executive remuneration.
Employees who are shareholders –
approximately 25 per cent of the workforce
at the time the Remuneration Policy was
approved – are able to vote on the
Remuneration Report. Employees have
not been consulted on the Remuneration
Policy but are free to ask any questions
they wish and to offer any opinions they
have through our normal employee
communications channels.
Safety
We have a strong focus on safety in the STIP
targets.
– As an organisation, we strive for superior
long-term shareholder value creation in a
healthy, safe and environmentally
appropriateway.Theseareimportant
elements of our licence to operate.
– Safety key performance indicators
determine a significant portion of the STIP
for executives.
– Any fatality will have a material impact on
the STIP score for the relevant executives.
Further details on the approach to
fatalities are provided in the
Implementation Report.
Long-term focus
Consistent with our strategy of investing in
and operating long-life, low-cost, expandable
operations in the most attractive industry
sectors,weseektoprovideincentiveplans
that focus on longer-term performance.
– Our incentive plans are designed to
promote and reward decision-making with a
positive long-term impact while avoiding
excessive risk.
– Fifty per cent of the STIP for executives is
deferred into shares which vest after
three years, through the Bonus Deferral
Plan (BDP).
– The performance-based options and shares
awarded prior to 2013 have a three and
four-year performance period, respectively.
The performance period for performance
shares awarded under the PSP from 2013 is
five years. However, as a transitional
measure, awards granted in 2013 will
potentially vest 50 per cent after four years
and 50 per cent after five years.
– Options are no longer granted, but existing
options may be exercised (subject to their
vesting conditions) up to ten years after
their grant.
– The Committee intends to keep the
Group’s long-term incentive arrangements
under review.
Shareholder alignment
Our share ownership policy requires
executives to build up and maintain a
meaningful shareholding as described in the
Implementation Report under the heading
“Share ownership policy for executives”.
We reward executives for delivering
shareholder value by using relative TSR as one
of the measures for our LTIP.
– For awards granted from 2013 under the
PSP, a relative EBIT margin improvement
measure has complemented the existing
relative TSR measures, and incentivises
executives to deliver long-term shareholder
value while maximising operational
performance in the medium term. This
comprises one-third of the total value
opportunity under the PSP awards.
– The reward opportunity under the
remaining portion of the PSP awards is
delivered based on relative TSR
performance against both the Euromoney
Global Mining Index (formerly the HSBC
Global Mining Index) and the broader
market of large global companies as
70 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report measured through the Morgan Stanley
Capital World Index (MSCI).
– The choice of both the Euromoney Global
Mining Index and MSCI reflects the fact that
Rio Tinto competes in a global market for
investors as well as within the mining
sector. It is consistent with rewarding
executives for providing stable returns over
the long term relative to the broader market
and the mining sector.
Risk management – malus and claw back
The Committee has authority under the
“malus”provisionsofthePSPtoreduceor
cancel awards made from 2013 in the event of
gross misconduct which may have a material
effect on the value or reputation of the Group, a
materially adverse error in the Group’s or a
product group’s financial statements,
exceptional events that have a materially
detrimental impact on the value of any Group
company, or for any other reason that the
Committee decides in a particular case.
The Committee also has authority under the
“claw back” provisions of the PSP to recover
thevalueofanyvestedawardsmadefrom
2013 in the event of deliberate misconduct by a
participant that may have a material impact on
the value or reputation of a Rio Tinto Group
company or for any other reason that the
Committee decides in a particular case.
“Malus”and“clawback”canbeappliedbythe
Committee in relation to the STIP and its
deferral into BDP. The Committee evaluates
the outcomes of the STIP for fairness with the
original targets and with shareholder
experience, and may make discretionary
adjustments for executives using “malus”
principles as necessary. Any such adjustments
are disclosed in the Implementation Report for
the relevant financial period.
The Committee retains discretion with respect
tothevestingofBDPawardsmadefrom2013
onwards prior to their vesting dates, such that
if an executive resigns or is dismissed for
misconduct, or for any other reason that the
Committee decides in the event of an
executive terminating their employment, BDP
awards may be “clawed back” and
consequently lapse.
TheCommitteereservesrightstoexercise
discretions more generally as described under
the heading “Discretions”.
Executive remuneration structure
– policy table
The Committee seeks to achieve a
remuneration mix which best reflects the
long-term nature of the business. The total
remuneration package is therefore designed to
provide an appropriate balance between fixed
and variable components, with an emphasis on
long-term variable pay. The remuneration
structure for executives, including the
relationship between each element of
remuneration and Group performance, is
summarised below. Further details on the key
performance indicators used to assess Group
performance are provided in the Strategic
report under the heading “Key performance
indicators”. Shareholders should note that the
following remuneration structure is binding
only insofar as it relates to directors.
Any commitment made before this
Remuneration Policy takes effect or before
an executive became or becomes a director
will be honoured even if it is not consistent
with this Remuneration Policy or any
subsequent policy.
Remuneration arrangements – Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy
Base salary – Base salary provides the main fixed element of the remuneration package. – We pay competitive salaries to hire,
motivate and retain highly
competent people.
– Base salaries are reviewed annually, with a maximum increase of nine per cent, or
inflation if higher, per annum. An increase may be higher than this for executives who
are not directors in the circumstances described below.
– Any increase is generally aligned with the average base salary increases applying to
the broader employee population unless there were significant changes to an
individual’s role and/or responsibilities during the year. Any increases are determined
with reference to underlying Group and individual performance, global economic
conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups
and internal relativities.
– An increase above the maximum noted above for executives who are not directors
may be made in the event of internal promotion or increase in responsibility or where
the executive’s salary is significantly below market positioning.
– Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention is to
apply judgment in evaluating market data.
Pension or
super-
annuation
– Employment benefits typically include participation in a pension plan, superannuation
fund, or a cash allowance to contribute to a personal pension or superannuation fund.
– We provide locally competitive
post-employment benefits in a
cost-efficient manner in order to
hire and retain.
– The maximum level of Company contribution to an individual executive director’s
schemes annually is 35 per cent of base salary.
Other benefits – Other benefits include private healthcare cover for the executive and their
dependants, company car or allowance, car parking, life insurance, accident insurance,
provision of Company-provided transport/chauffeur, professional advice, participation
in local flexible benefit programmes and certain other minor benefits (including
modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in
support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are deemed to be
taxable where the Company has paid the tax on their behalf).
– We provide competitive other
benefits in a cost-efficient manner to
hire and retain.
– Secondment, relocation and localisation benefits (for example, housing, tax
equalisation, cost of living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits home
for the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation payments) may
also be made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Examples of these types of payments are set out in the Implementation Report.
– Other benefits are paid at cost and, given the nature and variety of the items, there is
no formal maximum level of Company contribution.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 71
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
POLICY REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy
continued
Remuneration arrangements – Performance-related (At risk) Link to Group performance and strategy
Short Term
Incentive Plan
(STIP)
– If target performance is achieved under the STIP, the bonus opportunity is up to
120 per cent of base salary for executive directors and up to 100 per cent of base
salary for other executives. The award for achieving threshold performance is
50 per cent of the target bonus opportunity and the maximum bonus award for
outstanding performance is 200 per cent of base salary. These percentages, with
the exception of the maximum percentage, are subject to the exercise of discretion
by the Committee.
– STIP focuses participants on
achieving demanding annual
performance goals, which are based
on the Group’s KPIs, in pursuit of the
creation of sustainable shareholder
value.
– We demand that sustainable
business practices are adhered to,
particularly in the context of safety.
– When reviewing the outcome of the
awards under the STIP the
Committee will, when evaluating
overall safety, financial, Group and
individual performance, consider the
overall fairness against original
expectations and shareholder
experience.
– Any discretionary adjustments for
directorswillbedisclosedinthe
Implementation Report for the
financial period.
– A scorecard of key performance indicators (KPIs) is established for each executive at
the commencement of the financial year. The measures and the relative weightings
are selected by the Committee in order to drive business performance for the current
year, including the achievement of financial, safety and other individual business
outcomes that are priorities for the financial year in question.
– The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included either
prospectively or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report. The
Committee retains flexibility to determine the measures, weightings and targets as
appropriate, based on the outcomes of its annual review.
– We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the
beginning of each year. In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, at the
beginning of each year, disclose the measures and weightings only, because we
regardthetargetsascommerciallysensitive.However,weintendtodisclosethese
targets and outcomes retrospectively. In the rare instances where this may not be
prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why, and give an
indication of when they will be disclosed.
– Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP
measures to help drive high levels of business and individual performance.
– Thecentralcaseor“base”plandeliverswhattheboardconsiderstobetarget
performance. Target performance is intended to be stretching. Probability factors are
then applied, based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios, to
establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels. These threshold (below
target), target, and outstanding (above target) levels are determined by the
Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
– The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year-end determination of STIP
awards, that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the
beginning of the year. This sometimes results in adjustments to the targets being
made by the Committee (in particular to take account of events outside
management’s control), to ensure a like-for-like comparison. Both upward and
downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the
Committee, to ensure the outcomes are fair.
– Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality
will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant executives.
Bonus
Deferral Plan
(BDP)
– Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in deferred shares under the BDP, with the
remainder delivered in cash.
– The BDP ensures ongoing
alignment between executives and
shareholders through deferral of
50 per cent of STIP awards into
Rio Tinto shares.
– The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to
which it relates.
– The number of BDP shares awarded is increased by reference to the dividends paid in
the deferral period before vesting.
– BDP shares vest on a change of control.
72 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Remuneration arrangements – Performance-related (At risk) Link to Group performance and strategy
Performance
Share Plan
(PSP)
– A new plan was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
– Awards under the new PSP have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary
(ignoring dividend equivalents as described below).
– The PSP incorporates a simple
structure to align executive reward
with shareholder returns and business
strategy, to help drive performance
over a long-term horizon.
– Award levels are set to incentivise
executives to meet the long-term
strategic goals of the Group, to
provide retention for the executive
team and to contribute towards the
competitiveness of the overall
remuneration package.
– TSR rewards the delivery of superior
returns to shareholders over the
long term.
– EBIT margin improvement rewards
sustained operational performance
of our business and the cost-
competitive operation of our mining
assets, a core part of our strategy.
– How performance is generated is as
importantaswhatlevelof
performance is delivered. Before
vesting, the Committee must
satisfy itself that relative TSR and
EBIT margin performances are an
appropriate reflection of the
underlying performance of the
business, and can adjust
vesting accordingly.
– Awards will normally have a
five-year performance period to
provide long-term alignment
with the interests of shareholders.
– As a transitional measure, awards
grantedin2013willvest50percent
after four years and 50 per cent after
five years.
– The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants (Willis Towers
Watson since 1 August 2013 and Deloitte LLP previously) to have an expected value of
approximately 50 per cent of face value. Expected value is face value adjusted for the
probability of the performance target being met.
– Threshold performance, as explained in the Implementation Report, would result in
the vesting of 22.5 per cent of the face value of an award.
– The maximum expected value that can be awarded under the PSP is 219 per cent of
base salary (ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent). The threshold value is a maximum of
98.6 per cent of base salary (ie 438 per cent x 22.5 per cent).
– Actual award levels may vary for each executive and are included in the
Implementation Report.
– Conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance
conditions, comparing Rio Tinto’s performance against:
– One-third: TSR relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index;
– One-third: TSR relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index (MSCI); and
– One-third: improvement in EBIT margin relative to the global mining comparators
which will be listed in the Implementation Report each year.
– Each component of the award will be assessed independently. Details of the TSR and
EBIT margin measures (targets and vesting schedules) will be set out in the
Implementation Report each year. With respect to the EBIT margin measure, in order
to ensure that outcomes are fair and that business performance has been
appropriately taken into account, the Committee will consider, on a discretionary basis,
any specific, significant, unusual, “below the line” items (eg impairments) reported by
Rio Tinto or its peers during the performance period to ensure genuine comparability
when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data (currently S&P
Capital IQ). The application of any such discretion will be disclosed.
– The outperformance required for maximum vesting under all components of the award
is considered by the Committee to be very stretching.
– If, but only if, vesting is achieved, participants in the PSP shall be entitled to receive a
number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount
of dividends that would have been received had the shares which have vested at the
end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period.
– Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted to take account of variations of
capital and other transactions. Subject to this policy, performance conditions may be
amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers that a changed
performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance.
– If there is a change of control, awards will vest to the extent performance conditions
are then satisfied. If the change of control happens during the first 36 months from the
date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata
over that 36 months period. The Committee may, alternatively, with agreement of an
acquiring company, replace awards with equivalent new awards over shares in the
acquiring company.
– The Committee retains the discretion, where circumstances warrant, to amend or
waive performance conditions under the Plan rules.
– AsdescribedunderthemalusandclawbackprovisionssetoutearlierinthisPolicy
Report,theCommitteeretainsthediscretiontoreduceorcancelawardsbeforethey
vest (“malus”) or to recover the value of awards after vesting (“claw back”).
– The Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes are fair and that they take account
of the overall performance of the Company during the performance period.
The long-term incentive awards made prior to 2013, and under which payments are still intended to be made should the relevant performance
conditions be satisfied, can be paid out under this policy. The details of the awards granted prior to 2013 which have yet to vest, including the details
of the performance conditions, are provided in the Implementation Report.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 73
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
POLICY REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy
continued
Total remuneration opportunity
The following charts provide an indication,
based on 2015 remuneration and the 2015
PSP awards, of what can be achieved under
the Remuneration Policy for the executive
directors at below threshold (A), threshold (B),
target (C) and outstanding (D) performance
levels, together with the proportion of the
package delivered through fixed and variable
remuneration. The PSP, STIP deferred shares
(BDP) and STIP cash are all performance-
related remuneration. UK legislation requires
thatthesechartsaregiveninrelationtothe
first year in which the Remuneration Policy
applies (ie 2015).
Sam Walsh (chief executive) Chris Lynch (chief financial officer)
Potential value of 2015 remuneration package
A$’000
Potential value of 2015 remuneration package
£’000
Key
PSP
STIP – deferred shares
A$15,940
A$10,063
A$6,512
A$3,390
STIP – cash
Superannuation
Base salary
Benefits
A Below threshold performance (Minimum)
Threshold performance
On-target performance
Outstanding performance (Maximum)
B
C
D
AB C D
Key
PSP
STIP – deferred shares
STIP – cash
Pension
Base salary
Benefits
A Below threshold performance (Minimum)
B
C
D
D C B A
£1,151
£2,461
£3,952
£6,418
Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value
delivered through fixed and variable remuneration
%
Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value
delivered through fixed and variable remuneration
%
Key
PSP
STIP – deferred shares
STIP – cash
Superannuation
Fixed
}
Base salary
Benefits
A Below threshold performance (Minimum)
Threshold performance
On-target performance
Outstanding performance (Maximum)
B
C
D
13 28 59
29 9 31 15 7 9
43 12 12 4 9 20
55 12 12 3 6 12
AB C D
Key
PSP
STIP – deferred shares
STIP – cash
Pension
Base salary
Benefits
A Below threshold performance (Minimum)
B
C
D
}
Fixed
D C B A
73 9 18
34 4 8 10 10 34
21 3 5 13 13 45
13 2 3 13 13 56
Threshold performance
On-target performance
Outstanding performance (Maximum)
Threshold performance
On-target performance
Outstanding performance (Maximum)
Thefollowingtableprovidesthebasisforthevaluesincludedinthechartsabove:
Fixed (stated in ’000) – shown as column
Aabove
Base
Salary
(a)
Superannuation
or pension
(b)
Benefits
(c)
Total
fixed
Sam Walsh A$1,992 A$450 A$948 A$3,390
Chris Lynch £836 £208 £107 £1,151
(a) Base salary is the salary effective at the time the Remuneration Policy was approved.
(b) Superannuation for Sam Walsh is the value effective at the time the Remuneration Policy was approved and assumed that Sam’s accrued benefit would receive investment earnings at the
rate of six per cent. The values in the Implementation Report reflect the actual investment earnings received.
(c) Benefits are as measured at the benefits figure in the single figure tables for 2014 as set out in the Implementation Report excluding amounts considered to be one-off in nature. One-off
items for Sam in 2014 of A$82,000 included a relocation related benefit for the removal of household goods into storage in Australia and immigration related services. Note that this
number for Sam includes expatriate benefits which are not capped and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations.
74 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Performance-related (At risk)
Threshold STIP and LTIP
(a)
performance
– shown as column B above
– A STIP award of 50% of the target STIP opportunity,
ie 60% of base salary
– Threshold vesting of the PSP award at
– 22.5% of face value, calculated as 96.8% of base
salary
Target STIP and LTIP performance –
shown as column C above
– A STIP award of 100% of the target STIP opportunity,
ie 120% of base salary
– Expected value of the PSP award of 50% of face
value, calculated as 215% of base salary
Outstanding STIP and LTIP performance
(Maximum) – shown as column D above
– A maximum STIP award of 200% of base salary
– Full vesting of the PSP award, calculated as 430% of
base salary
(a) Long-term incentives consist of share awards only, measured at 2015 face value. This does not constitute an estimate of
the value of awards that may potentially vest with respect to year end 31 December 2015. No assumption has been made
for changes in share price or payment of dividends.
Context for outstanding performance
Demanding performance targets are designed
to ensure that the level of remuneration is
aligned with performance delivered for
shareholders.
Outstanding business and individual
performance is required to achieve the
maximum level of remuneration. This
comprises:
– outstanding performance against all
financial, health and safety, and individual
STIP measures;
– TSR outperformance against both the
Euromoney Global Mining and MSCI indices
by six per cent per annum over five years;
and
– EBIT margin improvement equal to or
greater than the second ranked company in
the comparator group over five years.
The intention of the Committee is that if these
levels of reward are achieved by our executives
then shareholders will benefit over time from
superior share price performance.
Discretions
The Committee recognises the importance of
ensuring that the outcomes of the Group’s
executive pay arrangements described in this
Remuneration Policy properly reflect the
Group’s overall performance and the experience
of its shareholders and other stakeholders over
the performance period.
The Committee undertakes to owners that it
will exercise discretion diligently and in a
manner that is aligned with our strategy to
create long-term shareholder value.
Accordingly, when reviewing the operation of
short and long-term incentive plans and the
outcomeofawardsmadeundertheseplans,the
Committee will, when evaluating safety,
financial, Group and individual performance,
consider the overall shareholder experience
during the performance period in question.
It is the Committee’s intention that the
mechanistic outcome of performance conditions
relating to awards made under such plans will
routinely be subject to review to avoid
outcomes which could be seen as contrary to
shareholders’ expectations. To the extent
provided for in the terms of any performance
condition or in accordance with any relevant
amendment power under the plan rules, the
Committee may adjust and/or set different
performance measures if events occur (such as
a change in strategy, a material acquisition or
divestment, a change in control or unexpected
event) which cause the Committee to
determine that the measures are no longer
appropriate or in the best interests of
shareholders, and that the amendment is
required so that the measures achieve their
original purpose. Committee discretion should
not operate as an automatic override, and it
must be exercised judiciously.
To the extent that discretion is applied in any
year, the Committee undertakes that this will
be clearly explained and disclosed to
shareholders in the Implementation Report.
Recruitment remuneration
Our approach to recruitment remuneration for
executives (both external and internal) is set
out below. Shareholders are reminded that the
following principles are binding only in so far as
they relate to the recruitment of directors.
Weaimtopositionbasesalaryatanappropriate
level, taking into consideration a range of
factors including an executive’s current
remuneration, experience, internal relativities,
an assessment against relevant comparator
groups and cost.
Other elements of remuneration will be
established in line with the Remuneration Policy
set out earlier in this Policy Report in the
executive remuneration structure table. As
such, annual variable remuneration for new
appointees will comprise a maximum award of
200 per cent of base salary under the STIP and
amaximumawardof438percentofbase
salary under the PSP.
In the event that an internal appointment is
made, existing commitments will be honoured.
If the Committee concludes that it is necessary
and appropriate to secure an appointment,
relocation-related support and international
mobility benefits may also be provided
depending on the circumstances.
Any relocation arrangements will be set out in
the Implementation Report.
Anycompensationprovidedtoanexecutive
recruited from outside the Group for the
forfeiture of any award under variable
remuneration arrangements entered into with
apreviousemployerisconsideredseparately
to the establishment of forward looking annual
remuneration arrangements. Our policy with
respect to such “buy-outs” is to determine a
reasonable level of award, on a like-for-like
basis, of primarily equity-based, but also
potentially cash or restricted stock, taking into
consideration the quantum of forfeited awards,
their performance conditions and vesting
schedules. The Committee will obtain an
independent external assessment of the value
of awards proposed to be bought out and
retains discretion, subject to the above, to
make such compensation as it deems
necessary and appropriate to secure the
relevant executive’s employment. The
Committee’s intention is that buy-out
compensation should include, where
appropriate, performance-tested equity.
No form of “golden hello” will be provided
upon recruitment.
Executives’ service contracts and
termination
The Committee will seek to honour any
commitments made in respect of termination
of employment in the executive directors’
service contracts predating this Remuneration
Policy which are described in this section. This
section also sets out Rio Tinto’s policy on
termination payments and notice periods.
Shareholders are reminded that such policy is
binding only in so far as it relates to directors.
For new appointments where the Company
terminates by making a payment in lieu of
notice, the Committee will for executive
directors (to the extent permitted by relevant
law) have regard to the executive director’s
ability to mitigate his loss in assessing the
payment to be made.
The executive directors may have or may be
offered service contracts which can be
terminated by either party with up to
12months’noticeinwriting,orimmediatelyby
paying the base salary only in lieu of any
unexpired notice. An initial notice period of up
to 24 months during the first two years of
employment, reducing to up to 12 months
thereafter, may sometimes be necessary to
secure an external appointment. In some
circumstances, it may also be appropriate to
use fixed-term contracts for executive directors.
Other executives can be offered service
contracts which can be terminated by the
Company with up to 12 months’ notice in
writing, and by the employee with six months’
notice in writing, or immediately by the
Company by paying the base salary only in lieu
of any unexpired notice.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 75
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
POLICY REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy
continued
The current contract terms of both directors
and the other executives are included in the
Implementation Report.
Executives may be required to undertake
garden leave during all or part of their notice
period and may receive their contractual
salary, STIP and benefits during the notice
period (or the cash equivalent). Where
applicable, tax equalisation and other
expatriate benefits will continue in
accordance with the executive’s prevailing
terms and conditions.
In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company
can terminate employment without notice and
without payment of any salary or compensation
in lieu of notice. Deferred bonus shares and
outstanding awards under the LTIP may be
forfeited in these circumstances.
Accrued but untaken annual leave and any
long service leave will be paid out on
termination, in accordance with the relevant
country legislation and applicable practice
applying to all employees. For eligible leavers
(asdefinedbelow),inAustraliathevalueof
the leave is calculated on the basis of base
salary, target STIP and car allowance. No STIP
is included where the executive is not an
eligible leaver.
If termination is a result of redundancy, the
terms of the relevant local policy may apply in
the same way as for other local employees.
On termination, the Company will pay
relocation or expatriation benefits as agreed
on the original expatriation and/or in
accordance with its applicable policies on
travel and relocation. For example, Sam
Walshisprovidedwithexpatriationbenefits
and allowances and on termination of his
employment by the Company repatriation
expenses would be paid.
On termination other than for cause, the
Company may make a payment in
consideration for entry by the departing
executive director into appropriate restrictive
covenants to protect Rio Tinto and its
shareholders. The amount of such payment will
be determined by the Committee based on the
content and duration of the covenant.
Following termination, executive directors may
be eligible to exercise long- term incentives
awards under the conditions described in the
sections following. They and their dependants
may also be eligible for post-retirement
benefits such as medical and life insurance.
The Company may also agree to continue
certain other benefits for a period following
termination where the arrangements are
provided under term contracts or in accordance
with the terms of the service contract, for
example, payment for financial advice, tax
advice and preparation of tax returns for a tax
year.Insomecases,theymayreceiveamodest
retirement gift.
The Company may pay such amount as it
determines is reasonable to settle any claims
which in the Committee’s view are legitimate
which the executive director may have in
connection with the termination of his
employment. The Company may also pay
reasonable legal and other professional fees
(including outplacement support) to or in
respect of a director in connection with the
termination of his employment. These may
include legal fees incurred by him in
negotiating a settlement agreement with
Rio Tinto. In assessing what is reasonable, the
Company will take account of prevailing rates
for such advice and support and determine
appropriate level of contribution based on the
complexity of the issues.
Treatment of STIP and LTIP on
termination
The STIP and share plan rules govern the
entitlements that executive participants may
have under those plans upon termination
of employment.
The concept of an “eligible leaver” is defined in
the relevant Plan rules. In general terms, an
eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the
Group by reason of ill-health, injury, disability
(as determined by the executive’s employer);
retirement; redundancy; transfer of the
undertaking in which the executive works;
change of control of the executive’s employing
company; or death; and usually there is a
discretion for the Remuneration Committee to
treat an executive as an eligible leaver.
Short Term Incentive Plan (STIP)
If an eligible leaver leaves the Group during a
performance year, the Committee may
determine in its absolute discretion to award a
pro rata portion of the STIP based on the
amount of the year served and based on actual
assessment of performance against targets.
Any cash payment will be made at the normal
STIP payment date and no portion of the award
will be deferred into shares.
If an executive provides the Company notice
of their resignation during the performance
year, but does not leave the Group until after
theendoftheperformanceyear,the
Committee may determine in its absolute
discretion to make an award under the STIP.
In these circumstances, the executive will
only be eligible to receive the cash portion of
the award and will forfeit the deferred shares
portion. Any cash payment will be made at
the normal STIP payment date.
No STIP award will be made where an executive
who is not an eligible leaver leaves the Group,
resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the
end of the performance year.
Bonus Deferral Plan (BDP) (2013 onwards)
Forgrantsmadetoexecutivesfromand
including 2013, awards will normally be
retained and vest at the scheduled vesting
date, save where the Committee determines
otherwise. There will be no pro rata reduction
of awards and any dividend equivalent shares
will be calculated on the vested shares.
Iftheexecutiveresignsorisdismissedfor
misconduct, or for any other reason that the
Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
BDP (pre-2013)
(a)
Forgrantsmadetoeligibleleaversbefore
2013, awards will normally vest at the
scheduledvestingdatesavewherethe
Committee determines otherwise. There will be
no pro rata reduction of awards and any
dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on
the vested shares.
If an executive leaves the Group for any other
reason, awards will lapse.
For any BDP award, where required by law or
regulation, and where the Remuneration
Committee so decides, cash may be provided in
lieu of shares.
PSP (2013 onwards)
Forgrantsmadetoexecutivesfromand
including 2013, awards will normally be
retained, and vest at the scheduled vesting
date. Unvested awards remain subject to the
satisfaction of the performance conditions.
Any dividend equivalent shares will be
calculated on the vested shares at vesting.
If the executive leaves the Group during the
first 36 months from the date of grant of the
award, the number of shares that can vest will
be reduced pro rata over that 36-month period.
Awards will vest immediately on death, but if
an executive dies during the first 36 months
fromthedateofgrantoftheaward,the
number of shares that can vest will be reduced
pro rata over that 36-month period.
Iftheexecutiveresignsorisdismissedfor
misconduct, or for any other reason that the
Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
PSP (pre-2013)
(a)
For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013,
awards will normally be retained and vest at the
scheduled vesting date, although the Committee
may determine that awards should vest early.
Unvested awards remain subject to the
satisfaction of the performance conditions.
Awards vest immediately on death. The
number of shares vesting is determined on the
assumption that performance conditions are
met at median level or at the level to which
they are actually satisfied at the date of death,
if higher. If an executive leaves the Group for
any other reason, awards will lapse.
For any PSP award, where permitted by the
Plan Rules, and where the Remuneration
Committee so decides, awards may be made in
cash in lieu of shares.
Share Option Plan (SOP) (pre-2013)
(a)
Forgrantsmadetoeligibleleaversbefore
2013, awards will normally be retained. If the
executive is an eligible leaver, vested awards
willlapseoneyearfromthedatetheexecutive
leaves the Group and unvested awards will
lapse one year from the vesting date or such
76 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report longer period as permitted by the Committee.
Atthedateofthisreporttherearenoawards
under the SOP which remain subject to the
satisfaction of performance conditions.
Awards vest in full on death.
If an executive leaves the Group for any other
reason, unvested awards and vested awards
that have not been exercised will lapse.
Management Share Plan (MSP)
(a)
AwardsundertheMSPareonlymadeto
executives prior to their appointment as an
Executive Committee member. All retained
awards will be reduced pro rata to reflect the
proportion of the period between the date of
grant of the award and the normal vesting date
which has not elapsed at the time employment
ceased. Any dividend equivalent shares or cash
equivalent will be calculated on the vested
shares. Awards vest on death, subject to the
pro rata reduction described above.
Forgrantsmadetoexecutivesfromand
including 2013, awards will normally be
retained, and vest, at the Committee’s
discretion, at the scheduled vesting date
(although awards of US taxpayers may vest
on leaving).
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for
misconduct, or for any other reason that the
Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
(a) All awards granted under pre-2013 plans or in the
case of the MSP, awards granted prior to 2014,
have now vested.
Chairman and non-executive
directors’ remuneration
Chairman
It is Rio Tinto’s policy that the chairman should
be remunerated on a competitive basis and at a
level which reflects his contribution to the
Group, as assessed by the board.
The Committee determines the terms of
service, including remuneration, of the
chairman. The chairman’s fees are set by the
Committee. The chairman has no part in the
setting of his fees and is not present at any
discussion at the Committee about his fees.
The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and
does not receive any additional fee or
allowance either for committee membership
or chairmanship, or for travel. The chairman
does not participate in the Group’s incentive
plans.
The chairman is provided with a car and driver.
Any use for transport between home and the
office and other personal travel is a taxable
benefit to the chairman, and the Company
pays any tax arising on the chairman’s behalf.
The chairman pays a fixed annual fee to the
Company for the personal travel element.
Other benefits provided include private
healthcare cover, accident insurance (note this
is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit),
other minor benefits (including modest
retirement gifts in applicable circumstances),
occasional spouse travel in support of the
business and any Rio Tinto business expenses
which are deemed to be taxable where the
Company has paid the tax on his behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-
employment benefits to the chairman.
Non-executive directors
Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect
their respective duties and responsibilities and
thetimerequiredtobespentbythemsoasto
make a meaningful and effective contribution
to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
The non-executive directors’ fees and other
terms are set by the board upon the
recommendation of the Chairman’s Committee
(which comprises the chairman, chief executive
and chief financial officer).
Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual
fee comprising a base fee, committee
membership or committee chairmanship fee or
senior independent director fee, as applicable,
and allowances for attending meetings which
involve medium or long-distance air travel.
They do not participate in any of the Group’s
incentive plans.
Where the payment of statutory minimum
superannuation contributions for Australian
non-executive directors is required by
Australian superannuation law, these
contributions are deducted from the director’s
overall fee entitlements.
Non-executive directors may on occasion
receive reimbursement for costs incurred in
relation to the provision of professional advice.
These payments, if made, are taxable benefits
to the non-executive directors and the tax
arising is paid by the Company on the
director’s behalf.
Other benefits provided include accident
insurance (note this is neither contractual
nor a taxable benefit), other minor benefits
(including modest retirement gifts in applicable
circumstances), occasional spouse travel in
support of the business and any Rio Tinto
business expenses which are deemed to be
taxable where the Company has paid the tax
on their behalf. Rio Tinto does not pay
retirement or post-employment benefits to
non-executive directors.
Appointment
The appointment of non-executive directors
(including the chairman) is handled through
the Nominations Committee and board
processes. The current fee levels are set out in
the Implementation Report.
Details of each element of remuneration paid
to the chairman and non-executive directors
are set out in the Implementation Report in
table 1b.
The chairman’s letter of appointment from the
Company stipulates his duties as chairman of
the Group. His appointment may be terminated
without liability on the part of Rio Tinto in
accordance with the Group’s constitutional
documents dealing with retirement,
disqualification from office or other vacation
from office. Otherwise, his appointment may be
terminated by giving 12 months’ notice. There
are no provisions for compensation payable on
termination of his appointment, other than if
his appointment as chairman is terminated by
reason of his removal as a director pursuant to
a resolution of shareholders in general meeting
in which case the Company shall be liable to
pay any fees accrued to the date of any
such removal.
The non-executive directors’ letters of
appointment from the Company stipulate their
duties and responsibilities as directors. Each non-
executive director is appointed subject to their
election and annual re-election by shareholders.
Non-executive directors’ appointments may be
terminated by giving three months’ notice. There
are no provisions for compensation payable on
termination of their appointment. The letters of
appointment are available for inspection at Rio
Tinto plc’s registered office, and at its annual
general meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the
Group’s constitutional documents, the
maximum aggregate fees payable to the
non-executive directors (including the
chairman) in respect of any year, including
fees received by the non- executive directors
for serving on any committee of the boards,
and any travel allowances received by the
non-executive directors for attending
meetings, will not exceed £3,000,000.
Non-monetary benefits are not included in
this limit.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 77
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
POLICY REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
Implementation Report introduction
This Implementation Report is presented to shareholders for approval at
the AGMs. It outlines how our Remuneration Policy was implemented in
2015 and how we intend to operate it in 2016.
Remuneration for executives, set out in the single total figure of
remuneration tables on pages 81, 84, 90 and 91, is shown gross of tax
and in the relevant currency of award or payment. The information
reported for executives in table 1a on pages 96 and 97 is reported in
accordance with Australian statutory disclosure requirements and is
shown gross of tax and in US dollars. Where applicable, amounts have
been converted using the relevant average exchange rates included in
thenotestotable1aonpage96
(a)
.
In addition to executive remuneration, this report covers, in table 1b on
page 98, the remuneration of the chairman and the non-executive
directors. All figures are shown gross of tax and in US dollars.
Remuneration Committee responsibilities
The Committee’s responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference
which are available in the corporate governance section of the Rio Tinto
website. The responsibilities of the Committee include:
– determining the Group’s remuneration structure and policies, and
assessing their cost, including pension and superannuation
arrangements for executives;
– determining the mix and use of short and long-term incentive plans
for executives;
– overseeing the operation of the Group’s short and long-term
incentive plans as they relate to executives, including the approval of
awards, the setting of performance criteria, where applicable, and the
determination of any vesting;
– determining contractual notice periods and termination
commitments and setting any retention and termination
arrangements for executives;
– determining awards under the Group’s all-employee share plans; and
– determining the terms of service upon appointment and any
subsequent changes for the chairman and executives.
The Committee considers the level of pay and conditions throughout the
Group when determining executive remuneration and ensures that the
same principles are used when designing the broader employee
remuneration policies.
The membership and meeting attendances are detailed in the corporate
governance section on page 57.
The Committee is supported by executives and members of senior
management who attend meetings to provide information as requested
by the Committee. These included Sam Walsh (chief executive),
HugoBague(Groupexecutive,OrganisationalResources),JohnBeadle
(global head, Performance and Reward) and Eleanor Evans (company
secretary). None of the attendees mentioned above was present when
matters associated with their own remuneration were considered
by the Committee.
Independent advisers
The independent advisers engaged by the Committee during 2015 were
WillisTowersWatson,formerlyknownasTowersWatson.WillisTowers
Watson reports to the Committee and not to management.
To ensure that “remuneration recommendations” (being advice relating
to the elements of remuneration for key management personnel, as
definedundertheAustralianCorporationsAct)weremadefreefrom
undue influence by key management personnel to whom they may
relate, the Committee established a protocol for the engagement of and
interaction with remuneration consultants and has monitored
compliance with its requirements throughout 2015. Declarations were
given by Willis Towers Watson to the effect that its remuneration
recommendations were made free from undue influence by key
management personnel to whom they related. The board has received
assurance from the Committee and is satisfied that the remuneration
recommendations received from Willis Towers Watson were made free
from undue influence.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’
Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct
(the Code) in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
TheCodeisbaseduponprinciplesoftransparency,integrity,objectivity,
competence,duecareandconfidentiality.WillisTowersWatsonhas
confirmed that it adhered to the Code throughout 2015 for all
remuneration services provided to Rio Tinto. The Code is available online
at remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Willis Towers Watson is the only remuneration consultant which
provided remuneration recommendations to the Committee during 2015.
TheCommitteeiscontentthatWillisTowersWatson,inproviding
remuneration advice to the Committee, did not have any connections
with Rio Tinto that impaired its independence.
During 2015, as part of its engagement, Willis Towers Watson provided
remuneration recommendations to the Committee. Its services
included Committee meeting attendance and advice in relation to
management proposals. Willis Towers Watson was paid US$179,223
(2014: US$349,905) for these services.
Willis Towers Watson provided general and technical executive
remuneration services. These services included the giving of advice
about remuneration of employees other than key management
personnel across the Group, and advice in relation to preparation of the
2015 Remuneration Report. Willis Towers Watson was paid US$28,183
(2014: US$147,547) for these services. Other services and publications
relating to remuneration data were received from a range of sources.
(a) UK and Australian remuneration figures are generally not comparable due
to the different methodologies required to calculate various parts of the
remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements and the value of
pension or superannuation.
78 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report How the Committee spent its time in 2015
During 2015, the Committee met seven times. It fulfilled its
responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference.
In particular, its work in 2015 and in the early part of 2016 has included:
– reviewing and determining any base salary adjustments for executives;
– reviewing and determining threshold, target and outstanding
performance targets for the 2015 STIP;
– reviewing actual performance against the targets for the 2015 STIP
and assessing applicable adjustments;
– reviewing and determining the outcomes for LTIP awards vesting at
the end of 2015;
– reviewing and determining LTIP grants for the executives in 2016;
– determining the terms of departure for the outgoing chief executive,
Energy (Harry Kenyon-Slaney);
– reviewing the strategy and annual reports on the Group’s global
benefit plans;
– reviewing progress towards compliance with the Group’s share
ownership requirements;
– determining the 2016 STIP targets; and
– preparing the Remuneration Report (including this
Implementation Report).
TheperformancetargetsundertheLTIPandtheCompany’sapproach
to establishing the performance targets under the STIP are detailed in
the executive remuneration structure table on pages 71 to 73. The
Committee’s approach to the commercial sensitivity of certain targets is
discussed below.
Performance review process for executives
Rio Tinto conducts an annual performance review process for all of its
executives. In the case of members of the Executive Committee, the
chief executive conducts the review. In the case of the chief executive,
his performance is assessed by the chairman of the board.
The key objectives of the performance review process are to:
– improve organisational effectiveness by creating alignment between
the executive’s objectives and Rio Tinto’s strategy; and
– provide a consistent, transparent and balanced approach to measure,
recognise and reward executive performance.
All such reviews took place in 2015 or early 2016.
Share ownership policy for executives
The Group recognises the importance of aligning executives’ interests
with those of shareholders and they are therefore expected to build up
and maintain a meaningful shareholding. The Committee intends that
executives should aim to reach a share ownership (defined below) in
Rio Tinto shares equivalent in value to:
Share ownership requirement
Chiefexecutive 4xbasesalary
Other executives 3 x base salary
The Committee expects that this shareholding will be built up over a
five-year period by holding shares and share options that vest under the
LTIPs. For new hires, longer periods may be accepted, given the five-year
vesting periods for the PSP.
Shares will be treated as “owned” if they are not subject to restriction,
and as such include shares directly held by the executive and any shares
where there is a beneficial interest. A beneficial interest includes any
shares where the executive receives the benefit of ownership (such as a
right to receive dividends) without directly owning the shares. A value for
vested, but unexercised, share options is included, with a 50 per cent
discount for the likely effects of taxation, on the basis that executives
with unexercised vested options have a strong financial alignment with
the share price and therefore with shareholder interests.
Shareholding requirements also exist for senior management below the
Executive Committee.
Details of executives’ beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares are set
out in table 2 on page 99 and the details of awards of shares and
options under long-term incentive plans are set out in table 3 on
pages 100 to 104.
Executives’ external and other appointments
Executives may be invited to become non-executive directors of other
companies. It is Rio Tinto’s policy that such appointments can broaden
the experience and knowledge of executives, to the benefit of the Group.
This policy limits each executive’s external appointment to one FTSE100
company directorship or equivalent. Consequently, where there is no
likelihood that such an appointment will give rise to a conflict of
interest, the board will normally provide consent to the appointment.
The executive is typically permitted to retain any fees earned.
Details of all executives’ external appointments can be found on page 54.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 79
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Performance and impact on 2015 STIP
Group financial and safety measures are included in the STIP for
executive directors and Group executives. The STIP measures for
the product group chief executive officers (PGCEOs) include product
group financial and safety measures in addition to the Group
financial measures.
Safety measures for all executives in 2015 were split equally between all
injury frequency rate (AIFR) and lost time injuries (LTIs). Our goal is zero
harm, including, above all, the elimination of workplace fatalities.
The Committee selected the current financial measures of underlying
earnings and free cash flow because they are KPIs used in managing
the business.
Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator used
across the Group. It gives insight into cost management, production
growth and performance efficiency.
Operating free cash flow is a complementary measure to underlying
earnings. It also provides insight into how we are managing costs and
increasing efficiency and productivity across the business.
In measuring financial performance against the annual plan, half is
measured against the original plan, and half is “flexed” to exclude the
impact of fluctuations in exchange rates, quoted metal and other prices
during the year, which are outside management’s control. These financial
goals have been higher than the “unflexed” targets set by the board
when commodity prices have risen and, as in the case of 2015, lower
when commodity prices fall. Earnings and free cash flow results are
compared against equally weighted “flexed” and “unflexed” targets.
The aggregate scores for Group safety and financial measures are set
out in the table below. The outcomes for the executive directors, with
commentary on key highlights on performance against individual
objectives, are provided on pages 82 and 84. Additional details for other
executives are provided on page 87.
Group measures
Weight
(%)
Result
(out of 200%)
Weighted
result
Group safety
(a)
20.0 200 40.0
Underlying earnings 12.5 0 0.0
Underlying earnings – flexed 12.5 156 19.5
Free cash flow 12.5 168 21.0
Free cash flow – flexed 12.5 200 25.0
Group financial 50.0 131 65.5
Safety and financial
measures
(b)
70.0 150.7 105.5
Individual measures
(c)
30.0 – –
Total
(c)
100.0 – –
(a) This excludes the impact of adjustments for fatalities in 2015 which vary
by executive.
(b) The weighted result represents the total Group safety and financial
measures result (out of a maximum of 200 per cent) weighted based on the
total STIP opportunity of 70 per cent allocated to the safety and financial
measures. This excludes the impact of adjustments for fatalities in 2015
which vary by executive.
(c) The outcomes against individual measures and the total result for
executives (scored out of 200 per cent) are included in the following pages.
Safety performance
Four people lost their lives while working at Rio Tinto managed
operations in 2015, which meant we did not achieve our goal of
zero fatalities.
The Remuneration Committee sought guidance from the Sustainability
Committee on safety performance for 2015, as per our normal
procedures. Both committees noted the continued improvement in
AIFR, with the Group’s AIFR improving from 0.59 in 2014 to an all-time
low of 0.44 in 2015. This outcome out-performed the level set for
“outstanding” performance for the Group for 2015 of 0.45.
There were 220 lost time injuries (LTI’s) in 2015 compared with 381 in
2014. This also out-performed the level set for “outstanding”
performance for the Group of 231 lost time injuries.
The combined performance against our AIFR and LTI targets meant
that the Group achieved an “outstanding” STIP safety result, with three
of the four product groups also achieving an “outstanding” or close to
“outstanding” STIP safety result. The total STIP safety result for the
Group was 200 per cent (out of a maximum of 200 per cent).
However reductions were applied as required for executives where a
fatality has occurred. Thus the safety results for the chief executive and
the chief financial officer were reduced from 200 per cent to 100 per cent
and 150 per cent respectively for the impact of fatalities in 2015. These
adjustments reflect the level of oversight they had for safety leadership
during the year and the level of management control over the causal
factorsofthefatalities.Similarlythereweredownwardadjustments
made for certain other executives.
Group financial performance
Highlights of our 2015 performance can be found on pages 8 to 11 of
this Annual report.
Thetablebelowprovidesdetailsofperformanceagainstour“unflexed”
and “flexed” underlying earnings and free cash flow financial targets
for 2015.
Group measures
Unflexed
Target
Flexed
Target
Actual
result
Underlying earnings US$5.9b US$4.1b US$4.5b
Free cash flow US$3.3b US$1.2b US$4.8b
The ‘threshold’ level for underlying “unflexed” earnings for the Group set
bytheboardwasnotmet.However,the“unflexed”freecashflow‘target’
and “flexed” earnings and free cash flow ‘targets’ were exceeded. These
outcomes are reflected in the financial component of the STIP awards,
both at the Group and product group level.
These outcomes (adjusted as described below) translate into a Group
performance against financial targets of 132 per cent (out of a maximum
of 200 per cent).
The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year end determination of
STIP awards, that actual performance is directly comparable to the
targetssetatthebeginningoftheyear.ThisresultedintheCommittee
making certain minor adjustments to the targets in 2015 to take account
of events outside management’s control and to ensure a like-for-like
comparison. Both upward and downward adjustments were made to the
targets by reference to principles agreed by the Committee, which have
been consistently applied over several years, to ensure the outcomes
are fair.
This process reduced the Group’s performance score against the
financial targets from 132 per cent to 131 per cent out of a maximum of
200 per cent (2014: from 154 per cent to 153 per cent).
80 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report STIP individual measures for 2015
Individual measures were set by the chairman for the chief executive and by
the chief executive for other executives based on the following categories:
1. Business transformation
2. Cost reduction
3. Performance delivery
4. Leadership and engagement
Details of the outcomes against the individual measures are provided in
the following pages.
Performance and impact on LTIP vesting outcome for the period
ended 31 December 2015
The performance shares under the PSP awarded in 2012 had a four-year
performance period that ended on 31 December 2015. Conditional share
awards vest subject to the TSR performance condition which compares
Rio Tinto’s TSR against the Euromoney Global Mining Index (50 per cent)
and the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index (MSCI) (50 per cent).
Rio Tinto outperformed the Euromoney Global Mining Index by
29.4 per cent for the four-year performance period starting 1 January
2012 and ending on 31 December 2015. This equated to an
outperformance of 6.7 per cent per annum positioning performance
between “target” and “outstanding”. The level of outperformance
required for maximum vesting against this index was 8 per cent per
annum. The vesting outcome against this index was therefore
130.7 per cent compared to the maximum of 150 per cent.
ThelevelofvestingagainsttheMSCIwasnilasRioTinto
underperformed this index.
This award, which has been calculated by Willis Towers Watson, has a
vesting of 65.4 per cent of face value against a maximum possible
vestingof150percentoffacevalue.Thevestingasapercentageofthe
maximum possible vesting was therefore 43.6 per cent which is
calculated as 65.4 per cent divided by 150 per cent.
The Committee considered the Group’s overall performance in the
context of the LTIP awards that were due to vest at the end of 2015 and
concluded that the vesting of awards based upon the achievement of the
TSR measures set by shareholders was justified.
Further details of the LTIP outcomes for the period ended 31 December
2015 and in prior years, including a chart on TSR performance against
both indices, are provided on page 93.
Sam Walsh (chief executive)
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration in respect of
2015andprioryearsinaccordancewithUKlegislation.Itisstatedin
Australian dollars, the currency of Sam Walsh’s remuneration
arrangements. This is in addition to the Australian statutory disclosure
requirements set out in US dollars in table 1a on pages 96 and 97. The
remuneration details set out in table 1a include theoretical accounting
values relating to various parts of the remuneration packages, most
notably LTIP arrangements, and require a different methodology for
calculating the superannuation value. Accordingly, the figures below are
not directly comparable with those in table 1a.
(stated in A$’000) 2015 2014 2013
Base salary paid
(a)
1,985 1,940 1,889
STIP payment – cash 1,631 1,721 1,371
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
1,632 1,721 1,370
Total short-term pay 5,248 5,382 4,630
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
2,076 3,161 3,121
Superannuation
(d)
584 841 1,322
Other benefits
(e)
1,217 1,030 997
Single total figure of remuneration 9,125 10,414 10,070
Percentage change in total
remuneration (2015 versus 2014;
2014 versus 2013)
(12.4%) 3.4%
Percentage of total remuneration
provided as performance-related
pay (STIP and LTIP)
58.5% 63.4% 58.2%
Percentage of total remuneration
provided as non-performance-
related pay (base salary, pension
and other benefits)
41.5% 36.6% 41.8%
Percentage of maximum STIP
awarded
(f)
81.9% 88.4% 72.1%
Percentage of maximum STIP
forfeited
18.1% 11.6% 27.9%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 136.5% 147.3% 120.2%
Percentage of PSP award vesting 65.4% 73.5% 75%
Percentage SOP award vesting – ––
The decrease in the single total figure of remuneration is due mainly to
the significantly lower value of shares in the LTIP awards vesting in 2015
compared with 2014. This was due to a lower vesting level for the PSP
awards (65.4 per cent for the 2012 PSP versus 73.5 per cent for the 2011
PSP), combined with lower share prices at the date the 2012 PSP awards
vested in February 2016 compared to the share prices at the date the
2011 PSP awards vested in February 2015. A lower STIP in 2015 and a
lower value of superannuation accrued during 2015 have also
contributed to the reduction in total remuneration.
(a) Salary paid in the financial year to 31 December. Salaries are generally
reviewed with effect from 1 March.
(b) Value of STIP deferred under the BDP, the vesting of which is subject to
continued service.
(c) Based on the value of the LTIP awards, including a cash payment for
dividends, which vested in respect of the performance period that ended
31 December. The Rio Tinto Ltd share price used to calculate the value of
the award vesting is based on the closing price on 15 February 2016 of
A$42.22. The performance conditions for awards vesting for the period
ending 31 December 2015 are detailed in the notes to table 3 on page 104.
(d) Superannuation reflects the value of the superannuation accrued during the
year assuming that it was to come into payment immediately. This differs
from the value reported in table 1a which is calculated using an IAS19
methodology and assumptions on rates of investment return, inflation and
salary increases.
(e) Other benefits include international assignment benefits (e.g. house rental
costs) of A$1,001,000 for 2015 (2014: A$810,000), allowance for
professional tax services, car allowance, Company provided transport and
other contractual payments or benefits. Other benefits were higher in 2015
due primarily to the impact of exchange rates on house rental costs, to
costs related to the storage of household goods in Australia and to higher
company provided transport benefits.
(f) The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 81
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Base salary
Sam’s base salary will remain unchanged for 2016.
2016 2015 % change
Base salary (stated in A$’000) 1,992 1,992 –
STIP individual objectives for 2015
Sam’s performance against his individual objectives is summarised below:
Category Performance
Business
transformation
– Effectively repositioned the cost base through
the embedded cash focus of the organisation.
– Continued to consolidate and build on strong
platform to engage with all leaders and
employees, and further drive transformation and
cultural change.
– Continued discipline in capital management and
prioritisation and focus on costs (see below).
– Continued progress with outsourcing and
offshoring opportunities in emerging markets.
The further centralisation of Procurement
delivered value of more than US$1.7 billion both
through cost reductions and cost avoidance.
Cost and capital
reductions
– Achieved a further US$1.3 billion of sustainable
operating cash cost improvements.
– Generated net cash from operating activities of
US$9.4 billion in 2015 and free cash flow of
US$4.8 billion.
– Tight management of working capital generated
a further US$1.5 billion cash inflow in 2015.
– Reduced capital expenditure by US$3.5 billion to
US$4.7 billion.
– Maintained a strong balance sheet with net debt
of US$13.8 billion and gearing of 24 per cent.
Performance
delivery
– Pilbara 360: The construction of the 360 Mt/a
infrastructure was completed during 2015 on
schedule and below budget. The Brockman Fuel
Hub project was also finished as planned.
– Kitimat Modernisation Project: Construction
was completed and first hot metal was
delivered during 2015, within the revised
schedule and budget.
– Significant progress made on the Amrun
bauxite project.
– Oyu Tolgoi in its second full year of operations
with agreements signed to finance the proposed
underground project.
– Development of the fourth kimberlite pipe
at Diavik.
Leadership and
engagement
– Simplified the organisation to better reflect the
current environment and prepare the business
for cost challenges, including but not limited
to removing the Energy Product Group,
consolidating Coal with Copper and Uranium
with Diamonds and Minerals.
– Substantially increased communication and
engagement with investors and the market.
– Re-established the strength of our
governance processes to ensure the best
investment decisions.
– Further development of executive talent.
The Committee, with input from the chairman of the board, assessed
Sam’s performance against his individual objectives as 170 per cent
(out of 200 per cent) for his individual contribution to the business
during the year.
STIP outcomes for 2015
The following table summarises the STIP outcomes for 2015.
Measures
Weight
(%)
Result
(out of 200%)
Weighted
result
Safety
(a)
20 100.0 20.0
Group financial
(a)
50 131.0 65.5
Safety and financial 70 122.1 85.5
Individual 30 170.0 51.0
Total (% of target out of 200%) 100 – 136.5
(a) Refer to page 80 for further details of Group safety and financial
performance. The Group safety result of 200 per cent has been reduced by
50 per cent to 100 per cent for the impact of fatalities in 2015.
As a result, Sam received a STIP award of 136.5 per cent of target
(2014: 147.3 per cent), equivalent to 163.8 per cent of base salary
(2014: 176.8 per cent), half to be delivered in cash in March 2016,
and the remainder to be delivered in deferred shares, vesting in
December 2018.
STIP measures for 2016
The 2016 STIP measures and weightings are described on page 89 of
this Report.
LTIP outcome for the period ended 31 December 2015
Sam received 41,555 shares (2014: 45,387 shares) in Rio Tinto Limited
on 15 February 2016 from the vesting of the PSP awarded in 2012.
The market price of Rio Tinto Limited shares at 15 February 2016, the
date these awards first became available for election and the latest
practicable date before the date of publication of this report, was
A$42.22 (16 February 2015: A$63.55). He also received a cash payment
of A$321,760 (2014: A$277,051) equal to the aggregate net dividends
that would have been paid on the shares that vested had he owned them
during that four-year period. No dividends were paid in respect of the
shareawardsthatlapsed.ThetotalvalueoftheLTIPawardsvesting
from the performance period ending 31 December 2015, inclusive of the
cash payment for dividends on the 2012 PSP, was therefore A$2,076,000
(2014: A$3,161,000).
Further details of the awards vesting in 2016 and in prior years are
provided on page 93 and in table 3 on page 101.
LTIP award granted in 2015
The details of Sam’s 2015 LTIP award are summarised in the
following table.
Type of award Grant date
Face value
of award
(% of base
salary)
Face
value
of award
(A$’000)
(a)
% vesting at
threshold
performance
End of the
performance
period over which
the performance
conditions have
to be fulfilled
(b)(c)
PSP 23 March
2015 430% 8,567 22.5% 31 Dec 2019
(a) The face value represents the maximum value of the award and resulted in
an award of 138,010 conditional shares based on the average share price
over 2014 of A$62.074. The expected value of the award is 50 per cent of
the face value or A$4,283,500.
(b) The 2015 PSP award may vest after five years in 2020.
(c) The full performance conditions for the award are set out in detail in table 3
on page 104.
82 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report LTIP award for 2016
Sam’s PSP award in 2016 will have a face value of 400 per cent of base
salary and an expected value of 200 per cent of base salary. The award
may vest after five years in 2021, subject to the Group’s relative TSR and
relative EBIT margin performance. Save for the change to the EBIT
margin comparator group, the performance conditions for the award are
unchanged from 2015 and the full performance conditions are set out in
detail on page 88. As with other participants, Sam’s award in 2016 may
be subject to pro-rating depending on the date of his retirement from
Rio Tinto.
The number of conditional shares awarded under the LTIP is calculated
using the average share price over the previous calendar year, and as
such, the awards granted in 2016 will be calculated using the 2015
averageRioTintoLimitedsharepriceA$54.184.Thiscompareswiththe
market price of Rio Tinto Limited shares at 15 February 2016 of A$42.22.
This has the effect of reducing the nominal value of the award as at
15 February 2016 from 400 per cent to 312 per cent of salary.
Shareholding
Sam’s shareholding for the purposes of the share ownership policy,
calculated using the market price of Rio Tinto shares on the latest
practicable date each year before the date of publication of this
report was:
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
Increase in
shareholding/
value of
options
Holding of ordinary shares 194,780 146,993 32.5%
Value of vested but
unexercised options (’000) A$175 A$809 (78.4%)
Multiple of base salary 4.2 5.2 (1.0)
The value of vested but unexercised options is calculated based on the
share price as at the relevant date in February each year less the
exercise price and with a 50 per cent discount for the effects of taxation.
Sam’s shareholding at 31 December 2015 exceeds the level required
under the Share ownership policy of 4 times base salary and Sam’s
holding of ordinary shares has increased. However, the value of the
shares and options and the multiple of base salary as at 31 December
2015 is lower than the multiple reported as at 31 December 2014 due to
thelowershareprice.
Superannuation
Sam is provided with superannuation through an employer funded plan
as provided to Australian-based employees.
In line with Australian-based employees with defined benefit provision
who remain in service beyond age 62, Sam’s benefit is calculated as the
greater of:
(a) 20 per cent of base salary, averaged over three years, for each year of
service and proportionate month with the Company to date of retirement;
or
(b) (i) his accrued benefit at age 62 of 4.05 times final base salary; plus
(ii) Company contributions required under Australian legislation sufficient
to meet the maximum contribution base as detailed within the
Superannuation Guarantee legislation, being at the rate of 9.5 per cent
for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015, less tax; plus
(iii) investment earnings at the rate the trustee of the superannuation fund
may determine from time to time for the period from age 62 to the date
of retirement.
In line with typical market practice in Australia, Sam continues to receive
an additional Company contribution on a defined contribution basis of
20 per cent of the lesser of:
(a) 50 per cent of the annual STIP award; or
(b) 20 per cent of base salary.
This benefit can be taken without employer or trustee consent and
without actuarial reduction on cessation of employment on or after
age 62.
The accrued lump sum benefit as at 31 December 2015 was
A$10,220,837 (31 December 2014: A$9,496,489). The accrued lump
sum benefit as at 31 December 2015 calculated by reference to Sam’s
base salary as set out in (a) above was A$9,144,489 (31 December 2014:
A$8,235,215). The additional Company contribution on a defined
contribution basis for 2015 was A$77,900 (2014: A$75,999). Sam
elected to take the defined contribution element as a cash amount less
any applicable withholdings.
Fees received from external appointments
Sam received no fees from external appointments in 2015 or 2014.
Service contract
Positions held and date of appointment to position
Position held during 2015 Date of appointment to position
Chief executive 17 January 2013
As announced in October 2014, effective 7 May 2015, Sam transferred to
a rolling contract which can be terminated by either party with 12 months’
notice in writing, or immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of
any unexpired notice.
Other
Sam receives a housing allowance and other assignment benefits during
his secondment to London. His remuneration is not subject to tax
equalisation or cost of living adjustments, both of which are standard
provisions for other international assignees in the Group. The amounts
are included in note (e) under the single total figure of remuneration
tableonpage81.Attherelevanttime,hewillalsoberepatriatedto
Australia at the conclusion of his assignment.
Sam will be eligible to receive the value of unused annual leave and long
service leave at the conclusion of his employment in accordance with
Australian legislation and applicable practice applying to all employees
in Australia; the value of this leave as at 15 February 2016 was
A$879,000 and A$1,816,000 respectively.
Chief executive’s pay and employee pay
The table below compares the changes from 2014 to 2015, in salary,
benefits and annual incentives paid for the chief executive and the
Australian workforce. We have chosen the comparison to the Australian
workforce because it is the country where approximately 40 per cent of
thetotalworkforceisbased.Thiscomparatorgrouphasbeenselected
due to the availability of comparative data and to remove the impacts of
year-on-year exchange rate fluctuations. The underlying elements of the
chief executive’s pay are based on the values reported in the single total
figure of remuneration table.
The chief executive’s base pay was increased by 2.3 per cent with effect
from 1 March 2015, compared to an average increase of 2.9 per cent
across the Australian workforce.
Percentage
change in
salary paid
Percentage
change in
other
benefits paid
Percentage
change in
annual
incentive paid
(c)(d)
Chief executive 2.3% 18.2% 25.5%
Australian workforce 2.9% 1.0% (14.1%)
(a) The percentage change in each element of remuneration for the workforce
is calculated on a per capita basis using average employee numbers.
(b) The percentage change in annual incentive compares amounts paid in 2015
with respect to the 2014 performance year, to amounts paid in 2014 with
respect to the 2013 performance year. Annual incentives for the workforce
comprise a number of different short-term incentive arrangements.
(c) The increase in annual incentive paid to the chief executive was primarily
due to a higher individual performance score in 2014 compared to 2013 and
the impact of a 10 per cent reduction to the overall incentive in 2013 levied
by the Committee using its discretion.
(d) The lower average annual incentive paid to the Australian workforce was
due mainly to lower average financial and safety performance outcomes in
2014 compared to 2013, particularly for Iron Ore which represents a
significant portion of the Australian workforce.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 83
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Chris Lynch (chief financial officer)
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration in respect of
2015 and the prior year in accordance with UK legislation, stated in
pounds sterling, the currency of Chris’s arrangements. This is in addition
to the Australian statutory disclosure requirements set out in US dollars
in table 1a on pages 96 to 97. The remuneration details for 2015 set out
in table 1a include theoretical accounting values relating to various parts
of the remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements, and
require a different methodology for calculating the pension value.
Accordingly, the figures below are not directly comparable with those in
table 1a.
(stated in £‘000) 2015 2014 2013
(g)
Base salary paid/fees
(a)
834 817 702
STIP payment – cash
(a)
690 746 457
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
690 746 4562
Total short-term pay 2,214 2,309 1,615
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
0 00
Pension
(d)
208 204 167
Other benefits
(e)
151 107 941
Single total figure of remuneration 2,573 2,620 2,723
Percentage change in total
remuneration (2015 versus 2014;
2014 versus 2013) (1.8%) (3.8%) –
Percentage of total remuneration
provided as performance-related pay
(STIP and LTIP) 53.6% 56.9% 33.5%
Percentage of total remuneration
provided as non-performance- related
pay (base salary/fees, pension and
other benefits) 46.4% 43.1% 66.5%
Percentage of maximum STIP
awarded
(f)
82.5% 91.0% 68.1%
Percentage of maximum STIP
forfeited 17.5% 9.0% 31.9%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 137.5% 151.7% 113.5%
Percentage of PSP award vesting
(c)
– ––
Percentage SOP award vesting
(c)
– ––
The decrease in the single total figure of remuneration is due mainly to
the lower STIP award in 2015 compared with 2014, partly offset by a
higher base salary paid and higher other benefits due primarily to prior
year tax planning fees being recognised in 2015 instead of 2014 and
higher Company provided transport benefits.
(a) Salary/fees paid in the financial year to 31 December. Salaries are generally
reviewed with effect from 1 March.
(b) Value of STIP deferred under the BDP, the vesting of which is subject to
continued service.
(c) Chris had no LTIP awards vest in respect of the performance period that
ended 31 December 2015 as he received no LTIP awards prior to the award
made in 2013.
(d) Pension reflects the value of the pension contribution and payment in lieu of
pension paid during the year.
(e) Includes healthcare, allowance for professional tax services and car
allowance. 2013 includes one-off costs of £896,000 associated with Chris’s
relocation from Melbourne, Australia to London.
(f) The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
(g) Remuneration for 2013 includes director’s fees of A$35,000 for the period
Chris was a non-executive director from 1 January 2013 to 28 February 2013.
Base salary
Chris’s base salary will remain unchanged in 2016.
2016 2015 % change
Base salary (stated in £’000) 836 836 –
STIP individual objectives for 2015
Chris’s performance against his individual objectives is summarised
below:
Category Performance
Business
transformation
– Significant cost reductions achieved through
the consolidation of Strategy and Business
Development functions.
– Successful completion of strategic review.
Cost and capital
reductions
– Achieved a further US$1.3 billion of sustainable
operating cash cost improvements.
– Generated net cash from operating activities of
US$9.4 billion in 2015 and free cash flow of
US$4.8 billion.
– Tight management of working capital
generated a further US$1.5 billion cash inflow
in 2015.
– Reduced capital expenditure by US$3.5 billion
to US$4.7 billion.
– Maintained a strong balance sheet with net
debt of US$13.8 billion and gearing of
24 per cent.
Performance
delivery
– Strengthened the Evaluation and Plan Review
Committees.
– Actively contributed to the above Committees
as well as Investment Committee, Executive
Committee and the board.
Leadership and
engagement
– Strong functional performance while reducing
costs by 20 per cent.
– Strong investor engagement.
The Committee, with input from the chief executive, assessed Chris’s
performance against his individual objectives as 140 per cent (out of
200 per cent) for his individual contribution to the business during
the year.
STIP outcomes for 2015
The following table summarises the STIP outcomes for 2015.
Measures
Weight
(%)
Result
(out of 200%)
Weighted
Result
Safety
(a)
20 150.0 30.0
Group financial
(a)
50 131.0 65.5
Safety and financial 70 136.4 95.5
Individual 30 140.0 42.0
Total (% of target out of 200%) 100 – 137.5
(a) Refer to page 80 for further details of Group safety and financial
performance. The Group safety result of 200 per cent has been reduced by
25 per cent to 150 per cent for the impact of fatalities in 2015.
As a result, Chris received a STIP award of 137.5 per cent of target
(2014: 151.7 per cent), equivalent to 165.0 per cent of base salary
(2014: 182.0 per cent), half to be delivered in cash in March 2016,
and the remainder to be delivered in deferred shares, vesting in
December 2018.
STIP measures for 2016
The 2016 STIP measures and weightings are described on page 89 of
this Report.
84 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report LTIP outcome for the period ended 31 December 2015
Chris had no LTIP awards which had a performance period that ended on
31 December 2015, having become an executive director on
1 March 2013.
LTIP award granted in 2015
The details of Chris’s 2015 LTIP award are summarised in the
following table.
Type of award Grant date
Face value
of award
(% of base
salary)
Face
value
of award
(£’000)
(a)
% vesting at
threshold
performance
End of the
performance
period over which
the performance
conditions have
to be fulfilled
(b)(c)
PSP
23 March
2015 430% 3,597 22.5% 31 Dec 2019
(a) The face value represents the maximum value of the award and resulted in
an award of 112,620 conditional shares based on the average share price
over 2014 of £31.935. The expected value of the award is 50 per cent of the
face value or £1,798,500.
(b) The 2015 PSP award may vest after five years in 2020.
(c) The full performance conditions for the award are set out in detail in table 3
on page 104.
LTIP award for 2016
Chris’s PSP award in 2016 will have a face value of 400 per cent of base
salary and an expected value of 200 per cent of base salary. The award
may vest after five years in 2021, subject to the Group’s relative TSR and
therelativeEBITmarginperformance.SaveforthechangetotheEBIT
margin comparator group, the performance conditions for the award are
unchanged from 2015 and the full performance conditions are set out in
detail on page 88.
The number of conditional shares awarded under the LTIP is calculated
using the average share price over the previous calendar year, and as
such, the awards granted in 2016 will be calculated using the 2015
averagesharepriceof£26.346.Thiscompareswiththemarketpriceof
Rio Tinto plc shares at 15 February 2016 of £18.51. This has the effect of
reducingthenominalvalueoftheawardasat15February2016from
400 per cent to 281 per cent of salary.
Shareholding
Chris’s shareholding for the purposes of the share ownership policy,
calculated using the market price of Rio Tinto shares on the latest
practicable date each year before the date of publication of this
report was:
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
Increase in
shareholding
Holding of ordinary shares 9,182 9,050 1.5%
Multiple of base salary 0.2 0.4 (0.2)
Chris holds no options over Rio Tinto shares. He has until 2018 to build up
his ownership in shares to three times his salary as chief financial officer.
Pension
Chris is employed in the UK and is provided with pension benefits on a
defined contribution basis.
The Company paid a pension contribution to a funded UK company
pension arrangement of 25 per cent of £135,000, being the current
maximum salary on which pension contributions are based under that
arrangement. The pension contribution for 2015 was £33,750
(2014: £33,750).
Chris also received a cash supplement equal to 25 per cent of the
amount by which his base salary exceeded £135,000, less any applicable
withholdings. The gross cash supplement for 2015 was £174,667
(2014: £170,417).
Fees from external appointments
Chris received no fees from external appointments in 2015 or 2014.
Service contract
Positions held and date of appointment to position
Position held during 2015 Date of appointment to position
Chief financial officer 18 April 2013
As announced in October 2014, effective 7 May 2015, Chris transferred
to a rolling contract which can be terminated by either party with 12
months’ notice in writing, or immediately by paying the base salary only
in lieu of any unexpired notice.
Other
As a UK contracted employee, Chris is not eligible for tax equalisation on
his remuneration, cost of living or any other ongoing assignment benefits
such as a housing allowance.
Past-director payments
Guy Elliott retired on 31 December 2013. Upon his retirement, good
leaver treatment and pro-rating, where applicable, were applied to
outstanding LTIP awards in accordance with the plan rules.
Accordingly, Mr Elliott received 22,171 Rio Tinto plc shares on
15 February 2016 resulting from the vesting of the PSP awarded in 2012.
In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, he also received a cash
payment of £95,484 equal to the aggregate net dividends that would
have been paid on those shares had he owned them during the four-year
performance period. No dividends were paid in respect of the
11,730 share awards which lapsed.
The market price of Rio Tinto plc shares at 15 February 2016, the date
these awards first became available for election and the latest
practicable date before the date of publication of this report, was £18.51.
The total value of the LTIP awards vesting with respect to the
performance period ending 31 December 2015, inclusive of the cash
payment for dividends on the 2012 PSP, was therefore £506,000.
During 2015, the UK tax authorities completed a review of their
interpretationoftheUK/USADoubleTaxTreaty.Inthiscontext,they
reviewed the UK tax returns of a number of Rio Tinto employees,
including the former chief executive, Tom Albanese, in connection with
foreign tax credits. The periods under review related to Mr Albanese’s
tenure prior to his appointment as chief executive, when he was on a tax
equalised assignment to the UK.
The outcome of this review resulted in an assessment of additional UK
tax for the 2004/05, 2005/06 and 2006/07 tax years. It is noted that all
tax returns were prepared and submitted in good faith, in line with best
practice at the time and that neither the Company nor Mr Albanese has
failed in meeting their compliance obligations.
The estimated additional tax and related professional fees for this matter
in 2015, the payment of which on behalf of Mr Albanese is in accordance
with our policies, is in the region of £245,000 (subject to exchange rate
fluctuations). An estimate of the costs can only be given at this time as
the final amount depends on the outcome of ongoing discussions with
the US Tax Authorities. The final settlement will be advised accordingly
in a subsequent Report.
In addition, Mr Albanese was reimbursed a gross amount of US$4,769 by
theCompanyasaresultofanover-withholdingoftaxesonaStock
Option awarded in 2003.
This Stock Option was awarded when Mr Albanese was tax equalised.
The Stock Option was exercised in 2013. The amount reimbursed to
Mr Albanese was calculated by the Company’s external tax advisers
following the completion of his US Tax Return. This reimbursement is in
line with policy and precedent.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 85
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
What we paid our chairman and non-executive directors
Positions held
Details of the Non-executive directors who held office during 2015 are
set out below. Each Non-executive director held office for the whole of
2015 unless otherwise indicated. Years of appointment for each Non-
executive director are included in the section headed Board of directors
on page 51.
Name Title
Jan du Plessis Chairman
Robert Brown Non-executive director
Megan Clark Non-executive director
Michael Fitzpatrick Non-executive director to 7 May 2015
Ann Godbehere Non-executive director
Richard Goodmanson Non-executive director
John Kerr Non-executive director to 7 May 2015
Anne Lauvergeon Non-executive director
Michael L’Estrange Non-executive director
Paul Tellier Non-executive director
Simon Thompson Non-executive director
John Varley Non-executive director
Annual fees payable
The table below sets out the annual fees paid in 2015 and payable in
2016 to the chairman and the non-executive directors.
2016 2015 2014
Director fees
Chairman’s fee £730,000 £730,000 £730,000
Non-executive director base fee
(a)
£ 90,000 £ 90,000 £ 90,000
Senior independent director £ 40,000 £ 40,000 £ 40,000
Committee fees
Audit Committee chairman £ 35,000 £ 35,000 £ 35,000
Audit Committee member £ 20,000 £ 20,000 £ 20,000
Remuneration Committee
chairman
£ 30,000 £ 30,000 £ 30,000
Remuneration Committee member £ 15,000 £ 15,000 £ 15,000
Sustainability Committee chairman £ 30,000 £ 30,000 £ 30,000
Sustainability Committee member £ 15,000 £ 15,000 £ 15,000
Nominations Committee member £7,500 £ 7,500 £ 7,500
Meeting allowances
Long distance
(flights over 10 hours per journey)
£ 10,000 £ 10,000 £ 10,000
Medium distance
(flights of 5-10 hours per journey) £ 5,000 £ 5,000 £ 5,000
(a) The fees payable to non-executive directors are subject to review by the
board on the recommendation of the Chairman’s Committee. There has been
no change to the base fee for non-executive directors since 1 January 2014.
There have been no changes to other fees or allowances since 1 January
2012, save that the travel allowances have since 2013 been based on length
of flights (unchanged) rather than whether the travel is overseas.
Details of each element of remuneration and the single total figure of
remuneration paid to the chairman and non-executive directors during
2015 and 2014 are set out in US dollars in table 1b on page 98. No
post-employment, termination payments or share-based payments
were made. Where the payment of statutory minimum superannuation
contributions for non-executive directors is required by Australian
superannuation law, these contributions are deducted from the director’s
overall fee entitlements.
The total fee and allowances payments made to the chairman and non-
executive directors in 2015 are within the maximum aggregate annual
amount of £3 million set out in the Group’s constitutional documents
approved by shareholders at the 2009 annual general meetings.
Share ownership policy for non-executive directors
The board, in 2006, adopted a policy whereby non-executive directors
are encouraged to build up a shareholding within three years of their
appointment equal in value to one year’s base fee. Details of non-
executive directors’ share interests in the Group, including total holdings,
are set out in table 2 on page 99.
Non-executive directors’ share ownership
The non-executive directors’ shareholdings, calculated using the market
priceofRioTintosharesonthelatestpracticabledatebeforethedateof
publication of this report were:
Director
Share ownership level
at 31 December 2015
as a multiple of base fee
Jan du Plessis 0.8
Robert Brown 0.9
Megan Clark 0.6
Ann Godbehere 0.6
Richard Goodmanson 1.1
Anne Lauvergeon 0.7
Michael L’Estrange 0.2
Paul Tellier 5.0
Simon Thompson 1.5
John Varley 2.0
Notethatwhileinsomecasestheholdinginordinaryshareshas
increased,thevalueofthesharesandthemultipleofbasesalaryasat
31 December 2015 is lower than the multiple reported as at
31 December 2014 due to the lower share price.
What we paid our other Executive Committee members
and why
Base salary
Base salaries will remain unchanged at the time of the publication of the
Report, in keeping with the salary freeze applied to other employees in
the Group.
Stated in ’000 2016 2015 % change
Hugo Bague £494 £494 –
Alfredo Barrios C$964 C$964 –
Alan Davies
(a)
£540 £540 –
Andrew Harding £571 £571 –
Jean-Sébastien Jacques £553 £553 –
Greg Lilleyman A$778 A$778 –
Debra Valentine US$696 US$696 –
(a) Given Alan Davies has been living and working in the UK for some time, his
remuneration was localised in accordance with policy with effect from
1 March 2015.
86 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report STIP objectives and outcomes for 2015
Overview of STIP weightings and measures for 2015
The following table provides an overview of the measures and weightings
used to determine STIP awards for members of the Executive Committee
in 2015:
Weighting for
executive
directors and
Group
executives
Weighting for
PGCEOs
Safety – split equally between AIFR and
LTIs adjusted for fatalities 20% 20%
Financial measures split equally between
underlying earnings and free cash flow for
the Group 50% 20%
Financial measures split equally between
underlying earnings and free cash flow for
the relevant product group 0% 30%
Individual measures based on key
strategic initiatives of each role and
contribution to overall company
performance 30% 30%
The Group safety result was outstanding and the average performance
against safety goals for individual Executive Committee members,
excluding the impact of adjustments for fatalities in 2015, was also close
to outstanding.
Average performance against the individual product group financial goals
was above target.
The individual performance of Executive Committee members who are
not executive directors was reviewed by the Committee against these
measures and, on average, was considered above target. This reflected,
among other things, the “outstanding” performance against the cost
reduction targets set for 2015, and the tight management of capital and
consequent reduction in levels of debt.
The2015STIPawardsaredetailedinthetablebelow.Allawards,both
as a percentage of salary and as an absolute value, are lower than 2014
save for those of Andrew Harding and Jean-Sébastien Jacques, where the
increases were mostly attributable to improved safety performance this
year, and of Alfredo Barrios, who received a pro-rata award for part year
service in 2014.
2015 STIP Award
(% of Salary)
(a)
2015 STIP
Award (000’s)
Hugo Bague 135.0% £667
Alfredo Barrios 138.5% C$1,335
Alan Davies 113.5% £613
Andrew Harding 141.9% £810
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 168.1% £930
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(b)
114.6% £97
Greg Lilleyman 134.0% A$1,042
Debra Valentine 136.6% US$951
(a) Results out of 200% have been rounded to one decimal place in the above
table. As the actual STIP awards do not use rounding conventions, small
rounding variances may occur.
(b) STIP Award for the period 1 January 2014 – 28 February 2015. The full STIP
award for the period 1 January 2015 – 18 March 2015 was £127,000.
Detailed commentary on the performance of each product group is
provided in the Annual report on pages 32 to 39. The average overall
performance of Executive Committee members who are not executive
directorswasadjudgedbytheCommitteetobeabovetarget.
LTIP outcomes for the period ended 31 December 2015
Executives received shares in Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited as
applicable on 15 February 2016 from the vesting of the PSP awarded in
2012. The market price of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares at
15 February 2016, the date these awards first became available for
election and the latest practicable date before the date of publication of
this report, was £18.51 and A$42.22 respectively. Executives who were
members of the Executive Committee at the time the 2012 PSP awards
were granted (Hugo Bague, Andrew Harding, Harry Kenyon-Slaney and
Debra Valentine) also received a cash payment equal to the aggregate
net dividends that would have been paid on the 2012 PSP shares that
vested had they owned them during the four-year performance period.
No dividends were paid in respect of the share awards that lapsed. The
total value of LTIP awards vesting is included in the single total figure of
remuneration.
Further details of the LTIP outcomes for the period ended 31 December
2015 are provided on page 93 and pages 100 to 101.
LTIP awards granted in 2015
The maximum potential value of PSP awards granted in 2015 was
438 per cent of base salary. The Committee decided that the PSP awards
in 2015 would have a face value of awards as shown in the table below.
The eventual value of the award will depend on the Group’s relative TSR
and relative EBIT margin performance during the years 2015-2019. The
2015 PSP award may vest after five years in 2020. Save for the change to
the EBIT margin comparator group, the performance conditions for the
awards granted in 2015 are consistent with the performance conditions
for awards to be granted in 2016 as set out below.
LTIP awards for 2016
The Committee has determined that the PSP awards in 2016 will have a
face value as shown in the table below. The award levels have been set
to incentivise executives to meet the long-term strategic goals of the
Group, to provide retention and to contribute towards the
competitiveness of the overall remuneration package.
The number of conditional shares awarded under the LTIP is calculated
using the average share price over the previous calendar year, and as
such, the awards granted in 2016 will be calculated using the 2015
average share prices for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited of £26.346
andA$54.184respectively.Thiscompareswiththemarketpriceof
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares at 15 February 2016 of £18.51
and A$42.22 respectively. This has the effect of reducing the nominal
value of the award in the same manner as described for the chief
executive and the chief financial officer.
TheaveragefacevalueofawardstobemadetoExecutiveCommittee
members in 2016, excluding the executive directors, is 384 per cent of
basesalary(2015:413percentofsalary).Theactualvalueofawardsat
the date of grant was also lower than 2015 given the reduction in share
price compared to the prior year.
Maximum value
(Percentage of 1 March base salary) 2016 2015
Hugo Bague 400 430
Alfredo Barrios 390 400
Alan Davies 390 420
Andrew Harding 390 420
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 400 420
Greg Lilleyman 340 400
Debra Valentine 380 400
Average 384 413
The performance conditions for the PSP awards made from 2013 are the
same. The expected value of the awards made from 2013 is equal to
50 per cent of the face value. The percentage vesting at threshold
performance is 22.5 per cent. The 2016 award may vest after five
years in 2021, subject to the Group’s relative TSR and relative EBIT
margin performance.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 87
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
For the TSR component (constituting two-thirds of the award), where
TSR performance is measured against both the Euromoney Global
Mining Index and the broader market of large global companies as
measured through the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index, the award
will vest as follows:
Outperformance of the index by
6 per cent per annum 1.0 x award vests
Performance between equal to the
index and 6 per cent outperformance
Proportionate vesting between
0.225 x and 1.0 x vesting
Performance equal to the index 0.225 x award vests
Performance less than the index Nil vesting
For the EBIT margin measure, change in the EBIT margin of Rio Tinto and
each of the comparator companies (measured on a “point-to-point” basis
using the last financial year in the performance period and the financial
year prior to the start of the performance period) will be calculated using
independent third-party data. Vesting will be subject to Rio Tinto’s
interpolated ranking position using the following schedule:
Equal to or greater than 2nd ranked
company 1.0 x award vests
Between the 5th and 2nd ranked
companies
Proportionate vesting between
0.225 x and 1.0 x vesting
Above the 6th ranked company 0.225 x award vests
Equal to the 6th ranked company or
below Nil vesting
The 2015 comparator group for the EBIT margin measure is: Alcoa,
Antofagasta, Anglo American, Barrick Gold, BHP Billiton, Freeport
McMoRan, Glencore, Peabody, Teck Resources and Vale.
For awards from 2016, Fortescue Metals Group will replace Peabody in
the comparator group. The Committee’s judgment being that in terms of
size and likeness to Rio Tinto, Fortescue now offers a better comparator.
There will be no retrospective application of any change to the
comparator group to prior grants.
Share ownership
The following table illustrates the executive share ownership level for
current members of the Executive Committee in office at 31 December
2015 as a multiple of salary as at the same date.
Share Ownership
level at 31 December 2015
as a multiple of base pay
Hugo Bague 2.5
Alfredo Barrios 0.1
Alan Davies 1.2
Andrew Harding 2.1
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 0.5
Greg Lilleyman 1.4
Debra Valentine 2.6
The share ownership level is calculated using the market price of
Rio Tinto shares on the latest practicable date each year before the date
of publication of this report. The value of any vested but unexercised
optionsiscalculatedbasedonthesharepriceasattherelevantdatein
February less the exercise price and with a 50 per cent discount for the
effects of taxation. The recent vesting of the 2012 PSP has increased the
multiples noted above for several executives.
Most executives have increased their holding of ordinary shares.
Howeverthevalueoftheshares,andoptionsifapplicable,andtherefore
themultipleofbasesalaryasat31December2015islowerthanthe
multiple reported as at 31 December 2014 due to the lower share price.
Post-employment benefits
Executives may participate in pension, superannuation and post-
employment medical and life insurance benefits, which are typically
offered to the broader employee population in similar locations.
Service contracts
All other executives have service contracts which can be terminated by
the Company with 12 months’ notice in writing, and by the employee
with six months’ notice in writing, or immediately by the Company by
paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
Positions held and date of appointment to position
Name Position(s) held during 2015
Date of appointment
to position
Other executives
Hugo Bague Group executive,
Organisational Resources
1 March 2013
Alfredo Barrios Chief executive,
Aluminium
1 June 2014
Alan Davies Chief executive,
Diamonds & Minerals
1 September 2012
Andrew Harding Chief executive,
Iron Ore
14 February 2013
Jean-Sébastien Jacques Chief executive, Copper 14 February 2013
Chief executive,
Copper & Coal
1 March 2015
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(a)
Chief executive, Energy 1 September 2012
Greg Lilleyman Group executive,
Technology & Innovation
1 January 2014
Debra Valentine Group executive,
Legal & Regulatory Affairs
15 January 2008
(a) Harry stepped down from the Executive Committee on 28 February 2015.
Departures from the Executive Committee
The role of chief executive, Energy was made redundant effective
1 March 2015 after the reorganisation of the Product groups. As a result,
Harry Kenyon-Slaney stepped down from the Executive Committee on
28 February 2015 and left the Group on 18 March 2015. Harry received
his normal base salary and contractual benefits until 18 March 2015. As
such,heremainedeligibletoreceiveaprorataSTIPfortheperiod
1 January 2015 to 18 March 2015, which has been calculated based on
actual business and individual performance and will be paid fully in cash
in March 2016. Outstanding LTIP awards were also treated, where
required,inaccordancewitheligibleleaverprovisionsofeachplanwith
pro rating, where applicable, up to 18 March 2015.
Consistent with severance practice in the UK, Harry received a payment
equal to 12 months’ base salary based on his 12 months’ contractual
notice period and a severance payment capped at 12 months’ base
salary. The total severance payment was therefore equal to two years’
base salary. Unused and accrued vacation was also paid as at the
termination date in line with UK policy. Harry is eligible for executive
outplacement support and is subject to the post-termination restrictions
in his contract.
Harry also received standard benefits related to his repatriation from
Australia to the UK.
88 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report STIP measures, weightings and targets for 2016
As in 2015, the STIP measures and opportunities for Executive Directors
and executives will be weighted 50 per cent for financial, 30 per cent for
individual and 20 per cent for safety measures. The individual targets
include objectives relating to business transformation, cost reduction,
performance delivery and leadership and engagement.
The financial and individual targets which have been set for 2016 are
regarded by the board to be commercially sensitive. As such, the specific
targets for these measures, and the performance against them, are
expected to be described retrospectively in the 2016 Implementation
Report. The Group financial targets relate to earnings and free cash flow.
The safety measures, weightings and targets for 2016 are outlined
opposite.
2016 safety measures, weightings and targets
We entered 2015 with a renewed safety strategy focused on fatality
elimination, injury reduction and catastrophic event prevention. Whilst
our AIFR and injury rates have reduced to record lows, the loss of four
colleagues during 2015 is unacceptable. Recognising the need to
increase our fatality elimination efforts, we took the decision to
implement Critical Risk Management (CRM) as a key fatality elimination
programme. See page 24 for further details of this programme.
For 2016, the safety measures for all executives will be split between
AIFR (30 per cent), LTIs (30 per cent) and measures relating to the
implementation of CRM (40 per cent). The 2016 safety element of
theSTIPseekstobalancethefocusbetweeninjuryreductionand
fatality elimination.
For the AIFR and LTI measures, ‘target’ performance for the Group has
been set at a 7.5 per cent improvement compared with the actual
outcome for 2015 which is the ‘threshold’ number for calculation
purposes. ‘Outstanding’ performance for both measures has been set at
twice the ‘target’ improvement.
The Group-wide deployment of CRM will be completed over the next two
years and the metrics for CRM will focus on effective implementation
against plan and leadership participation, with equal weighting to each.
The safety STIP result will continue to be adjusted for fatalities. The
adjustment for fatalities for 2016 in the event a fatality occurs remains
unchanged from 2015 and will be:
– For the product group chief executives and the Group executive,
Technology & Innovation, the STIP safety result is reduced by
50 per cent if a fatality occurs within their respective product groups
or function.
– For the chief executive and the Group executive, Organisational
Resources, the STIP safety result is reduced by 25 per cent if a
fatality occurs in the Group.
– For the chief financial officer and the Group executive, Legal &
Regulatory Affairs, the STIP safety result is reduced by 15 per cent if
a fatality occurs in the Group.
– The fatality adjustment for a multiple fatality incident, or multiple
incidents resulting in fatalities, will remain at the discretion of the
board in respect of Executive Committee members and at the
discretion of the chief executive in respect of other employees.
When remuneration is delivered
The following chart provides a timeline of when total remuneration is delivered, using 2015 as an example.
2015 STIP
and 2015 PSP
performance
measurement
commences
New base
salary
effective; 2015
PSP awards
allocated
2015 STIP
award approved
/Vesting of the
2012 PSP
Awards
Jan
2015
PSP
STIP
Base salary
Mar
2015
Dec
2015
Feb
2016
Mar
2016
2015 STIP cash
paid/BDP
shares allocated
Performance measured
Performance measured Deferred shares (BDP)
5 years
3 years
Feb
2015
Vesting of
the 2011
PSP
Awards
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 89
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration in respect of 2015 and 2014, stated in the currency of payment. While not required under
UK or Australian legislation, the information is presented for consistency with the disclosures for executive directors on pages 81 and 84. This is in
addition to the Australian statutory disclosure requirements set out in US dollars in table 1a on pages 96 and 97. The remuneration details set out in
table 1a include theoretical accounting values relating to various parts of the remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements, and require a
different methodology for calculating the pension and superannuation values. Accordingly, the figures below are not directly comparable with thosein
table 1a.
Hugo Bague Alfredo Barrios
(g)
Alan Davies
(h)
(stated in ’000) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Base salary paid
(a)
£492 £482 C$961 C$551 £515 A$787
STIP payment – cash £333 £353 C$667 C$482 £306 A$691
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
£334 £354 C$668 C$482 £307 A$691
Total short-term pay £1,159 £1,189 C$2,296 C$1,515 £1,128 A$2,169
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
£329 £596 C$0 C$283 £91 A$564
Pension or superannuation
(d)
£118 £115 C$275 C$110 £119 A$191
Other benefits
(e)
£46 £36 C$125 C$1,625 £765 A$547
Single total figure of remuneration £1,652 £1,936 C$2,696 C$3,533 £2,103 A$3,471
Percentage change in total remuneration (2015 versus 2014) (14.7%) (23.7%) 10.6%
(h)
Percentage of total remuneration provided as performance-
related
pay (STIP and LTIP)
60.3% 67.3% 49.5% 35.3% 33.5% 56.1%
Percentage of total remuneration provided as non-performance-
related pay (base salary, pension and other benefits)
39.7% 32.7% 50.5% 64.7% 66.5% 43.9%
Percentage of maximum STIP awarded
(f)
67.5% 73.0% 69.2% 87.0% 56.8% 87.4%
Percentage of maximum STIP forfeited 32.5% 27.0% 30.8% 13.0% 43.2% 12.6%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 135.0% 146.0% 138.5% 174.0% 113.5% 174.8%
Andrew Harding Jean-Sébastien Jacques Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(i)
(stated in ‘000) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Base salary paid
(a)
£569 £557 £546 £500 £88 £523
STIP payment – cash £405 £346 £465 £394 £97 £501
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
£405 £346 £465 £395 – –
Total short-term pay £1,379 £1,249 £1,476 £1,289 £185 £1,024
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
£334 £603 £58 £350 £54 £882
Pension or superannuation
(d)
£147 £143 £130 £117 £34 £125
Other benefits
(e)
£403 £493 £31 £31 £161 £276
Single total figure of remuneration £2,263 £2,488 £1,695 £1,787 £434 £2,307
Percentage change in total remuneration (2015 versus 2014) (9.0%) (5.1%) (81.2%)
Percentage of total remuneration provided as performance-
related
pay (STIP and LTIP)
50.6% 52.0% 58.3% 63.7% 34.8% 59.9%
Percentage of total remuneration provided as non-performance-
related pay (base salary, pension and other benefits)
49.4% 48.0% 41.7% 36.3% 65.2% 40.1%
Percentage of maximum STIP awarded
(f)
70.9% 61.8% 84.0% 77.0% 57.3% 47.7%
Percentage of maximum STIP forfeited 29.1% 38.2% 16.0% 23.0% 42.7% 52.3%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 141.9% 123.6% 168.1% 154.0% 114.6% 95.4%
90 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Greg Lilleyman Debra Valentine
(stated in ’000) 2015 2014 2015 2014
Base salary paid
(a)
A$775 A$760 US$694 US$681
STIP payment – cash A$521 A$542 US$475 US$517
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
A$521 A$542 US$476 US$518
Total short-term pay A$1,817 A$1,844 US$1,645 US$1,716
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
A$154 A$482 US$485 US$960
Pension or superannuation
(d)
A$170 A$590 US$236 US$226
Other benefits
(e)
A$79 A$236 US$557 US$594
Single total figure of remuneration A$2,220 A$3,152 US$2,923 US$3,496
Percentage change in total remuneration (2015 versus 2014) (29.6%) (16.4%)
Percentage of total remuneration provided as performance-related pay (STIP and LTIP) 53.9% 49.7% 49.1% 57.1%
Percentage of total remuneration provided as non-performance related pay (base salary,
pension and other benefits)
46.1% 50.3% 50.9% 42.9%
Percentage of maximum STIP awarded
(f)
67.0% 71.3% 68.3% 75.8%
Percentage of maximum STIP forfeited 33.0% 28.7% 31.7% 24.2%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 134.0% 142.6% 136.6% 151.7%
(a) Salary paid in the financial year to 31 December. Salaries are generally reviewed with effect from 1 March.
(b) Value of STIP deferred under the BDP, the vesting of which is subject to continued service.
(c) Based on the value of the LTIP awards which vested in respect of the performance period that ended 31 December. The Rio Tinto Ltd and Rio Tinto plc share
prices used to calculate the value of the awards vesting are based on the closing prices on 15 February 2016 which were A$42.22 and £18.51 respectively.
Executives who were members of the Executive Committee at the time the 2012 PSP awards were granted (Hugo Bague, Andrew Harding, Harry Kenyon-Slaney
and Debra Valentine) also received a cash payment equal to the aggregate net dividends that would have been paid on the 2012 PSP shares that vested had
they owned them during the four-year performance period. No payment was made in respect of the shares that lapsed.
(d) For defined benefit plans, pension or superannuation reflects the value of the pension or superannuation accrued during the year assuming that it was to come
into payment immediately. For defined contribution plans and cash paid in lieu of pension contributions it is the amount contributed in the year by the Company.
This differs from the value reported in table 1a which is calculated using an IAS19 methodology and assumptions on rates of investment return, inflation and
salary increases.
(e) Includes healthcare, other post-employment benefits, allowance for professional tax services and car allowance or car. Includes active or legacy expatriate
related benefits, as relevant.
(f) The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
(g) Remuneration details for 2014 reflect remuneration received for the period 1 June 2014 – 31 December 2014. The value of LTIP awards vesting in 2014 includes
an award of 5,278 MSP shares granted on 16 September 2014 which vested on 31 October 2014. This award was made to Mr Barrios in lieu of forfeited and
foreshortened vesting periods of stock options from his previous employer.
(h) Given Alan Davies has been living and working in the UK for some time, his remuneration was localised in accordance with policy, with effect from 1 March 2015.
To comply with Australian legislation, the Company made a payment to Alan for his accrued long-service leave, which was valued at £240,000. In addition, Alan
received a part payment of his accrued annual leave of £167,000 and a lump sum payment of £225,000 in lieu of contractual commitments already made in
relation to his future, multi-year entitlements to housing allowance, education assistance, home leave and a resettlement allowance. The percentage change in
total remuneration has been calculated by converting Alan’s 2014 remuneration denominated in Australian dollars to pound sterling using the 2014 average
exchange rate of £1 = 1.82531 A$.
(i) Remuneration details for 2015 reflect remuneration received for the period 1 January 2015 – 28 February 2015. Remuneration received for the period 1 March
2015 – 18 March 2015 was base salary of £26,000, STIP of £30,000, value of LTIP awards vesting of £16,000, pension of £3,000 and other benefits of £45,000.
Other benefits included unused and accrued vacation, healthcare benefits and standard benefits related to repatriation from Australia to the UK. A severance
payment of £1,050,000 was paid on termination. Further details are provided under the heading - Departures from the Executive Committee.
Context to outcomes for the Executive Committee
The decrease in the single total figure of remuneration for most executives is due mainly to the significantly lower value of LTIP awards vesting in
2015 compared with 2014. This was due to a lower vesting level for the PSP awards (65.4 per cent for the 2012 PSP versus 73.5 per cent for the 2011
PSP) combined with lower share prices at the date the 2012 PSP awards vested in February 2016 compared with the share prices at the date the
2011 PSP awards vested in February 2015.
In addition, a number of executives (Alan Davies, Jean-Sébastien Jacques and Greg Lilleyman) had residual MSP awards vest during 2014 which were
granted prior to their appointment as executives.
Alf Barrios’ 2014 remuneration included the vesting of an MSP award which was made to him in lieu of forfeited and foreshortened vesting periods of
stock options from his previous employer. His total short-term pay has increased in 2015 as his remuneration details for 2014 reflect remuneration
received for part year service only.
The increase total remuneration for Alan Davies in 2015 is influenced by the one-off payments explained in note (h) above.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 91
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Potential value of 2016 remuneration package
The table below shows the potential minimum and maximum value of the 2016 remuneration package and the threshold, target and maximum value
of the 2016 STIP and LTIP awards.
Stated in ’000 Currency Base salary
Superannuation
or pension
(a)
Benefits
(b)
Minimum
potential
remuneration
(c)
Threshold
value of
STIP and
LTIP awards
(d)
Target
value of
STIP and
LTIP awards
(e)
Maximum
value of
STIP and
LTIP awards
(f)
Maximum
potential
remuneration
Executive directors
Sam Walsh A$ A$1,992 A$584 A$1,217 A$3,793 A$2,988 A$6,374 A$11,952 A$15,745
Chris Lynch £ £836 £208 £127 £1,171 £1,254 £2,675 £5,016 £6,187
Other executives
Hugo Bague £ £494 £118 £46 £658 £692 £1,482 £2,964 £3,622
Alfredo Barrios C$ C$964 C$275 C$125 C$1,364 C$1,328 C$2,844 C$5,688 C$7,052
Alan Davies £ £540 £119 £92 £751 £744 £1,593 £3,186 £3,937
Andrew Harding £ £571 £147 £403 £1,121 £787 £1,684 £3,369 £4,490
Jean-Sébastien Jacques £ £553 £130 £31 £714 £774 £1,659 £3,318 £4,032
Greg Lilleyman A$ A$778 A$170 A$79 A$1,027 A$984 A$2,101 A$4,201 A$5,228
Debra Valentine US$ US$696 US$236 US$557 US$1,489 US$943 US$2,018 US$4,037 US$5,526
(a) Superannuation or pension is measured at the superannuation or pension figure in the single figure tables on pages 81, 84, 90 and 91.
(b) Benefits are as measured at the benefits figure in the single figure tables on pages 81, 84, 90 and 91, excluding any significant one-off items where applicable.
One-off items for Alan Davies in 2015 included a payment for his accrued long-service leave, which was valued at £240,000. In addition, Alan received a part
payment of his accrued annual leave of £167,000 and a lump sum payment of £225,000 in lieu of contractual commitments already made in relation to his
future, multi-year entitlements to housing allowance, education assistance, home leave and a resettlement allowance.
(c) The sum of base salary, pension/superannuation and benefits is the minimum potential remuneration (fixed remuneration).
(d) Calculated based on threshold performance under the STIP (50 per cent of STIP target) and threshold PSP vesting (22.5 per cent of the face value of the 2016
PSP award).
(e) Calculated based on target performance under the STIP (100 per cent of STIP target) and target PSP vesting (50 per cent of the face value of the 2016
PSP award).
(f) Calculated based on outstanding performance under the STIP (200 per cent of base salary) and maximum PSP vesting (100 per cent of the face value of the
2016 PSP award).
92 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Long-term incentives – awards made prior to 2013
In 2012 and prior years, awards were made in the form of options under
the Share Option Plan (SOP) and/or performance shares under the PSP.
For2011and2012,executiveswereabletoexpressapreference
regarding the mix of their long-term incentive opportunity.
– They could choose either a mix of performance shares and share
options (with a maximum face value performance share award of
200 per cent of base salary, and a performance “kicker” leading to a
vesting up to 1.5 times for exceptional performance), together with a
maximum share option award of 300 per cent of base salary.
– Or alternatively, they could choose to receive the full award in
performance shares (with a maximum face value performance share
award of 292 per cent of base salary, and a performance “kicker”
leadingtoavestingupto1.5timesforexceptionalperformance).
– The maximum value of award if an executive elected to take the full
award in performance shares was therefore 438 per cent of base
salary (292 per cent x 150 per cent).
– The total expected value of awards made under either preference was
the same, at 190 per cent of base salary.
– Both awards were based on relative TSR performance against the
Euromoney Global Mining Index and the Morgan Stanley Capital
World Index to reward executives for increasing the share price and
delivering superior TSR performance against other companies over a
long-term timeframe.
Before awards vest, the Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR
performance is an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance
ofthebusinessand/orthehealthoftheGroup.TheCommitteemay
therefore adjust vesting subject to the plan rules.
Long-term incentives – vesting outcomes for the period
ended 31 December 2015
The 2012 PSP awards had a performance period that ended on
31 December 2015.
2012 PSP awards
Performance period (4 years)
Rio Tinto TSR
1 January 2012 – 31 December 2015
(30.8%)
Comparator index
Euromoney Global
Mining Index MSCI
Index TSR (60.2%) 66.8%
Outperformance per annum 6.7% (60.6%)
Vesting against index 130.7% 0%
% of shares vested 65.4% (43.6% of maximum)
% of shares forfeited 84.6% (56.4% of maximum)
The performance conditions for the PSP awards are included in the notes
to table 3 on page 104.
The graph below shows Rio Tinto’s performance under the 2012 PSP
performance condition. The methodology used for this graph is
consistent with the methodology used to calculate the vesting for the
2012 PSP award.
0
50
100
150
200
250
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Rio Tinto Euromoney Index MSCI World Index
TSR (US$) - Rio Tinto Group vs. Euromoney Global Mining and MSCI World indices
Total return basis Index 2011 = 100
The methodology used to calculate the starting share prices for TSR
comparison purposes, for Rio Tinto and the index, was the 12-month
average prior to the commencement of the performance period.
The period used in the methodology to calculate the ending share prices
for TSR comparison purposes, for Rio Tinto and the index, was the last 12
months of the performance period. The usual conventions were also
applied to set the number of shares awarded, based upon the prior year
average share price.
The table below summarises the average vesting of performance shares
for executive directors over the five-year period 2012-2016.
Performance period Vesting year
%ofshares
vested
%of
maximum
shares vested
2008-2011 2012 0.0 0.0
2009-2012 2013 92.5 61.7
2010-2013 2014 75.0 50.0
2011-2014 2015 73.5 49.0
2012-2015 2016 65.4 43.6
Average vesting – 61.3 40.9
The SOP ceased operation from 2013. No awards of share options have
been made since 2012.
MSP awards
ExecutivesarenoteligibletoreceiveawardsundertheMSPaftertheir
appointment as executives. Greg Lilleyman’s final MSP award granted
prior to his appointment as an executive vested on 15 February 2016.
TSR
Relative TSR against the Euromoney Global Mining Index and the MSCI
World Index were the performance measures used to determine the
vesting of awards made under the PSP prior to 2013. Rio Tinto’s TSR
relative to the relevant index over the performance period has a direct
impact on the levels of LTIP vesting.
The effect of this performance on the value of shareholdings, as
measured by TSR delivered over the past five years, based on the sum of
dividend paid and share price movements during each calender year, is
detailed in the table.
Dividends
paid
during the
year
Share price –
Rio Tinto plc
pence
Share price –
Rio Tinto Limited
A$
Total
shareholder
return
(TSR)
Year
US cents
per share 1 Jan 31 Dec 1 Jan 31 Dec Group %
2015 226.5 3,000 1,980 58.00 44.71 (26.6)
2014 204.5 3,409 3,000 68.18 58.00 (9.7)
2013 178.0 3,512 3,409 66.01 68.18 2.1
2012 163.5 3,125 3,512 60.30 66.01 14.8
2011 117.0 4,487 3,125 85.47 60.30 (31.2)
The graph on page 94 illustrates the TSR performance of the Group
against the Euromoney Global Mining Index and the MSCI over the past
seven years to the end of 2015. These two indices are used to assess
Rio Tinto’s relative TSR performance for awards made under the PSP
in 2012.
The graph has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
Schedule 8 of the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and is not an
indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under the PSP.
Five years of TSR performance were presented when this report was first
prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 and this will progressively
increase to ten years of TSR performance in the fifth year of this report
being prepared in accordance with Schedule 8.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 93
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
The executive remuneration structure policy table on pages 71 to 73
provides further details of the performance conditions for the current
PSP. The performance conditions for the previous PSP are provided in
the notes to table 3 on page 104.
0
100
200
300
400
500
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Rio Tinto
Euromoney Index MSCI World Index
TSR (US$) - Rio Tinto Group vs. Euromoney Global Mining and MSCI World indices
Total return basis Index 2008 = 100
Chief executive’s remuneration summary
Year
Chief
executive
(a)
Single total
figure of
remuneration
(’000)
Annual
STIP award
against
maximum
opportunity
Long-term
incentive
vesting
against
maximum
opportunity
(SOP)
(b)(c)
Long-term
incentive
vesting
against
maximum
opportunity
(PSP)
(c)
2009 Tom Albanese £3,516 54.1% 0.0% 26.4%
2010 Tom Albanese £4,512 87.8% 0.0% 24.3%
2011 Tom Albanese £4,256 0.0% 100.0% 0.0%
2012 Tom Albanese £4,040 0.0% 100.0% 61.7%
2013 Tom Albanese £53 0.0% – –
Sam Walsh A$10,070 72.1% – 50.0%
2014 Sam Walsh A$10,414 88.4% – 49.0%
2015 Sam Walsh A$9,125 81.9% – 43.6%
(a) Tom Albanese held the role of chief executive until 17 January 2013, and
left the Group on 16 July 2013. The single total figure of remuneration for
Tom Albanese for 2013 is for the period up until 17 January 2013. Sam
Walsh took over as chief executive from 17 January 2013, having previously
been the chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia.
(b) In 2011 and 2012, Sam Walsh elected to receive his full LTIP awards under
the PSP and as a result he has no options under the SOP that were granted
in 2011 or 2012 and which had performance periods that ended on
31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 respectively. The SOP ceased
operation from 2013 and awards from 2013 have been made under the PSP.
(c) All outstanding but unvested LTIP awards earned in previous years lapsed
and were forfeited when Tom Albanese left the Group.
Employee share plans
Management Share Plan (MSP)
TheprimaryfocusoftheMSPistosupporttheGroup’sabilitytoattract
and retain key staff below executive level in an increasingly tight and
competitive labour market. Executives are not eligible to participate in
the MSP.
Retention of key individuals is also important given the long-term nature
of the delivery of the business strategy. MSP awards are conditional
awards not subject to a performance condition as they vest subject to
continued employment, at the end of three years, and thus act as an
effectiveretentiontool.Sharestosatisfytheawardsarepurchasedinthe
market and no new shares are issued.
All employee share plans
Executives may participate in broad-based share and share option plans
which are available to Group employees generally and for which
performance conditions do not apply. These plans form part of standard
remuneration practice whereby employees are offered participation in
plans to encourage alignment with the long-term performance of
the Group.
Global employee share plan
TheCommitteebelievesthatallemployeesshouldbegiventhe
opportunity to become shareholders in our business. A global employee
share purchase plan is normally offered to all eligible employees across
the world save for any local jurisdictional restrictions. Under the plan,
employeesmayacquiresharesuptothevalueofUS$5,000(or
equivalent in other currencies) per year, capped at ten per cent of base
salary. Each share purchased will be matched by the Company providing
the participant holds the shares, and remains employed, at the end of
the three-year vesting period. The Committee believes this plan will
serve to engage, retain and motivate employees over the long-term.
Over 14,500 (approximately 28 per cent) of our employees are
shareholders as a result of participating in this Plan.
Dilution
Awards under the SOP, PSP and all employee plans (other than the MSP)
may be satisfied by, in the case of Rio Tinto plc, treasury shares or the
issue of new shares or the purchase of shares in the market and in the
case of Rio Tinto Limited by the issue of new shares or the purchase of
shares in the market.
In the UK, the Investment Association has issued corporate governance
guidelines in relation to the amount of new shares which may be issued
having regard to the total issued share capital. These guidelines provide
that the rules of a scheme must provide that commitments to issue new
shares or re-issue treasury shares, when aggregated with awards under
all of a company’s other schemes, must not exceed 10 per cent of the
issued ordinary share capital (adjusted for share issuance and
cancellation) in any rolling 10 year period. Furthermore, commitments to
issue new shares or re-issue treasury shares under executive
(discretionary) schemes should not exceed 5 per cent of the issued
ordinary share capital of a company (adjusted for share issuance and
cancellation) in any rolling 10 year period. This may be exceeded where
vesting is dependent on the achievement of significantly more stretching
performance criteria. Rio Tinto PLC is in compliance with these
guidelines. As at 31 December 2015 these limits had not been exceeded.
In Australia, as a condition of relief from prospectus requirements, the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission has imposed a cap on
the issue of shares to employees of 5 per cent of issued capital during a
three year period. As Rio Tinto Limited satisfies awards by market
purchase, this cap does not currently apply. However, Rio Tinto would be
in compliance with this guideline.
Allothershareawardsaresatisfiedbytheuseofshareswhichare
purchased in the market. Further information in respect of the share plan
arrangements and outstanding balances under each plan can be found in
note 44 to the financial statements.
94 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Shareholder voting
The table below sets out the results of the remuneration-related
resolutions approved at the Group’s 2015 AGMs.
Resolution
Total votes
cast Votes for
Votes
against
Votes
withheld
(a)
Approval of the
Remuneration
Policy Report 1,252,724,326 1,186,605,279 43,739,074 22,379,973
96.4% 3.6%
Approval of the
Directors’ Report
on Remuneration
and Remuneration
Committee
chairman’s letter 1,252,749,115 1,178,992,215 41,990,010 31,766,890
96.7% 3.3%
Approval of the
Remuneration
Report 1,252,746,938 1,179,871,511 41,082,997 31,792,430
96.6% 3.4%
Approval of
potential
termination
benefits 1,252,724,326 1,186,605,279 43,739,074 22,379,973
96.4% 3.6%
(a) A vote “withheld” is not a vote in law, and is not counted in the calculation
of the proportion of votes for and against the resolution.
Relative spend on remuneration
The table below sets out the details of total remuneration paid;
distributions to shareholders; purchase of property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets, and tax paid during the financial year. The items in
addition to Remuneration paid were chosen by the directors as they
represent other significant disbursements of the Company’s funds.
Stated in US$m 2015 2014
Difference in
spend
Remuneration paid
(a)
5,446 6,659 (1,213)
Distributions to shareholders
(b)
6,104 3,710 2,394
Purchase of property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets
(c)
4,685 8,162 (3,477)
Corporate income tax paid
(c)
1,792 3,618 (1,826)
(a) Total employment costs for the financial year as per note 5 to the financial
statements.
(b) Distributions to shareholders includes dividends paid during the financial
year as per note 11 to the financial statements and own shares purchased
from the owners of Rio Tinto as per the Group cash flow statement.
(c) Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and
corporate income tax paid during the financial year are as per the Group
cash flow statement and are calculated as per note 1 to the financial
statements.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 95
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Table 1a – Executives’ remuneration
Short term benefits
Stated in US$’000
(a)
Base salary Cash bonus
(b)
Other cash
based
benefits
(c)
Non-
monetary
benefits
(d)(e)
Total short
term benefits
Other
long term
benefits
Executive directors
Sam Walsh 2015 1,494 1,188 127 805 3,614 –
2014 1,751 1,411 150 784 4,096 –
Chris Lynch 2015 1,274 1,023 290 191 2,778 –
2014 1,346 1,162 306 114 2,928 –
Other key management personnel
Hugo Bague 2015 753 495 159 40 1,447 –
2014 795 550 167 28 1,540 –
Alfredo Barrios 2015 753 480 196 95 1,524 –
2014 500 416 77 1,361 2,354 –
Alan Davies 2015 787 453 161 1,099 2,500 –
2014 711 567 180 385 1,843 –
Andrew Harding 2015 870 600 214 553 2,237 –
2014 919 539 175 870 2,503 –
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 2015 835 689 177 13 1,714 –
2014 823 614 170 12 1,619 –
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(k)
2015 134 144 56 218 552 –
2014 862 780 203 470 2,315 –
Greg Lilleyman 2015 583 379 27 33 1,022 –
2014 686 444 32 179 1,341 –
Debra Valentine 2015 694 475 26 515 1,710 –
2014 681 517 26 571 1,795 –
Notes to Table 1a – Executives’ remuneration
(a) ‘Table 1a – Executives’ remuneration’ is reported in US$ using A$1 = 0.75256 US$; £1 = 1.52868 US$; C$1 = 0.78362 US$ year to date average rates, except for
cash bonuses which use A$1 = 0.72833 US$; £1 = 1.48302 US$; C$1 = 0.72041 US$ year-end rates.
(b) ‘Cash bonus’ relates to the cash portion of the 2015 STIP to be paid in March 2016.
(c) ‘Other cash based benefits’ typically include cash in lieu of a car and fuel and, where applicable cash in lieu of Company pension or superannuation
contributions.
(d) ‘Non-monetary benefits’ for executives include healthcare coverage, provision of a car, professional tax services/advice and flexible perquisites. For Executive
directors, it also includes the value of company provided transport. For Alan Davies it includes the annual leave balance and long service leave paid on
localisation to the United Kingdom.
(e) ‘Non-monetary benefits’ for executives living outside their home country include international assignment benefits comprising, where applicable, housing,
education, relocation expenses, tax equalisation, assignee and family home leave trips where applicable and international assignment payments made to and on
their behalf.
(f) ‘Value of share-based awards’ has been determined in accordance with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 “Share-based Payment”. The
fair value of awards granted under the Share Option Plan (SOP), the Management Share Plan (MSP), the Bonus Deferral Plan (BDP), the Performance Share Plan
(PSP) and the Share Savings Plan (SSP) have been calculated at their dates of grant using valuation models provided by external consultants, Lane Clark and
Peacock LLP, including an independent lattice-based option valuation model and a Monte Carlo valuation model which take into account the constraintson
vesting and exercise attached to these awards. Further details of the valuation methods and assumptions used for these awards are included in note 44 (Share
Based Payments) in the financial statements. The fair value of other share based awards is measured at the purchase cost of the shares from the market. The
non-executive directors do not participate in the long term incentive share schemes.
96 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Table 1a – Executives’ remuneration (continued)
Long term benefits
Value of share-based awards
(f)
Post employment benefits
(i)
Stated in US$’000
(a)
BDP
(g)
PSP MSP SOP Others
(h)
Pension and
superannuation
Other post
employment
benefits
Termination
benefits
Total
remuneration
(j)
Currency
of actual
payment
Executive directors
Sam Walsh 2015 1,072 3,014 – – 2 364 – – 8,066 A$
2014 1,002 3,645 – – 2 421 – – 9,166 A$
Chris Lynch 2015 716 1,881 – – 5 52 – – 5,432 £
2014 330 1,291 – – – 55 – – 4,604 £
Other key management personnel
Hugo Bague 2015 455 1,372 – 43 4 41 – – 3,362 £
2014 385 1,409 – 314 3 44 – – 3,695 £
Alfredo Barrios 2015 221 563 – – 1 20 – – 2,329 C$
2014 51 135 257 – – 23 – – 2,820 C$
Alan Davies 2015 398 1,047 – – 3 40 – – 3,988 £
2014 286 880 92 – 2 25 – – 3,128 A$
Andrew Harding 2015 515 1,597 – 44 7 57 – – 4,457 £
2014 423 1,597 – 318 5 61 – – 4,907 £
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 2015 446 1,170 – – 9 41 – – 3,380 £
2014 216 785 154 1 44 – – 2,819 £
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(k)
2015 34 233 – 34 – 20 – – 873 £
2014 320 1,670 – 222 9 179 – – 4,715 £
Greg Lilleyman 2015 249 654 76 – 3 174 – – 2,178 A$
2014 152 522 154 – – 169 – – 2,338 A$
Debra Valentine 2015 429 1,223 – 42 4 236 4 – 3,648 US$
2014 363 1,320 – 305 2 226 5 – 4,016 US$
(g) ‘BDP (Bonus Deferral Plan)‘ represents the deferral of the 2012-2015 bonus under STIP into Rio Tinto Shares.
(h) ‘Others‘ include the Global Employee Share Plan (myShare), Share Savings Plan, Share Ownership Plan and Global Employee Share Plan as described in the
Remuneration report on page 94.
(i) The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical benefits are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in
accordance with IAS19. The cost for defined contribution plans is the amount contributed in the year by the Company.
(j) ‘Total remuneration’ represents the disclosure of total emoluments and compensation required under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable
accounting standards.
(k) Harry Kenyon-Slaney stepped down from the Executive Committee on 28 February 2015 and remained with the Group in an advisory role until 18 March 2015.
The amounts reported in Table 1a relate to the period when he was an executive.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 97
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Table 1b – Non-executive directors’ remuneration
Stated in US$’000
(a)
Fees and
allowances
(b)
Non-monetary
benefits
(c)(d)
Single total
figure of
remuneration
(e)
Currency of
actual payment
Chairman
Jan du Plessis 2015 1,116 134 1,250 £
2014 1,203 92 1,295 £
Non-executive directors
Robert Brown
(h)
2015 310 59 369 £
2014 286 50 336 £
Megan Clark 2015 268 – 268 A$
2014 21 – 21 A$
Michael l’Estrange 2015 275 – 275 A$
2014 91 – 91 A$
Michael Fitzpatrick
(g)
2015 97 3 100 A$
2014 284 – 284 A$
Ann Godbehere 2015 249 20 269 £
2014 251 23 274 £
Richard Goodmanson 2015 340 25 365 £
2014 350 20 370 £
Anne Lauvergeon 2015 218 23 241 £
2014 180 11 191 £
Lord Kerr
(f)
2015 76 15 91 £
2014 218 13 231 £
Paul Tellier
(h)
2015 325 72 397 £
2014 309 67 376 £
Simon Thompson 2015 218 9 227 £
2014 172 3 175 £
John Varley 2015 333 13 346 £
2014 342 10 352 £
Notes to Table 1b – Non-executive directors’ remuneration
(a) The remuneration is reported in US dollars. The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2015 average exchange rates of £1 = 1.52868 US$ and
A$1 = 0.75256 US$ (1 Jan to 31 Dec 2015 average).
(b) ‘Fees and allowances’ comprise the total fees for the chairman and all non-executive directors and travel allowances for the non-executive directors (other than
the chairman). The payment of statutory minimum superannuation contributions for Australian non-executive directors is required by Australian superannuation
law. These contributions are included in the Fees and Allowances amount disclosed for Australian non-executive directors.
(c) ‘Non-monetary benefits’ include, as in previous year, amounts which are deemed by the UK tax authorities to be benefits in kind relating largely to the costs of
non-executive directors’ expenses in attending Board meetings held at the Company’s UK registered office (including associated hotel and subsistence
expenses). Given these expenses are incurred by directors in the fulfilment of their duties, the Company pays the tax on them.
(d) In 2015, the following additional amounts are included as noted for the relevant director. For Jan du Plessis the value of company provided transport and
medical insurance premiums. Mr du Plessis is provided with a car and driver in his capacity as chairman of Rio Tinto. From time to time, Mr du Plessis uses his
car and driver for SABMiller plc business and SABMiller makes a payment to Rio Tinto as a contribution towards his travel costs. For the year ended
31 December 2015, the amount was £45,600.
(e) Represents disclosure of the single total figure of remuneration under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and total remuneration under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
(f) The amounts reported for Lord Kerr reflect the period when he was an active member of the Board from 1 January to 7 May 2015.
(g) The amounts reported for Michael Fitzpatrick reflect the period when he was an active member of the Board from 1 January to 7 May 2015.
(h) Travel allowances were overpaid in 2015 due to an administrative error to Robert Brown and Paul Tellier and are in the process of being repaid.
98 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Table 2 – Directors’ and executives’ beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares
Rio Tinto plc
(a)
Rio Tinto Limited Movements
1Jan
2015
(b)
31 Dec
2015
(c)
15 Feb
2016
(c)
01 Jan
2015
(b)
31 Dec
2015
(c)
15 Feb
2016
(c)
Exercise of
options
(d)
Compensation
(e)
Other
(f)
Directors
Robert Brown 4,200 4,200 4,200 ––– –– –
Megan Clark – – – 165 2,715 2,715 – – 2,550
Jan du Plessis 30,000 30,000 30,000 ––– –– –
Michael Fitzpatrick
(g)
––– 6,252 6,252 – –– –
Ann Godbehere 3,100 3,100 3,100 ––– –– –
Richard Goodmanson 5,512 5,512 5,512 ––– –– –
Lord Kerr
(g)
15,000 15,000 – ––– –– –
Anne Lauvergeon 3,350 3,539 3,539 ––– – – 189
Michael L’Estrange – – – 303 1,003 1,003 – – 700
Chris Lynch 2,160 2,292 2,292 6,890 6,890 6,890 – 123 9
Paul Tellier 21,022 24,248 24,248 ––– – – 3,226
Simon Thompson 7,458 7,458 7,458 ––– –– –
John Varley 9,685 9,685 9,685 ––– –– –
SamWalsh ––– 146,993 194,780 194,780 125 66,225 (18,563)
Executives
Hugo Bague 60,964 67,354 67,400 ––– – 24,971 (18,535)
Alfredo Barrios 2,585 2,835 2,872 ––– – 137 150
Alan Davies 0 72 139 23,521 31,704 31,704 – 16,652 (8,330)
Andrew Harding 8,618 22,303 22,303 36,605 36,605 36,605 – 26,195 (12,510)
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 9,565 13,563 15,249 ––– – 9,049 (3,365)
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(g)
47,944 48,391 N/A ––– 434 13 0
Greg Lilleyman – – – 31,226 26,258 26,294 – 16,626 (21,557)
Debra Valentine 50,571 65,490 65,543 ––– – 24,961 (9,988)
Notes to table 2
(a) Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares or American Depositary Shares.
(b) Or date of appointment, if later.
(c) Or date of retirement/date stepped down from the Executive Committee, if earlier.
(d) Shares obtained through the exercise of options under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan or the Share Option Plan. The number of shares retained may differ
from the number of options exercised.
(e) Shares obtained through the Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan and/or vesting of awards under the PSP, MSP and BDP.
(f) Share movements due to sale or purchase of shares, shares received under a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shares purchased/sold through the Rio Tinto America
Savings Plan or non-executive directors’ Share Purchase Plan.
(g) Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick retired as directors on 7 May 2015. Harry Kenyon-Slaney stepped down from the Executive Committee on 28 February 2015.
(h) Interests in outstanding awards under LTIPs and option plans are set out in table 3.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 99
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Table 3 – Plan interests (awards of shares and options under long-term incentive plans)
Conditional
award
granted
Market
price at
award
(a),(b)
1Jan
2015 Awarded
Lapsed/
cancelled
Dividend
shares Vested
31 Dec
2015
15 Feb
2016
Performance
period
concludes
(c)
Date of
election
Market
price at
election
Monetary
value of
award at
election
US$
(d)
Bonus Deferral Plan
Hugo Bague 27-May-13 £28.67 6,945 – – 1,004 7,949 – – 01-Dec-15 11-Dec-15 £19.23 233,673
17-Mar-14 £31.54 9,669 – – – – 9,669 9,669 01-Dec-16
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 12,354 – – – 12,354 12,354 01-Dec-17
Alfredo Barrios 23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 8,931 8,931 8,931 01-Dec-17
Alan Davies 27-May-13 A$53.11 6,702 – – 882 7,584 – – 01-Dec-15 08-Dec-15 A$43.75 249,699
17-Mar-14 A$61.67 6,709 – – – – 6,709 6,709 01-Dec-16
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 12,493 – – – 12,493 12,493 01-Dec-17
Andrew Harding 27-May-13 £28.67 7,870 – – 1,137 9,007 – – 01-Dec-15 11-Dec-15 £19.72 271,521
17-Mar-14 £31.54 11,776 – – – – 11,776 11,776 01-Dec-16
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 12,093 – – – 12,093 12,093 01-Dec-17
Jean-Sébastien
Jacques 27-May-13 £28.67 2,113 – – 305 2,418 – – 01-Dec-15 09-Dec-15 £19.53 72,190
17-Mar-14 £31.54 8,259 – – – – 8,259 8,259 01-Dec-16
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 13,781 – – – 13,781 13,781 01-Dec-17
Harry Kenyon-
Slaney
(e)
27-May-13 £28.67 8,128 – – N/A N/A N/A N/A 18-Mar-15
17-Mar-14 £31.54 9,217 – – N/A N/A N/A N/A 18-Mar-15
Greg
Lilleyman 27-May-13 A$53.11 2,094 – – 275 2,369 – – 01-Dec-15 10-Dec-15 A$43.06 76,768
17-Mar-14 A$61.67 2,754 – – – – 2,754 2,754 01-Dec-16
23-Mar-15 A$58.21 – 9,321 – – – 9,321 9,321 01-Dec-17
Christopher
Lynch 17-Mar-14 £31.54 14,479 – – – – 14,479 14,479 01-Dec-16
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 26,066 – – – 26,066 26,066 01-Dec-17
Debra
Valentine 27-May-13 £28.67 7,173 – – 1,037 8,210 – – 01-Dec-15 14-Dec-15 £18.88 236,953
17-Mar-14 £31.54 8,153 – – – – 8,153 8,153 01-Dec-16
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 12,227 – – – 12,227 12,227 01-Dec-17
Sam Walsh 27-May-13 A$53.11 18,413 – – 2,424 20,837 – – 01-Dec-15 08-Dec-15 A$43.75 686,048
17-Mar-14 A$61.67 22,226 – – – – 22,226 22,226 01-Dec-16
23-Mar-15 A$58.21 – 29,609 – – – 29,609 29,609 01-Dec-17
Performance Share Plan
(f)
Hugo Bague 06-May-11 £41.51 22,943 – 6,080 – 16,863 – – 31-Dec-14 16-Feb-15 £31.30 806,855
19-Mar-12 £36.15 22,056 – – – – 22,056 14,424 31-Dec-15
27-May-13 £28.67 29,294 – – – – 29,294 29,294 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 £28.67 29,295 – – – – 29,295 29,295 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 £31.44 61,607 – – – – 61,607 61,607 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 66,516 – – – 66,516 66,516 31-Dec-19
Alfredo Barrios 15-Sep-14 £31.44 43,568 – – – – 43,568 43,568 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 66,390 – – – 66,390 66,390 31-Dec-19
Alan Davies 21-Mar-11 A$81.00 6,228 – 1,651 – 4,577 – – 31-Dec-14 19-Feb-15 A$63.98 220,378
19-Mar-12 A$65.85 6,663 – – – – 6,663 4,357 31-Dec-15
27-May-13 A$53.11 27,047 – – – – 27,047 27,047 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 A$53.11 27,047 – – – – 27,047 27,047 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 A$61.03 51,817 – – – – 51,817 51,817 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 71,019 – – – 71,019 71,019 31-Dec-19
Andrew
Harding 06-May-11 £41.51 23,219 – 6,154 – 17,065 – – 31-Dec-14 23-Feb-15 £31.82 830,086
19-Mar-12 £36.15 22,390 – – – – 22,390 14,643 31-Dec-15
27-May-13 £28.67 35,547 – – – – 35,547 35,547 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 £28.67 35,548 – – – – 35,548 35,548 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 £31.44 76,539 – – – – 76,539 76,539 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 75,083 – – – 75,083 75,083 31-Dec-19
100 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Table 3 – Plan interests (awards of shares and options under long-term incentive plans) (continued)
Conditional
award
granted
Market
price at
award
(a),(b)
1Jan
2015 Awarded
Lapsed/
cancelled
Dividend
shares Vested
31 Dec
2015
15 Feb
2016
Performance
period
concludes
(c)
Date of
election
Market
price at
election
Monetary
value of
award at
election
US$
(d)
Performance Share Plan continued
(f)
Jean-Sébastien
Jacques 19-Mar-12 £36.15 4,793 – – – – 4,793 3,134 31-Dec-15 15-Feb-16 £18.52 88,727
27-May-13 £28.67 25,682 – – – – 25,682 25,682 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 £28.67 25,683 – – – – 25,683 25,683 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 £31.44 70,057 – – – – 70,057 70,057 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 72,768 – – – 72,768 72,768 31-Dec-19
Harry Kenyon-
Slaney
(e)
06-May-11 £41.51 33,936 – 8,994 – 24,942 N/A N/A 31-Dec-14
19-Mar-12 £36.15 22,390 – – – – N/A N/A 31-Dec-15
27-May-13 £28.67 33,353 – – – – N/A N/A 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 £28.67 33,354 – – – – N/A N/A 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 £31.44 66,798 – – – – N/A N/A 31-Dec-18
Greg
Lilleyman 06-May-11 A$79.57 5,423 – 1,438 – 3,985 – – 31-Dec-14 17-Feb-15 A$63.91 191,660
19-Mar-12 A$65.85 5,585 – – – – 5,585 3,652 31-Dec-15
27-May-13 A$53.11 6,898 – – – – 6,898 6,898 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 A$53.11 6,898 – – – – 6,898 6,898 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 A$61.03 47,321 – – – – 47,321 47,321 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 A$58.21 – 50,101 – – – 50,101 50,101 31-Dec-19
Christopher
Lynch 27-May-13 £28.67 52,084 – – – – 52,084 52,084 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 £28.67 52,085 – – – – 52,085 52,085 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 £31.44 104,312 – – – – 104,312 104,312 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 112,620 – – – 112,620 112,620 31-Dec-19
Debra
Valentine 06-May-11 £41.51 22,553 – 5,977 – 16,576 – – 31-Dec-14 17-Feb-15 £31.88 807,693
19-Mar-12 £36.15 21,257 – – – – 21,257 13,902 31-Dec-15
27-May-13 £28.67 26,274 – – – – 26,274 26,274 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 £28.67 26,275 – – – – 26,275 26,275 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 £31.44 55,522 – – – – 55,522 55,522 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 £29.43 – 52,942 – – – 52,942 52,942 31-Dec-19
Sam Walsh 06-May-11 A$79.57 61,752 – 16,365 – 45,387 – – 31-Dec-14 17-Feb-15 A$63.85 2,181,011
19-Mar-12 A$65.85 63,540 – – – – 63,540 41,555 31-Dec-15
27-May-13 A$53.11 66,627 – – – – 66,627 66,627 31-Dec-16
27-May-13 A$53.11 66,628 – – – – 66,628 66,628 31-Dec-17
17-Mar-14 A$61.03 134,026 – – – – 134,026 134,026 31-Dec-18
23-Mar-15 A$58.21 – 138,010 – – – 138,010 138,010 31-Dec-19
Management Share Plan
Alan Davies 19-Mar-12 A$65.85 3,997 – – 312 4,309 – – 31-Dec-14 19-Feb-15 A$63.98 207,473
Jean-Sébastien
Jacques 19-Mar-12 £36.15 2,875 – – 267 3,142 – – 31-Dec-14 16-Feb-15 £31.46 151,113
Greg
Lilleyman
(g)
19-Mar-12 A$65.85 3,351 – – 262 3,613 – – 31-Dec-14 16-Feb-15 A$63.61 172,956
27-May-13 A$53.11 4,598 – – – – 4,598 5,278 14-Feb-16
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 101
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Table 3 – Plan interests (awards of shares and options under long-term incentive plans) (continued)
Date of Grant 1 Jan 2015
(a)
Vested
during 2015 Exercised
Lapsed/
cancelled
Vested and
exercisable on
31 Dec 2015
(b)
Share Savings Plan
(h)
Hugo Bague 04-Oct-11 425 – – – –
Andrew Harding 20-Oct-09 723 723 – 723 –
05-Oct-10 555 – – – –
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(e)
20-Oct-09 434 434 434 – –
Greg Lilleyman 05-Oct-10 555 – – – –
Sam Walsh 20-Oct-09 125 125 125 – –
05-Oct-10 457 – – 457 –
Share Option Plan
(h)
Hugo Bague 22-Mar-10 47,297 – – – 47,297
06-May-11 34,415 – – – 34,415
19-Mar-12 33,085 – – – 33,085
Andrew Harding 17-Mar-09 6,268 – – – 6,268
22-Mar-10 46,597 – – – 46,597
06-May-11 34,829 – – – 34,829
19-Mar-12 33,585 – – – 33,585
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(e)
17-Mar-09 6,938 – – – N/A
22-Mar-10 47,297 – – – N/A
19-Mar-12 33,585 – – – N/A
Greg Lilleyman 09-Mar-05 1,275 – 1,275 – –
07-Mar-06 2,186 – 2,186 – –
17-Mar-09 3,058 – 3,058 – –
Debra Valentine 17-Mar-09 13,558 – – – 13,558
22-Mar-10 47,831 – – – 47,831
06-May-11 33,830 – – – 33,830
19-Mar-12 31,886 – – – 31,886
Sam Walsh 07-Mar-06 48,079 – – – 48,079
17-Mar-09 40,005 – – – 40,005
22-Mar-10 83,763 – – – 83,763
102 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Table 3 – Plan interests (awards of shares and options under long-term incentive plans) (continued)
31-Dec-15
Vested and
exercisable on
15 Feb 2016 15 Feb 16 Exercise price
Value of options
exercised
during 2015
Market price
on date of
exercise
Date from
which first
exercisable Expiry date
Share Savings Plan
(h)
Hugo Bague 425 – 425 £28.630 – – 01-Jan-17 01-Jul-17
Andrew Harding – – – A$48.73 – – 01-Jan-15 01-Jul-15
555 – 555 £27.810 – – 01-Jan-16 01-Jul-16
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(e)
– – – £21.480 £12,172 £28.045 01-Jan-15 01-Jul-15
Greg Lilleyman 555 – 555 A$59.26 – – 01-Jan-16 01-Jul-16
Sam Walsh – – – A$48.73 A$7,988 $63.90 01-Jan-15 01-Jul-15
– – – A$59.26 – – 01-Jan-16 01-Jul-16
Share Option Plan
(h)
Hugo Bague 47,297 47,297 47,297 £37.050 – – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
34,415 34,415 34,415 £42.450 – – 06-May-14 06-May-21
33,085 33,085 33,085 £35.179 – – 19-Mar-15 19-Mar-22
Andrew Harding 6,268 6,268 6,268 A$33.451 – – 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
46,597 46,597 46,597 A$76.150 – – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
34,829 34,829 34,829 £42.450 – – 06-May-14 05-May-21
33,585 33,585 33,585 £35.179 – – 19-Mar-15 19-Mar-22
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(e)
N/A N/A N/A £16.530 – – 17-Mar-12 18-Mar-16
N/A N/A N/A £37.050 – – 22-Mar-13 18-Mar-16
N/A N/A N/A £35.179 – – 19-Mar-15 19-Mar-16
Greg Lilleyman – – – A$30.933 A$81,753 A$64.12 09-Mar-08 09-Mar-15
– – – A$54.951 A$140,123 A$64.10 07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
– – – A$33.451 A$196,110 A$64.13 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
Debra Valentine 13,558 13,558 13,558 £16.530 – – 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
47,831 47,831 47,831 £37.050 – – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
33,830 33,830 33,830 £42.450 – – 06-May-14 06-May-21
31,886 31,886 31,886 £35.179 – – 19-Mar-15 19-Mar-22
Sam Walsh 48,079 48,079 48,079 A$54.951 – – 07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
40,005 40,005 40,005 A$33.451 – – 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
83,763 83,763 83,763 A$76.150 – – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Notes to Table 3
(a) Awards denominated in pounds sterling were for Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10 pence each and awards denominated in Australian dollars were for Rio Tinto
Limited shares. All options are granted over ordinary shares. Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10 pence each stated in sterling. Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares
stated in Australian dollars. Each option is granted over one share at no cost to participants. Where an exercise price is stated, it represents the amount payable
per share on the exercise of each option by participants.
(b) The weighted fair value per share of conditional awards granted in 2015 under the BDP was £29.11 for Rio Tinto plc and A$58.45 for Rio Tinto Limited and for
PSP was £19.63 for Rio Tinto plc and A$39.33 for Rio Tinto Limited. Conditional awards are awarded at no cost to the recipient and no amount remains unpaidon
any shares awarded.
(c) Details of performance conditions for the BDP are provided below.
50 per cent of the STIP is delivered in cash and 50 per cent is delivered in deferred shares under the BDP. The BDP vests in December of the third year after the end
of performance year.
Details of performance conditions for the PSP are provided below.
For 2012 awards, the awards have a four-year performance period and from 2014, awards have a five-year performance period commencing on 1 January of theyear
of grant. For 2013 awards only, 50 per cent of the award granted will be measured against the performance conditions after four years (at the end of 2016) and 50 per
cent of the awards granted will be measured against the performance conditions after five years (at the end of 2017).
For 2012 awards, subject to the “mix” chosen, awards have a maximum face value of 292 per cent of base salary with the potential for 1.5 times of this value,
ie 438 per cent of base salary, for outstanding performance. The expected value of the 2012 awards is 190 per cent of base salary. For awards granted from 2013,
awards have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary and a maximum expected value of 219 per cent of base salary. The actual award levels granted
from 2013 vary by executive.
For 2012 awards, conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR performance condition, comparing Rio Tinto’s TSR performance
against
– 50 per cent: the Euromoney Global Mining Index
– 50 per cent: the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index (MSCI)
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 103
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
continued
Vesting of awards made in 2012 is as follows:
Out-performance of the index by 8 per cent per annum 1.5x award vests
Performance between index and 8 per cent out-performance Proportionate vesting for performance between index and 8 per cent
out-performance of the index
Out-performance of the index by approximately 5 per cent per annum 1.0x award vests
Performance equal to index 0.35x award vests
Performance less than index Nil vesting
For awards granted from 2013, for the TSR component (constituting two-thirds of the award), where TSR performance is measured against both the Euromoney
Global Mining Index and the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index, the award will vest as follows:
Out-performance of the index by 6 per cent per annum 1.0x award vests
Performance between equal to the index and 6 per cent out-performance Proportionate vesting between 0.225x and 1.0x vesting
Performance equal to the index 0.225x award vests
Performance less than index Nil vesting
For the EBIT margin measure (constituting one-third of the award), change in the EBIT margin of Rio Tinto and each of the comparator companies (measuredona
“point-to-point” basis using the last financial year in the performance period and the financial year prior to the start of the performance period) will be calculated
using independent third-party data. Vesting will be subject to Rio Tinto’s interpolated ranking position using the following schedule.
Equal to or greater than 2nd ranked company 1.0x award vests
Between the 5th and 2nd ranked companies Proportionate vesting between 0.225x and 1.0x vesting
Above the 6th ranked company 0.225x award vests
Equal to the 6th ranked company or below Nil vesting
For awards granted in 2012 , if vesting is achieved, a cash payment will be paid equal to the dividends that would have been received had the number of shares which
have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period. For awards granted from 2013, if vesting is achieved, participants
will be entitled to receive a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount of dividends that would have been received had the
number of shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the period.
(d) The amount in US dollars has been converted at the rate of £1=US$1.52868 and A$1=US$0.75256, being the average exchange rates for 2015.
(e) Harry Kenyon-Slaney stepped down from the Executive Committee on 28 February 2015.
(f) The 2012 PSP awards granted on 19 March 2012 with a performance period that concluded on 31 December 2015 vested at 65.4 per cent per cent. This award
vested on 15 February 2016 as follows: Hugo Bague, awarded 22,056, lapsed 7,632, vested 14,424; Alan Davies, awarded 6,663, lapsed 2,306 vested 4,357;
Andrew Harding, awarded 22,390, lapsed 7,747, vested 14,643; Debra Valentine, awarded 21,257, lapsed 7,355, vested 13,902; Sam Walsh, awarded 63,540,
lapsed 21,985, vested 41,555; Jean-Sébastien Jacques, awarded 4,793, lapsed 1,659, vested 3,134. Jean-Sébastien exercised his award on 15 February 2016;
Greg Lilleyman, awarded 5,585, lapsed 1,933, vested 3,652.
(g) The 2013 MSP awards granted on 27 May 2013 vested on 15 February 2016 as follows: Greg Lilleyman awarded 4,598, dividend shares 680, vested 5,278.
(h) No options have been granted to executives since 19 March 2012.
The closing price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 was £19.80 and of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 was A$44.71.The
high and low prices during 2015 of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares were £32.38 and £18.48 and A$65.60 and A$41.76 respectively.
As of 15 February 2016, members of the Executive Committee held 2,115,308 shares awarded and not vested under long-term incentive plans and 536,563 options
to acquire Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares.
104 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Audited information
Under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports)Regulations2008(asamended),the
information included in respect of: the single
total figure of remuneration for each director as
set out on pages 81 and 84 and Table 1b on
page98;detailsofthedirectors’totalpension
entitlements as set out on pages 83 and 85;
details of scheme interests awarded to the
directors during the financial year as set out on
pages 82 and 85 and Table 3 on pages 100 to
104; details of payments to past directors as
set out on page 85; and the statement of the
directors’ shareholdings and share interests, as
set out in Tables 2 and 3 on pages 99 to 104 of
the Implementation Report are all auditable.
The Australian Securities and Investments
Commission issued an order dated
14 December 2015 under which the
Remuneration Report must be prepared and
audited in accordance with the requirements of
the Corporations Act 2001 applied on the basis
of certain modifications set out in the order (as
detailed on page 200). The information
provided in the Remuneration Report has been
audited as required by section 308(3C) of the
Corporations Act.
Going concern
Thedirectors,havingmadeappropriate
enquiries, have satisfied themselves that it is
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting in preparing the financial
statements. Additionally the directors have
considered longer-term viability and their
statement in this regard may be found on
page 15.
Annual general meetings
The 2016 annual general meetings will be held
on 14 April in London and 5 May in Brisbane.
Separate notices of the 2016 annual general
meetingsareproducedfortheshareholdersof
each Company.
Directors’ approval statement
TheDirectors’reportisdeliveredinaccordance
with a resolution of the board.
Jan du Plessis
Chairman
2 March 2016
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 105
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2015 financial statements
Contents
Page
Primary financial statements
Group income statement 107
Group statement of comprehensive income 108
Group cash flow statement 109
Group balance sheet 110
Group statement of changes in equity 111
Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards 112
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of
financial statements 112
Notes to the 2015 financial statements
Group income statement
Note 1 – Principal accounting policies 113
Note 2 – Operating segments 125
Note 3 – Operating segments – additional information 128
Note 4 – Net operating costs 129
Note 5 – Employment costs 129
Note 6 – Impairment charges and reversals 130
Note 7 – Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 131
Note 8 – Finance income and finance costs 132
Note 9 – Taxation 132
Note 10 – (Loss)/earnings per ordinary share 133
Note 11 – Dividends 134
Group balance sheet
Note 12 – Goodwill 135
Note 13 – Intangible assets 136
Note 14 – Property, plant and equipment 137
Note 15 – Investments in equity accounted units 138
Note 16 – Inventories 139
Note 17 – Deferred taxation 139
Note 18 – Trade and other receivables 141
Note 19 – Assets and liabilities held for sale 141
Note 20 – Other financial assets (including loans to equity
accounted units) 141
Note 21 – Cash and cash equivalents 141
Note 22 – Borrowings and other financial liabilities 142
Note 23 – Capitalised finance leases 143
Note 24 – Consolidated net debt 143
Note 25 – Trade and other payables 144
Note 26 – Provisions (including post-retirement benefits) 144
Page
Capital and reserves
Note 27 – Share capital – Rio Tinto plc 145
Note 28 – Share capital – Rio Tinto Limited 145
Note 29 – Other reserves and retained earnings 146
Additional disclosures
Note 30 – Financial instruments and risk management 147
Note 31 – Contingencies and commitments 156
Note 32 – Average number of employees 158
Note 33 – Principal subsidiaries 159
Note 34 – Principal joint operations 161
Note 35 – Principal joint ventures 162
Note 36 – Principal associates 163
Note 37 – Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures,
associates and other interests in businesses 164
Note 38 – Directors’ and key management remuneration 165
Note 39 – Auditors’ remuneration 166
Note 40 – Related-party transactions 166
Note 41 – Exchange rates in US$ 167
Note 42 – Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL) 167
Note 43 – Events after the balance sheet date 167
Note 44 – Share based payments 167
Note 45 – Post-retirement benefits 170
Note 46 – Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 175
Note 47 – Related undertakings 176
Rio Tinto plc company information 190
Rio Tinto financial information by business unit 194
Australian Corporations Act – summary of ASIC relief 199
Directors’ declaration 200
Auditor’s independence declaration 201
Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
the members of Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers to the
members of Rio Tinto Limited 202
Financial summary 2006-2015 209
Summary financial data 211
106 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Group income statement
Years ended 31 December
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Consolidated operations
Consolidated sales revenue 2,3 34,829 47,664 51,171
Net operating costs (excluding items shown separately) 4 (27,919) (33,910) (36,104)
Impairment charges net of reversals 6 (2,791) (1,062) (7,315)
Net gains/(losses) on consolidation and disposal of interests in businesses 2,37 64 (563) 787
Exploration and evaluation costs 13 (576) (747) (948)
Profit/(loss) relating to interests in undeveloped projects 13 8 (36) (161)
Operating profit 3,615 11,346 7,430
Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 7 361 625 698
Impairment charges net of reversals of investments in equity accounted units after tax 6 – 589 (216)
Profit before finance items and taxation 3,976 12,560 7,912
Finance items
Net exchange losses on external debt and intragroup balances 24 (3,538) (1,995) (3,672)
Net (losses)/gains on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (88) (46) 59
Finance income 8 52 64 82
Finance costs 8 (750) (649) (507)
Amortisation of discount (378) (382) (369)
(4,702) (3,008) (4,407)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (726) 9,552 3,505
Taxation 9 (993) (3,053) (2,426)
(Loss)/profit after tax for the year (1,719) 6,499 1,079
– attributable to owners of Rio Tinto (net (loss)/earnings) (866) 6,527 3,665
– attributable to non-controlling interests (853) (28) (2,586)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share 10 (47.5c) 353.1c 198.4c
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share 10 (47.5c) 351.2c 197.3c
The notes on pages 113 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 107
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group statement of comprehensive income
Years ended 31 December
2015 2014 2013
Note US$m US$m US$m
(Loss)/profit after tax for the year (1,719) 6,499 1,079
Other comprehensive income/(loss):
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial gains/(losses) on post-retirement benefit plans 45 619 (735) 2,260
Share of other comprehensive losses of equity accounted units, net of tax – –(1)
Tax relating to these components of other comprehensive income 9 (175) 215 (641)
444 (520) 1,618
Items that have been/may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Currency translation adjustment
(a)
(2,395) (2,004) (2,657)
Currency translation on companies disposed of, transferred to the income statement (2) 53 81
Fair value movements:
– Cash flow hedge (losses)/gains (41) (48) 195
– Cash flow hedge losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement 32 55 (92)
– Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities (19) (36) (101)
– Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 11 6 146
Share of other comprehensive losses of equity accounted units, net of tax (57) (44) (44)
Tax relating to these components of other comprehensive income 9 (3) (9) (56)
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax (2,030) (2,547) (910)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (3,749) 3,952 169
– attributable to owners of Rio Tinto (2,443) 4,322 3,261
– attributable to non-controlling interests (1,306) (370) (3,092)
(a) Excludes a currency translation charge of US$503 million (2014: US$376 million; 2013: US$804 million) arising on Rio Tinto Limited’s share capital for the year
ended 31 December 2015, which is recognised in the Group statement of changes in equity. Refer to Group statement of changes in equity on page 111.
The notes on pages 113 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
108 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Group cash flow statement
Years ended 31 December
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Cash flows from consolidated operations
(a)
12,102 18,896 19,531
Dividends from equity accounted units 210 298 600
Cash flows from operations 12,312 19,194 20,131
Net interest paid (827) (981) (1,164)
Dividends paid to holders of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (310) (309) (191)
Tax paid (1,792) (3,618) (3,698)
Net cash generated from operating activities 9,383 14,286 15,078
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 37 (3) –4
Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 37 (38) 887 1,896
Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2 (4,685) (8,162) (13,001)
Sales of financial assets 65 172 224
Purchases of financial assets (49) (24) (75)
Net funding of equity accounted units 11 (117) (88)
Other investing cash flows
(b)
99 741 94
Net cash used in investing activities (4,600) (6,503) (10,946)
Cash flows before financing activities 4,783 7,783 4,132
Cash flows from financing activities
Equity dividends paid to owners of Rio Tinto 11 (4,076) (3,710) (3,322)
Proceeds from additional borrowings 1,837 442 3,954
Repayment of borrowings (3,518) (3,476) (1,832)
Proceeds from issue of equity to non-controlling interests 103 1,291 159
Own shares purchased from owners of Rio Tinto (2,028) ––
Other financing cash flows 12 17 107
Net cash flows used in financing activities (7,670) (5,436) (934)
Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (159) (156) (261)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (3,046) 2,191 2,937
Opening cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 12,400 10,209 7,272
Closing cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 21 9,354 12,400 10,209
(a) Cash flows from consolidated operations
(Loss)/profit after tax for the year (1,719) 6,499 1,079
Adjustments for:
– Taxation 993 3,053 2,426
– Finance items 4,702 3,008 4,407
– Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units (361) (625) (698)
– Impairment charges net of reversals of investments in equity accounted units after tax – (589) 216
– Net (gains)/losses on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses 37 (64) 563 (787)
– Impairment charges net of reversals 6 2,791 1,062 7,315
– Depreciation and amortisation 4,645 4,860 4,791
– Provisions (including exchange differences on provisions) 26 726 712 1,449
Utilisation of provisions 26 (585) (973) (871)
Utilisation of provision for post-retirement benefits 26 (230) (296) (635)
Change in inventories 526 937 (330)
Change in trade and other receivables 1,404 962 84
Change in trade and other payables (431) (380) 803
Other items
(c)
(295) 103 282
12,102 18,896 19,531
(b) Other investing cash flows in 2015 mainly relate to the disposal of property, plant and equipment across the Group. In 2014, this included the disposal of the
Group’s St James’s Square properties.
(c) Includes a cash outflow in 2015 of US$227 million (2014: inflow of US$66 million; 2013: outflow of US$267 million) mainly relating to derivative contracts
transacted for operational purposes and not designated in a hedge relationship.
The notes on pages 113 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 109
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group balance sheet
At 31 December
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 892 1,228
Intangible assets 13 3,336 5,880
Property, plant and equipment 14 61,057 68,693
Investments in equity accounted units 15 4,941 4,868
Inventories 16 253 397
Deferred tax assets 17 3,309 3,540
Trade and other receivables 18 1,356 1,304
Tax recoverable 78 70
Other financial assets (including loans to equity accounted units) 20 788 722
76,010 86,702
Current assets
Inventories 16 3,168 4,350
Trade and other receivables 18 2,386 3,623
Tax recoverable 118 146
Other financial assets (including loans to equity accounted units) 20 223 271
Cash and cash equivalents 21 9,366 12,423
15,261 20,813
Assets of disposal groups held for sale 19 293 312
Total assets 91,564 107,827
Current liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 22 (2,484) (2,684)
Trade and other payables 25 (6,237) (7,437)
Tax payable (135) (800)
Provisions including post-retirement benefits 26 (1,190) (1,299)
(10,046) (12,220)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 22 (21,140) (22,535)
Trade and other payables 25 (682) (871)
Tax payable (295) (370)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (3,286) (3,574)
Provisions including post-retirement benefits 26 (11,876) (13,303)
(37,279) (40,653)
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 19 (111) (360)
Total liabilities (47,436) (53,233)
Net assets 44,128 54,594
Capital and reserves
Share capital
–RioTintoplc 27 224 230
– Rio Tinto Limited 28 3,950 4,535
Share premium account 4,300 4,288
Other reserves 29 9,139 11,122
Retained earnings 29 19,736 26,110
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 37,349 46,285
Attributable to non-controlling interests 6,779 8,309
Total equity 44,128 54,594
The notes on pages 113 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 106 to 200 were approved by the directors on 2 March 2016 and signed on their behalf by
Jan du Plessis Sam Walsh AO Chris Lynch
Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer
110 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Group statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 December 2015 Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto
Share
capital
(notes 27 and 28)
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Other
reserves
(note 29)
US$m
Retained
earnings
(note 29)
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
US$m
Total
equity
US$m
Opening balance 4,765 4,288 11,122 26,110 46,285 8,309 54,594
Total comprehensive loss for the year
(a)
– – (2,020) (423) (2,443) (1,306) (3,749)
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto
Limited’s share capital
(b)
(503) – – – (503) – (503)
Dividends – – – (4,076) (4,076) (315) (4,391)
Share buyback (88) – 6 (1,946) (2,028) – (2,028)
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto
shareholders to satisfy share options – – (25) (28) (53) – (53)
Treasury shares reissued and other movements –12 – 1 13 – 13
Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto –– – 20 20 (17) 3
Equity issued to holders of
non-controlling interests – – – – – 103 103
Companies no longer consolidated –– – – – 5 5
Employee share options and other IFRS 2
charges taken to the income statement – – 56 78 134 – 134
Closing balance 4,174 4,300 9,139 19,736 37,349 6,779 44,128
Year ended 31 December 2014 Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto
Share
capital
(notes 27 and 28)
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Other
reserves
(note 29)
US$m
Retained
earnings
(note 29)
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
US$m
Total
equity
US$m
Opening balance 5,141 4,269 12,871 23,605 45,886 7,616 53,502
Total comprehensive income for the year
(a)
– – (1,689) 6,011 4,322 (370) 3,952
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto
Limited’s share capital
(b)
(376) – – – (376) – (376)
Dividends – – – (3,710) (3,710) (304) (4,014)
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto
shareholders to satisfy share options – – (129) (31) (160) – (160)
Treasury shares reissued and other movements – 19 – 3 22 – 22
Newly consolidated operations – – – – – 6 6
Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto – – – 36 36 (29) 7
Equity issued to holders of
non-controlling interests
(c)
– – – – – 1,291 1,291
Companies no longer consolidated – – – – – (18) (18)
Employee share options and other IFRS 2
charges taken to the income statement – – 69 196 265 117 382
Closing balance 4,765 4,288 11,122 26,110 46,285 8,309 54,594
Year ended 31 December 2013 Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto
Share
capital
(notes 27 and 28)
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Other
reserves
(note 29)
US$m
Retained
earnings
(note 29)
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
US$m
Total
equity
US$m
Opening balance 5,945 4,244 14,868 21,496 46,553 11,187 57,740
Total comprehensive income for the year
(a)
– – (1,984) 5,245 3,261 (3,092) 169
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto
Limited’s share capital
(b)
(804) – – – (804) – (804)
Dividends – – – (3,322) (3,322) (196) (3,518)
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto
shareholders to satisfy share options – – (77) (44) (121) – (121)
Treasury shares reissued and other movements – 25 – 55 80 – 80
Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto – – – 102 102 (78) 24
Equity issued to holders of
non-controlling interests – – – – – 159 159
Companies no longer consolidated – – – – – (369) (369)
Employee share options and other IFRS 2
charges taken to the income statement – – 64 73 137 5 142
Closing balance 5,141 4,269 12,871 23,605 45,886 7,616 53,502
(a) Refer to Group statement of comprehensive income.
(b) Refer to note 1(d).
(c) Equity issued to holders of non-controlling interests in 2014 included US$1,158 million of proceeds from a rights issue by Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd in
January 2014.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 111
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group statement of changes in equity
continued
Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
IFRS, as defined in note 1, which differs in certain respects from the
version of International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable
in Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards (AAS).
Prior to 1 January 2004, the Group’s financial statements were prepared
in accordance with UK GAAP. Under IFRS, as defined in note 1, goodwill
on acquisitions prior to 1998, which was eliminated directly against
equity in the Group’s UK GAAP financial statements, has not been
reinstated. This was permitted under the rules governing the transition
to IFRS set out in IFRS 1. The equivalent Australian Standard, AASB 1,
does not provide for the netting of goodwill against equity. As a
consequence, shareholders’ funds under AAS include the residue of such
goodwill, which amounted to US$560 million at 31 December 2015
(2014: US$553 million).
Save for the exception described above, the Group’s financial statements
drawn up in accordance with IFRS are consistent with the requirements
of AAS.
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of
financial statements
The Rio Tinto Group
These are the financial statements of the Group formed through the
merger of economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited
(Merger), and presented by both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as
their consolidated accounts in accordance with both UK and Australian
legislation and regulations.
Merger terms
On 21 December 1995, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, which are
listed respectively on stock exchanges in the UK and Australia, entered
into a dual listed companies (DLC) merger. This was effected by
contractual arrangements between the companies and amendments to
Rio Tinto plc’s Memorandum and Articles of Association and Rio Tinto
Limited’s Constitution.
As a result, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their respective
groups operate together as a single economic enterprise, with neither
assuming a dominant role. In particular, the arrangements:
– confer upon the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited a
common economic interest in both groups;
– provide for common boards of directors and a unified management
structure;
– provide for equalised dividends and capital distributions; and
– provide for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to
take key decisions, including the election of directors, through an
electoral procedure in which the public shareholders of the two
companies in effect vote on a joint basis.
The merger involved no change in the legal ownership of any assets of
Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor any change in the ownership of any
existing shares or securities of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor the
issue of any shares, securities or payment by way of consideration, save
for the issue by each company of one special voting share to a trustee
company which facilitates the joint electoral procedure for public
shareholders. During 2002, each of the parent companies issued a DLC
Dividend Share to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the
DLC structure.
Accounting standards
The financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with IFRS as
defined in note 1. The Merger was accounted for as a merger under UK
GAAP. As permitted under the rules governing the transition to IFRS,
which are set out in IFRS 1, the Group did not restate business
combinations that occurred before the transition date of 1 January 2004.
As a result, the DLC Merger of economic interests described above
continues to be accounted for as a merger under IFRS as defined in
note 1.
The main consequence of adopting merger rather than acquisition
accounting is that the balance sheet of the merged Group includes the
assets and liabilities of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited at their
carrying values prior to the merger, subject to adjustments to achieve
uniformity of accounting policies, rather than at their fair values at the
date of the merger. For accounting purposes Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Limited are viewed as a single public parent company (with their
respective public shareholders being the shareholders in that single
company). As a result, the amounts attributable to both Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited public shareholders are included in the amounts
attributed to owners of Rio Tinto on the balance sheet, income statement
and statement of comprehensive income.
Australian Corporations Act
The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with an order,
under section 340 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, issued by the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) on
14 December 2015. The main effect of the order is that the financial
statements are prepared on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc
and their respective controlled entities are treated as a single economic
entity, and in accordance with the principles and requirements of
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European
Union (EU IFRS) and include a reconciliation from EU IFRS to the
Australian equivalents of IFRS (see above).
ForfurtherdetailsoftheASICClassOrderreliefseepage199.
112 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Notes to the 2015 financial statements
1 Principal accounting policies
Corporate information
Rio Tinto’s business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, gold, industrial
minerals (borates, titanium dioxide and salt), iron ore, thermal and
metallurgical coal and uranium. Activities span the world and are
strongly represented in Australia and North America, with significant
businesses in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
Rio Tinto plc is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London Stock
Exchange and Rio Tinto Limited is incorporated in Australia and listed on
the Australian Stock Exchange. Rio Tinto plc’s registered office is at
6 St James’s Square, London SW1Y 4AD, UK. Rio Tinto Limited’s
registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000.
These financial statements consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited (together “the Companies”) and their respective
subsidiaries (together “the Group”) and include the Group’s share of joint
arrangements and associates as explained in note 1(b) below. The
Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 were
authorised for issue in accordance with a directors’ resolution on
2 March 2016.
Notes 33 to 36 provide more information on the Group’s subsidiaries,
joint arrangements and associates and note 40 provides information on
the Group’s other related-party transactions.
Basis of preparation of the financial statements
The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing
the Group’s 2015 financial statements are set out below.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies
reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards and in
accordance with applicable UK law, applicable Australian law as
amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission
Order dated 14 December 2015 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS
regulation and also with:
– International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and interpretations
issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee
(IFRS IC) both as adopted by the European Union (EU) and which
are mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2015; and
– International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB
and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS IC which are
mandatory as at 31 December 2015.
The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively
referredtoas“IFRS”inthisreport.TheGrouphasnotearlyadoptedany
other amendments, standards or interpretations that have been issued
but are not yet mandatory.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared on the basis of
accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial
statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 except for the
implementation of a number of minor amendments issued by the IASB
and endorsed by the EU which applied for the first time in 2015. These
new pronouncements do not have a significant impact on the accounting
policies, methods of computation or presentation applied by the Group
and therefore prior-period financial statements have not been restated
for these pronouncements.
The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not
mandatory for 2015.
Mandatory for 2016
Endorsed by the EU
Amendment to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure
Initiative”. The amendment provides clarification of guidance in IAS 1 on
materiality and aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the structure
of financial statements and the disclosure of accounting policies.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38. The amendments provide
clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation.
Annual improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 cycle.
Amendments to IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”. The amendments deal
with the accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations.
Mandatory for 2017 – not yet endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for
Unrealised Losses. These amendments on the recognition of deferred tax
assets for unrealised losses clarify how to account for deferred tax assets
related to debt instruments measured at fair value.
IAS 7 – Statement of cash flows, Narrow-scope amendments. The
amendments introduce an additional disclosure that will enable users of
financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from
financing activities.
Mandatory for 2018 – not yet endorsed by the EU
IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. The core principle of
IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of
promised goods or services when control of the goods or services passes
to customers. The amount of revenue recognised should reflect the
consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for
those goods or services. A modified transitional approach is permitted
under which a transitional adjustment is recognised in retained earnings
at the date of implementation of the standard without adjustment of
comparatives. The new standard will only be applied to contracts that are
not completed at that date.
IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. The standard includes a single approach
for the classification of financial assets, based on cash flow
characteristicsandtheentity’sbusinessmodel.Itintroducesanew
model for the recognition of impairment losses, the expected credit
losses model, which requires expected losses to be recognised when
financial instruments are first recognised. The standard amends the
rules on hedge accounting to align the accounting treatment with the
risk management practices of an entity.
Mandatory for 2019 – not yet endorsed by the EU
IFRS 16 ‘‘Leases’’. Under the new standard, a lessee is in essence
required to:
(a) recognise all lease assets and liabilities (including those currently
classed as operating leases) on the balance sheet, initially
measured at the present value of unavoidable lease payments;
(b) recognise amortisation of lease assets and interest on lease
liabilities in the income statement over the lease term; and
(c) separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion
(presented within financing activities) and interest (which
companies can choose to present within operating or financing
activities consistent with presentation of any other interest paid)
in the cash flow statement.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the above
pronouncements which may have an impact on the Group’s earnings or
shareholders’ funds in future years. The most significant impact is likely
to be from IFRS 16. Information on the undiscounted amount of the
Group’s operating lease commitments at 31 December 2015 under
IAS 17, the current leases standard, is disclosed in note 31. Under
IFRS 16, the present value of these commitments would be shown as a
liability on the balance sheet together with an asset representing the
right of use.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of
estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to
make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in
applying accounting policies and in making critical accounting estimates.
These judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on
management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances,
having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ
materially from the amounts included in the financial statements. Key
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 113
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
areas of judgment and estimation uncertainty are highlighted below and
further information is contained in the accounting policies and/or the
notes to the financial statements.
Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the financial statements are:
– Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies
(DLC) structure (see Dual listed companies structure on page 112);
– Acquisitions – note 1(b) and note 37;
– Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals
and the recoverability of goodwill – note 1(e) and (i), note 6, note 12
and note 13;
– Estimationofassetlives–note1(e)and(i);
– Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates –
note 1(j);
– Provision for onerous contracts – note 1(i)
– Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations – note 1(k);
– Deferral of stripping costs – note 1(h);
– Uncertain tax positions – note 1(m) and note 31;
– Recognition of deferred tax on mining rights recognised in
acquisitions–note1(m);
– Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets – note 17(c),
(e) and (f);
– Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs – note 1(f);
– Identification of functional currencies – note 1(d);
– Basis of consolidation – note 1(b) and note 42;
– Contingencies–note31;and
– Post-retirement cost assumptions – note 1(n) and note 45.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities within the next financial year are:
– Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals
and the recoverability of goodwill – note1 (e) and (i), note 6,
note 12 and note 13;
– Estimationofassetlives–note1(e)and(i);
– Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates –
note 1(j);
– Estimation of close-down, restoration and environmental costs and
thetimingofexpenditure–note1(k)andnote26;
– Estimation of obligations for post-retirement costs – note 1(n) and
note 45;
– Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets – note 17 (c),
(e) and (f);
– Contingencies–note31;and
– Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs – note 1(f).
These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical
accounting policies and estimates on page 122.
(a) Accounting convention
The financial information included in the financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2015, and for the related comparative periods, has
been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the
revaluation of certain derivative contracts and financial assets, the
impact of fair value hedge accounting on the hedged item and the
accounting for post-retirement assets and obligations. The Group’s
policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
The Group’s financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values
are rounded to the nearest million (US$m) unless otherwise stated.
Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure or
present them on the same basis as current period figures.
(b) Basis of consolidation (notes 33 to 36)
All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on
consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the locally reported assets,
liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates
to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either of the
Companies. Control exists where either of the Companies has: power
over the entities, that is existing rights that give it the current ability to
direct the relevant activities of the entities (those that significantly affect
the Companies’ returns); exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its
involvement with the entities; and the ability to use its power to affect
those returns. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which
control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the
date that control ceases.
Joint arrangements: A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which
two or more parties have joint control. Joint control is the contractually
agreed sharing of control such that decisions about the relevant activities
of the arrangement (those that significantly affect the Companies’
returns) require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group has two types of joint arrangement:
Joint operations (JO): A JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties
that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the
liabilities, relating to the arrangement. This includes situations where the
parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output,
rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading. In relation to its
interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities;
revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any
revenue generated from the sale of the output by the JO; and its share of
expenses. These are incorporated into the Group’s financial statements
under the appropriate headings.
Joint ventures (JV): A JV is a joint arrangement in which the parties that
share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. JVs
are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Associates:Anassociateisanentitythatisneitherasubsidiarynora
joint arrangement, over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is presumed to exist where there is neither control
nor joint control and the Group has over 20 per cent of the voting rights,
unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case. Significant
influence can arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent of the
voting rights if it has the power to participate in the financial and
operating policy decisions affecting the entity. Investments in associates
are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
The Group uses the term “equity accounted units” (EAUs) to refer to
associates and JVs collectively. For all EAUs, the carrying value will
include any long-term loans to the EAUs that in substance form part of
the Group’s net investment. Under the equity accounting method the
investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any
goodwill on acquisition. In subsequent periods the carrying amount of the
investment is adjusted to reflect the Group’s share of the EAUs’ retained
post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income. When
the Group’s share of losses in an EAU equals or exceeds its interest in
the EAU, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive
obligations or made payments on behalf of the EAU.
Acquisitions (note 37)
Under the “acquisition” method of accounting for business combinations,
the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed (the
identifiable net assets) on the basis of their fair value at the date of
acquisition, which is the date on which control is obtained.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary
comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred
114 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report totheformerownersoftheacquiree,thefairvalueofanyassetor
liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and any
equity interests issued by the Group. Costs related to the acquisition of a
subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any
non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair
value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of
the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Any shortfall
is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within
12 months of the acquisition date.
Non-controlling interests in the acquiree, that are present ownership
interestsandentitletheirholderstoaproportionateshareoftheentity’s
net assets in the event of liquidation, are recognised by the Group in one
of two ways with the choice being available on an acquisition-by-
acquisition basis. They can be measured at either the non-controlling
interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets or
at fair value. In some cases, non-controlling interests may be treated as
equity options and valued on that basis. Goodwill (see note (e)) and
amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will differ depending on
the basis used.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the
acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the date control is gained
with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement. The cash cost
ofthesharepurchasethatgivesrisetocontrolisincludedwithin
“Investing activities” in the cash flow statement.
Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the
difference between the purchase price and the carrying value of the
share of net assets acquired is recorded in equity. The cash cost of
such purchases is included within “Financing activities” in the cash
flow statement.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the
consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint
control or significant influence commences.
Disposals (note 37)
Individual non-current assets or “disposal groups” (that is, groups of
assets and liabilities) to be disposed of by sale or otherwise in a single
transaction are classified as “held for sale” if the following criteria are
metattheperiodend:
– the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale
transaction rather than through continuing use; and
– the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present
condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such
sales; and
– the sale is highly probable.
Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell. The comparative balance sheet
is not restated. Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at
the fair value determined at the acquisition date. For these assets
acquired for resale no profits or losses are recognised between the
acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a subsequent
impairment.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated
and, if applicable, equity accounting ceases.
If control is lost, any interest in the entity retained by the Group is
remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is
recognised in the income statement. The retained interest may be
subsequently accounted for as a joint venture, joint operation, associate
or financial asset depending on the facts. Certain amounts previously
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the entity
disposed of, or for which control, joint control or significant influence has
ceased, may be recycled to the income statement in proportion to the
interest disposed of. The cash proceeds of disposals are included within
“Investing activities” in the cash flow statement.
Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss
of control are accounted for in equity. The cash proceeds of such disposals
are included within “Financing activities” in the cash flow statement.
(c) Sales revenue
Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts. All
shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as
operating costs. Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and
handling are classified as sales revenue where the Group is responsible
forfreight.IftheGroupisactingsolelyasanagent,amountsbilledto
customers are offset against the relevant costs. Revenue from services is
recognised as those services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes. Mining royalties
payablearepresentedasanoperatingcostor,wheretheyarein
substance a profit-based tax, within taxation.
Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are
included in sales revenue. Sundry revenue, incidental to the main
revenue-generating activities of the operations, and which is a
consequence of producing and selling the main products, is treated as a
credit to operating costs.
Third-party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of
smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
Sales of copper concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which is
net of treatment and refining charges.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the
following criteria are met:
– the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have
been transferred to the buyer;
– neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually
associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold,
has been retained;
– the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
– it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will
flow to the Group; and
– the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be
measured reliably.
In most instances, sales revenue is recognised when the product is
delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically
the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the
customer’s premises.
The Group’s products are sold to customers under contracts which
vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the
spot market.
Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either
monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller
proportion of iron ore volumes being sold on the spot market.
Substantially all iron ore sales are reflected at final prices in the results
for the period, based on the best available information at the period end.
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an
inspection of the product by the customer. In such cases, sales revenue
is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Group’s best
estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently.
Certain products are “provisionally priced”, that is, the selling price is
subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from
30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer. The final price is based on
the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally priced sales is
recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration
receivable based on relevant forward market prices. At each reporting
date, provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the
forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those
products,suchascopper,forwhichthereexistsanactiveandfreely-
traded commodity market, such as the London Metals Exchange, and the
value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which
it is traded on that market.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 115
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded
as an adjustment to sales revenue. Information on provisionally priced
sales contracts is included in note 30.
(d) Currency translation
The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint
arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which that entity operates. For many entities, this is the
currency of the country in which they are located. Transactions
denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency
at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated
at year-end exchange rates. The Group’s accounting policies for
derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are explained in
more detail in note 1(p)(iii).
The Group’s financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that
presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business
performance of the Group as a whole. On consolidation, income
statement items for each entity are translated from the functional
currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange where the average
is a reasonable approximation of rates prevailing on the transaction date.
Balance sheet items are translated into US dollars at period-end
exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of
entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are
recognised directly in the currency translation reserve. These translation
differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income, with
the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limited’s
share capital which are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
Whereanintragroupbalanceis,insubstance,partoftheGroup’snet
investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are
taken to the currency translation reserve.
Except as noted above, or in note 1(p) below relating to derivative
contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the
income statement in the year in which they arise.
(e) Goodwill and intangible assets (excluding exploration and
evaluation expenditure) (notes 12 and 13)
Goodwill is not amortised; it is tested annually for impairment or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential
impairment. Investments in EAUs, including any goodwill, are tested for
impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been
identified. The Group’s impairment policy is explained in note 1(i).
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost. Finite-life
intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a
straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate. Intangible
assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that
are not yet ready for use are not amortised; they are reviewed annually
for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances
indicate a potential impairment in accordance with accounting policy
note 1(i).
TheGroupconsidersthatintangibleassetshaveindefiniteliveswhen,
based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable
limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash
flows for the Group. The factors considered in making this judgment
include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms or
evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant
incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future periods in view of
the Group’s investment intentions. The life cycles of the products and
processes that depend on the asset are also considered.
(f) Exploration and evaluation (note 13)
Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly
attributable to:
– researching and analysing existing exploration data;
– conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling;
– examining and testing extraction and treatment methods; and/or
– compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with
economic potential. Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
Evaluation expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or
other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high
degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is
commercially viable, that is the project will provide a satisfactory return
relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered probable that
future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are reviewed
for impairment twice a year by management. In the case of undeveloped
mining projects (projects for which the decision to mine has not yet been
approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group) which
have arisen through acquisition, the allocation of the purchase price
consideration may result in undeveloped properties being recognised at
an earlier stage of project evaluation compared with organic projects.
The impairment review is based on a status report summarising the
Group’s intentions to recover value through development, sale or other
partnering arrangements. Subsequent expenditure on acquired
undeveloped projects is only capitalised if it meets the high degree of
confidence threshold discussed above.
In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to
orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production. Where this is
the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into
production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the
output when existing smelters and/or refineries are closed.
(g) Property, plant and equipment (note 14)
Once an undeveloped mining project has been determined as
commercially viable and approval to mine has been given, expenditure
other than that on land, buildings, plant, equipment and capital work in
progress is capitalised under “Mining properties and leases” together
with any amount transferred from “Exploration and evaluation”. Ore
reserves may be declared for an undeveloped mining project before its
commercial viability has been fully determined. Evaluation costs may
continue to be capitalised during the period between declaration of ore
reserves and approval to mine as further work is undertaken in order to
refine the development case to maximise the project’s returns.
Costs of evaluation of a smelter or refinery prior to approval to develop
are capitalised under “Capital works in progress”, provided that there is a
high degree of confidence that the project will be deemed to be
commercially viable.
Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, in
the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended
by management, are capitalised. Development costs incurred after the
commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are
expected to give rise to a future economic benefit. Interest on borrowings
related to construction or development projects is capitalised, at the rate
payable on project-specific debt if applicable or at the Group’s cost of
borrowing if not, until the point when substantially all the activities that
are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are complete.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost
of property, plant and equipment includes the estimated close-down and
restoration costs associated with the asset.
(h) Deferred stripping (note 14)
In open pit mining operations, overburden and other waste materials
must be removed to access ore from which minerals can be extracted
economically. The process of removing overburden and waste materials
is referred to as stripping. During the development of a mine (or pit),
before production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of
the cost of construction of the mine (or pit) and are subsequently
amortised over the life of the mine (or pit) on a units of production basis.
116 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report In order for production phase stripping costs to qualify for capitalisation
as a stripping activity asset, three criteria must be met:
– it must be probable that there will be an economic benefit in a future
accounting period because the stripping activity has improved access
to the orebody; and
– it must be possible to identify the “component” of the orebody for
which access has been improved; and
– it must be possible to reliably measure the costs that relate to the
stripping activity.
A “component” is a specific section of the orebody that is made more
accessible by the stripping activity. It will typically be a subset of the
larger orebody that is distinguished by a separate useful economic life
(for example, a pushback).
Productionphasestrippingcangiverisetotwobenefits:theextractionof
ore in the current period and improved access to ore which will be
extracted in future periods. When the cost of stripping which has a future
benefit is not distinguishable from the cost of producing current
inventories, the stripping cost is allocated to each of these activities
based on a relevant production measure using a life-of-component strip
ratio. The ratio divides the tonnage of waste mined for the component for
the period either by the quantity of ore mined for the component or by
the quantity of minerals contained in the ore mined for the component. In
some operations, the quantity of ore is a more appropriate basis for
allocating costs, particularly where there are significant by-products.
Stripping costs for the component are deferred to the extent that the
current period ratio exceeds the life of component ratio. The stripping
activity asset is depreciated on a “units of production” basis based on
expected production of either ore or contained minerals over the life of
the component unless another method is more appropriate.
The life-of-component ratios are based on the ore reserves of the mine
(and for some mines, other mineral resources) and the annual mine plan;
they are a function of the mine design and therefore changes to that
design will generally result in changes to the ratios. Changes in other
technical or economic parameters that impact the ore reserves (and for
some mines, other mineral resources) may also have an impact on the
life-of-component ratios even if they do not affect the mine design.
Changes to the ratios are accounted for prospectively.
It may be the case that subsequent phases of stripping will access
additional ore and that these subsequent phases are only possible after
thefirstphasehastakenplace.Whereapplicable,theGroupconsiders
thisonamine-by-minebasis.Generally,theonlyoreattributedtothe
stripping activity asset for the purposes of calculating a life-of-
component ratio, and for the purposes of amortisation, is the ore to be
extracted from the originally identified component.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate
operations for the purpose of mine planning, initial stripping costs are
accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine
planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of
the first pit in accounting for stripping costs. In such cases, the initial
stripping (ie overburden and other waste removal) of the second and
subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping.
The Group’s judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered
separate or integrated operations depends on each mine’s specific
circumstances.
The following factors would point towards the initial stripping costs for
the individual pits being accounted for separately:
– If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted
consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
– If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather
than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
– If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning
and the sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather
than as an integrated unit.
– If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and
subsequent pits are relatively large.
– If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather
than from a single orebody.
If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly
influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits
combined, including the co-treatment or blending of the output from the
pits, then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation for the
purposes of accounting for initial stripping costs.
Therelativeimportanceofeachoftheabovefactorsisconsideredin
each case.
Deferred stripping costs are included in “Mining properties and leases”
within “Property, plant and equipment” or within “Investments in equity
accounted units”, as appropriate. Amortisation of deferred stripping
costs is included in “Depreciation of property, plant and equipment”
within “Net operating costs” or in “Share of profit after tax of equity
accounted units”, as appropriate.
(i) Depreciation and impairment (notes 13 and 14)
Depreciation of non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over
the remaining life of the mine or smelter or refinery if that is shorter and
thereisnoreasonablealternativeusefortheasset.
The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often
dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate. Where this is
the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries,
concentrators and other long-lived processing equipment are generally
based on the expected life of the orebody. The life of the orebody, in
turn,isestimatedonthebasisofthelife-of-mineplan.Wherethe
major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life
of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the
remaining service potential of long-lived assets. Factors affecting the
remaining service potential of smelters include, for example, smelter
technology and electricity purchase contracts when power is not
sourced from the company’s, or in some cases a local government’s,
electricity generating capacity.
The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories of
assets are reviewed annually and changes are reflected prospectively.
Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use. The major
categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of
production and/or straight-line basis as follows:
Units of production basis
For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment,
consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to
production. Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on a
units of production basis.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally
calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total
expected production in current and future periods based on ore reserves
and, for some mines, other mineral resources. Other mineral resources
may be included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances
and where there is a high degree of confidence that they can be
extracted economically. This would be the case when the other mineral
resources do not yet have the status of ore reserves merely because the
necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been performed and the
responsible technical personnel agree that inclusion of a proportion of
measured and indicated resources is appropriate based on historical
reserve conversion rates.
Other mineral resources would usually only be included in unit of
production calculations where there are very large areas of contiguous
mineralisation, for which the economic viability is not sensitive to likely
variations in grade, as may be the case for certain iron ore, bauxite and
industrial minerals deposits. The required level of confidence is unlikely
to exist for minerals that are typically found in low-grade ore (compared
with the above), such as copper or gold. In these cases, specific areas of
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 117
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
mineralisation have to be evaluated in considerable detail before their
economic status can be predicted with confidence.
Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation of
depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will benefit
current and future mines, then the measured and indicated resources
may relate to mines which are currently in production or to mines where
there is a high degree of confidence that they will be brought into
production in the future. The quantum of mineral resources is
determined taking into account future capital costs as required by the
Joint Ore Reserves Committee (JORC) code. The depreciation calculation,
however, does not take into account future development costs for mines
which are not yet in production. Measured and indicated resources are
currently incorporated into depreciation calculations in the Group’s
Australian iron ore business.
Straight-line basis
Assets within operations for which production is not expected to
fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical
life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
Impairment charges/reversals of non-current assets
Impairment charges and reversals are assessed at the level of cash-
generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of
Assets”, are identified as the smallest identifiable asset or group of
assets that generate cash inflows, which are largely independent of the
cashinflowsfromotherassets.Theexistenceofanactivemarketfor
intermediate products is also monitored and separate cash-generating
units are identified even if the majority of those products are further
processed internally and therefore the cash flows are not independent.
Impairment of financial assets is discussed in note 1(p) below.
In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations
with independent cash-generating streams which constitute separate
cash-generating units.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the
cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units if that is the
lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal
management purposes, that are expected to benefit from the related
business combination. All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet
ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment
as at 30 September, regardless of whether there has been an
impairment trigger, or more frequently if events or changes in
circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are
reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable. The Group conducts an internal review of the
asset values annually as at 30 September which is used as a source of
information to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of
previously recognised impairment losses. External factors, such as
changes in expected future prices, costs and other market factors, are
also monitored to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of
previously recognised impairment losses. If any such indication exists
then an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is
assessed by reference to the higher of value in use (being the net
present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-
generating unit in its current condition) and fair value less costs of
disposal (FVLCD).
When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is measured
by reference to FVLCD, this amount is further classified in accordance
with the fair value hierarchy for observable market data that is consistent
with the unit of account for the cash-generating unit being tested. The
Group considers that the best evidence of FVLCD is the value obtained
from an active market or binding sale agreement and, in this case, the
recoverable amount is classified in the fair value hierarchy as level 1.
When FVLCD is based on quoted prices for equity instruments but
adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity in the market, the
recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. No
cash-generating units are currently assessed for impairment by
reference to a recoverable amount based on FVLCD classified as level 2.
Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the
recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available to
reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. This is often estimated using discounted cash flow
techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on
discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on
detailed life-of-mine and/or long-term production plans. The latter may
include brownfield expansions which have not yet been approved at the
appropriate authorisation level in the Group.
The cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on management’s
best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the
future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration
and environmental costs. For the purposes of determining FVLCD from a
market participant’s perspective, the cash flows incorporate
management’s price and cost assumptions in the short and medium
term. In the longer term, operating margins are assumed to remain
constant where appropriate; as it is considered unlikely that a market
participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term. The cash
flowforecastsmayincludenetcashflowsexpectedtoberealisedfrom
extraction, processing and sale of material that does not currently qualify
for inclusion in ore reserves. Such non-reserve material is only included
when there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction. This
expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of
areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing ore reserves.
Typically, the additional evaluation required to achieve reserve status for
such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring
evaluation costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and
operation of the mine.
As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for
FVLCD purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long-term
production plan for the cash-generating unit. This differs from value in
use which requires future cash flows to be estimated for the asset in its
current condition and therefore does not include future cash flows
associated with improving or enhancing an asset’s performance.
Anticipated enhancements to assets may be included in FVLCD
calculations and therefore generally result in a higher value.
Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on
the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect the
current life of mine and/or long-term production plans, which are based
on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the
level of return from investment, output and sequence of extraction. The
mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody,
including waste-to-ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and
metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and
capacities of processing equipment that can be used. The life-of-mine
plan and/or long-term production plans are therefore the basis for
forecasting production output and production costs in each future year.
Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for JORC purposes are
generally based on Rio Tinto’s commodity price forecasts, which assume
short-term market prices will revert to the Group’s assessment of the
long-term price, generally over a period of three to five years. For most
commodities, these forecast commodity prices are derived from a
combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of
the incentive price of these commodities. These assessments often differ
fromcurrentpricelevelsandareupdatedperiodically.TheGroupdoes
not believe that published medium and long-term forward prices provide
a good indication of future levels because they tend to be strongly
influenced by spot prices. The price forecasts used for ore reserve
estimation are generally consistent with those used for impairment
testing unless management deems that in certain economic
environments, a market participant would not assign Rio Tinto’s view on
118 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report prices, in which case management estimates the assumptions that a
market participant would be expected to use.
Forecast future cash flows of a cash-generating unit take into account
the sales prices under existing sales contracts.
The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an
estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future
cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. The Group’s weighted
average cost of capital is generally used as a starting point for
determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk
profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units
operate. For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal
hurdle rates, which are generally higher than the Group’s weighted
averagecostofcapital,areused.Fordevelopmentsfundedwithproject
finance, the debt component of the weighted average cost of capital may
be calculated by reference to the specific interest rate of the project
finance and anticipated leverage of the project.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the
impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency. In
estimating FVLCD, internal forecasts of exchange rates take into account
spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and are kept
constant in real terms from 2020 onwards. The great majority of the
Group’s sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars. To the extent
that the currencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities
strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash
flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced. Management
considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in
commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the
value of the US dollar, particularly against the Australian dollar and
Canadian dollar, and vice versa. However, such compensating changes are
not synchronised and do not fully offset each other. In estimating value in
use, the present value of future cash flows in foreign currencies is
translated at the spot exchange rate on the testing date.
Non-current assets (excluding goodwill) that have suffered impairment
are reviewed using the same basis for valuation of such assets as
explained above whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the impairment loss may no longer exist, or may have decreased. If
appropriate an impairment reversal will be recognised. The carrying
amount of the cash-generating unit after reversal must be the lower of
(a) the recoverable amount, as calculated above, and (b) the carrying
amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or
depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the cash-
generating unit in prior periods.
An onerous contract is defined under IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent
Liabilities and Contingent Assets” as a contract under which the
unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed
the economic benefits expected to be received under it. However, no
provision is required provided that the related assets, which may be the
wider cash-generating unit of which the business unit forms part, are not
fully impaired.
(j) Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on
information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance
with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral
Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2012 (the “JORC code”, which
is produced by the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee).
Ore reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources, determined in
this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and
impairment charges and for forecasting the timing of the payment of close-
down and restoration costs and the recovery of deferred tax assets. The
depreciation and impairment policy above notes instances in which mineral
resources are taken into account for accounting purposes. In addition, value
may be attributed to mineral resources in purchase price allocations
undertaken for the purposes of business combination accounting.
(k) Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations (note 26)
The Group has provisions for close-down and restoration costs which
include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, the removal of
residual materials and the remediation of disturbed areas for mines and
certain refineries and smelters. These provisions are based on all regulatory
requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders. Closure
provisions are not made for those operations that have no known
restrictions on their lives as the closure dates cannot be reliably estimated.
This applies primarily to certain North American smelters which have water
rights or power agreements with local governments.
Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining or
production, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure
is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
Althoughtheultimatecosttobeincurredisuncertain,theGroup’s
businesses estimate their costs using current restoration standards
and techniques.
Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting
period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs,
based on the net present value of the estimated future costs of
restoration to be incurred during the life of the operation and post
closure. Where appropriate, the provision is estimated using probability
weighting of the different remediation and closure scenarios. The
obligation may occur during development or during the production phase
ofafacility.
Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any
additional obligations which are expected to arise from future
disturbance. The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan,
and are reviewed six monthly during the life of the operation to reflect
known developments. The estimates are also subject to formal review
at regular intervals.
The initial close-down and restoration provision is capitalised within
“Property, plant and equipment”. Subsequent movements in the close-
down and restoration provisions for ongoing operations, including those
resulting from new disturbance related to expansions or other activities
qualifying for capitalisation, updated cost estimates, changes to the
estimated lives of operations, changes to the timing of closure activities
and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within “Property,
plant and equipment”. These costs are then depreciated over the lives of
theassetstowhichtheyrelate.Changesinclosureprovisionsrelatingto
closed operations are charged/credited to “Net operating costs” in the
income statement.
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the
operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the
estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each balance
sheetdateandthecostischargedtotheincomestatement.
The amortisation or “unwinding” of the discount applied in establishing
the provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting
period. The amortisation of the discount is shown within “Finance items”
in the income statement.
Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not a
necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation,
compensation and penalties. Provision is made for the estimated present
value of such costs at the balance sheet date. These costs are charged to
“Net operating costs”, except for the unwinding of the discount which is
shown within “Finance items”.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the
disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs
become known, but can continue for many years depending on the
nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
(l) Inventories (note 16)
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value,
primarily on a weighted average cost basis. Average costs are calculated
by reference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant month
together with those in opening inventory. The cost of raw materials and
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 119
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
consumable stores is the purchase price. The cost of partly-processed
andsaleableproductsisgenerallythecostofproduction,including:
– labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly
attributable to the extraction and processing of ore and the
production of alumina and aluminium;
– the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property,
plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore and
the production of alumina and aluminium; and
– production overheads.
Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed
material. Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is
available for further processing. If there is significant uncertainty as to if
and when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is expensed as
mined. If the ore will not be processed within the 12 months after the
balance sheet date, it is included within non-current assets and net
realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis. Quantities
of stockpiled ore are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
(m) Taxation (note 9 and note 17)
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for
the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date. It includes adjustments for tax
expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto
establishes provisions based on the Group’s judgment of the probable
amount of the liability, or recovery.
Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12. The Group provides
for deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in
general, are not eligible for income tax allowances. Provision for deferred
tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset
and its income tax base (which may be US$nil). Even when there is no
income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax
purposes is not usually taken into account in determining the deferred
tax provision for the assets, unless they are classified as held for sale,
because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered
primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal.
(n) Post-employment benefits (note 45)
The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide
lump sums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees. For
post-retirement defined benefit plans, the difference between the fair
value of any plan assets and the present value of the plan obligations is
recognised as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
Thefairvalueofplanassetsisthepricethatwouldbereceivedtosellthe
assets in orderly transactions between market participants at the
measurement date. Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be
restricted to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to
recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future
contributions. In determining the extent to which a refund will be
available the Group has considered whether any third party, such as a
trustee or pension committee, has the power to enhance benefits or to
wind up a pension plan without the Group’s consent.
The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans
are the discount rate, the inflation assumption and the mortality
assumptions. The discount rate is used to determine the net present
value of the obligations, the interest cost on the obligations and the
interest income on plan assets. The discount rate used is the yield on
high-quality corporate bonds with maturities and terms that match those
of the post-retirement obligations as closely as possible. Where there is
no developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on
government bonds is used. The inflation assumption is used to project
increases in future benefit payments for those plans that have benefits
linked to inflation. The mortality assumption is used to project the future
stream of benefit payments, which is then discounted to arrive at the net
present value of the obligations.
Valuations of the obligations are carried out using the projected unit
method which values benefits accrued at the valuation date with
allowance where appropriate for future increases to pay and pensions.
Thevaluesoftheobligationsareassessedinaccordancewiththeadvice
of independent qualified actuaries.
The current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any
curtailment or settlements are recognised in the income statement. The
interest cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is also charged
to the income statement. All amounts charged to the income statement in
respect of these plans are included within “Net operating costs” or in
“Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units”, as appropriate.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are credited or charged to
the statement of comprehensive income and comprise the effects of
changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments due to
differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has
actually occurred. In particular, the difference between the interest
income and the actual return on plan assets is recognised in the
statement of comprehensive income.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to
the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
(o) Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents
comprise: cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, and short-term,
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts
of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities in the balance sheet.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents
are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
(p) Financial instruments (note 30)
(i) Financial assets
Classification
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair
value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held-to-maturity; and
available-for-sale investments. The classification depends on the
purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. The Group’s policy
with regard to financial risk management is set out in note 30. Generally,
the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in
the short term. When the Group enters into derivative contracts, these
transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and
liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at
initial recognition.
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host
contracts, are included within financial assets at fair value through profit
or loss unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be
settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Trade
receivables are included within this category; however, trade receivables
subject to provisional pricing are valued as explained in note 1(c) Sales
revenue.
(c) Held-to-maturity
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with
fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has
the intention and ability to hold to maturity and which do not qualify as
loans and receivables. Assets in this category are classified as Other
investments and are classified as current assets or non-current assets
based on their maturity.
120 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report (d) Available-for-sale
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that
are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless the
Group intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance
sheet date or the asset matures within 12 months.
Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-
date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the
asset. Financial assets are de-recognised when the rights to receive cash
flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group
has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value
through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, with
transaction costs expensed in the income statement, and are
subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-
maturity financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus
transactions costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using
the effective interest method.
Fairvalueisthepricethatwouldbereceivedtosellanassetorpaidto
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
at the measurement date. Where relevant market prices are available,
these are used to determine fair values, adjusted where necessary for
market liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. In other
cases, fair values are calculated using quotations from independent
financial institutions, or by using valuation techniques consistent with
general market practice applicable to the instrument.
The fair values of cash, short-term borrowings and loans to joint ventures
and associates approximate to their carrying values, as a result of their
short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest. The fair
values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes
are disclosed in note 30. Movements on the hedging reserve are
disclosed in note 29.
Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in
the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is
objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets
is impaired. If impairment is identified for a financial asset carried at
amortised cost, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through
the use of an allowance account and the loss is recognised in the
income statement.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an
evaluation is made as to whether a decline in fair value is “significant” or
“prolonged” based on an analysis of indicators such as significant
adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal
environment in which the issuing company operates. If such evidence
exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss,
measured as the difference between acquisition cost less any
impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, and
the current fair value is removed from equity and recognised in the
income statement.
(ii) Financial liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities (including trade payables but
excluding derivative liabilities) are recognised initially at fair value, net of
transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amounts originally received for borrowings
and other financial liabilities (net of transaction costs) and the
redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period
to maturity using the effective interest method.
The fair values of medium and long-term borrowings are calculated as
the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices
in active markets or an appropriate market based yield curve. The
carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing
liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is
treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of
a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is
recognised in the income statement.
(iii) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are treated as separate
derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to
their host contracts. In some cases, derivatives and embedded
derivatives may be designated as hedges.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the
derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in
the income statement. They are subsequently re-measured to fair value
at each balance sheet date. Gains or losses on derivatives which are not
designated as hedges are taken to the income statement. The method of
recognising the resulting gain or loss for derivatives designated as
hedging instruments depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair
value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments (fair value
hedges); or hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset
or liability or of a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedges).
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are
designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset
or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or
when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for
hedge accounting, the fair value adjustments which have been made to
the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the
remaining life of the hedged item or written off immediately when the
hedged item is de-recognised.
Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of
derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is
recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to
the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income
statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income
statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for
example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes place. When
the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of
a non-financial asset, for example, property, plant and equipment, the
gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity
and adjust the cost of the asset. The gains and losses are recognised
subsequently in the income statement when the non-financial asset is
amortised or sold.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash
flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although
the forecast transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or
loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time
remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement at the same
time as the forecast transaction. When a forecast transaction is no longer
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that is held in equity is
immediately recognised in the income statement.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 121
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
(q) Share-based payments (note 44)
The fair value of the Group’s share plans is recognised as an expense
over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained
earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto
Limited plans.
The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated
using either a lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo
simulation model. The fair value of the share plans is determined at the
date of grant, taking into account any market-based vesting conditions
attached to the award. Non-market based vesting conditions (for
example, earnings per share targets) are taken into account in
estimating the number of awards likely to vest. The estimate of the
number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date
uptothevestingdate,atwhichpointtheestimateisadjustedtoreflect
the actual awards issued. No adjustment is made after the vesting date
even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
The terms of each plan are considered at the balance sheet date to
determine whether they should be accounted for as equity or cash
settled.TheGroupnolongeroperatesanyplansascash-settled.
However the Performance Share Plan can, at the discretion of the
directors, offer employees an equivalent amount in cash. This is not
standard practice. In some jurisdictions, employees are granted cash-
settled awards where equity-settled awards are prohibited by local laws
and regulations. The value of these awards is immaterial.
The Group’s equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the issue of
shares by the relevant parent company, the purchase of shares on
market, or the use of shares held in treasury which were previously
acquired as part of a share buy-back. If the cost of shares acquired to
satisfy the plans differs from the expense charged, the difference is
taken to retained earnings or other reserves, as appropriate.
(r) Share capital (notes 27 and 28)
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly
attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity as a
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Group’s equity share capital
(treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from
equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto. Where such shares are
subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly-
attributable incremental costs and the related income tax effects, is
included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
(s) Segment reporting (notes 2 and 3)
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the
internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker
(CODM). The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and
assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as
Rio Tinto’s chief executive.
Critical accounting policies and estimates
(i) Dual listed companies reporting
As described in the “Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis
of financial statements”, for the purposes of preparing the IFRS
compliant consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group, both
the DLC companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, are a single
company, and the interests of shareholders of both companies are
presented as the equity interests of shareholders in the reporting entity.
The 2015 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to
prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as
amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission on 14 December 2015. The 2015 financial
statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to the Group’s
consolidated profit/(loss), consolidated total comprehensive income/
(loss) and consolidated shareholders’ funds as prepared under IFRS as
defined on page 113 that would be required under the version of
International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable in
Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards (AAS).
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial
statements,asitmostreliablyreflectstheGroup’sglobal
business performance.
(ii) Acquisitions (note 37)
The determination of the fair values of net identifiable assets acquired,
and of any goodwill, involves significant judgment. This is particularly the
case when the acquisition involves little or no cash, for example when the
Group gains control of a company in stages or by the issuance of shares.
The allocation of fair value between intangible assets, and the tangible
assets with which they are used, is also judgmental. The Group engages
third-party valuers to advise on the purchase price allocation for
significant acquisitions.
(iii) Impairment review of asset carrying values (notes 6, 12 and 13)
Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant
impairment charges or reversals of impairment.
Estimates in respect of the timing of project expansions and the cost to
complete asset construction are critical to determining the recoverable
amounts for cash-generating units.
Where the recoverable amounts of the Group’s cash-generating units are
assessed using analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting
valuations are also sensitive to changes in estimates of long-term
commodity prices, production timing and recovery rates, exchange rates,
operating costs, reserve estimates, closure costs and discount rates.
Note 6 outlines the significant judgments and assumptions made in
measuring the impairments recorded and notes 12 and 13 outline
judgments in relation to the testing of cash-generating units containing
goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets respectively.
(iv) Estimation of asset lives and determination of ore reserve and
mineral resource estimates
Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on
an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to
the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for
the Group. The factors considered in making this judgment include the
existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms; or evidence that
renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can
be expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Group’s
investment intentions.
Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on
information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance
withtheJORCcode(seenote1(j)).TheamountspresentedunderIFRS
and AAS are based on the ore reserves, and in some cases mineral
resources, determined under the JORC code.
The estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources requires
judgment to interpret available geological data and then to select an
appropriate mining method and establish an extraction schedule. It
also requires assumptions about future commodity prices, exchange
rates, production costs, recovery rates and discount rates and, in some
instances, the renewal of mining licences. There are many uncertainties
in the estimation process and assumptions that are valid at the time
of estimation may change significantly when new information
becomes available.
New geological data, as well as changes in assumptions, may change ore
reserve and mineral resource estimates and may ultimately result in
theirrestatement.Changesinorereservesand,insomecases,mineral
resources, could have an impact on: depreciation and amortisation rates;
thecarryingvaluesofintangibleassetsandproperty,plantand
equipment; deferred stripping calculations; provisions for close-down
and restoration costs; and the recovery of deferred tax assets.
122 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report (v) Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations (note 26)
Provision is made for close-down, restoration and environmental costs
when the obligation occurs, based on the net present value of estimated
future costs with, where appropriate, probability weighting of the
different remediation and closure scenarios. The ultimate cost of close-
down and restoration is uncertain, and management uses its judgment
and experience to provide for these costs over the life of the operations.
Cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including: changes
to the relevant legal or local/national government ownership
requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders; review
of remediation and relinquishment options; the emergence of new
restoration techniques and the effects of inflation. Experience gained at
other mine or production sites is also a significant consideration,
although elements of the restoration and rehabilitation of each site are
relatively unique to the site and, in some cases, there may be relatively
limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical precedent
against which to benchmark cost estimates. External experts support the
cost estimation process where appropriate.
Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation and
generally must comply with the Group’s Capital Project Framework once
the operation is ten years from expected closure. The expected timing of
expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in
response to changes to expectations relating to ore reserves and mineral
resources, production rates, operating licences or economic conditions.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an
extended period of time depending on the specific site requirements.
Some expenditure can continue into perpetuity. In such cases, the
provision for these ongoing costs may be restricted to a period for which
the costs can be reliably estimated.
Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect. The selection
of appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free
discount rate used for such close-down, restoration and environmental
obligations requires judgment.
As a result of all of the above factors, there could be significant
adjustments to the provision for close-down, restoration and
environmental costs which would affect future financial results. Increases
and decreases in environmental obligations and increases in close-down
and restoration provisons for closed operations are charged or credited
directly to the income statement. Increases and decreases in close-down
obligations for operating businesses are accounted for as indicated in note
1(k) above. An increase in capitalised close-down and restoration
provisions would increase the unwind of the discount (as for all provisions)
and depreciation charges in the income statement in future years and
increase the carrying value of property, plant and equipment, potentially
impacting any future impairment charges or reversals.
(vi) Deferral of stripping costs (note 14)
Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production
phase of a surface mine or pit. The identification of components within a
mine and of life of component strip ratios is dependent on an individual
mine’s design. Changes to that design may introduce new components
and/or change the life of component strip ratios. Changes in other
technical or economic parameters that impact ore reserves may also
have an impact on the life of component strip ratios, even if they do not
affect the mine’s design. Changes to the life of component strip ratios,
are accounted for prospectively.
The Group’s judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered
separate or integrated operations determines whether initial stripping of
a pit is deemed to be pre-production or production phase stripping and,
therefore, the amortisation base for those costs. The judgment depends
on each mine’s specific circumstances and the analysis requires
judgment: another mining company could make a different judgment
even where the fact pattern appears to be similar.
(vii) Recognition of deferred tax liabilities on mining rights recognised in
acquisitions
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on
acquisitions. These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining
rightsthat,ingeneral,arenoteligibleforincometaxallowances.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying
value of the asset and its income tax base (which may be nil). Even
where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital
gains tax purposes is not usually taken into account in determining the
deferred tax liability for the assets, unless they are classified as held for
sale, because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered
primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal. For
acquisitions after 1 January 2004, such a deferred tax liability on
acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts attributed
to goodwill. For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, such deferred tax
was recognised in equity on transition to IFRS.
(viii) Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and development
costs prior to the decision to mine/construct (note 13)
Under the Group’s accounting policy, exploration expenditure is not
capitalised. Evaluation expenditure is capitalised when there is a high
degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is
commercially viable and it is therefore considered probable that future
economic benefits will flow to the Group.
A project’s commercial viability is determined based on whether it will
provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks. Once
commercial viability has been established, the Group will decide, at the
appropriate authorisation level (that is, the Rio Tinto Investment
Committee, and the board where appropriate) whether the project
should proceed. In determining whether to approve a mining project, the
Investment Committee reviews the ore reserves estimate together with
analyses of the net present value of the project and sensitivity analyses
for the key assumptions.
There are occasions when the Group concludes that the asset
recognition criteria are met at an earlier stage than approval to proceed
is granted. In these cases, evaluation expenditure is capitalised if there is
a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine the project is
commercially viable. The Group’s view is that a high degree of confidence
is greater than “more likely than not” (that is, greater than 50 per cent
certainty) and less than “virtually certain” (that is, less than 90 per cent
certainty). Determining whether there is a high degree of confidence that
the Group will determine that an evaluation project is commercially
viable requires a significant degree of judgment and assessment of all
relevant factors such as the nature and objective of the project; the
project’s current stage; project timeline; current estimates of the
project’s net present value, including sensitivity analyses for the key
assumptions; and the main risks of the project. Development
expenditure incurred prior to the decision to proceed is subject to the
same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of confidence that
the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable.
In accordance with IFRS 6 “Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral
Resources”, the criteria for the capitalisation of evaluation costs are
applied consistently from period to period.
Subsequent recovery of the carrying value for evaluation costs depends
on successful development, sale or other partnering arrangements of the
undeveloped project. If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable
costs associated with the project net of any related impairment
provisions are charged to the income statement.
(ix) Identification of functional currencies
The functional currency for each subsidiary, joint operation and equity
accounted unit, is the currency of the primary economic environment in
which it operates. Determination of functional currency involves
significant judgment and other companies may make different
judgments based on similar facts. For many of Rio Tinto’s businesses,
their functional currency is the currency of the country in which they
operate. The Group reconsiders the functional currency of its businesses
if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events or conditions
which determine their primary economic environment.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 123
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of
non-current assets included in the balance sheet and, as a consequence,
the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement. It
also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income
statement and in equity.
(x) Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs (note 45)
The value of the Group’s obligations for post-retirement benefits is
dependent on the amount of benefits to be paid out and is discounted to
the balance sheet date. This amount will vary depending on the
assumptionsmadeaboutthefuturepayincreasesreceivedbymembers
of final pay plans, the level of inflation (for those benefits that are subject
to some form of inflation protection), the number of individuals and how
long individuals live in retirement. Most of the Group’s defined benefit
pension plans are closed to new entrants and the majority of the
obligations relate to former employees. As a consequence, the carrying
valueoftheGroup’spost-retirementobligationsislesssensitiveto
assumptions about future salary increases than it is to assumptions
regarding future inflation. The assumption regarding future inflation is
based on market yields on inflation-linked instruments where possible,
combined with consensus views on future inflation, and is derived using
the same process at each reporting date. Changes to the assumption
therefore reflect changes to the market and consensus views of future
inflation.
The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major
pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current
mortality assumptions. It also allows for future improvements in
mortality having regard to standard improvement scales in each relevant
country.
The discount rate used to value post-retirement obligations is based
upontheyieldsonhighqualitycorporatebondsintherelevantcurrency
and which have durations consistent with the nature of the obligations.
The discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with
movements in corporate bond yields, but at any given measurement date
thereisrelativelylittleestimationuncertainty.Thisrateisalsousedto
calculate the interest cost on obligations and interest income on plan
assets.
Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous
balance sheet date and the sensitivity of the carrying value to changes in
the assumptions are set out in note 45.
For 2015, the charge against income for post-retirement benefits net of
tax and non-controlling interests was US$266 million. This charge
included both pension and post-retirement healthcare benefits. The
charge is net of interest income of US$371 million after tax and non-
controlling interests.
The weighted average future increase in compensation levels was
assumed to be 3.3 per cent in 2015 and will be 3.2 per cent for 2016.
The average discount rate used was 3.5 per cent in 2015 and will be
3.7 per cent in 2016 reflecting the net impact of changes in corporate
bond yields in the currencies in which the Group has pension obligations.
Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other
expected circumstances, the expected impact of post-retirement costs
on the Group’s net earnings in 2016 would be US$95 million more than
in 2015. The actual charge may be impacted by other factors that cannot
be predicted, such as the effect of changes in benefits, number of
employees and exchange rates.
ThetablebelowsetsoutthepotentialchangeintheGroup’s2015net
loss (after tax and non-controlling interests) that would result from
hypothetical changes to post-retirement assumptions and estimates.
The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation, although a
change in one assumption is likely to result in some offset elsewhere.
The figures in the table only show the impact on underlying and net
earnings. Changing the assumptions would also have an impact on the
balance sheet, and this is shown in note 45.
US$ million
Sensitivity of the Group’s 2015 underlying earnings
and net losses to changes in:
Discount rate
Increase of 0.5 percentage points 36
Decrease of 0.5 percentage points (31)
Inflation
Increase of 0.5 percentage points (24)
Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 23
Salary increases
Increase of 0.5 percentage points (7)
Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 6
Demographic – allowance for additional future
mortality improvements
Participants assumed to have the mortality rates of
individuals who are one year older 15
Participants assumed to have the mortality rates of
individuals who are one year younger (15)
(xi) Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets (note 17)
The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences,
mainly in Australian, Canadian, French, UK, and US taxable entities that
have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years. Deferred tax
assets have been recognised to the extent that their recovery is
probable, having regard to the availability of sufficient taxable temporary
differences relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable
entity, the projected future taxable income of these taxable entities and
after taking account of specific risk factors that are expected to affect the
recovery of these assets.
(xii) Contingencies (note 31)
Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility
of any loss arising is considered remote.
(xiii) Basis of consolidation (notes 33 to 36)
Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether the Group has
control, joint control or significant influence over an entity.
124 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 2 Operating segments
Gross sales revenue
(a)
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Iron Ore 15,305 23,281 25,994
Aluminium 10,117 12,123 12,463
Copper & Coal 7,705 9,957 10,434
Diamonds & Minerals 3,674 4,783 5,129
Other Operations 13 241 1,761
Reportable segments total 36,814 50,385 55,781
Inter-segment transactions (29) (344) (1,182)
Product group total 36,785 50,041 54,599
Items excluded from underlying earnings (1) – (24)
Gross sales revenue 36,784 50,041 54,575
Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for inter-subsidiary/equity accounted units sales (1,955) (2,377) (3,404)
Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 34,829 47,664 51,171
Depreciation and amortisation
(b)
Iron Ore 1,906 1,953 1,627
Aluminium 1,172 1,180 1,151
Copper & Coal 1,441 1,464 1,476
Diamonds & Minerals 488 619 765
Other Operations 32 34 67
Reportable segments total 5,039 5,250 5,086
Other items 68 82 106
Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units (462) (472) (401)
Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 4,645 4,860 4,791
Underlying earnings
(c)
Iron Ore 3,952 8,107 9,858
Aluminium 1,118 1,248 557
Copper & Coal 274 831 965
Diamonds & Minerals 189 269 237
Other Operations (88) (240) (279)
Reportable segments total 5,445 10,215 11,338
Inter-segment transactions – –(4)
Other items (375) (593) (730)
Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups (141) (156) (145)
Net finance costs (389) (161) (242)
Underlying earnings 4,540 9,305 10,217
Items excluded from underlying earnings
(d)
(5,406) (2,778) (6,552)
Net (loss)/earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement (866) 6,527 3,665
Tax charge
Iron Ore 1,757 3,698 5,290
Aluminium 303 303 (18)
Copper & Coal (96) 98 296
Diamonds & Minerals 131 135 131
Other Operations (73) (135) (229)
Reportable segments total 2,022 4,099 5,470
Other items (192) (193) (302)
Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups (25) (34) (23)
Net finance costs (245) (396) (77)
1,560 3,476 5,068
Tax credit excluded from underlying earnings
(d)
(567) (423) (2,642)
Tax charge per income statement 993 3,053 2,426
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 125
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
2 Operating segments continued
Capital expenditure
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Iron Ore 1,726 4,211 6,814
Aluminium 1,682 2,021 2,226
Copper & Coal 1,564 2,128 3,392
Diamonds & Minerals 446 562 1,162
Other Operations (36) (56) 278
Reportable segments total 5,382 8,866 13,872
Other items 65 (416) 145
Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units (859) (1,032) (1,073)
Capital expenditure per financial information by business units 4,588 7,418 12,944
Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 97 744 57
Capital expenditure per cash flow statement 4,685 8,162 13,001
Rio Tinto’s management structure is based on the principal product
groups in the table above together with the global functions that support
the business. The chief executive of each product group reports to the
chief executive of Rio Tinto. The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the
performance of each product group based on a number of measures,
including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with underlying
earnings being the key financial performance indicator. Finance costs
and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
In 2015 the Energy product group as presented in previous periods was
split, with the coal assets taken to the newly formed Copper & Coal
product group and the uranium assets to the Diamonds & Minerals
product group.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their
primary product. The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes
businesses with products such as uranium, borates, salt and titanium
dioxide feedstock together with diamond operations and the Simandou
ironoreproject,whichistheresponsibilityoftheDiamonds&Minerals
product group chief executive. The Copper & Coal group includes certain
gold operations in addition to copper and coal.
The financial information by business unit provided on page 194 of these
financial statements provides additional voluntary disclosure which the
Group considers useful to the users of the financial statements.
(a) Gross sales revenue
Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units
(after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries) of US$2,115 million
(2014: US$2,533 million, 2013: US$3,757 million) which are not included
in consolidated sales revenue. Consolidated sales revenue includes
subsidiary sales of US$160 million (2014: US$156 million, 2013:
US$353 million) to equity accounted units which are not included in
gross sales revenue.
(b) Depreciation and amortisation
Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent
of subsidiaries’ depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tinto’s
share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units. Rio
Tinto’s share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity
accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation,
excluding equity accounted units, as shown in note 4. These figures
exclude impairment charges and reversals, which are excluded from
underlying earnings.
(c) Underlying earnings
Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater
understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations
and to enhance comparability of reporting periods.
The measure of underlying earnings is used by the chief executive of
Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups. Underlying
earnings and net (loss)/earnings both represent amounts net of tax
attributable to owners of Rio Tinto. The following items are excluded
from net (loss)/earnings in arriving at underlying earnings in each period
irrespective of materiality:
– Net (losses)/gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in
businesses.
– Impairment charges and reversals.
– Profit/(loss) after tax from discontinued operations.
– Exchange and derivative gains and losses. This exclusion includes
exchange gains/(losses) on US dollar net debt and intragroup
balances, gains/(losses) on currency and interest rate derivatives not
qualifying for hedge accounting and gains/(losses) on commodity
derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
In addition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where
applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate if
ofasimilartype,areofanatureorsizetorequireexclusioninorderto
provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity
accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of
discount.
Rio Tinto’s share of the underlying profits of equity accounted units
amount to US$390 million in 2015 (2014: US$626 million, 2013:
US$710 million). This amount is attributable as follows: US$307 million
profit to the Copper & Coal product group and US$83 million profit to
other product groups (2014: US$551 million profit attributable to the
Copper & Coal product group and US$75 million profit to other product
groups; 2013: US$705 million profit attributable to the Copper & Coal
product group and US$5 million to other product groups). These
amounts are included in underlying earnings of the relevant product
groups and include the underlying earnings of the Group’s tolling entities
which process alumina. Tolling entities recharge the majority of their
costs and generally have minimal earnings.
The Copper & Coal product group’s underlying earnings in 2013 included
a US$131 million impairment after tax in relation to the product group’s
investment in Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd following a strategic review
of this shareholding by the product group.
126 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report (d) Reconciliation of net (losses)/earnings to underlying earnings
Exclusions from underlying earnings
Pre-tax
(m)
2015
US$m
Taxation
2015
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
2015
US$m
Net
amount
2015
US$m
Net
amount
2014
US$m
Net
amount
2013
US$m
Impairment charges net of reversals (note 6) (2,791) (57) 1,046 (1,802) (138) (3,428)
Net gains/(losses) on consolidation and disposal of interests in
businesses
(e)
64 (2) (14) 48 (349) 847
Exchange and derivative (losses)/gains:
– Exchange losses on US dollar net debt andintragroup balances
(f)
(3,518) 269 (33) (3,282) (1,858) (2,929)
– (Losses)/gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying
for hedge accounting
(g)
(86) (1) (1) (88) (22) 2
– Gains on commodity derivatives notqualifying for hedge accounting
(h)
146 (58) – 88 30 196
Restructuring costs including global headcount reductions (344) 86 – (258) (82) (367)
Increased closure provision for legacy operations (262) 29 – (233) ––
Recognition of deferred tax assets relating to planned divestments – 250 (16) 234 ––
Write off of deferred tax asset following the MRRT repeal –– – – (362) –
Gain on disposal of the Group’s St James’s Square properties –– – – 356 –
Clermont/Blair Athol
(i)
–– – – – (173)
Deferred tax asset write off –– – – – (114)
Rio Tinto Kennecott
(j)
21 (3) – 18 – (283)
Simandou and QMM IFRS 2 charge
(k)
(11) – – (11) (116) –
Other exclusions
(l)
(179) 54 5 (120) (237) (303)
Total excluded from underlying earnings (6,960) 567 987 (5,406) (2,778) (6,552)
Net (loss)/earnings (726) (993) 853 (866) 6,527 3,665
Underlying earnings 6,234 (1,560) (134) 4,540 9,305 10,217
(e) Pre-tax gain of US$64 million arose mainly from the reduction in shareholding in SouthGobi Resources, the sale of the Group’s interest in Murowa Diamonds and
Sengwa Colliery on the 17 June 2015 and from the Aluminium product group’s divestment of ECL on 9 July 2015 and Alsea on 24 November 2015.
Net loss on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses during 2014 mainly related to further adjustments in respect of contractual obligations for
product sales and delivery which remain with the Group following the sale of the Group’s interest in the Clermont mine on 29 May 2014, the disposal of the
Group’s interest in Rio Tinto Mozambique on 7 October 2014 and indemnities provided in respect of prior disposals.
(f) Net exchange losses in 2015 comprise post-tax foreign exchange losses of US$1,197 million on US dollar denominated net debt in non-US dollar functional
currency companies (on borrowings of approximately US$23.1 billion), and US$2,085 million losses on intragroup balances, as the Australian dollar, Canadian
dollar and the euro all weakened against the US dollar.
In late 2015 the Group restructured certain internal group borrowings to reduce the income statement volatility resulting from the retranslation of US dollar
denominated debt issued by entities with a non-US dollar functional currency.
(g) Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives, which are ineligible for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts, and
the currency revaluation of embedded US dollar derivatives contained in contracts held by entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
(h) Valuation changes on commodity derivatives, including those embedded in commercial contracts, that are ineligible for hedge accounting, but for which there
will be an offsetting change in future Group earnings.
(i) Adjustments in relation to Clermont and Blair Athol arose in 2013 following reclassification to disposal groups held for sale, and reflect contractual obligations
for product sales and funding of closure activities, which will remain with the Group following completion of the divestments.
(j) On 10 April 2013, Rio Tinto Kennecott’s Bingham Canyon mine experienced a slide along a geological fault line of its north-eastern wall. Charges relating to the
slide, which have been excluded from underlying earnings, primarily comprise the write off of certain deferred stripping assets and damaged equipment. In
2015, adjustments for settlement of insurance claims have been made to the amount excluded from underlying earnings, and will continue as insurance claims
are settled.
(k) In 2015, the charge of US$11 million (after non-controlling interests and tax), calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”, reflects the
recapitalisation of QIT Madagascar Minerals S.A. In 2014, the charge of US$116 million (after non-controlling interests and tax), calculated in accordance with
IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”, reflects the discount to an estimate of fair value at which shares are transferrable to the Government of Guinea under the
Simandou project Investment Framework ratified on 26 May 2014.
(l) Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into
underlying business performance. In 2015, other exclusions included a provision relating to the uncompleted divestment of Carbone Savoie within the Rio Tinto
Aluminium product group, divestment costs and an increase in provision relating to the Gove refinery. In 2014, other exclusions included adjustments relating to
the five-year community support package for the Nhulunbuy area and community following the Gove refinery curtailment. In 2013, other exclusions included
adjustments relating to inventory sold by Richards Bay Minerals during the period, which had been recognised at fair value on initial consolidation in 2012.
(m)Exclusions from underlying earnings relating to equity accounted units are stated after tax and are included in the column “Pre-tax”.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 127
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
3 Operating segments – additional information
Consolidated sales revenue by destination
(a)
2015
%
2014
(b)
%
2013
(b)
%
2015
US$m
2014
(b)
US$m
2013
(b)
US$m
China 41.8 38.3 36.3 14,558 18,247 18,590
United States of America 15.2 13.2 13.4 5,292 6,279 6,865
Other Asia 13.5 15.1 15.7 4,695 7,221 8,011
Japan 11.2 15.6 16.3 3,907 7,447 8,355
Europe (excluding UK) 8.0 8.7 9.6 2,783 4,142 4,901
Canada 4.3 3.6 3.1 1,488 1,715 1,578
Australia 2.5 2.0 1.8 867 976 942
UK 1.0 1.0 1.0 339 464 503
Other 2.5 2.5 2.8 900 1,173 1,426
Consolidated sales revenue 100.0 100.0 100.0 34,829 47,664 51,171
(a) Consolidated sales revenue by geographical destination is based on the ultimate country of destination of the product, if known. If the eventual destination of
the product sold through traders is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are
transferred. Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the UK and Australia.
(b) 2014 and 2013 comparative figures are adjusted to conform with the 2015 presentation of consolidated sales revenue.
Gross sales revenue by product
Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Iron Ore 15,239 23,178 26,235
Aluminium 9,904 11,667 12,059
Copper 3,381 4,815 4,766
Coal 2,799 3,685 4,557
Industrial Minerals 2,155 3,238 3,330
Gold 1,093 1,007 402
Diamonds 698 901 859
Other 1,515 1,550 2,367
Total 36,784 50,041 54,575
Share of equity accounted units sales and inter-subsidiary equity accounted units sales and items excluded from
underlying earnings (1,955) (2,377) (3,404)
Consolidated sales revenue 34,829 47,664 51,171
Non-current assets other than excluded items
The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below. This is allocated based on the location of the business units
holding the assets.
Non-current assets other than excluded items
(b)
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Australia 32,615 38,162
Canada 14,396 17,065
Mongolia 7,712 7,842
United States of America 5,372 5,163
Africa 3,682 5,838
South America 3,639 3,552
Indonesia 1,385 1,116
Europe (excluding France and the UK) 451 460
UK 274 236
France 267 491
Other countries 895 1,417
70,688 81,342
Non-current assets excluded from analysis above:
Deferred tax assets 3,309 3,540
Accounts receivable 964 800
Derivatives and other financial assets (excluding tax recoverable) 788 722
Quasi equity loans to equity accounted units
(c)
183 228
Tax recoverable 78 70
Total non-current assets per balance sheet 76,010 86,702
(b) Allocation of non-current assets by country is based on the location of the business units holding the assets. It includes investments in equity accounted units
totalling US$4,758 million (2014: US$4,640 million) which represents the Group’s share of net assets excluding quasi equity loans shown separately within
“Loans to equity accounted units” above.
(c) Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$183 million (2014: US$228 million) included in “Investments in equity accounted units” on
the face of the balance sheet and non-current non-quasi equity loans of US$nil (2014: US$nil) shown within “Other financial assets”.
128 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 4 Net operating costs
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Raw materials, consumables, repairs and maintenance 9,610 11,044 11,164
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 207 237 255
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,438 4,623 4,536
Employment costs 5 5,446 6,659 7,568
Shipping and other freight costs 2,165 3,370 3,513
Decrease in finished goods and work in progress 701 1,284 199
Royalties 1,863 2,516 2,883
Amounts charged by equity accounted units
(a)
459 1,554 1,728
Net foreign exchange (losses)/gains (263) (34) (71)
Other external costs 4,181 3,074 4,025
Provisions (including exchange differences on provisions) 26 731 1,138 1,449
Research and development 104 112 231
Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation (661) (738) (582)
Other operating income (1,062) (929) (794)
Net operating costs (excluding items shown separately) 27,919 33,910 36,104
(a) Amounts charged by equity accounted units relate to toll processing and also include purchases from equity accounted units of bauxite and aluminium which
are then processed by the product group or sold to third parties. Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Group’s share of the equity accounted unit but in
2015, US$378 million (2014: US$463 million; 2013: US$529 million) related to purchases of the other investor’s share of production.
5 Employment costs
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Total employment costs
– Wages and salaries 4,670 5,878 7,181
– Social security costs 430 467 421
– Net post-retirement charge 45 439 590 805
– Share option charge 44 128 152 142
5,667 7,087 8,549
Less: charged within provisions (221) (428) (981)
Employment costs 4 5,446 6,659 7,568
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 129
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
6 Impairment charges and reversals
Pre-tax
2015
US$m
Taxation
2015
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
2015
US$m
Net
amount
2015
US$m
Pre-tax
amount
2014
US$m
Pre-tax
amount
2013
US$m
Diamonds & Minerals – Simandou (2,039) – 921 (1,118) ––
Diamonds & Minerals – Energy Resources of Australia Ltd (260) (123) 121 (262) ––
Diamonds & Minerals – Roughrider (229) 30 – (199) ––
Aluminium – Other (179) 20 – (159) (46) (57)
Aluminium – Kitimat –– – – (1,092) (950)
Aluminium – Pacific Aluminium –– – – 1,224 –
Copper & Coal – Molybdenum Autoclave Process (17) 6 – (11) (559) –
Copper & Coal – Oyu Tolgoi –– – – – (4,716)
Copper & Coal – SouthGobi –– – – – (269)
Copper & Coal – Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique –– – – – (497)
Other (67) 10 4 (53) – (1,042)
Total impairment charge net of reversals (2,791) (57) 1,046 (1,802) (473) (7,531)
Allocated as:
Goodwill (note 12) (116) – (1,149)
Intangible assets (note 13) (1,833) – (1,287)
Property, plant and equipment (note 14) (652) (1,034) (4,882)
Investment in equity accounted units – 589 (216)
Other assets and liabilities (190) (28) 3
Total impairment charge net of reversals (2,791) (473) (7,531)
Comprising:
Impairment charges net of reversals of consolidated balances (2,791) (1,062) (7,315)
Impairment reversals/(charges) of investments in equity
accounted units (pre-tax) – 841 (230)
Total impairment charge net of reversals in the financial
information by business unit (page 195) (2,791) (221) (7,545)
Taxation (including related to EAUs) (57) 83 1,561
Non-controlling interests 1,046 – 2,556
Total impairment in the income statement (1,802) (138) (3,428)
Diamonds & Minerals
Simandou, Guinea
On 26 May 2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project partners signed an
Investment Framework with the Government of Guinea which provided
the legal and commercial foundation for the project and formally
separated the infrastructure and mine development plan. The Simandou
project partners are currently finalising an integrated Bankable
Feasibility Study for the mine, port and infrastructure elements of the
project, which is scheduled to be submitted to the Government of Guinea
in May 2016.
As a result of current market conditions and uncertainty over
infrastructure ownership and funding, the Group has determined that it
would be appropriate to record a pre-tax impairment charge of
US$1,655 million to exploration and evaluation intangible assets and a
pre-tax impairment charge of US$194 million to property, plant and
equipment to fully write-down the long-term assets of the project and a
charge of US$7 million in relation to inventories. The Group will expense
the cost of further studies as incurred.
A further pre-tax charge of US$183 million has been recognised as a
financial liability for contractual arrangements made in relation to the
development of the Simandou project.
Energy Resources of Australia Ltd (ERA), Australia
On 11 June 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it supported ERA’s decision
not to proceed with the final Feasibility Study of the Ranger 3 Deeps
project. Rio Tinto also determined it did not support any further study or
future development of Ranger 3 Deeps due to the project’s economic
challenges. This resulted in a pre-tax write down to property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets of US$260 million to fully write off
these long-term assets. Deferred tax assets of US$123 million were also
fully written off. The business continues to process low-grade ore
stockpiled from the now closed open-pit operations.
Roughrider, Canada
The Group completed an Order of Magnitude study for the Roughrider
project in late 2015, which provided an updated view of the development
concept and geological model for this uranium project. The cash-
generating unit is tested annually for impairment as it contains goodwill.
The impairment test resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of
US$116 million to fully write off goodwill and a pre-tax impairment
charge of US$113 million to exploration and evaluation intangible
assets, which were capitalised as a result of the Hathor Exploration
acquisition in 2012.
The recoverable amount for Roughrider has been determined to be
US$250 million assessed by reference to a fair value less cost of disposal
(FVLCD) model in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1(i). The
recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit is classified as level 3
under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have
been estimated and discounted using a post-tax discount rate of
7.3 per cent. Technical oversight of the Roughrider project has
transitioned to Rio Tinto Exploration. The Group is continuing to evaluate
the optimum development pathway in light of a subdued medium-term
outlook for uranium demand.
130 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Aluminium
Other
In the six months to 30 June 2015 challenging economic conditions at
the Carbone Savoie cash-generating unit resulted in an US$147 million
impairment charge. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
were fully impaired on the basis of US$nil recoverable amount.
In 2015, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$32 million was recorded in
relation to other aluminium businesses which were subsequently
disposed of in the second half of the year.
In 2014, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$46 million was recorded in
relation to other aluminium businesses.
In 2013, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$57 million was recorded in
relation to the Shawinigan aluminium smelter following the decision to
close the plant.
Kitimat, Canada
During the first half of 2014, further revisions to future capital required to
complete the modernisation project resulted in a pre-tax impairment
charge of US$1,092 million to the property, plant and equipment of the
cash-generating unit. The recoverable amount was determined by
reference to a FVLCD model, in line with the accounting policy set out in
note 1(i).
In 2013, the annual impairment review of the Group’s Aluminium
cash-generating units with indefinite-life intangible assets resulted
in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$950 million in the Kitimat
cash-generating unit. The indefinite-life intangible assets relating to
water rights at Kitimat were fully impaired following the allocation of
this impairment loss.
Pacific Aluminium, Australia and New Zealand
Impairment reversal was recorded in 2014 in relation to the Tomago,
Bell Bay and Boyne smelters, and the Gladstone Power Station, within
the Pacific Aluminium cash-generating unit as evidence emerged
that previously recognised impairment losses from 2011 and 2012
had reversed.
Copper & Coal
Molybdenum Autoclave Process, US
In 2015, previously estimated net disposal proceeds for the
Molybdenum Autoclave Process project were reduced resulting
in a pre-tax impairment of US$17 million recorded against property,
plant and equipment. In 2014, following a review of the investment
case and subsequent decision to terminate the project, a pre-tax
impairment charge of US$559 million was recorded against property,
plant and equipment.
Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia
In May 2015, the Oyu Tolgoi Underground Mine Development and
Financing Plan was signed, resolving the outstanding shareholder issues
and demonstrating a commitment to develop the underground mine by
all key stakeholders. In December 2015, a project financing package was
agreed which confirms the sources of funding, pricing and leverage
parameters for the project.
As part of the annual impairment review at 30 September 2015, the
carrying value of the project was compared with a post-tax FVLCD model
of cash flows from the open pit and underground mines. The value
indicated by the FVLCD model for Oyu Tolgoi exceeded the carrying
value of the cash-generating unit by US$0.3 billion at 30 September
2015. As such, no impairment charge has been recognised (2014: no
impairment charge). No impairment indicators were identified
subsequent to the annual testing date.
The assumptions subject to the most estimation uncertainty for the
FVLCD calculation are the long-term copper price and the discount rate.
To illustrate these sensitivities on the downside, the valuation indicated
by the FVLCD modelling would reduce by US$0.8 billion if long-term
copper prices were lower than forecast by 15 US cents per pound.
Alternatively an increase in the project discount rate of one per cent
would reduce the indicated FVLCD by US$1.4 billion if all other model
inputs remained the same. In the absence of mitigating actions being
taken by management, these scenarios would indicate a material
impairment loss had occurred.
Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Oyu Tolgoi
is most sensitive are operating costs, the long-term gold price, and
Mongolian tugrik and Chinese yuan exchange rates against the US dollar.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line
with the policy set out in note 1(i).
SouthGobi, Mongolia
The assets of SouthGobi were fully written-off as a result of the 2013
impairment testing.
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
In 2013, a pre-tax impairment charge was allocated to the Benga and
Zambeze cash-generating units which formed Rio Tinto Coal
Mozambique. The business was subsequently disposed of during 2014.
Other
In 2013, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$790 million was recorded in
relation to the full write off of property, plant and equipment at the Gove
alumina refinery following the decision to curtail operations. The refinery
is reported separately from Aluminium within Other Operations.
7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Sales revenue: Rio Tinto share
(a)
2,149 2,852 4,113
Operating costs (1,609) (1,804) (2,871)
Profit before finance items and taxation 540 1,048 1,242
Finance items (37) (49) (97)
Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 35 30 31
Profit before taxation 538 1,029 1,176
Taxation (177) (404) (478)
Profit for the year (Rio Tinto share) 361 625 698
(a) Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes sales by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
Further information relating to the Group’s interests in joint ventures and associates is given in notes 35 and 36.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 131
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
8 Finance income and finance costs
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Finance income from equity accounted units (Rio Tinto share) 8 10 14
Other finance income (including bank deposits and other financial assets) 44 54 68
Total finance income 52 64 82
Interest payable and similar charges
(a)
(1,004) (1,119) (1,234)
Amounts capitalised 14 254 470 727
Total finance costs (750) (649) (507)
(a) Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings. This includes a fair value loss on interest rate swaps designated as
fair value hedges of US$11 million (2014: US$199 million gain; 2013: US$266 million loss) and a fair value loss on bonds and notes attributable to interest rate
risk of US$17 million (2014: US$200 million loss; 2013: US$257 million gain).
9 Taxation
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Taxation charge
– Current 1,132 3,402 4,102
– Deferred 17 (139) (349) (1,676)
993 3,053 2,426
Prima facie tax reconciliation
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
(Loss)/profit before taxation (726) 9,552 3,505
Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units (361) (625) (698)
(Deduct)/add: (impairment reversal)/impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units
(a)
– (589) 216
Parent companies’ and subsidiaries’ (loss)/profit before tax (1,087) 8,338 3,023
Prima facie tax (receivable)/payable at UK rate of 20 per cent (2014: 21 per cent; 2013: 23 per cent) (217) 1,751 695
Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings 506 1,038 1,411
Impact of items excluded in arriving at underlying earnings
(b)
:
Impairment charges net of reversals 615 (112) 135
Gains and losses on disposal and consolidation of businesses (11) (85) (199)
Foreign exchange on excluded finance items 481 231 77
Recognition of deferred tax assets relating to planned divestments (250) ––
Impact of tax law changes on recognition of deferred tax assets
(c)
– 401 –
Other exclusions (17) (35) (7)
Impact of changes in tax rates and laws (3) (11) 12
Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia (68) 5 (63)
Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances (15) (121) (103)
Research, development and other investment allowances (21) (34) (49)
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (40) (106) –
Unrecognised current year operating losses 45 73 339
Other items
(d)
(12) 58 178
Total taxation charge
(e)
993 3,053 2,426
(a) For the year ended 31 December 2014, the impairment reversal in investments in equity accounted units is net of a tax charge of US$252 million (31 December
2013: tax credit of US$14 million).
(b) The impact for each item includes the effect of tax rates applicable outside the UK.
(c) For the year ended 31 December 2014, the remaining Minerals Resource Rent Tax (MRRT) starting base deferred tax asset was de-recognised on repeal of the
tax in Australia.
(d) Other items include various adjustments to provisions for taxation in prior periods.
(e) This tax reconciliation relates to the Group’s parent companies, subsidiaries and joint operations. The Group’s share of profit of equity accounted units is net of
tax charges of US$177 million (31 December 2014: US$404 million; 31 December 2013: US$478 million).
132 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 2015
Total
US$m
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
Tax on exchange adjustments – (3) (17)
Tax on fair value movements:
– Cash flow hedge fair value (gains)/losses (3) 2 (34)
–Cashflowhedgegainstransferredtotheincomestatement – –19
– Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities – 12
– Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement – (1) (20)
Tax (charge)/credit on actuarial (gains)/losses on post-retirement benefit plans (175) 215 (641)
Other – (8) (6)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year
(a)
(178) 206 (697)
(a) This comprises deferred tax charge of US$174 million (2014: credit of US$205 million; 2013: charge of US$697 million) and current tax charge of US$4 million
(2014: credit of US$1 million; 2013: US$nil), plus share of tax on other comprehensive income of equity accounted units shown separately (see note 17).
10 (Loss)/earnings per ordinary share
2015
Loss
US$m
2015
Weighted
average
number of
shares
(millions)
2015
Per share
amount
(cents)
2014
Earnings
US$m
2014
Weighted
average
number of
shares
(millions)
2014
Per share
amount
(cents)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share attributable to ordinary
shareholders of Rio Tinto
(a)
(866) 1,824.7 (47.5) 6,527 1,848.4 353.1
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share attributable to ordinary
shareholders of Rio Tinto
(b)
(866) 1,824.7 (47.5) 6,527 1,858.7 351.2
2013
Earnings
US$m
2013
Weighted
average
number of
shares
(millions)
2013
Per share
amount
(cents)
Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto
(a)
3,665 1,847.3 198.4
Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto
(b)
3,665 1,857.7 197.3
(a) The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,398.1 million
(2014: 1,413.0 million; 2013: 1,411.6 million) plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding of 426.6 million (2014: 435.4 million; 2013:
435.7 million) over the relevant period. No Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc in any of the periods presented.
(b) In accordance with IAS 33 “Earnings per share”, for the purposes of calculating diluted loss per share, the effect of potentially dilutive securities has not been
taken into account for the year ended 31 December 2015. For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of
10.3 million shares in 2014 and 10.4 million shares in 2013 is added to the weighted average number of shares described in (a) above. This effect is calculated
under the treasury stock method. The Group’s only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are described in note 44.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 133
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
11 Dividends
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,642 1,533 1,311
Rio Tinto plc interim dividend paid 1,476 1,299 1,213
Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 520 473 406
Rio Tinto Limited interim dividend paid 438 405 392
Dividends paid during the year 4,076 3,710 3,322
Dividends per share: paid during the year 226.5c 204.5c 178.0c
Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 107.5c 119.0c 108.5c
Dividends
per share
2015
Dividends
per share
2014
Dividends
per share
2013
Rio Tinto plc previous year final (pence) 77.98p 65.82p 60.34p
Rio Tinto plc interim (pence) 68.92p 56.90p 54.28p
Rio Tinto Limited previous year final – fully franked at 30% (Australian cents) 152.98c 120.14c 91.67c
Rio Tinto Limited interim – fully franked at 30% (Australian cents) 144.91c 103.09c 93.00c
Number
of shares
2015
(millions)
Number
of shares
2014
(millions)
Number
of shares
2013
(millions)
Rio Tinto plc previous year final 1,412.7 1,413.2 1,411.9
Rio Tinto plc interim 1,395.2 1,413.8 1,412.5
Rio Tinto Limited previous year final 435.0 435.6 435.8
Rio Tinto Limited interim 423.7 435.7 435.5
The dividends paid in 2015 are based on the following US cents per share
amounts: 2014 final – 119.0 cents, 2015 interim – 107.5 cents
(2014 dividends paid: 2013 final – 108.5 cents, 2014 interim – 96.0 cents;
2013 dividends paid: 2012 final – 94.5 cents, 2013 interim – 83.5 cents).
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based
excludes those held as treasury shares and those held by employee
share trusts which waived the right to dividends. Employee share trusts
waived dividends on 342,902 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 24,582
ADRs for the 2014 final dividend and on 237,266 Rio Tinto plc ordinary
shares and 27,050 ADRs for the 2015 interim dividend (2014: 207,766
RioTintoplcordinarysharesand3,353ADRsforthe2013finaldividend
and on 90,304 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 1,912 ADRs for the
2014 interim dividend; 2013: 150,361 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and
nil ADRs for the 2012 final dividend and 124,636 Rio Tinto plc ordinary
shares and 7,303 ADRs for the 2013 interim dividend). In 2015, 2014
and 2013, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based
excludes those held by shareholders who have waived the rights to
dividends. Employee share trusts waived dividends on 727,676 Rio Tinto
Limited shares for the 2014 final dividend and on 474,665 Rio Tinto
Limited shares for the 2015 interim dividend (2014: Dividend waivers
applied to 183,981 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2013 final dividend
and on 24,046 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2014 interim dividend;
2013: There were no applicable waivers in respect of Rio Tinto Limited
shares for the 2012 final dividend. Dividend waivers applied to 222,439
Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2013 interim dividend).
In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of
107.5 cents per share on 11 February 2016. This is expected to result in
payments of US$1,931 million (Rio Tinto plc: US$1,475 million, Rio Tinto
Limited US$456 million). The dividends will be paid on 7 April 2016 to
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 26 February 2016.
TheproposedRioTintoLimiteddividendswillbefrankedoutofexisting
franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of
income tax during 2016.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax
group’s retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as
dividends and franked out of available credits that arose from net
payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2015
(after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2015 final
dividend declared), is US$10,899 million.
134 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 12 Goodwill
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 1,228 1,349
Adjustment on currency translation (220) (121)
Impairment charges
(a)
(116) –
At 31 December 892 1,228
–cost 17,120 20,122
– accumulated impairment (16,228) (18,894)
At 1 January
–cost 20,122 22,678
– accumulated impairment (18,894) (21,329)
At 31 December, goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Net book value
Richards Bay Minerals 439 591
Pilbara 363 409
Hathor
(a)
– 128
Other 90 100
892 1,228
(a) The impairment charge of US$116 million represents the full impairment of goodwill arising from the Hathor Exploration Limited (Hathor) acquisition, which
includes the Roughrider project. Refer to note 6 for further details.
Impairment tests for goodwill
Richards Bay Minerals
The Group consolidated Richards Bay Minerals on 3 September 2012.
Goodwill arose in accordance with the requirement in IFRS, as defined in
note 1, to recognise a deferred tax asset or liability on the difference
between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and
their tax base and is retranslated at each period end for changes in the
South African rand. The recognition of Richards Bay Minerals’ identifiable
assets and liabilities in the balance sheet was based on fair values at the
acquisition date determined with the assistance of an independent third
party valuer.
Richards Bay Minerals’ annual impairment review resulted in no
impairment charge for 2015 (2014: no impairment charge). The
recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to FVLCD, in line
with the policy set out in note 1(i) and classified as level 3 under the fair
value hierarchy. FVLCD was determined by estimating cash flows until
theendofthelife-of-mineplanincludinganticipatedexpansions.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 9.3 per cent
(2014: 9.2 per cent) has been applied to the post-tax cash flows
expressed in real terms.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Richards Bay
Minerals is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are
set out below:
US$ million
5% decrease in the titanium slag price 208
1% increase in the discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 264
10% strengthening of the South African rand 670
Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices and
operating costs. Future selling prices and operating costs have been
estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1(i). The recoverable
amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value for each
of these sensitivities applied in isolation.
Pilbara
The recoverability of goodwill arising from the acquisition of Robe River
and monitored at the Pilbara cash-generating unit level has been
assessed by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in
line with the policy set out in note 1(i) and is classified as level 3 under
the fair value hierarchy. In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of
7.3 per cent (2014: 7.2 per cent) has been applied to the post-tax cash
flows expressed in real terms. The recoverable amounts were
determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are
no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the
remaining goodwill to be impaired.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 135
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
13 Intangible assets
Year ended 31 December 2015
Exploration
and
evaluation
(a)
US$m
Trademarks,
patented and
non-patented
technology
US$m
Contract
based
intangible
assets
(b)
US$m
Other
intangible
assets
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2015 2,596 156 2,454 674 5,880
Adjustment on currency translation (134) (15) (393) (58) (600)
Expenditure during the year 152 – – 64 216
Amortisation for the year
(c)
– (15) (90) (102) (207)
Impairment charges
(d)
(1,773) (28) (30) (2) (1,833)
Disposals, transfers and other movements
(e)
(135) (4) 197 (178) (120)
At 31 December 2015 706 94 2,138 398 3,336
–cost 2,585 208 3,829 1,252 7,874
– accumulated amortisation and impairment (1,879) (114) (1,691) (854) (4,538)
Year ended 31 December 2014
Exploration
and
evaluation
(a)
US$m
Trademarks,
patented and
non-patented
technology
US$m
Contract
based
intangible
assets
(b)
US$m
Other
intangible
assets
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 1,854 198 2,831 538 5,421
Adjustment on currency translation (86) (21) (195) (55) (357)
Expenditure during the year 142 – – 307 449
Amortisation for the year
(c)
– (20) (116) (101) (237)
Disposals, transfers and other movements
(e)
686 (1) (66) (15) 604
At 31 December 2014 2,596 156 2,454 674 5,880
–cost 2,770 294 4,341 1,536 8,941
– accumulated amortisation and impairment (174) (138) (1,887) (862) (3,061)
(a) Exploration and evaluation assets’ useful lives are not determined until transferred to property, plant and equipment. The impairment charge in the year of
US$1,773 million primarily relates to exploration and evaluation assets within the Simandou and Roughrider projects in the Diamonds & Minerals product group
(see note 6).
(b) The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan, including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights. The water rights
are expected to contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have
indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment. These water rights constitute the majority of the amountsin
“Contract based intangible assets”.
The remaining carrying value of the water rights (US$1,655 million) as at 31 December 2015 relates wholly to the Quebec smelters cash-generating unit. The
Quebec smelters cash-generating unit was tested for impairment by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in
note 1(i). The recoverable amount of the Quebec smelters is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows
expressed in real terms have been estimated over the expected useful economic lives of the underlying smelting assets and discounted using a real post-tax
discount rate of 7.3 per cent (2014: 7.2 per cent).
The recoverable amounts were determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that
would cause the remaining water rights to be impaired.
(c) Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate. Where amortisation is
calculated on a straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined:
Trademarks, patented and non-patented technology
Trademarks: 14 to 20 years
Patented and non-patented technology: ten to 20 years
Contract based intangible assets
Power contracts/water rights: two to 45 years
Other purchase and customer contracts: five to 15 years
Other intangible assets
Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: two to five years
Other intangible assets: two to 20 years
(d) Other impairment charges, excluding charges against exploration and evaluation, primarily relate to the full write off of the intangible assets of the Carbone
Savoie cash-generating unit (see note 6).
(e) Disposals, transfers and other movements for exploration and evaluation include US$164 million transferred to Mining Property in relation to the Amrun project
in Australia. Rio Tinto announced on 27 November 2015 the approval of the Amrun bauxite project (previously known as South of Embley) expansion in north
Queensland, Australia. Production and shipping are expected to commence in the first half of 2019, ramping up to full production by the end of that year.
In 2014 disposals, transfers and other movements for exploration and evaluation included US$700 million previously classified as non-current receivables
pending ratification of the Simandou project Investment Framework.
136 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Exploration and evaluation expenditure
The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Net expenditure in the year (net of proceeds of US$nil (2014: US$11 million; 2013: US$27 million) on disposal of
undeveloped projects) (705) (872) (1,317)
Changes in accruals (including impairment of undeveloped projects of US$nil (2014: US$nil; 2013: US$159 million)
and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects) (15) (53) (160)
Amount capitalised during the year 152 142 368
Netchargefortheyear (568) (783) (1,109)
Reconciliation to income statement
Exploration and evaluation costs (576) (747) (948)
Profit/(loss) relating to interests in undeveloped projects 8 (36) (161)
Netchargefortheyear (568) (783) (1,109)
At 31 December 2015, a total of US$0.8 billion had been capitalised
related to projects which had not yet been approved to proceed. This
comprised evaluation costs of US$0.7 billion included above and
US$0.1 billion of early works expenditure within property, plant and
equipment (31 December 2014: a total of US$2.9 billion had been
capitalised comprising: evaluation costs of US$2.6 billion included
above and US$0.3 billion of early works expenditure within property,
plant and equipment).
14 Property, plant and equipment
Year ended 31 December 2015
Mining
properties
and leases
(a)
US$m
Land
and
buildings
(b)
US$m
Plant and
equipment
US$m
Capital
works in
progress
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2015 11,913 7,085 39,810 9,885 68,693
Adjustment on currency translation (1,049) (890) (4,268) (754) (6,961)
Adjustments to capitalised closure costs (note 26) 147 – – – 147
Interest capitalised
(c)
(note 8) –– – 254 254
Additions 400 374 715 2,767 4,256
Depreciation for the year
(a) (d)
(725) (419) (3,294) – (4,438)
Impairment charges, net of reversals
(e)
(69) (51) (308) (224) (652)
Disposals (4) (15) (77) – (96)
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated – (7) (17) – (24)
Transfers and other movements
(f)
533 1,494 5,339 (7,488) (122)
At 31 December 2015 11,146 7,571 37,900 4,440 61,057
–cost 22,474 11,405 67,690 5,000 106,569
– accumulated depreciation and impairment (11,328) (3,834) (29,790) (560) (45,512)
Non-current assets held under finance leases
(g)
–37 6 – 43
Non-current assets pledged as security
(h)
911 294 6,293 2,402 9,900
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 137
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
14 Property, plant and equipment continued
Year ended 31 December 2014
Mining
properties
and leases
(a)
US$m
Land and
buildings
(b)
US$m
Plant and
equipment
US$m
Capital
works in
progress
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 10,880 7,410 38,466 14,071 70,827
Adjustment on currency translation (687) (564) (2,918) (545) (4,714)
Adjustments to capitalised closure costs (note 26) 525 – – – 525
Interest capitalised
(c)
(note 8) – – 2 468 470
Additions 554 302 1,369 5,571 7,796
Depreciation for the year
(a) (d)
(649) (432) (3,542) – (4,623)
Impairment charges, net of reversals
(e)
139 (10) 277 (1,440) (1,034)
Disposals – (162) (61) (14) (237)
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated – – (31) – (31)
Transfers and other movements
(f)
1,151 541 6,248 (8,226) (286)
At 31 December 2014 11,913 7,085 39,810 9,885 68,693
–cost 23,045 10,845 69,835 11,544 115,269
– accumulated depreciation and impairment (11,132) (3,760) (30,025) (1,659) (46,576)
Non-current assets held under finance leases
(g)
–12 1 – 13
Non-current assets pledged as security
(h)
1,261 173 2,823 259 4,516
(a) At 31 December 2015, the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$1,923 million, with US$1,464 million within Property, plant
and equipment and a further US$459 million within Investments in equity accounted units (2014 total of US$1,816 million with US$1,373 million in Property,
plant and equipment and a further US$443 million within Investments in equity accounted units). During the year capitalisation of US$455 million was partly
offset by depreciation of US$266 million. Depreciation of deferred stripping costs of US$173 million (2014: US$84 million; 2013: US$70 million) is included
within “Depreciation for the year”.
(b) At 31 December 2015, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$7,435 million (2014: US$6,899 million); long leasehold
US$136 million (2014: US$186 million); and no short leasehold (2014: no short leasehold).
(c) Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Group’s cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable. The Group’s average borrowing
rate used for capitalisation of interest is 3.7 per cent (2014: 4.0 per cent).
(d) Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the
related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows:
Land and buildings
Land: Not depreciated
Buildings: five to 50 years
Plant and equipment
Other plant and equipment: three to 50 years
Power assets: 25 to 50 years
Capital work in progress: Not depreciated
(e) During 2015 impairment charges primarily related to the Diamonds & Minerals and Aluminium businesses (see note 6). In 2014, impairment charges primarily
related to the Aluminium business and charges of US$1,669 million were partially offset by US$635 million of impairment reversals.
(f) “Transfers and other movements” includes reclassifications between categories, including the transfer to assets of disposal groups held for sale.
(g) The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23.
(h) Excludes assets held under finance leases. Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$701 million
(2014: US$587 million) of loans, which are included in note 22. As at the date on which the Oyu Tolgoi Project Finance agreements were signed (15 December
2015), a substantial part of the non-current assets related to Oyu Tolgoi were deemed to be pledged. However, as at 31 December 2015, no amounts under the
project financing have been drawn down.
15 Investments in equity accounted units
Summary balance sheet (Rio Tinto share)
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Rio Tinto’s share of assets
Non-current assets 6,780 6,605
Current assets 429 901
7,209 7,506
Rio Tinto’s share of liabilities
Current liabilities (941) (681)
Non-current liabilities (1,327) (1,957)
(2,268) (2,638)
Rio Tinto’s share of net assets 4,941 4,868
Further details of investments in equity accounted units are set out in notes 35 and 36.
The impact of impairment charges and impairment reversals on the Group’s investments in equity accounted units are summarised in note 6.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014 the Group had no investments in equity accounted units with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges.
At 31 December 2015, net debt of equity accounted units, excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto, was US$1,224 million (2014: US$922 million).
138 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 16 Inventories
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Raw materials and purchased components 528 726
Consumable stores 1,030 1,411
Work in progress 1,142 1,490
Finished goods and goods for resale 721 1,120
3,421 4,747
Comprising:
Expected to be used within one year 3,168 4,350
Expected to be used after more than one year 253 397
3,421 4,747
Inventory write-downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$192 million (2014: US$94 million; 2013: US$201 million) were recognised during the year.
At 31 December 2015, US$587 million (2014: US$430 million; 2013: US$482 million) of inventories were pledged as security for liabilities.
17 Deferred taxation
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
At 1 January 34 585
Adjustment on currency translation (149) (36)
Credited to the income statement (139) (349)
Charged/(credited) to statement of comprehensive income
(a)
174 (205)
Disposals (1) 10
Other movements
(b)
58 29
At 31 December (23) 34
Comprising:
– deferred tax liabilities
(c) (d)
3,286 3,574
– deferred tax assets
(c) (e) (f)
(3,309) (3,540)
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 139
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
17 Deferred taxation continued
Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same tax jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the balance sheet as
permitted by IAS 12. The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Total
2015
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Deferred tax liabilities arising from:
Capital allowances 5,311 6,018
Unremitted earnings
(d)
664 659
Capitalised interest 432 368
Unrealised exchange gains 68 255
Other temporary differences 451 248
6,926 7,548
Deferred tax assets arising from:
Tax losses
(e)
(2,170) (2,276)
Provisions (1,745) (2,096)
Capital allowances (794) (877)
Post-retirement benefits (829) (1,165)
Unrealised exchange losses (522) (658)
Other temporary differences (889) (442)
(6,949) (7,514)
(Credited)/charged to the income statement
Unrealised exchange losses (108) (365)
Tax losses (335) 72
Provisions 40 (122)
Capital allowances 251 272
Tax on unremitted earnings (16) 2
Post-retirement benefits 47 34
Other temporary differences (18) (242)
(139) (349)
(a) The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income include provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for
reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and on post-retirement
healthcare plans.
(b) “Other movements” include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to
which it relates.
(c) The deferred tax liability of US$3,286 million (2014: US$3,574 million) includes US$3,275 million (2014: US$3,555 million) due in more than one year. The
deferred tax asset of US$3,309 million (2014: US$3,540 million) includes US$3,091 million (2014: US$3,405 million) receivable in more than one year. All
amounts are shown as non-current on the face of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12.
(d) Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures totalling US$2,763 million (2014: US$4,067 million) where the Group is
able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future. If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$136
million (2014: US$202 million) would be payable.
(e) There is a limited time period, the shortest of which is two years, for the recovery of US$1,482 million (2014: US$1,347 million) of tax losses and other tax
assets which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.
(f) Recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are shown in the table below and totalled US$6,966 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$6,885 million).
Of this total, US$3,309 million has been recognised as deferred tax assets (2014: US$3,540 million), leaving US$3,657 million (2014: US$3,345 million)
unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been netted off against deferred tax liabilities.
At 31 December
Recognised Unrecognised
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
UK 68 131 126 150
France
(i)
331 377 1,112 1,184
Canada 420 491 645 371
US 928 932 5 16
Australia 1,242 1,324 323 287
Other 320 285 1,446 1,337
Total
(ii)
3,309 3,540 3,657 3,345
(i) US$1,112 million (2014: US$1,184 million) of the unrecognised assets relate to trading losses in France, which were acquired as part of the Alcan acquisition.
The amount recognised takes account of legislation which restricts the recovery of losses.
(ii) US$784 million (2014: US$688 million) of the unrecognised assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, the recovery of which depends on the
existence of capital gains in future years. There is a time limit, the shortest of which is one year, for the recovery of US$433 million of the unrecognised assets
(2014: US$353 million).
140 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 18 Trade and other receivables
Non-current
2015
US$m
Current
2015
US$m
Total
2015
US$m
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Trade receivables
(a)
5 1,365 1,370 5 2,483 2,488
Other receivables 370 752 1,122 435 884 1,319
Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities
(b)
288 – 288 387 – 387
Pension surpluses (note 45) 592 – 592 353 – 353
Amounts due from equity accounted units –27 27 –36 36
Other prepayments 101 242 343 124 220 344
1,356 2,386 3,742 1,304 3,623 4,927
(a) At 31 December 2015, trade and other receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of US$77 million (2014: US$39 million). Amounts of
US$37 million (2014: US$35 million) were impaired; the majority of these receivables were more than 90 days overdue.
(b) Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina. These prepayments will be charged to Group
operating costs as processing takes place.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
The fair value of current trade and other receivables and the majority of amounts classified as non-current assets approximates their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2015, trade receivables of US$188 million (2014: US$82 million) were past due but not impaired. The ageing of these receivables
is as follows:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
less than 30 days overdue 71 34
between 30 and 60 days overdue 7 11
between 60 and 90 days overdue 23 30
more than 90 days overdue 22 7
123 82
These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors
will not meet their payment obligations.
19 Assets and liabilities held for sale
At 31 December 2015, assets and liabilities held for sale primarily related to the Group’s 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla coal Joint venture and its
71.2 per cent interest in the Blair Athol coal project (Blair Athol).
At 31 December 2014 assets and liabilities held for sale comprised the Group’s 71.2 per cent interest in Blair Athol and its 28.4 per cent indirect
interest in SouthGobi Resources Limited, which was acquired as part of the gain of control of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd in 2012.
20 Other financial assets (including loans to equity accounted units)
Non-current
2015
US$m
Current
2015
US$m
Total
2015
US$m
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Derivative financial instruments 529 77 606 393 43 436
Equity shares and quoted funds 76 81 157 103 96 199
Other investments, including loans 183 23 206 226 61 287
Loans to equity accounted units –42 42 –71 71
788 223 1,011 722 271 993
Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
21 Cash and cash equivalents
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 843 1,146
Money market funds and other cash equivalents 8,523 11,277
Balance per Group balance sheet 9,366 12,423
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand (unsecured) 22 (12) (23)
Balance per Group cash flow statement 9,354 12,400
Cash and cash equivalents of US$426 million (2014: US$631 million) are held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances. Of this balance
US$311 million (2014: US$455 million) could be used to repay subsidiaries’ third-party borrowings.
There are also restrictions on a further US$802 million (2014: US$404 million) of cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is held by partially
owned entities and is not available for use in the wider Group due to the legal and contractual restrictions currently in place. Of this balance
US$53 million (2014: US$24 million) could be used to repay subsidiaries’ third-party borrowings.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 141
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities
Borrowings at 31 December Note
Non-current
2015
US$m
Current
2015
US$m
Total
2015
US$m
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 1.875% 2015 –– – – 500 500
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 1.125% 2015 –– – – 500 500
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds LIBOR plus 0.55% 2015 –– – – 250 250
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.0% due 2015
(a)
–– – – 496 496
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 2.500% 2016 –– – 698 – 698
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 2.250% 2016 –– – 498 – 498
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 1.375% 2016 – 998 998 998 – 998
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds LIBOR plus 0.84% 2016 – 500 500 500 – 500
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 2.0% 2017 500 – 500 499 – 499
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 1.625% 2017 1,247 – 1,247 1,245 – 1,245
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 6.5% 2018
(a)
1,894 – 1,894 1,935 – 1,935
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 2.250% 2018 1,242 – 1,242 1,239 – 1,239
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 9.0% 2019 1,481 – 1,481 1,474 – 1,474
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 3.5% 2020 997 – 997 996 – 996
Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.0% due 2020
(a) (b)
848 – 848 934 – 934
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 4.125% 2021
(a)
989 – 989 998 – 998
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 3.750% 2021
(a)
1,142 – 1,142 1,144 – 1,144
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 3.5% 2022
(a)
1,004 – 1,004 995 – 995
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 2.875% 2022
(a)
994 – 994 988 – 988
Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.875% due 2024
(a) (b)
584 – 584 646 – 646
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 3.75% 2025
(a)
1,202 – 1,202 –– –
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028
(a)
1,000 – 1,000 1,008 – 1,008
Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2028 106 – 106 106 – 106
Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029
(a) (b)
738 – 738 774 – 774
Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2031 427 – 427 429 – 429
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 6.125% due 2033 741 – 741 745 – 745
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.75% due 2035 286 – 286 279 – 279
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 5.2% 2040 1,147 – 1,147 1,145 – 1,145
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 4.75% 2042 490 – 490 490 – 490
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 4.125% 2042 727 – 727 726 – 726
Loans from equity accounting units –37 37 –52 52
Other secured loans 597 104 701 376 211 587
Other unsecured loans 382 595 977 497 627 1,124
Finance leases 23 45 7 52 49 5 54
Bank overdrafts 21 –12 12 –23 23
Total borrowings including overdrafts
(c)
20,810 2,253 23,063 22,411 2,664 25,075
(a) These borrowings are subject to the hedging arrangements summarised below. Fair value hedge accounting has been applied except for the Rio Tinto Finance
plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029 (see below).
(b) Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion (2014: US$10 billion) European Debt Issuance Programme (EDIP) against which the cumulative amount utilised was US$2.1 billion
equivalent at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$2.3 billion). The carrying value of these bonds after hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$2.2 billion
(2014: US$ 2.4 billion) in aggregate.
(c) The Group’s borrowings of US$23.1 billion (2014: US$25.1 billion) include some US$2.9 billion (2014: US$3.5 billion) which relates to subsidiary entity
borrowings that are without recourse to the Group, of which US$0.7 billion (2014: US$0.6 billion) are subject to various financial and general covenants with
which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2015.
Other financial liabilities
Non-current
2015
US$m
Current
2015
US$m
Total
2015
US$m
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Derivative financial instruments 283 41 324 67 14 81
Other financial liabilities 47 190 237 57 6 63
Total other financial liabilities 330 231 561 124 20 144
Total borrowings including overdrafts (as above) 20,810 2,253 23,063 22,411 2,664 25,075
Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 21,140 2,484 23,624 22,535 2,684 25,219
Swap arrangements
At 31 December 2015, US$7.0 billion (2014: US$3.7 billion) US dollar
notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating
US dollar rates and US$1.4 billion (2014: US$1.5 billion) US dollar
notional equivalent of euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating
US dollar rates.
Hedge accounting has been applied to the full notional of items marked
(a) in the above table except for: US$750 million (2014: US$750
million) of the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018,
US$nil (2014: US$1,000 million) of the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited
Bonds 4.125% due 2021; US$nil (2014: US$1,150 million) of the Rio
Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 3.750% due 2021; US$nil (2014:
US$250 million) of the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 3.5% due
2022, US$nil (2014: US$250 million) of the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc
Bonds 2.875% due 2022; and, US$75 million (2014: US$75 million) of
the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028. These
portions are held at amortised cost.
142 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report The Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bond 4.0% due 2029 at US$0.7 billion
(2014: US$0.8billion) US dollar notional equivalent of sterling was fully
swapped to fixed US dollar rates. Cash flow hedging was applied to the
annual interest coupons and principal of this bond. The hedge was fully
effective in 2015 and 2014 financial years.
The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps at
31 December 2015 was US$189 million (2014: US$200 million) asset
and US$275 million (2014: US$54 million) liability, respectively. These
are included in “Other financial assets” and “Other financial liabilities” in
the balance sheet.
Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps
are shown in note 30.
23 Capitalised finance leases
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Present value of minimum lease payments
Total minimum lease payments 53 55
Effect of discounting (1) (1)
14 52 54
Payments under capitalised finance leases
Due within 1 year 7 5
Between 1 and 3 years 28 29
Between 3 and 5 years 5 6
More than 5 years 12 14
14 52 54
24 Consolidated net debt
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt
(a)
Opening balance (12,495) (18,055)
Adjustment on currency translation 1,586 1,039
Exchange losses charged to the income statement
(b)
(1,630) (1,070)
Cash movements excluding exchange movements (1,109) 5,357
Other movements (135) 234
Closing balance (13,783) (12,495)
Total borrowings in balance sheet (note 22) (23,063) (25,075)
Derivatives related to net debt (included in “Other financial assets/liabilities”) (note 30) (86) 146
Equity accounted unit funded balances excluded from net debt
(c)
– 11
Adjusted total borrowings (23,149) (24,918)
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 9,366 12,423
Consolidated net debt (13,783) (12,495)
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Exchange (losses)/gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from underlying earnings
Exchange losses on US dollar net debt (1,578) (1,056) (2,098)
Exchange losses on intragroup balances (1,961) (940) (1,574)
Exchange gains on loans from equity accounted units – 1–
Exchange gains on settlement of dividend 1 ––
Charged to income statement (3,538) (1,995) (3,672)
(a) Consolidated net debt is stated net of the impact of certain funding arrangements between equity accounted units and partially owned subsidiaries (equity
accounted unit funded balances). This adjustment is required in order to avoid showing borrowings twice in the net debt disclosure, where funding has been
provided to an equity accounted unit by the Group and subsequently on-lent by the equity accounted unit to a consolidated Group subsidiary.
(b) Exchange losses taken to the income statement include amounts excluded from underlying earnings.
(c) Equity accounted unit funded balances are defined as amounts owed by partially owned subsidiaries to equity accounted units, where such funding was provided
to the equity accounted unit by the Group.
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 30.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 143
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
25 Trade and other payables
Non-current
2015
US$m
Current
2015
US$m
Total
2015
US$m
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Trade payables 9 2,567 2,576 5 2,592 2,597
Accruals and deferred income 179 1,400 1,579 248 2,123 2,371
Other payables
(a)
263 1,075 1,338 359 1,201 1,560
Employee entitlements – 747 747 – 905 905
Royalties and mining taxes 2 345 347 2 526 528
Amounts owed to equity accounted units 131 100 231 147 78 225
Government grants deferred 98 3 101 110 12 122
682 6,237 6,919 871 7,437 8,308
(a) “Other payables” include deferred consideration of US$nil (2014: US$29 million) relating to acquired assets. All other accounts payable and accruals are
non-interest bearing.
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
26 Provisions (including post-retirement benefits)
Pensions
and post-
retirement
healthcare
(a)
US$m
Other
employee
entitlements
(b)
US$m
Close down
and
restoration/
environmental
(c)
US$m
Other
US$m
Total
2015
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
At 1 January 4,086 599 8,630 1,287 14,602 14,081
Adjustment on currency translation (407) (70) (763) (104) (1,344) (963)
Adjustments to mining properties (note 14)
– changes in estimate – – 147 – 147 525
Charged/(credited) to profit:
– increases to existing and new provisions 141 128 456 173 898 1,217
– unused amounts reversed – (47) (92) (119) (258) (170)
– exchange losses on provisions – – 39 52 91 91
– amortisation of discount – 1 335 42 378 384
Utilised in year (230) (140) (303) (151) (824) (1,269)
Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in equity (442) – – – (442) 776
Newly consolidated operations (note 37) – – – – – 11
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated (14) (3) (11) 9 (19) 23
Transfers to assets held for sale (12) (12) (17) (16) (57) (23)
Transfers and other movements – 2 5 (113) (106) (81)
At 31 December 3,122 458 8,426 1,060 13,066 14,602
Balance sheet analysis:
Current 107 319 484 280 1,190 1,299
Non-current 3,015 139 7,942 780 11,876 13,303
Total 3,122 458 8,426 1,060 13,066 14,602
(a) The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post-retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of
future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 45.
(b) The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$322 million (2014: US$354 million), based on the relevant
entitlements in certain Group operations and includes US$52 million (2014: US$113 million) of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
(c) The Group’s policy on close-down and restoration costs is described in note 1(k) and in paragraph (v) under “Critical accounting policies and estimates” on
pages 119 and 123. Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is
incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter. Remaining lives of operations and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an
average for all sites, weighted by closure provision, of around 17 years (2014: 18 years). Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Group’s
businesses estimate their respective costs based on current restoration standards and techniques. Provisions of US$8,426 million (2014: US$8,630 million) for
close-down and restoration costs and environmental clean-up obligations are based on risk adjusted cash flows. These estimates have been discounted to their
present value at a real risk free rate of 2 per cent per annum, based on an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Non-current provisions for close down and restoration/environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean-up of US$286 million
(2014: US$341 million) expected to take place between one and five years from the balance sheet date, and US$867 million (2014: US$798 million) expected to
take place later than five years after the balance sheet date.
Close-down and restoration/environmental liabilities at 31 December 2015 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$97 million (2014: US$108 million)
relating to insurance recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations.
144 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 27 Share capital – Rio Tinto plc
2015
Number
(million)
2014
Number
(million)
2013
Number
(million)
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each
At 1 January 1,425.378 1,425.377 1,425.376 230 230 230
Ordinary shares issued
(a) (c)
0.022 0.001 0.001 – ––
Shares purchased and cancelled
(b)
(40.913) –– (6) ––
At 31 December 1,384.487 1,425.378 1,425.377 224 230 230
Shares held by public
At 1 January 1,414.147 1,412.695 1,411.257
Shares reissued from treasury
(a)
0.790 1.451 1.437
Shares purchased and cancelled
(b)
(40.913) ––
Ordinary shares issued
(a) (c)
0.022 0.001 0.001
At 31 December 1,374.046 1,414.147 1,412.695
Shares held in treasury 10.441 11.231 12.682
Shares held by public 1,374.046 1,414.147 1,412.695
Total share capital 1,384.487 1,425.378 1,425.377
Other share classes
Special Voting Share of 10p each
(d)
1only 1only 1only
DLC Dividend Share of 10p each
(d)
1only 1only 1only
Equalisation Share of 10p each
(d)
1only 1only 1only
(a) 21,709 ordinary shares were issued in 2015 under the Global Employee Share Plan. 789,887 ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year
resulting from the vesting of awards and the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share-based payment plans, with exercise prices and market
values between £15.086 and £32.375 per share (2014: 971 ordinary shares were issued, and 1,450,659 ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise
prices and market values between £10.979 and £36.275 per share; 2013: 951 ordinary shares issued, and 1,436,542 ordinary shares reissued from treasury with
exercise prices and market values between £10.43 and £35.76 per share).
(b) The authority for the Company to buy back its ordinary shares was renewed at the 2015 annual general meeting. 40,912,881 shares were bought back and
cancelled in 2015 under the on-market buy-back programme. No shares were bought back in 2014 and 2013.
(c) The aggregate consideration for new shares issued under the Global Employee Share Plan was US$0.9 million (2014: US$0.05 million; 2013: US$0.04 million).
The difference between the nominal value and the issue price of the shares issued was credited to the share premium account. The aggregate consideration
received for treasury shares reissued was US$13 million (2014: US$22 million; 2013: US$32 million). No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of
options under Rio Tinto plc employee share-based payment plans in 2015, 2014 and 2013.
(d) The “Special Voting Share” was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC
Merger. The “DLC Dividend Share” was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure. Directors have the ability to issue an
Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
During 2015, US$34.1 million of shares and ADRs (2014: US$49.5 million; 2013: US$42 million) were purchased by employee share ownership trusts
on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest. At 31 December 2015, 827,679 shares and 17,890 ADRs were held
in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc.
Information relating to share options and other share-based incentive schemes is given in note 44.
28 Share capital – Rio Tinto Limited
2015
Number
(million)
2014
Number
(million)
2013
Number
(million)
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Issued and fully paid up share capital
At 1 January 435.76 435.76 435.76 4,535 4,911 5,715
Adjustment on currency translation – –– (503) (376) (804)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled
(a)
(11.57) –– (82) ––
At 31 December 424.19 435.76 435.76 3,950 4,535 4,911
– Special Voting Share
(b)
1only 1only 1only
–DLCDividendShare
(b)
1only 1only 1only
Total share capital 424.19 435.76 435.76
(a) At the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting held in 2014 shareholders authorised off-market and on-market buy-backs of up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto
Limited ordinary shares. In April 2015, 11,566,308 Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were purchased at A$48.44 per share and cancelled under an off-market
share buy-back programme.
(b) The “Special Voting Share” was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC
Merger. The “DLC Dividend Share” was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure. Directors have the ability to issue an
Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 145
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
28 Share Capital – Rio Tinto Limited continued
Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2015 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the
on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Group’s behalf.
Information relating to share options and other share-based incentive schemes is given in note 44.
29 Other reserves and retained earnings
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Capital redemption reserve
(a)
At 1 January 28 28 28
Own shares purchased and cancelled 6 ––
At 31 December 34 28 28
Hedging reserves
(b)
At 1 January 12 3 (68)
Parent and subsidiaries’ net cash flow hedge fair value (losses)/gains (41) (48) 149
Parent and subsidiaries’ net cash flow hedge losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement 32 55 (69)
Tax on the above (3) 2(9)
At 31 December – 12 3
Available for sale revaluation reserves
(c)
At 1 January (130) (117) (179)
Losses on available for sale securities (16) (19) (67)
Losses on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 7 6 146
Tax on the above – – (17)
At 31 December (139) (130) (117)
Other reserves
(d)
At 1 January 11,704 11,766 11,778
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options (25) (129) (77)
Employee share options: value of services 58 69 64
Deferred tax on share options (2) (2) 1
At 31 December 11,735 11,704 11,766
Foreign currency translation reserve
(e)
At 1 January (492) 1,191 3,309
Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments (1,940) (1,690) (2,138)
Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments (57) (43) (44)
Currency translation reclassified on disposal (2) 53 81
Tax on the above – (3) (17)
At 31 December (2,491) (492) 1,191
Total other reserves per balance sheet 9,139 11,122 12,871
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Retained earnings
(f)
At 1 January 26,110 23,605 21,496
Parent and subsidiaries’ (loss)/profit for the year (1,218) 5,243 2,796
Equity accounted units’ profit after tax for the year 352 1,284 869
Actuarial gains/(losses)
(g)
616 (720) 2,211
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (173) 204 (631)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (423) 6,011 5,245
Share buy-back scheme (1,946) ––
Dividends paid (4,076) (3,710) (3,322)
Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 20 36 102
Own shares purchased/treasury shares reissued for share options and other movements (27) (28) 11
Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 78 196 73
At 31 December 19,736 26,110 23,605
146 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report (a) The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 733 of the UK Companies Act 2006 (previously section 170 of the UK Companies Act 1985)
when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the company’s profits. Balances reflect the amount by which the Company’s issued share
capital is diminished in accordance with this section.
(b) The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 (p) (iii).
(c) The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 (p) (i) (d).
(d) Other reserves includes US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from
Rio Tinto plc’s rights issue completed in July 2009. No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the
merger relief provisions of the UK Companies Act 1985.
Other reserves also include the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto
Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised. The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of
options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings.
(e) Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Group’s net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation
reserve, as described in note 1(d). The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is
disposed of.
(f) Retained earnings and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Group’s share of joint operations.
(g) There were no actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units in 2015, 2014 or 2013.
30 Financial instruments and risk management
Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint
operations, and excludes those of equity accounted units. The information is grouped in the following sections:
A – Financial assets and liabilities by categories
B – Derivative financial instruments
C–Fairvalues
A (a) Financial assets and liabilities by categories
At 31 December 2015 Note
Total
US$m
Loans and
receivables
US$m
Available
for sale
securities
US$m
Held at
fair value
US$m
Held to maturity
assets/other
financial
liabilities
US$m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 21 9,366 9,366 – – –
Trade and other receivables
(a)
2,468 2,456 – 12 –
Equity shares and quoted funds 20 157 – 157 – –
Other investments, including loans 20 206 32 – 170 4
Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges
(b)
20 5 –– 5 –
Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt:
not designated as hedges
(b)
20 412 – – 412 –
Derivatives related to net debt
(b)
20,22,24 189 – – 189 –
Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 225 225 – – –
Total financial assets 13,028 12,079 157 788 4
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
(c)
(5,373) (24) (5,349)
Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 (2,253) – (2,253)
Medium and long term borrowings 22 (20,810) – (20,810)
Derivatives related to net debt
(b)
22,24 (275) (275) –
Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as
hedges
(b)
22 (49) (49) –
Other financial liabilities 22 (237) – (237)
Total financial liabilities (28,997) (348) (28,649)
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 147
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
At 31 December 2014 Note
Total
US$m
Loans and
receivables
US$m
Available
for sale
securities
US$m
Held at
fair value
US$m
Held to maturity
assets/other
financial
liabilities
US$m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 21 12,423 12,423 – – –
Trade and other receivables
(a)
3,727 3,715 – 12 –
Equity shares and quoted funds 20 199 – 199 – –
Other investments, including loans 20 287 118 – 164 5
Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges
(b)
20 17 – – 17 –
Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt:
not designated as hedges
(b)
20 219 – – 219 –
Derivatives related to net debt
(b)
20,22,24 200 – – 200 –
Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 299 299 – – –
Total financial assets 17,371 16,555 199 612 5
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
(c)
(6,155) (24) (6,131)
Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 (2,664) – (2,664)
Medium and long term borrowings 22 (22,411) – (22,411)
Derivatives related to net debt
(b)
22,24 (54) (54) –
Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as
hedges
(b)
22 (27) (27) –
Other financial liabilities 22 (63) – (63)
Total financial liabilities (31,374) (105) (31,269)
(a) This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to joint operations and other prepayments and specific items within other receivables and will
therefore not agree to note 18.
(b) These financial assets and liabilities in aggregate agree to total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 20 and 22.
(c) Trade and other payables excludes deferred income, Government grants, royalties, mining taxes and employee entitlements and will therefore not agree to
note 25.
A (b) Financial risk management
Funding and exposure management
The Group’s policies on financial risk management are clearly defined
and consistently applied. They are a fundamental part of the Group’s
long term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk,
interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and
capital management.
The Group mainly sells commodities it has produced and also enters into
third party transactions and physical swaps on alumina to balance the
regional positions and to balance the loading on production facilities.
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a
number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most
of the countries in which the Group operates provides a further natural
hedge in the long term. Production of minerals, aluminium and alumina
is an important contributor to the Gross Domestic Products of Australia
and Canada, countries in which the Group has a large presence. As a
consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically
tended to strengthen when commodity prices are high and vice versa.
These natural hedges significantly reduce the necessity for using
derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging. Such hedging is
therefore undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
In addition, US dollar floating interest rates have historically also tended
to be high when commodity prices are high, and vice versa, and hence
the Group’s interest rate policy is to generally borrow and invest, after
the impact of hedging, at floating interest rates. However, in some
circumstances, the Group elects to maintain a higher proportion of fixed
rate funding.
Treasury operations
Treasury is a global and centralised support and service function that
acts as the custodian of the Group’s cash and balance sheet and its key
financial risks. It performs its activities in a strong control environment,
within Board approved limits. It is not a profit centre. It is responsible for
managing liquidity through funding and investments as well as financial
risks such as foreign exchange, interest, financial counterparty credit,
commodity, insurance and pension risk. It is also responsible for
managing banking relationships across the Group. Its activities are
principally retained within the Group Treasury function.
Treasury policy
Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for
trading or speculative purposes; nor does it believe that it has material
exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments
in joint arrangements and associates. However, derivatives are used as
and when required in order to manage the Group’s exposure in
accordance with its underlying financial risk management principles.
Cash management and investment activities are managed and
co-ordinated centrally by Treasury using only approved counterparties
andwithinallocatedcreditlimitsreviewedandapprovedbytheBoardat
least annually.
(i) Foreign exchange risk
Management policy
The Group’s shareholders’ equity, earnings and cash flows are
influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity
of the Group’s sales and the countries in which it operates. The US
dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Group’s sales
are denominated. Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of
those countries where the Group’s mines and processing plants are
located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported
equipment and services are determined. The Australian and Canadian
dollars are the most important currencies (apart from the US dollar)
influencing costs. In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a
significant impact on Rio Tinto’s financial results. A strengthening of the
US dollar against the currencies in which the Group’s costs are partly
148 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report determined has a positive effect on Rio Tinto’s Underlying earnings.
However, a strengthening of the US dollar does reduce the value of non
US dollar denominated net assets and therefore total equity.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Group’s affairs, the
US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both
internally and externally. It is also the most appropriate currency for
financing the Group’s operations. Borrowings and cash are
predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or through the
use of derivatives.
Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including
intragroup balances, are held in currencies other than the functional
currency of the relevant subsidiary. This results in an accounting
exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and
liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary
that holds those assets and liabilities. These exchange gains and losses
are recorded in the Group’s income statement except to the extent that
they can be taken to equity under the Group’s accounting policy which is
explained in note 1(d). Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on all
intragroup balances are excluded from Underlying earnings. Other
exchange gains and losses are included in Underlying earnings.
See section B for the details of cross currency interest rate swaps
relating to borrowings.
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Group’s net debt is denominated in US dollars. The table below summarises, by
currency, the Group’s net debt, after taking into account relevant cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts:
Net funds/(debt) by currency
Cash and
cash
equivalents
US$m
Total borrowings
in note 22
US$m
Derivatives
related
to net debt
US$m
Net
funds/
(debt)
2015
US$m
Net funds/
(debt)
2014
US$m
US dollar 8,767 (22,198) (86) (13,517) (12,144)
Australian dollar 236 (513) – (277) (125)
Euro 46 (134) – (88) (127)
South African rand 80 (51) – 29 (85)
Canadian dollar 42 (163) – (121) (169)
Sterling 27 – – 27 4
Other 168 (4) – 164 151
Total 9,366 (23,063) (86) (13,783) (12,495)
Hedging strategy
Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe
that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long term
benefits to shareholders. The Group reviews its exposure on a regular
basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial
stability. Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in
specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of capital
expenditures and other significant financial items such as acquisitions,
disposals, tax and dividends, and are subject to strict limits laid down by
the Board. A quarterly treasury report is provided to senior management
which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks after the
impact of derivatives. Refer to section B for the details of cross currency
interest rate, currency forward and option contracts used to manage the
currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2015.
Sensitivities
The table below gives the estimated retranslation effect on financial
assets and financial liabilities of a ten per cent strengthening in the
closing exchange rate of the US dollar against significant currencies. The
sensitivity associated with a ten per cent weakening of a particular
currency would be broadly equal and opposite to the figures presented.
The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings,
underlying earnings and equity, assuming that each exchange rate
moves in isolation. The sensitivities are based on financial assets and
financial liabilities held at 31 December 2015, where balances are not
denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint
operation, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity
accounted units. These balances will not remain constant throughout
2016, and therefore the following information should be used with care.
At 31 December 2015
Gains/(losses) associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar
Currency exposure
Closing
exchange
rate US
cents
Effect
on net
earnings
US$m
Of which
amount
impacting
underlying
earnings
US$m
Net
impact
on
equity
US$m
Australian dollar 73 (182) 58 –
Canadian dollar 72 (771) 2 –
Euro 109 60 (25) –
New Zealand dollar 68 – – –
At 31 December 2014
Gains/(losses) associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar
Currency exposure
Closing
exchange rate
US cents
Effect
on net
earnings
US$m
Of which
amount
impacting
underlying
earnings
US$m
Net
impact
on equity
US$m
Australian dollar 82 (855) 27 5
Canadian dollar 86 (1,537) 22 (1)
Euro 122 48 (16) –
New Zealand dollar 78 28 – –
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 149
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Ten per cent is the annual exchange rate movement that management
deems to be reasonably probable (on an annual basis over the long run)
for one of the Group’s significant currencies and as such provides an
appropriate representation.
(ii) Interest rate risk
Management policy
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument
or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate due to
changes in market interest rates. The Group’s interest rate management
policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates. This
approach is based on a historical correlation between interest rates and
commodity prices. However, in certain circumstances the Group may
elect to maintain a higher proportion of fixed rate funding.
Hedging strategy
As noted above, the Group hedges its interest rate risk by entering into
interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies. The market value of such
instruments moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as
analternativesourceoffunding.TheGroupreviewsthepositionsona
regular basis and may act to monetise in-the-money instruments either
to take advantage of favourable market conditions or manage
counterparty credit risk.
At the end of 2015, US$12.3 billion (2014: US$17.6 billion) of the
Group’s adjusted total borrowings was at fixed rates after taking into
account interest and currency interest rate swaps, resulting in a fixed to
floating debt ratio of 53 per cent fixed to 47 per cent floating (2014:
71 per cent fixed to 29 per cent floating). On a net debt basis, the fixed to
floating debt ratio was 89 per cent fixed liability to 11 per cent floating
liability (2014: 139 per cent fixed liability to (39) per cent floating asset).
The weighted average interest rate on total adjusted borrowings as at
31 December 2015 was approximately 3.5 per cent (2014: approximately
3.7 per cent) and the weighted average maturity was approximately
8 years (2014: 8 years). The weighted average maturity and weighted
average effective interest rate are based on current interest rates and
the carrying value of gross borrowings at the year end.
The fixed:floating net debt ratio at the end of 2015 and 2014 reflects the
high level of cash, cash equivalents and other liquid resources held by
the Group and the impact of borrowings held at fixed rates.
See note 22 for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2015.
Sensitivities
Based on the Group’s net debt (refer to note 24) and other floating rate
financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2015, the effect on
net earnings of a half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR
interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be a charge of
US$4 million (2014: credit of US$20 million). The Group has an exposure
to interest rate volatility within shareholders’ equity arising from fair
value movements on derivatives in the cash flow reserve. These
derivatives have an underlying exposure to sterling and US dollar rates.
With all factors remaining constant and based on the composition of
derivatives impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 December 2015, the
sensitivity of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the
currencies in isolation would impact equity, before tax, by
US$100 million charge (2014: US$112 million charge) for sterling and
US$103 million credit (2014: US$108 million credit) for US dollar. A
100 basis point decrease would have broadly the same impact in the
opposite direction. These balances will not remain constant throughout
2016, and therefore this information should be used with care.
(iii) Commodity price risk
Management policy
The Group’s normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market
prices. Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the
Board and to rigid internal controls.
Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts
which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in
the spot market. The prices are determined by reference to prevailing
market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange
(LME) and COMEX in New York. Prices fluctuate widely in response to
changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are
related to the marginal cost of supply. Gold is also priced in an active
market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and
sought. Newly mined gold is only one source of supply; investment and
disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource products including coal
are generally agreed quarterly or for longer periods with customers,
although volume commitments vary by product.
Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are provisionally
priced, that is the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days
after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant
quotation point stipulated in the contract. Revenue is recognised on
provisionally priced sales based on estimates of fair value of the
consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices. At
each reporting date provisionally priced metal sales are marked to
market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the
contract. For this purpose the selling price can be measured reliably for
those products such as copper concentrate for which the price is directly
related to the price of copper for which an active and freely traded
commodity market exists, such as the LME, and the value of product
sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on
that market.
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded
as an adjustment to sales revenue.
At the end of 2015, the Group had 252 million pounds of copper sales
(2014: 331 million pounds) that were provisionally priced at US 217
cents per pound (2014: US 288 cents per pound). The final price of these
sales will be determined during the first half of 2016. A ten per cent
change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales,
all other factors held constant, would increase or reduce net earnings by
US$36 million (2014: US$51 million).
Hedging strategy
Rio Tinto’s exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its
broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe
commodity price hedging would provide a long term benefit to
shareholders. The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of
its customers or suppliers. Details of commodity derivatives held at
31 December 2015 are set out in section B.
Sensitivities
The Group’s commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market
prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts
embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December
2015. A ten per cent increase in market prices would reduce net earnings
by US$70 million (2014: US$97 million), and a ten per cent decrease in
prices would increase net earnings by US$58 million (2014:
US$84 million). A ten per cent change in prices would have a nil impact
on equity, before tax, (2014: US$4 million).
The Group’s “own use contracts” are excluded from the sensitivity
analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39. Such contracts to buy or
sell non financial items can be net settled but were entered into and
continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non
financial item in accordance with the business unit’s expected purchase,
sale or usage requirements.
(iv) Credit risk
Treasury management policy
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations
under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial
loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities
(primarily from customer receivables) and from its financing activities,
including investments in government securities, deposits with banks and
financial institutions, other short term investments, interest rate and
currency derivative contracts and other financial instruments.
150 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Credit risks related to receivables
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the
Group’s established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer
credit risk management. Credit limits are established for all customers
based on internal or external rating criteria. Where customers are rated
by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set
credit limits. In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists,
the credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive
credit rating scorecard. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly
monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior management.
High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters
of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had approximately 74 customers
(2014: 105 customers) that owed the Group more than US$5 million
each and these balances accounted for approximately 75 per cent (2014:
77 per cent) of all receivables owing. There were 13 customers (2014: 22
customers) with balances greater than US$20 million accounting for just
over 37 per cent (2014: just over 43 per cent) of total amounts
receivable. Details of trade and other receivables past due but not
impaired are provided in note 18.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying
value of each class of financial assets (refer to table of financial assets
and liabilities reported above). The Group does not hold collateral as
security for any trade receivables.
Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits
Credit risk from investments in government securities (primarily US
Government) or money market funds and balances with banks and
financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a
Board approved policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with
approved counterparties who have been assigned specific credit limits
beforehand based on specific assessment criteria. The counterparty credit
framework and limits are reviewed by the Board at least annually. The
limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and therefore
mitigate the potential for financial loss through counterparty failure.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group’s financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows:
Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Cash and cash equivalents 21 9,366 12,423
Trade and other receivables 2,468 3,727
Investments 20 206 287
Derivative assets 20 606 436
Total 12,646 16,873
(v) Liquidity and capital risk management
Management policy
The Group’s overriding objective when managing capital is to safeguard
the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for
shareholders. In a cyclical and capital intensive industry such as the
mining industry, maintaining a strong balance sheet and a sound
financial risk management framework are desirable to preserving
financial flexibility and generating shareholder value through the cycle.
In practice, this involves regular reviews by the board and senior
management. These reviews take into account the Group’s strategic
priorities, economic and business conditions and opportunities that are
identified to invest across all points of the commodities cycle, and focus
on the dividend policy, and other forms of shareholder return whilst also
striving to maintain a strong balance sheet. In February 2016, the Group
announced a change in its dividend policy, moving from a progressive
dividend policy to a dividend determined by, taking into account the
results for the financial year, the outlook for the Group’s major
commodities, the Board’s view of the long-term growth prospects of the
business and the Group’s objective of maintaining a strong balance
sheet. The Board expects total cash returns to shareholders over the
longer term to be in a range of 40% – 60% of underlying earnings in
aggregate throughout the cycle. Acknowledging the cyclical nature of
the industry in periods of strong earnings and cash generation it is the
Board’s intention to supplement the ordinary dividends with additional
returns to shareholders. The resulting capital structure provides the
Group with a high degree of financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
To maintain a strong balance sheet, the Group considers various financial
metrics including a target net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent, the
overall level of borrowings and their maturity profile, liquidity levels, total
capital, cash flow, EBITDA and interest cover ratios either on a statutory
reported basis or as expected to be adjusted by the credit rating agencies.
Total capital
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto (see Group balance sheet) 37,349 46,285
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests (see Group balance sheet) 6,779 8,309
Net debt (note 24) 13,783 12,495
Total capital 57,911 67,089
Net debt is a measure used by management and the Board to manage
the Group’s capital structure and liquidity risks and is linked to all of the
Group’s value drivers. It is also used to manage the Group’s interest rate
risks and foreign exchange risks on borrowings and cash. Net debt is
disclosed and defined in note 24. Net debt increased from US$12.5
billion at 31 December 2014 to US$13.8 billion at 31 December 2015 as
operating cash inflows were more than offset by outflows relating to
capital expenditure, the dividend and the share buy-back programme. At
31 December 2015 net debt to total capital was 24 per cent (2014:
19 per cent) and interest cover was 7 times (2014: 13 times).
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 151
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited
are automatically guaranteed by the other. The table below summarises the credit ratings attributed to the Group as at 31 December.
2015 2014
Long term rating A-/A3
(a)
A-/A3
Short term rating A-2/P-2 A-2/P-2
Outlook Negative/
Stable
(a)
Stable/
Stable
(a) On 24 February 2016, the Group was downgraded to Baa1 with a negative outlook.
The Group has access to various forms of financing including its US Shelf
Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme, Commercial Paper
and credit facilities. The Group did not issue any listed debt in 2014
under the various finance programmes listed. In June 2015, under its US
Shelf Programme, the Group issued a Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited
US$1,200 million 3.75% bond due 2025. The proceeds were used to
repurchase the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited US$700 million 2.5%
bond due 2016 and the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited US$500 million
2.25% bond due 2016.
In November 2013, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited
enteredintofacilityagreements,asborrowers,fortheaggregateamount
of US$7.5 billion with a syndicate of banks. The facilities are guaranteed
by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited. The facilities comprised a
US$1,875 million three-year multi-currency revolving credit facility and a
US$5,625 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility
(including a US$ denominated same day access swing-line facility). Both
facilities had two one-year extension options, the first of which was
utilised in November 2014. In November 2015, the US$1,875 million and
US$5,625 million facilities were amended and their maturities extended
to November 2018 and November 2020 respectively with the two one-
year extension options reinstated. The renewed extension options could
be utilised in 2016 and/or 2017, subject to the agreement by the banks.
Thefundsmadeavailableunderthefacilityagreementsmaybeusedfor
the general corporate purposes of the Group.
Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum
based on LIBOR (or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW in relation to any euro,
Canadian dollar or Australian dollar loans respectively) plus a margin
(which is dependent on the Group’s long-term credit rating as
determined by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s and the level of
drawdown). The facility agreements contain no financial covenants. At
31 December 2015, the facilities were undrawn.
In December 2015, Oyu Tolgoi LLC signed a $4.4 billion project finance
facility. The facility consists of the following components: $0.8 billion 15
year A Loan at LIBOR plus 3.78% pre-completion and LIBOR plus 4.78%
post completion; $0.9 billion 14 year Export Credit Agencies Loan at
LIBOR plus 3.65% pre-completion and LIBOR plus 4.65% post-
completion; $0.4 billion 13 year Export Credit Agencies Loan US Ex-Im at
fixed rate of Commercial Interest Reference Rate based on US Treasury
rates, determined at the time of disbursement; $0.7 billion 12 year MIGA
Insured Loan at LIBOR plus 2.65% pre-completion and LIBOR plus 3.65%
post-completion; and $1.6 billion 12 year B Loan at LIBOR plus 3.4%
pre-completion, LIBOR plus 4.4% post-completion (includes $50 million
15 year loan at A Loan rate).
The facilities are provided and funded by international financial
institutions and export credit agencies representing the governments of
the United States, Canada and Australia, along with 15 commercial
banks.
The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) provided political
risk insurance for the commercial banks.
Draw down of the $4.4 billion facility by Oyu Tolgoi is subject to
satisfaction of certain conditions precedent, and to approval by the
boards of Rio Tinto, Turquoise Hill and Oyu Tolgoi. Steps prerequisite to
the boards’ approval comprise: updating the feasibility study, including
the revised capital estimates; and securing all necessary permits for the
development of the underground mine.
The parties have agreed a debt cap of $6 billion, providing potential for
an additional $1.6 billion of Supplemental Debt in future.
152 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report A (c) Financial liability analysis
ThetablebelowanalysestheGroup’sfinancialliabilitiesbyrelevantmaturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to
the contractual maturity date. As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily
agreewiththeamountsdisclosedinthebalancesheet.
At 31 December 2015
(Outflows) / inflows
Within
1yearoron
demand
US$m
Between
1and2years
US$m
Between
2and3years
US$m
Between
3and4years
US$m
Between
4and5years
US$m
After
5years
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (4,967) (406) – – – – (5,373)
Borrowings before swaps (2,266) (1,889) (3,462) (1,538) (1,945) (12,318) (23,418)
Expected future interest payments
(a)
(884) (867) (837) (628) (561) (4,789) (8,566)
Other financial liabilities (190) (5) – – – – (195)
Derivative financial liabilities
(b)
Derivatives related to net debt – net
settled 30 30 30 30 29 28 177
Derivatives related to net debt –
gross settled
(a)
:
gross inflows 62 62 62 62 872 1,617 2,737
gross outflows (65) (65) (65) (65) (1,039) (1,824) (3,123)
Derivatives not related to net debt –
net settled (29) (6) – – – (2) (37)
Derivatives not related to net debt –
gross settled:
grossinflows 22 –––– – 22
grossoutflows (22) –––– – (22)
Total (8,309) (3,146) (4,272) (2,139) (2,644) (17,288) (37,798)
At 31 December 2014
(Outflows) / inflows
Within
1yearoron
demand
US$m
Between
1and2years
US$m
Between
2and3years
US$m
Between
3and4years
US$m
Between
4and5years
US$m
After
5years
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (5,640) (515) – – – – (6,155)
Borrowings before swaps (2,664) (2,868) (1,973) (3,139) (1,524) (12,535) (24,703)
Expected future interest payments
(a)
(927) (883) (838) (816) (608) (5,492) (9,564)
Other financial liabilities (49) (67) (3) (1) – – (120)
Derivative financial liabilities
(b)
Derivatives related to net debt – gross
settled
(a):
gross inflows 36 36 36 36 36 1,614 1,794
gross outflows (28) (28) (28) (28) (28) (1,705) (1,845)
Derivatives not related to net debt –
net settled (11) (8) – (1) – – (20)
Derivatives not related to net debt –
gross settled:
grossinflows 423 –––– – 423
gross outflows (423) –––– – (423)
Total (9,283) (4,333) (2,806) (3,949) (2,124) (18,118) (40,613)
(a) Interest payments have been projected using interest rates applicable at the end of the applicable financial year. Where debt is subject to variable interest
rates, future interest payments are subject to change in line with market rates.
(b) The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
(c) The maximum carrying value of borrowings repayable, after the impact of swaps, maturing in any financial year is US$3.3 billion (2014: US$3.3 billion).
Offsetting and enforceable master netting agreements
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in
the consolidated balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right
to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a
net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
There were no material amounts offset in the balance sheet and no
material enforceable master netting agreements were identified.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 153
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
B Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2015, are summarised below:
Total fair value
2015 2014
Derivatives designated as hedges
Asset
US$m
Liability
US$m
Asset
US$m
Liability
US$m
Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts
(a)
5– 17 –
Interest rate swaps
(b)
189 (16) 189 –
Cross currency interest rate swaps
(c)
– (259) 11 (54)
Total derivatives designated as hedges 194 (275) 217 (54)
Derivatives not designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m
Currency forward contracts, options and swaps 13 – –(5)
Aluminium forward contracts
(d)
5 (22) 13 (20)
Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts
(a)
16 (1) 15 –
Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts
(a)
357 (2) 182 –
Other embedded derivatives 21 – 9–
Other commodity contracts – (24) –(2)
Total derivatives not designated as hedges 412 (49) 219 (27)
Total derivative instruments 606 (324) 436 (81)
Analysed by maturity:
Less than 1 year 78 (41) 43 (14)
Between 1 and 5 years 121 (144) 102 (13)
More than 5 years 407 (139) 291 (54)
Total 606 (324) 436 (81)
Total net derivative instruments 282 355
Reconciliation to balance sheet
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
– non-current assets (note 20) 529 393
– current assets (note 20) 77 43
– current liabilities (note 22) (41) (14)
– non-current liabilities (note 22) (283) (67)
Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 282 355
(a) Aluminium embedded derivatives (forward contracts and options) are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts. These
contracts reduce the Group’s margin exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
(b) The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate. For further details, see note 22.
(c) The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings. For further
details see note 22.
(d) The aluminium forward contracts are entered into to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash. In 2015, US$(6) million ineffective portion
arising from cash flow hedges was recognised in the income statement (2014: US$15 million).
The aluminium forward contracts which were taken out to convert aluminiumsalesmadeatafixedpricetoLMEcasharenotdesignatedashedgesas
they largely offset.
C Fair values
The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value
at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are shown in the following table. The fair values of the Group’s cash and loans to equity accounted
units approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Carrying
value
US$m
Fair
value
US$m
Carrying
value
US$m
Fair
value
US$m
Short term borrowings (note 22) (2,253) (2,255) (2,664) (2,711)
Medium and long term borrowings (note 22) (20,810) (20,302) (22,411) (23,657)
Borrowings with a carrying value of US$21.3 billion (2014: US$23.2
billion) relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$20.8 billion (2014:
US$24.5 billion) and are categorised as level 1 in the fair value
hierarchy. The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by
discounting estimated cash flows with an applicable market quoted yield
and are categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
154 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report C (a) Valuation hierarchy
The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2015:
Total
US$m
Level 1
(a)
US$m
Level 2
(b)
US$m
Level 3
(c)
US$m
Not held
at fair value
US$m
Assets
Equity shares and quoted funds (note 20) 157 87 7 10 53
Other investments, including loans
(d)
(note 20) 206 99 – 71 36
Trade receivables
(e)
1,370 – 12 – 1,358
1,733 186 19 81 1,447
Derivatives
(f)
Forward contracts: designated as hedges (Section B) 5–– 5 –
Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges (Section B) 363 – (7) 370 –
Derivatives related to net debt (Section B) (86) – (86) – –
2,015 186 (74) 456 1,447
The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2014:
Total
US$m
Level 1
(a)
US$m
Level 2
(b)
US$m
Level 3
(c)
US$m
Not held
at fair value
US$m
Assets
Equity shares and quoted funds (note 20) 199 56 85 12 46
Other investments, including loans
(d)
(note 20) 287 108 – 56 123
Trade receivables
(e)
2,488 12 – – 2,476
2,974 176 85 68 2,645
Derivatives
(f)
Forward contracts: designated as hedges (Section B) 17 – – 17 –
Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges (Section B) 192 (2) (3) 197 –
Derivatives related to net debt (Section B) 146 – 146 – –
3,329 174 228 282 2,645
(a) Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes listed equity shares and other
quoted funds.
(b) Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in
markets which are not considered to be active, or inputs, either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
(c) Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
(d) Other investments, including loans, comprise: cash deposits in rehabilitation funds, government bonds and royalty amounts receivable. The royalty receivables
are valued based on an estimate of forward sales subject to the royalty agreement.
(e) Trade receivables includes provisionally priced receivables relating to sales contracts where selling price is determined after delivery to the customer, based on
the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract. Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on the forward selling price
for the period stipulated in the contract.
(f) Level 3 derivatives consist of derivatives embedded in electricity purchase contracts linked to the LME with terms expiring between 2016 and 2030 (2014: 2015
and 2030). The embedded derivatives are measured using discounted cash flows and option model valuation techniques. Long-term embedded derivatives with
a fair value of US$370 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$196 million) are valued using significant unobservable inputs as the term of the derivative
extends beyond the forward curve for aluminium.
Aluminium prices are flatlined beyond the market forward curve and increased by projected inflation up to the date of expiry of the contract. The range of
market prices are US$2,044 per metric tonne in 2026 to US$2,242 in 2030 (2014: US$2,320 per metric tonne in 2025 to US$2,578 in 2030).
The other contracts with a fair value of US$5 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$18 million) are categorised as level three as the market premium
assumptions used represent unobservable inputs.
(g) Interest rate and currency interest rate swaps are valued using applicable market quoted swap yield curves adjusted for relevant basis and credit default
spreads. Currency interest rate swap valuations also use market quoted foreign exchange rates. A discounted cash flow approach is applied to the cash flows
derived from the inputs to determine fair value.
(h) There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2, or between Level 2 and Level 3 in the year ended 31 December 2015 or the year ended
31 December 2014.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 155
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
C (b) Level 3 Financial assets and Financial liabilities
The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Group’s Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended
31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
31 December 2015
Level 3 financial assets
and financial liabilities
31 December 2014
Level 3 financial assets
and financial liabilities
Opening balance 282 461
Currency translation adjustments (43) (17)
Total realised gains or (losses) included in:
– Net operating costs 6 (8)
Total unrealised gains included in:
– Net operating costs 196 18
Total unrealised gains or (losses) transferred into other comprehensive income 15 (5)
Additions – 8
Disposals/maturity of financial instruments – (175)
Closing balance 456 282
Total (losses)/gains for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held
at year end (15) (11)
Sensitivity analysis in respect of Level 3 derivatives
Forwardcontractsandoptionswhosecarryingvaluearevaluedusing
unobservable inputs are calculated using appropriate discounted
cashflow and option model valuation techniques. The most significant of
these assumptions relate to long term pricing wherein internal pricing
assumptions are used after the ten year LME curve. A ten per cent
increase in long term metal pricing assumptions would result in a
US$38 million (31 December 2014: US$39 million) decrease in carrying
value. A ten per cent decrease in long term metal pricing assumptions
would result in a US$39 million (31 December 2014: US$71 million)
increase in carrying value.
31 Contingencies and commitments
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Capital commitments excluding the Group’s share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments
Within 1 year 710 1,838
Between 1 and 3 years 98 96
Between 3 and 5 years 2 23
After 5 years 24 30
Total 834 1,987
Group’s share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments
Within 1 year 300 782
Between 1 and 3 years 57 331
Total 357 1,113
Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to
joint ventures
The Group has a commitment to purchase and market a portion (in
excess of the Group’s ownership interest) of the output of Sohar
Aluminium Company L.C.C., an aluminium smelter in which the Group is
a joint venturer. The Group immediately sells the purchased products to
third parties.
For Sohar Aluminium Company L.C.C. the Group, along with the other
joint venturers, has made various commitments to provide shareholder
funding as required, subject to approved thresholds.
In 2014, Minera Escondida Limitada held a shareholder line of credit for
US$225 million (Rio Tinto share) which was undrawn at 31 December
2014. This line of credit matured during the year ended 31 December
2015.
Operating leases
The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Within 1 year 400 429
Between 1 and 3 years 590 690
Between 3 and 5 years 443 460
After 5 years 745 766
2,178 2,345
156 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Purchase obligations
The aggregate amount of future payment commitments under purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Within 1 year 2,677 2,912
Between 1 and 2 years 2,269 2,434
Between 2 and 3 years 1,856 2,026
Between 3 and 4 years 1,519 1,660
Between 4 and 5 years 1,346 1,479
After 5 years 12,945 19,572
22,612 30,083
Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that
are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms,
including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased or consumed;
fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing
of the transactions.
Purchase obligations for goods primarily relate to purchases of raw
materials and consumables and purchase obligations for services
primarily relate to charges for use of infrastructure, commitments to
purchase power and freight contracts. These goods and services are
expected to be used in the business. To the extent that this changes a
provision for onerous obligations may be made as described in note 1(i).
Purchases from joint arrangements or associates are included to the
extent that the quantity purchased is in excess of Rio Tinto’s ownership
interest in the entity. However, purchase obligations exclude contracted
purchases of bauxite, alumina and aluminium from joint arrangements
and associates and contracted purchases of alumina from third parties as
the purchases are made for commercial reasons and the Group is,
overall, a net seller of these commodities.
In addition, as explained above, the Group has a commitment to
purchase and market a portion (in excess of the Group’s ownership
interest) of the output of Sohar Aluminium Company L.L.C.
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Contingent liabilities (subsidiaries and joint operations)
Indemnities and other performance guarantees
(a) (b)
226 239
(a) Indemnities and other performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the Group for the satisfaction of obligations including those under
contractual arrangements (for example undertakings related to supplier agreements) not provided for in the balance sheet, where the likelihood of the
guarantees or indemnities being called is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
(b) There were no material contingent liabilities arising in relation to the Group’s joint ventures and associates.
Marketing of iron ore is undertaken in the Singapore Commercial Centre
by Rio Tinto Iron Ore Asia Pte Ltd (RTIOA), which is remunerated on an
arm’slengthbasisbytheGroup’sironoreproductgroup.The
arrangements are under review by the Australian Tax Office (ATO). Rio
Tinto considers the arrangements to be in accordance with transfer
pricing law, and will therefore vigorously defend its position in the event
of any ATO challenge.
The Group is subject to certain legal proceedings, claims, complaints and
investigations arising out of the ordinary course of business. Legal
proceedings include, but are not limited to, breach of contract, breach of
environmental, competition, securities and health and safety laws. The
Group may not be insured fully, or at all, in respect of such risks. The
Group cannot predict the outcome of individual legal actions. The Group
may settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment
or determination of liability. The Group may do so to avoid the cost,
management efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational
consequences of continuing to contest liability, even when they believe
they have valid defences to liability. The Group believes that no material
loss to the Group is expected to result from these legal proceedings,
claims, complaints and investigations.
Guarantees by parent companies
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have, jointly and severally, fully and
unconditionally guaranteed the following securities issued by the
following 100 per cent owned finance subsidiaries: US$17.3 billion
(31 December 2014: US$18.5 billion) Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited
and Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds with maturity dates up to 2042;
and US$2.1 billion (31 December 2014: US$2.3 billion) on the European
Debt Issuance Programme. In addition, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio
Tinto Finance Limited have entered into facility arrangements for an
aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion (31 December 2014: US$7.5 billion).
The facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Contingent assets
The Group has, from time to time various insurance claims outstanding
with reinsurers. These include a claim relating to the Manefay slide
at Rio Tinto Kennecott in April 2013. An interim progress payment was
received on this claim in 2013 and a second in 2015. Further
receipts are considered probable but the amount cannot currently be
reliably estimated.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 157
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
32 Average number of employees
Subsidiaries and joint
operations
Equity accounted units
(Rio Tinto share) Group total
2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013
The principal locations of
employment were:
Australia and New Zealand 22,125 23,447 24,740 863 711 749 22,988 24,158 25,489
Canada 11,113 12,187 12,830 – –– 11,113 12,187 12,830
UK
(a)
542 649 780 – –– 542 649 780
Europe
(a)
2,312 2,850 3,430 – 88 2,427 2,312 2,938 5,857
Africa 5,651 5,699 6,787 1,271 1,560 1,505 6,922 7,259 8,292
US 3,439 3,503 4,039 – – 285 3,439 3,503 4,324
Mongolia 2,647 3,212 3,289 – –– 2,647 3,212 3,289
Indonesia 2,871 2,959 2,467 – –– 2,871 2,959 2,467
South America 192 356 511 1,317 1,509 1,409 1,509 1,865 1,920
Other countries
(b)
595 1,045 980 – – 103 595 1,045 1,083
51,487 55,907 59,853 3,451 3,868 6,478 54,938 59,775 66,331
(a) 2014 and 2013 comparative numbers are adjusted to conform with the 2015 presentation of Europe and the UK separately.
(b) “Other countries” primarily includes employees in the Middle East (excluding Oman), India, Singapore and other countries in Asia which are not shown
separately in the table above. For the year ended 31 December 2015, the average number of employees in Singapore was 212 and the average number of
employees in India was 232.
Employee numbers, which represent the average for the year, include 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies. Employee numbers for
joint operations and equity accounted units are proportional to the Group’s interest under contractual agreements. Average employee numbers
include a part-year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time-equivalent basis. Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
158 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 33 Principal subsidiaries
At 31 December 2015
Company and country of incorporation/
operation Principal activities
Class of shares
held
Proportion
of class
held (%)
Group
interest
(%)
Non-controlling
interest(%)
Australia
Argyle Diamonds Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 –
Coal & Allied Industries Limited
(a)
Coal mining Ordinary 80 80 20
Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.36 68.36 31.64
Energy Resources of Australia Ltd Uranium mining Ordinary 68.39 68.39 31.61
Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 –
North Mining Limited
(c)
Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 –
Queensland Coal Pty Limited
(b)
Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 –
Rio Tinto Aluminium (Holdings) Limited Bauxite mining; alumina production;
primary aluminium smelting Ordinary 100 100 –
Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd
(c)
Iron ore mining
Class A 40
60 40
Class B 73.61
Brazil
Alcan Alumina Ltda.
(d)
Alumina production and bauxite
mining Quota 100 100 –
Canada
Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation Uranium projects Common 100 100 –
Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc.
(e)
Iron ore mining; iron ore pellets Common 58.72 58.72 41.28
Common 100 100 –
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock; high
purity iron and steel Class B preference 100 100 –
CAD 0.01 preferred 100 100 –
Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining; alumina refining;
aluminium smelting Common 100 100 –
Class A, B, C 100 100 –
Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals
Canada Holding Inc.
(f)
Diamond mining and processing
Class P1 preferred 100 100 –
Guinea
Simfer Jersey Limited
(g)
Iron ore project Ordinary 53 53 47
Madagascar
QIT Madagascar Minerals SA
(h)
Ilmenite mining Common 80 80
15
Investment certificates 100 100
Voting Certificates 80 80 20
Mongolia
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd (including
Oyu Tolgoi LLC)
(i)
Copper and gold mining Common 50.79 50.79 49.21
Namibia
Rössing Uranium Limited
(j)
Uranium mining
B N$1 71.22
68.62 31.38
C N10c 70.59
South Africa
Richards Bay Titanium (Proprietary)
Limited
(k)
Titanium dioxide/high purity iron
production
B Ordinary 100 74 26
B preference 100
Parent Preference 100
B Ordinary 100 74 26
Richards Bay Mining (Proprietary)
Limited
(k)
Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining B preference 100
Parent Preference 100
United States of America
Kennecott Holdings Corporation
(including Kennecott Utah Copper,
Kennecott Land and Kennecott
Exploration)
Copper and gold mining, smelting
and refining, land development and
exploration activities
Common US$0.01 100 100 –
U.S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of
borates
Common US$0.10 100 100 –
This list includes only those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group. Refer to note 47 for a list of related
undertakings.
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 159
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
33 Principal subsidiaries continued
(a) Of the Group’s 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied Industries Limited, an indirect share of 4.29 per cent is held through its investment in an equity accounted
unit. Coal & Allied forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
Through a series of intermediate companies, Coal & Allied held interests in Bengalla (40 per cent, pending completion of sale to New Hope Corporation which is
anticipated to be in Q1 2016), Mount Thorley (80 per cent) and Warkworth (55.6 per cent) as at 31 December 2015. The Group’s beneficial interests were
therefore: Bengalla: 32 per cent; Mount Thorley: 64 per cent; Warkworth: 44.5 per cent. These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities. The Group
recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements. Coal & Allied also owns 100 per cent of Hunter Valley
Operations.
In February 2016, the restructuring of the Coal and Allied group completed. As a result Rio Tinto now has a 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries
Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and in Hunter Valley Resources Pty Ltd. Mitsubishi is now a joint venture participant in the Hunter Valley Operations
Joint Venture.
(b) Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that holds the Group’s interests in Hail Creek (82 per cent), Blair Athol (71.2 per cent) and Kestrel
(80 per cent). These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities; the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating
to these arrangements. Queensland Coal forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
(c) Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd (which is 60 per cent owned by the Group) holds a 30 per cent interest in Robe River Iron Associates (Robe River). North Mining Ltd
(which is wholly owned by the Group) holds a 35 per cent interest in Robe River. Through these companies the Group recognises a 65 per cent share of the
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of Robe River, with a 12 per cent non-controlling interest. The Group therefore has a 53 per cent beneficial interest in
Robe River.
(d) Alcan Alumina Ltda holds the Group’s 10 per cent interest in Consórcio De Alumínio Do Maranhão, a joint operation in which the Group participates but is not a
joint operator. The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to this arrangement.
(e) Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. is incorporated in the United States of America, but operates in Canada.
(f) Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada Holdings Inc. is the legal entity that owns the Group’s 60 per cent interest in the Diavik Diamond Mine (Diavik), an
unincorporated arrangement that is not an entity. The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to this arrangement.
(g) Simfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has an 87.88 per cent interest in Simfer S.A. the
company that operates the Simandou mining project in Guinea. The Group therefore has a 46.58 per cent indirect interest in Simfer S.A. These entities are
consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore project.
(h) The Group’s shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries an 80 per cent economic interest and 80 per cent of the total voting rights; a further
5 per cent economic interest is held through non-voting investment certificates to give an economic interest of 85 per cent. The non-controlling interests have a
15 per cent economic interest and 20 per cent of the total voting rights.
(i) The Group obtained a controlling interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd (formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited) on 24 January 2012. Ivanhoe was renamed Turquoise
Hill Resources Ltd (Turquoise Hill) on 2 August 2012. The Group has a 50.79 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill, which holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi
(OT) which is subsidiary of Turquoise Hill. The Group therefore has a 33.5 per cent indirect interest in OT. Turquoise Hill is incorporated in Canada but operates
principally in Mongolia.
(j) The Group’s shareholding in Rössing Uranium Limited holds 35.57 per cent of the total voting rights; the non-controlling interests hold 64.43 per cent of the
total voting rights. Rössing is consolidated by virtue of the Group’s board control. The Government of Namibia has the ability to veto matters that are considered
not to be in the interest of Namibia, this is considered to be a protective right. Rio Tinto therefore has control of Rössing and consolidates it as a subsidiary.
(k) Additional classes of shares issued by Richards Bay Titanium (Proprietary) Limited and Richards Bay Mining (Proprietary) Limited representing non-controlling
interests are not shown. The Group’s total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium (Proprietary) Limited and Richards Bay Mining (Proprietary)
Limited is 74 per cent.
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group
This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis. It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries’ financial statements
prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
Iron Ore
Company of
Canada
2015
US$m
Iron Ore
Company of
Canada
2014
US$m
Energy
Resources of
Australia
(c)
2015
US$m
Energy
Resources of
Australia
( c )
2014
US$m
Simandou
(a)(c)
2015
US$m
Simandou
(a)
2014
US$m
Turquoise
Hill
(b)
2015
US$m
Turquoise
Hill
(b)
2014
US$m
Revenue 1,353 1,696 245 345 – – 1,636 1,765
Profit/(loss) after tax (12) 222 (412) (167) (1,955) (334) 215 (156)
– attributable to non-controlling interests (4) 93 (132) (54) (974) (171) 76 (164)
– attributable to Rio Tinto (8) 129 (280) (113) (981) (163) 139 8
Other comprehensive loss (341) (192) (21) (38) – – 7 (34)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (353) 30 (433) (205) (1,955) (334) 222 (190)
Non-current assets 2,325 2,944 89 565 – 1,769 7,712 8,337
Current assets 412 442 363 372 18 53 1,728 1,382
Current liabilities (261) (332) (94) (75) (78) (36) (322) (409)
Non-current liabilities (724) (949) (355) (427) (19) (16) (167) (595)
Net assets 1,752 2,105 3 435 (79) 1,770 8,951 8,715
– attributable to non-controlling interests 724 871 1 138 (44) 877 4,075 4,010
– attributable to Rio Tinto 1,028 1,234 2 297 (35) 893 4,876 4,705
Cashflow from operations 206 506 56 (61) (59) (98) 658 864
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – (120) – – – – – –
(a) These figures represent the consolidated position of both Simfer Jersey and Simfer S.A. which together form the Simandou Iron Ore project.
(b) Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd holds controlling interests in Oyu Tolgoi. Turquoise Hill’s rights issue at the beginning of 2014 increased non-controlling interests
by US$1,158 million.
(c) These include impairment adjustments recognised by Rio Tinto. Refer to note 6 on page 130 for further information.
160 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Robe River
Mining Co
Pty
2015
US$m
Robe River
Mining
Co Pty
2014
US$m
Other
companies
and
eliminations
(c)
2015
US$m
Other
companies
and
eliminations
(c)
2014
US$m
Robe River
2015
US$m
Robe River
2014
US$m
Revenue 976 1,687 1,133 1,968 2,109 3,655
Profit/(loss) after tax 615 766 203 1,036 818 1,802
– attributable to non-controlling interests 176 300 – – 176 300
– attributable to Rio Tinto 439 466 203 1,036 642 1,502
Other comprehensive loss (107) (364) (578) (187) (685) (551)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 508 402 (375) 849 133 1,251
Non-current assets 2,935 4,444 4,154 5,296 7,089 9,740
Current assets 602 73 (10) 86 592 159
Current liabilities (105) (112) (247) (271) (352) (383)
Non-current liabilities (60) (289) (2,120) (2,969) (2,180) (3,258)
Net assets 3,372 4,116 1,777 2,142 5,149 6,258
– attributable to no- controlling interests 1,347 1,620 – – 1,347 1,620
– attributable to Rio Tinto 2,025 2,496 1,777 2,142 3,802 4,638
Cashflow from operations 798 1,438 733 1,578 1,531 3,016
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (271) (181) – – (271) (181)
(c) “Other companies and eliminations” includes North Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group which accounts for its interest in Robe River and
goodwill of US$363 million (2014: US$409 million) that arose on acquisition of the Group’s interest in Robe River. During 2015 the branch of North Mining
Limited and the company were combined, in 2014 only the branch of North Mining Limited is presented.
34 Principal joint operations
Company and country of incorporation/operation Principal activities
Group
interest (%)
Australia
Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6
Kestrel
(a)
Coal mining 80
Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1
Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50
Queensland Alumina Limited
(b) (c)
Alumina production 80
New Zealand
New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited
(b) (c)
Aluminium smelting 79.4
Canada
Alouette Aluminium production 40
Indonesia
Grasberg expansion
(d)
Copper and gold mining 40
United States of America
Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc
(c) (e)
Aluminium smelting 50.3
This list includes only those joint operations that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group. Refer to note 47 for a
list of related undertakings.
The Group’s joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
(a) Although the Group has an 80 per cent interest share in the Kestrel Joint Venture, decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are
generated require agreement of both parties to the Joint Venture Agreement, giving rise to the joint control.
(b) Although the Group has a 79.4 per cent interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and an 80 per cent interest in Queensland Alumina Limited,
decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint
control.
(c) Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. are joint arrangements that are primarily designed
for the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control; this indicates that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the parties; this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have
obligations for the liabilities. It is these facts and circumstances that give rise to the classification for these entities as joint operations.
(d) Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments
of the Grasberg facilities since 1998.
(e) Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie de Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 161
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
35 Principal joint ventures
At 31 December 2015
Company and country of
incorporation/operation Principal activities
Number of
shares held
Class of
shares
held
Proportion
of class
held (%)
Group
interest
(%)
Chile
Minera Escondida Limitada
(a)
Copper mining and refining –– 30 30
Oman
Sohar Aluminium Company L.L.C.
(b)
Aluminium smelting/power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20
This list includes only those joint ventures that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group. Refer to note 47 for a list
of related undertakings.
The Group’s principal joint ventures are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
(a) Although the Group has a 30 per cent interest in Minera Escondida Limitada, participant and management agreements provides for an Owners’ Council whereby
significant commercial and operational decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated in effect require the joint
approval of both Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton (holders of a 57.5 per cent interest). It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto participates in joint control.
The year-end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June. The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are, however, based on
accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
(b) Although the Group holds a 20 per cent interest in Sohar Aluminium Company L.L.C., decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that
are generated require agreement of all parties to the arrangement. It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto participates in joint control.
Summary information for joint ventures that are material to the Group
This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis. It represents the amounts shown in the joint ventures’ financial statements
prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Minera
Escondida
Limitada
(c)
2015
US$m
Minera
Escondida
Limitada
(c)
2014
US$m
Sohar
Aluminium
Company
L.L.C.
(c)
2015
US$m
Sohar
Aluminium
Company
L.L.C.
(c)
2014
US$m
Rio Tinto
Benga
(Mauritius)
Limited
(d)
2015
US$m
Rio Tinto
Benga
(Mauritius)
Limited
2014
US$m
Revenue 6,184 7,607 665 675 – 91
Depreciation and amortisation (977) (1,027) (135) (135) – –
Other operating costs (3,777) (3,237) (445) (450) – (220)
Operating profit/(loss) 1,430 3,343 85 90 – (129)
Finance expense (20) (33) (20) (20) – (11)
Income tax (533) (1,237) 5 (5) – –
Profit/(loss) after tax 877 2,073 70 65 – (140)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 877 2,073 70 65 – (140)
Non-current assets 13,761 12,093 3,400 3,515 – –
Current assets 2,177 2,453 255 270 – –
Current liabilities (2,303) (1,567) (240) (330) – –
Non-current liabilities (2,223) (2,170) (1,480) (1,590) – –
Net assets 11,412 10,809 1,935 1,865 – –
Assets and liabilities above include:
Cash and cash equivalents 197 263 10 15 – –
Current financial liabilities (1,223) (203) (170) (260) – –
Non-current financial liabilities (1,200) (1,060) (1,320) (1,405) – –
Dividends received from joint venture (Rio Tinto share) 401 251 – – – –
162 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Reconciliation of the above amounts to the Investment recognised in the Group balance sheet
Group interest 30% 30% 20% 20%
(d) (d)
Net assets 11,412 10,809 1,935 1,865 – –
Group’s ownership interest 3,424 3,243 387 373 – –
Other adjustments (11) (6) – –– –
Carrying value of Group’s interest 3,413 3,237 387 373 – –
(c) In addition to its “Investment in equity accounted unit”, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities of US$582 million (2014: US$546 million) relating to tax on
unremitted earnings.
(d) On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other projects in the Tete province of
Mozambique. See note 37.
36 Principal associates
At 31 December 2015
Company and country of incorporation/operation Principal activities
Number of
shares held
Class of
shares
held
Proportion
of class
held (%)
Group
interest
(%)
Australia
BoyneSmeltersLimited
(a)
Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4
Brasil
Mineração Rio do Norte S.A.
(b)
Bauxite mining
25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5
12
47,000,000 Preferred 11.8
United States of America
Halco (Mining) Inc (c) 4,500 Common 45 45
This list includes only those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group. Refer to note 47 for a list of
related undertakings.
The Group’s principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
(a) The parties that collectively control Boyne Smelters Limited do so through decisions that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved
by several combinations of the parties. Although each combination requires Rio Tinto’s approval, this is not joint control as defined under IFRS 11. Rio Tinto is
therefore determined to have significant influence over this company.
(b) Although the Group holds only 12 per cent of Mineraçao Rio do Norte S.A., it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate
in the financial and operating policy decisions. It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has significant influence.
(c) Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinée, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
Summary information for associates that are material to the Group
This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis. It represents the amounts shown in the associate’s financial statements
prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Boyne
Smelters
Limited
(d)
2015
US$m
Boyne
Smelters
Limited
(d)
2014
US$m
Revenue (10) –
Profit after tax 40 1,072
Other comprehensive loss
(e)
(91) (82)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (51) 990
Non-current assets
(f)
1,525 1,813
Current assets 64 86
Current liabilities (106) (108)
Non-current liabilities (1,069) (1,369)
Net assets 414 422
(d) Boyne Smelters Limited is a tolling operation; as such it is dependent on its participants for funding which is provided through cash calls. Rio Tinto Aluminium
has made certain prepayments to Boyne for toll processing of alumina. These are charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
(e) “Other comprehensive loss” is net of amounts recognised by subsidiaries in relation to quasi equity loans.
(f) In 2014, a post-tax impairment reversal of US$589 million was recorded. See note 6.
Group interest 59.4% 59.4%
Net assets 414 422
Group’s ownership interest 246 251
Loans to equity accounted units 183 228
Carrying value of Group’s interest 429 479
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 163
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
36 Principal associates continued
Summary information for joint ventures and associates that are not individually material to the Group
Joint
ventures
2015
US$m
Joint
ventures
2014
US$m
Associates
2015
US$m
Associates
2014
US$m
Carrying value of Group’s interest 10 403 702 749
Profit after tax – 16 60 30
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 15 (30) (43) (14)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 15 (14) 17 16
37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses
Acquisitions
Therewerenomaterialacquisitionsduringtheyearsended
31 December 2015, 2014 and 2013.
2015 disposals
On 23 April 2015, Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd completed the block sale
of 48.7 million common shares in SouthGobi Resources Ltd and with
further divestments has reduced its interest to below 20 per cent. As at
31 December 2015 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd’s interest in SouthGobi
Resources Ltd is no longer consolidated as a subsidiary and has been
classified as an available for sale investment.
On 17 June 2015, Rio Tinto disposed of its 77.8 per cent interest in
Murowa Diamonds and 50 per cent interest in Sengwa Colliery Ltd
(Sengwa) to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited.
Rio Tinto completed the sale of ECL to Fives on 9 July 2015 and the sale
of Alesa to Groupe Reel on 24 November 2015.
Disposals in the cash flow statement are presented net of cash on
disposal and after adjusting for working capital and other items as
specified under the relevant sale agreements.
2014 disposals
On 29 May 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50.1 per cent
interest in the Clermont Joint Venture to GS Coal for US$1,015 million
(before finalisation of net debt and working capital adjustments). The net
assets and liabilities of Clermont were included within assets and
liabilities of disposal groups held for sale in the Group balance sheet at
31 December 2013.
On7October2014,RioTintocompletedthesaleofRioTintoCoal
Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other
projects in the Tete province of Mozambique, to International Coal
Ventures Private Limited for US$50 million (before net debt and working
capital adjustments).
Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50 per cent share in Søral to
Norsk Hydro Aluminium ASA on 31 October 2014 and the sale of its
46.67 per cent share in Alucam to the Government of Cameroon on
31 December 2014.
On 26 May 2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project partners signed an
Investment Framework with the Government of Guinea and agreed to
transfer an equity interest in Simfer S.A., to the state. The arrangement
allows the Government of Guinea to acquire equity interests of up to
25 per cent of Simfer S.A. at a discount to fair value, and a further
10 per cent at full fair value. Arrangements to transfer an interest in a
subsidiary undertaking at a discount to fair value are considered to be a
share-based payment. The discount provided or value given on the
25 per cent interest in Simfer S.A. was calculated in accordance with
IFRS 2 “Share-based payment” as a loss of US$230 million.
The first tranche of shares comprising 7.5 per cent non-contributory
shares was transferred free of charge to the Government of Guinea on
26 May 2014. A second tranche comprising 10 per cent Ordinary
Contributory Shares may be acquired at any time for a pro rata share of
historical mining cost. The third tranche of shares comprising
7.5 per cent non-contributory shares may be transferred at any time
after 22 April 2016 free of charge. The remaining two tranches of
5 per cent ordinary contributing chares may be acquired by the
Government of Guinea at market value at any time after 22 April 2026
and 22 April 2031 respectively.
2013 disposals
On 1 December 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 80 per cent
interest in Northparkes Mine to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd for
considerationofUS$820million.
On 23 May 2013, the initial public offering of Constellium (formerly Alcan
Engineered Products) was launched, resulting in Rio Tinto reducing its
holding from 36.6 per cent to 27.5 per cent. Rio Tinto subsequently
divested the remainder of its holding in two further tranches. Total
consideration from these transactions was US$671 million, inclusive
of a special dividend and proceeds from sale of Rio Tinto’s equity
shareholding, which are included within dividends from equity
accounted units and sales of financial assets respectively in the Group’s
cash flow statement.
On 31 July 2013 Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 57.7 per cent interest
in Palabora Mining Company for US$373 million. The purchaser was a
consortium comprising South African and Chinese entities led by the
Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa and Hebei Iron &
Steel Group.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd, a 50.8 per cent owned subsidiary of Rio
Tinto, completed the sale of its 50 per cent interest in Altynalmas Gold
and 57 per cent interest in Inova Resources Limited on 29 November
2013 and 1 November 2013 respectively. Sumeru Gold B.V.
(consideration paid of US$ 235 million) and Shanxi Donghui Coal
Coking & Chemicals Group Co. (consideration paid of US$81 million)
were the respective buyers.
On 17 July 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest
in the Eagle nickel-copper project to Lundin Mining Corporation for
considerationofUS$315million.
164 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 38 Directors’ and key management remuneration
Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows:
2015
US$000
Restated
2014
US$000
Restated
2013
US$000
Emoluments 10,590 11,090 14,061
Long-term incentive plans 2,118 3,444 7,225
12,708 14,534 21,286
Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 52 55 108
Gainsmadeonexerciseofshareoptions 1 – 5,888
The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and
members of the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee
comprises the executive directors, product group chief executive officers
and Group executives.
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its
directors was US$6,385,000 (2014: US$6,653,000; 2013:
US$11,451,000). The aggregate pension contribution to defined
contribution plans was US$52,000 (2014: US$55,000; 2013: US$44,000).
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and other
retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its
directors was US$6,375,000 (2014: US$9,796,000; 2013:
US$6,437,000). The aggregate pension contribution to defined
contribution plans was US$nil (2014: US$nil; 2013: US$64,000).
During 2015, one director (2014: one; 2013: three) accrued retirement
benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director (2014:
one; 2013: two) accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution
arrangements.
Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local
currency at the average exchange rate for the year with the exception of
bonus payments which, together with amounts payable under long term
incentive plans, have been translated at the year-end rate.
Detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, shareholdings
and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to 3,
on pages 70 to 104.
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under IFRS, as defined in note 1, of the Group’s key management, including directors,
wasasfollows:
2015
US$000
2014
US$000
2013
US$000
Short-term employee benefits and costs 25,616 30,137 30,696
Post-employment benefits 1,049 1,449 2,741
Share-based payments 17,566 19,676 26,392
44,231 51,262 59,829
The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise
social security and accident premiums in Canada, the UK and US and
payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost
of hire. In total, they amount to US$2,320,000 (2014: US$2,870,000;
2013: US$2,897,000) and although disclosed here, are not included in
table 1 of the Remuneration report.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key
management is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to
3 on pages 70 to 104.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 165
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
39 Auditors’ remuneration
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Group Auditors’ remuneration
(a)
Audit of the company 4.3 4.0 3.8
Audit of subsidiaries 10.1 10.7 11.5
Total audit 14.4 14.7 15.3
Audit related assurance services 0.9 1.1 1.2
Other assurance services
(b)
0.9 1.0 3.0
Total assurance services 1.8 2.1 4.2
Tax compliance
(c)
0.5 0.4 0.5
Tax advisory services
(c)
0.4 0.5 0.4
Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above
– services in connection with bond issues/capital raising 0.2 0.1 0.4
– services in connection with divestment programme – –0.5
Other non-audit services not covered above 1.1 0.3 0.4
Total non-audit services 2.2 1.3 2.2
18.4 18.1 21.7
Audit fees payable to other accounting firms
Audit of the financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries 1.9 2.7 3.0
Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.2 0.4 0.3
2.1 3.1 3.3
(a) The remuneration payable to PwC, the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee. The committee sets the policy for the award of non-audit work to
the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained. The fees
disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member firms of PwC by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the
payments made by joint operations. Non-audit services arise largely from assurance and/or regulation related work.
(b) Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements and sustainability assurance.
(c) “Taxation services” includes tax compliance and advisory services. Tax compliance involves the review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services include advice on non-recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
40 Related-party transactions
Information about material related-party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below:
Subsidiary companies and joint operations
Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33. Information relating to joint operations can be found in note 34.
Equity accounted units
Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below. Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables
relate largely to amounts charged by equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina and purchasing of bauxite and aluminium. Sales relate
largely to sales of alumina to equity accounted units for smelting into aluminium.
Income statement items
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Purchases from equity accounted units (1,249) (1,835) (1,953)
Sales to equity accounted units 307 625 1,569
Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m
Net funding of equity accounted units 11 (117) (88)
Balance sheet items US$m US$m US$m
Investments in equity accounted units (note 15)
(a)
4,941 4,868 3,957
Loans to equity accounted units (note 20) 42 71 94
Loans from equity accounted units (note 22) (37) (52) (86)
Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units (note 18) 315 423 615
Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units (note 25) (231) (225) (290)
(a) Investments in equity accounted units include quasi equity loans. Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36.
166 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Pension funds
Information relating to pension fund arrangements is set out in note 45.
Directors and key management
Details of directors’ and key management remuneration are set out in note 38 and in the Remuneration report on pages 70 to 104.
41 Exchange rates in US$
The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2015 financial statements were:
Full-year average Year end
2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013
Sterling 1.53 1.65 1.56 1.48 1.56 1.65
Australian dollar 0.75 0.90 0.97 0.73 0.82 0.89
Canadian dollar 0.78 0.91 0.97 0.72 0.86 0.94
Euro 1.11 1.33 1.33 1.09 1.22 1.38
South African rand 0.079 0.092 0.104 0.064 0.086 0.096
42 Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL)
The Group owns 53.83 per cent of the issued share capital of BCL. Mining
has been suspended at the Panguna mine since 1989. Safe access by
company employees has not been possible since that time and an
accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be
made. Considerable funding would be required to recommence
operations to the level which applied at the time of the mine’s closure in
1989. An Order of Magnitude study completed by BCL in 2013 indicated
an estimated capital requirement of US$5.2 billion to reopen the mine
assuming all site infrastructure is replaced. Rio Tinto does not have
control over BCL under IFRS, as defined in note 1, as it does not
have the current ability to direct the activities that affect its returns,
being the mining and sale of ore from the Panguna mine; it is therefore
not a subsidiary.
In August 2014 the Group announced a strategic review of all options in
relation to the 53.83 per cent stake in BCL. That review remains ongoing.
43 Events after the balance sheet date
On January 27, 2016 the Group announced it had reached a binding
agreement for the sale of its Mount Pleasant thermal coal assets to
MACH Energy Australia Pty Ltd for US$224 million plus royalties.
The agreement includes a payment on completion of US$83 million,
two unconditional deferred payments of US$58 million respectively
payable eight and 16 months from completion, a conditional payment
of US$25 million, and royalties, payable quarterly at two per cent of
gross FOB revenue for coal sold from the first 625 million tonnes of run
of mine coal (equivalent to 474 million tonnes of marketable reserves)
when prices exceed US$72 tonne. The proceeds of the sale will be used
for general corporate purposes.
The restructure of Coal & Allied Industries Limited, which was announced
on 30 September 2015, completed on 3 February 2016. The restructure
involved the exchange of a 32.4 per cent interest in Hunter Valley
Operations mine for a 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied
Industries Limited. As a 100 percent owner of Coal & Allied, Rio Tinto:
• holds a 67.6 per cent interest with management rights in the
Hunter Valley Operations mine;
• holds interests of 80 per cent and 55.6 per cent respectively, with
management rights, in the integrated Mount Thorley and
Warkworth operations;
• holds a 100 per cent interest in the Mount Pleasant project (sale
agreed); and
• holds 100 percent interest in Coal & Allied Limited’s wholly
owned subsidiaries and in Hunter Valley.
Mitsubishi is now a joint venture participant in the Hunter Valley
Operations Joint Operation.
The sale of the Bengalla coal Joint Venture in Australia to New Hope
Corporation Limited for consideration of A$865 million (before net debt
and working capital adjustments) completed on 1 March 2016. As a
result of Rio Tinto’s assumption of 100 per cent of Coal & Allied, the
Group will receive all the proceeds from the sale of Bengalla.
Except as disclosed above, no significant events were identified after the
balance sheet date.
44 Share based payments
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a number of share-based incentive plans, which are described in detail in the remuneration report. These
plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”.
The charge that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tinto’s share-based incentive plans, and the related liability (for cash-settled
plans),issetoutinthetablebelow.
Charge recognised for the year
Liability at the
end of the year
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Equity-settled plans 128 152 142 – –
Cash-settled plans – –– 1 1
Total 128 152 142 1 1
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 167
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
44 Share-based payments continued
The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows:
Share Savings Plans
Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for
accordingly. The fair value of each award on the day of grant was
estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including
allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
Awards are no longer granted under the Share Savings Plans as
these plans were replaced by the Global Employee Share Plans in
2012. Charges will continue to be incurred until prior period awards
have vested.
Share Option Plans
TheGrouphasapolicyofsettlingawardsmadeundertheShareOption
Plans in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash
alternative. The awards are accounted for in accordance with the
requirements applying to equity-settled, share-based payment
transactions. The performance conditions in relation to total shareholder
return (TSR) have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for
these awards by modelling the correlation between Rio Tinto’s TSR and
that of the Euromoney Global Mining Index, formerly the HSBC Global
Mining Index. The relationship between Rio Tinto’s TSR and the index
was simulated many thousands of times to derive a distribution which, in
conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to
determinethefairvalueoftheoptions.
Awards are no longer granted under the Share Option Plans as the long
term incentive plan arrangements have been simplified and awards are
nowonlymadeunderthePerformanceSharePlans.Allchargeshave
been incurred as the remaining unvested awards vested during 2015.
UK Share Plan (formerly the Share Ownership Plan)
The fair values of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto plc are
takentobethemarketvalueofthesharesonthedateofpurchase.
These awards are settled in equity.
Performance Share Plans
Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their awards
and therefore the awards are accounted for in accordance with the
requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment
transactions.
For the awards or parts of awards with TSR performance conditions, the
fair value of the awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation
model taking into account the TSR performance conditions. One-third of
the awards issued since 2013 must satisfy an earnings target relative to
ten global mining comparators for vesting. As this is a non-market
related performance condition, under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is
reviewed at each accounting date based on the directors’ expectations
for the proportion vesting. As at 31 December 2015 it was assumed
100 per cent of awards subject to the condition would vest. Forfeitures
prior to vesting are assumed at three per cent per annum of outstanding
awards (2014: three per cent per annum).
Management Share Plans
The Management Share Plans were introduced in 2007 to provide
conditional share-based awards to management. The vesting of these
awards is dependent on service conditions being met. In general, the
awards will be settled in equity, including the dividends accumulated
from date of award to vesting. The awards are accounted for in
accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-
based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to the share
price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of
dividends. Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at seven per cent
per annum of outstanding awards (2014: seven per cent per annum).
Bonus Deferral Plans
The Bonus Deferral Plans were originally introduced in 2009 for the
mandatory deferral of the 2008 bonuses for executive directors, product
group executives and for other executives. Additional Bonus Deferral
Awards have been made each year since 2011 (made in respect of the
2010 bonus) for the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonuses for
executive directors and product group executives and 25 per cent of the
bonuses for other executives.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions
being met. In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the
dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting. The awards are
accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-
settled share-based payment transactions. The fair value of each award
onthedayofgrantisequaltothesharepriceonthedayofgrantlessa
small adjustment for the timing of dividends vesting. Forfeitures prior to
vesting are assumed at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards
(2014: three per cent per annum).
Global Employee Share Plans
TheGlobalEmployeeSharePlanswereintroducedin2012.The
Companies provide matching shares for each share purchased. The
vesting of these matching awards is dependent on service conditions
being met. These awards are settled in equity. The fair value of each
matching share on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the
date of purchase. Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at five per
cent per annum of outstanding awards (2014: five per cent per annum).
Summary of options outstanding
A summary of the status of the Companies’ equity-settled share option plans (Share Savings Plans and Share Option Plans) at 31 December 2015 is
presented below.
Options outstanding at 31 December 2015 Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price per
option £/A$
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life Years
Aggregate
intrinsic
value
2015
US$m
Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan (exercise price £24 – £29) 53,375 £ 28.06 1.1 –
Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan (exercise price A$55 – A$60) 141,782 A$56.97 1.1 –
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan (exercise price £16 – £43) 756,276 £ 31.82 4.7 1
Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan (exercise price A$33 – A$77) 371,353 A$54.37 2.7 1
1,322,786 2
As at 31 December 2014 there were 2,798,923 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$16 million.
Options exercisable at 31 December 2015
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan (exercise price £16 – £43) 756,276 £ 31.82 4.7 1
Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan (exercise price A$33 – A$77) 371,353 A$54.37 2.7 1
1,127,629 2
168 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report As at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, there were no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share
Savings Plans.
The Management Share Plans, Performance Share Plans, Bonus Deferral Plans, Global Employee Share Plans and UK Share Plan together represent
99 per cent (2014: 93 per cent) of the total IFRS 2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans in 2015.
Performance Share Plans
Rio Tinto plc awards Rio Tinto Limited awards
2015
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2015
£
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2014
£
2015
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2015
A$
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2014
A$
Non-vested shares at 1 January 2,928,001 24.05 3,161,952 27.91 2,024,876 45.87 2,023,519 53.29
Awarded 912,883 19.59 950,148 22.73 523,259 39.28 626,072 44.40
Forfeited (171,310) 20.04 (230,496) 20.98 (80,207) 39.44 (127,726) 40.31
Failed performance conditions (175,554) 31.17 (233,736) 36.33 (109,808) 62.04 (124,431) 75.65
Vested (505,566) 31.19 (719,867) 36.27 (309,297) 62.03 (372,558) 75.66
Non-vested shares at 31 December 2,988,454 21.29 2,928,001 24.05 2,048,823 41.13 2,024,876 45.87
2015
Number
Weighted
average
share
price
2015
£
2014
Number
Weighted
average
share
price
2014
£
2015
Number
Weighted
average
share
price
2015
A$
2014
Number
Weighted
average
share
price
2014
A$
Vested awards settled in shares
during the year 481,360 29.44 719,867 33.24 288,803 58.59 355,548 65.98
Vested awards settled in cash during
the year 24,206 29.44 –– 20,494 58.59 17,010 65.98
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 4,053 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2015
(2014:1,261 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding). The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2015 was less than US$1 million
(2014: less than US$1 million).
Management Share Plans, Bonus Deferral Plans, Global Employee Share Plans and UK Share Plan (combined)
Rio Tinto plc awards Rio Tinto Limited awards
2015
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2015
£
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2014
£
2015
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2015
A$
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2014
A$
Non-vested awards at 1 January 2,747,346 31.31 2,277,219 32.72 2,579,081 59.83 2,058,902 61.64
Awarded 1,452,429 28.15 1,420,588 31.87 1,352,526 56.37 1,357,091 61.74
Forfeited (239,018) 29.41 (191,039) 30.67 (200,278) 57.48 (206,134) 58.86
Vested (749,030) 32.51 (759,422) 36.70 (737,933) 61.19 (630,778) 70.93
Non-vested shares at 31 December 3,211,727 29.70 2,747,346 30.89 2,993,396 58.09 2,579,081 59.83
Comprising of:
– Management Share Plan 1,778,043 29.62 1,807,727 32.16 1,629,390 58.09 1,638,119 59.46
– Bonus Deferral Plan 274,965 29.99 202,651 33.58 211,341 59.78 199,724 58.24
–GlobalEmployeeSharePlan 1,078,327 29.72 693,230 31.57 1,152,665 57.79 741,238 61.08
–UKSharePlan 80,392 30.17 43,738 31.82
2015
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2015
£
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2014
£
2015
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2015
A$
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
date
2014
A$
Vested awards settled in shares
during the year (including dividend
shares applied on vesting)
– Management Share Plan 633,690 27.14 631,359 31.84 564,679 53.44 461,835 63.70
– Bonus Deferral Plan 126,997 22.57 144,916 29.44 121,205 45.21 128,528 58.48
–GlobalEmployeeSharePlan 68,422 24.91 42,910 31.10 76,446 52.93 32,780 60.70
–UKSharePlan 4,687 25.25 4,096 32.77
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 169
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 26,576 Rio Tinto plc and 7,684 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding at
31 December 2015 (2014: 16,985 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding). The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2015 was less
than US$1 million (2014: less than US$1 million).
45 Post-retirement benefits
Description of plans
The Group operates a number of pension and post-retirement healthcare plans around the world. Some of these plans are defined contribution and
some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks:
Uncertainty in benefit payments The value of the Group’s liabilities for post-retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of
benefits paid out. This in turn will depend on the level of future pay increases, the level of inflation (for
those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection) and how long individuals live.
Volatility in asset values The Group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in pension plans to meet future
benefit payments.
Uncertainty in cash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide
higher levels of cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a
number of years. In some countries control over the rate of cash funding or over the investment policy
for pension assets might rest to some extent with a trustee body or other body that is not under the
Group’s direct control. In addition the Group is also exposed to adverse changes in pension regulation.
For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined
benefit pension provision and towards defined contribution
arrangements instead. The defined benefit pension plans for salaried
employees are closed to new entrants in almost all countries. For
unionised employees, some plans remain open.
The Group does not usually participate in multi-employer plans in which
therisksaresharedwithothercompaniesusingthoseplans.TheGroup’s
participation in such plans is immaterial and consequently no detailed
disclosures are provided in this note.
Pension plans
The majority of the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations are in
Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
In Canada the benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final
average pay and are closed to new entrants. Benefits for bargaining
employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically
either linked to final average pay or to a flat monetary amount per year of
service.Someoftheseplanshavebeenclosedtonewentrantsbutsome
remain open at present. During 2015 agreement was reached with the
unions to close the largest plan to new entrants with effect from dates in
2016 and 2017. New employees will instead join an arrangement which
is defined contribution from the Group’s perspective, with any required
additional funding being provided by employees. The plans are subject to
the regulatory requirements that apply to Canadian pension plans in the
relevant provinces and territories (predominantly Quebec). Pension
Committees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a
manner that is compliant with the relevant regulations. The Pension
Committees generally have a number of members appointed by the
sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants. In some cases
there is also an independent Committee member.
The defined benefit sections of the UK arrangements are linked to final
pay and are closed to new members. New employees are admitted to
defined contribution sections. The plans are subject to the regulatory
requirements that apply to UK pension plans. Trustees are responsible
for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is compliant with UK
regulations. Trustee boards have a number of directors appointed by the
sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants. In some cases
there is also an independent trustee director.
A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US
entities. Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average
pay and closed to new entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees
are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically a flat monetary
amount per year of service. A Benefits Governance Committee is
responsible for ensuring that the plans are compliant with US
regulations. Members of that Committee are appointed by the sponsor.
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the
Netherlands, Germany and France. The largest single plan is in
Switzerland and provides benefits linked to final average pay.
The Swiss plan is overseen by a Foundation Board which is responsible
for ensuring that the plan complies with Swiss regulations. Foundation
Board members are appointed by the plan sponsor, by employees
and by retirees.
In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution
in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final
pay, typically paid in lump sum form. The defined benefit sections are
closed to new entrants.
The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans,
which are included in the figures below.
Post-retirement healthcare plans
Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide
health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some
cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants. Eligibility for cover
is dependent upon certain age and service criteria. These arrangements
are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures below.
Plan assets
The assets of the pension plans are invested predominantly in a
diversified range of equities, bonds and property. Consequently, the
funding level of the pension plans is affected by movements in the level
of equity markets and also by movements in interest rates. The Group
monitors its exposure to changes in interest rates and equity markets
and also measures its balance sheet pension risk using a value at risk
approach. These measures are considered when deciding whether
significant changes in investment strategy are required. Asset-liability
studiesareconductedonaperiodicbasisforthemainpensionplansto
determine the optimal investment mix bearing in mind the Group’s
tolerance for risk, the risk tolerance of the local sponsor companies and
the views of the pension committees and trustee boards who are legally
responsible for the investments of the plans. In Canada, the UK and
Switzerland the Group works with the trustees to ensure that the
investment policy adopted is consistent with the Group’s tolerance for
risk. In the US the Group has direct control over the investment policy,
subject to the local investment regulations.
170 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the balance sheet date were:
2015 2014
Equities 37.7% 39.1%
–Quoted 33.3% 35.4%
–Private 4.4% 3.7%
Bonds 48.0% 46.9%
– Government fixed income 13.5% 13.6%
– Government inflation-linked 12.8% 11.8%
– Corporate and other publicly quoted 20.8% 20.7%
–Private 0.9% 0.8%
Property 10.8% 10.1%
– Quoted property funds 6.5% 6.0%
– Unquoted property funds 4.3% 4.0%
– Directly held property 0.0% 0.1%
Qualifying insurance policies 0.6% 0.5%
Cash & other 2.9% 3.4%
100.0% 100.0%
Theassetsoftheplansaremanagedonaday-to-daybasisbyexternal
specialist fund managers. These managers may invest in the Group’s
securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees
and local legislation. The approximate total holding of Group securities
within the plans is US$23 million (2014: US$22 million).
The holdings of quoted equities are invested either in pooled funds or
segregated accounts held in the name of the relevant pension funds.
These equity portfolios are well diversified in terms of the geographic
distribution and market sectors.
The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt of
the country in which a pension plan is situated. Corporate and other
quoted bonds are usually of investment grade. Private debt is mainly in
North America.
The quoted property funds are invested in a diversified range of
properties.
The holdings of Cash & other are predominantly cash and short-term
money market instruments.
Investments in private equity, private debt, and property are less liquid
than the other investment classes listed above and therefore the Group’s
investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level that does not
endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its
pension plans. However, fund managers may use derivatives to hedge
currency movements within their portfolios and, in the case of bond
managers, to take positions that could be taken using direct holdings of
bonds but more efficiently.
Maturity of defined benefit obligations
An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below:
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
%
2014
Total
%
2013
Total
%
Proportion relating to current employees 22% 21% 22% 25% 25%
Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 12% 2% 11% 11% 11%
Proportion relating to retirees 66% 77% 67% 64% 64%
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Average duration of obligations (years) 13.5 12.6 13.4 13.9 13.3
Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations
An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below:
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
%
2014
Total
%
2013
Total
%
Canada 44% 44% 44% 46% 45%
UK 31% 2% 29% 27% 27%
US 13% 53% 15% 15% 14%
Switzerland 6% 0% 6% 5% 6%
Eurozone 4% 0% 4% 4% 5%
Australia 1% 0% 1% 2% 2%
Other 1% 1% 1% 1% 1%
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 171
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
45 Post-retirement benefits continued
Total expense recognised in the income statement
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
US$m
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans (173) (11) (184) (196) (284)
Past service income 116 28 144 66 1
Curtailment gains/(losses) 5 8 13 (1) 44
Settlement gains 11 – 11 22 2
Net interest on net defined benefit liability (77) (36) (113) (133) (209)
Non-investment expenses paid from the plans (21) – (21) (19) (22)
Total defined benefit expense (139) (11) (150) (261) (468)
Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans (287) (2) (289) (329) (337)
Total expense recognised in the income statement (426) (13) (439) (590) (805)
The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net
operating costs. In 2015, US$nil (pre-tax) of curtailment and settlement
gains have been excluded from underlying earnings (2014: US$2 million,
2013: US$21 million, both relating to divestments).
The curtailments shown in the table above relate primarily to headcount
reductions at various operations and divestments during 2015 and
previous years. The settlement gains in 2015, 2014 and 2013 relate
mainly to an exercise in the US in which deferred vested participants
were offered a one-time lump sum payment in place of their future
pension payments. The pension and other benefits past service income
in 2015 relate to design changes in Canada and to changes to post-
retirement medical plans in the US. The past service income during 2014
relates to design changes to post-retirement medical plans in the US.
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Actuarial gains/(losses) 548 (1,853) 1,092
Return on assets (net of interest on assets) 79 1,127 1,212
Loss on application of asset ceiling (8) (9) (44)
Total gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income 619 (735) 2,260
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December:
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
US$m
2014
Total
US$m
Total fair value of plan assets 13,642 – 13,642 15,219
Present value of obligations – funded (14,443) – (14,443) (16,869)
Present value of obligations – unfunded (818) (862) (1,680) (2,030)
Present value of obligations – total (15,261) (862) (16,123) (18,899)
Effect of asset ceiling (49) – (49) (53)
Net deficit to be shown in the balance sheet (1,668) (862) (2,530) (3,733)
Comprising:
– Deficits (2,260) (862) (3,122) (4,086)
– Surpluses 592 – 592 353
Net deficits on pension plans (1,668) – (1,668) (2,686)
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare obligation – (862) (862) (1,047)
The surplus amounts shown above are included in the balance sheet as
Trade and other receivables. See note 18.
Deficits are shown in the balance sheet within Provisions (including post-
retirement benefits). See note 26.
Funding policy and contributions to plans
The Group reviews the funding position of its major pension plans on a
regular basis and considers whether to provide funding above the
minimum level required in each country. In Canada and the US the
minimum level is prescribed by legislation. In the UK and Switzerland the
minimum is negotiated with the local trustee or foundation in accordance
with the funding guidance issued by the local regulators. In deciding
whether to provide funding above the minimum level the Group takes
into account other possible uses of cash within the Group, the tax
situation of the local sponsoring entity and any strategic advantage that
the Group might obtain by accelerating contributions. The Group does
not generally pre-fund post-retirement healthcare arrangements.
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
US$m
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
Contributions to defined benefit plans 270 58 328 353 734
Contributions to defined contribution plans 270 2 272 310 317
Contributions to industry-wide plans 17 – 17 19 20
Total 557 60 617 682 1,071
172 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Contributions to defined benefit pension plans are kept under regular
review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the
Group’s wider financing strategy, taking into account relevant minimum
funding requirements. As contributions to many plans are reviewed
on at least an annual basis, the contributions for 2016 and subsequent
years cannot be determined precisely in advance. Contributions to
defined benefit pension plans for 2016 are estimated to be around
US$280 million but may be higher or lower than this. Healthcare plans
are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to
benefit payments net of participant contributions. The Group’s
contributions are expected to be similar to the amounts paid in 2015.
Movements in the net defined benefit liability
A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is shown
in the first table below. The subsequent tables provide a more detailed
analysis of the movements in the present value of the obligations, the
fairvalueofassetsandtheeffectoftheassetceiling.
The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who
participate in the plans and who are employed in associates and joint arrangements. Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not
correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group. Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the
movements below.
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
US$m
2014
Total
US$m
Change in the net defined benefit liability
Net defined benefit liability at the start of the year (2,686) (1,047) (3,733) (3,309)
Amounts recognised in Income (139) (11) (150) (261)
Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income 562 57 619 (735)
Employer contributions 270 58 328 353
Arrangements divested 25 – 25 13
Currency exchange rate movements 300 81 381 206
Net defined benefit liability at the end of the year (1,668) (862) (2,530) (3,733)
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
US$m
2014
Total
US$m
Change in present value of obligation
Present value of obligation at the start of the year (17,852) (1,047) (18,899) (18,792)
Current employer service costs (173) (11) (184) (196)
Past service income 116 28 144 66
Curtailments 58 13 (1)
Settlements 52 – 52 326
Interest on obligation (579) (36) (615) (783)
Contributions by plan participants (25) (3) (28) (37)
Benefits paid 934 61 995 1,042
Experience gain 77 30 107 56
Changes in financial assumptions gain/(loss) 423 23 446 (1,718)
Changes in demographic assumptions (loss)/gain (9) 4 (5) (191)
Arrangements divested 46 – 46 58
Currency exchange rate gain 1,724 81 1,805 1,271
Present value of obligation at the end of the year (15,261) (862) (16,123) (18,899)
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
US$m
2014
Total
US$m
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 15,219 – 15,219 15,527
Settlements (41) – (41) (304)
Interest on assets 506 – 506 655
Contributions by plan participants 25 3 28 37
Contributions by employer 270 58 328 353
Benefits paid (934) (61) (995) (1,042)
Non-investment expenses (21) – (21) (19)
Return on plan assets (net of interest on assets) 79 – 79 1,127
Arrangements divested (21) – (21) (45)
Currency exchange rate loss (1,440) – (1,440) (1,070)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,642 – 13,642 15,219
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 173
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
45 Post-retirement benefits continued
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2015
Total
US$m
2014
Total
US$m
Change in the effect of the asset ceiling
Effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the year (53) – (53) (44)
Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling (4) – (4) (5)
Movement in the effect of the asset ceiling (8) – (8) (9)
Currency exchange rate gain 16 – 16 5
Effect of the asset ceiling at the end of the year (49) – (49) (53)
In determining the extent to which the asset ceiling has an effect, the
Group considers the funding legislation in each country and the rules
specific to each pension plan. The calculation takes into account any
minimum funding requirements that may be applicable to the plan,
whether any reduction in future Group contributions is available, and
whether a refund of surplus may be available. In considering whether any
refundofsurplusisavailabletheGroupconsidersthepowersoftrustee
boards and similar bodies to augment or wind up a plan. Where such
powers are unilateral, the Group does not consider a refund to be
available at the end of the life of a plan. Where the plan rules and
legislation both permit the employer to take a refund of surplus, the
asset ceiling may have no effect, although it may be the case that a
refund will only be available many years in the future.
Main assumptions (rates per annum)
The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below:
Canada UK US Switzerland Eurozone Australia
Other
(mainly
Africa)
(a)
At 31 December 2015
Discount rate 3.9% 3.7% 4.2% 0.8% 2.1% 4.0% 10.7%
Inflation
(b)
1.7% 3.0% 2.1% 1.1% 1.7% 2.1% 8.5%
Rate of increase in pensions 0.4% 2.6% – 0.0% 1.6% 2.1% 8.5%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.0% 3.7% 3.6% 2.1% 2.3% 4.0% 10.5%
At 31 December 2014
Discount rate 3.9% 3.4% 3.8% 0.9% 1.8% 2.7% 9.0%
Inflation
(b)
1.8% 3.0% 2.1% 1.3% 1.7% 2.1% 7.1%
Rate of increase in pensions 0.7% 2.6% – 0.0% 1.5% 2.1% 7.1%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.1% 3.8% 3.6% 2.3% 2.1% 4.0% 9.1%
(a) The assumptions vary by location for the “Other” plans. Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
(b) The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index. The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2015 was 2.0 per cent
(2014: 2.0 per cent).
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are
predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 4.1 per cent
(2014: 3.9 per cent); medical trend rate: 8.4 per cent reducing to 5.1 per
cent by the year 2023 broadly on a straight line basis (2014: 6.7 per cent,
reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2022); claims costs based on
individual company experience.
For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post-retirement
mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity. The
mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the balance sheet
date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 26 years
(2014: 26 years) and that a man aged 60 in 2035 would have a weighted
average expected future lifetime of 28 years (2014: 28 years).
Sensitivity
Thevaluesreportedforthedefinedbenefitobligationsaresensitiveto
the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments
and discounting those payments. In order to estimate the sensitivity of
the obligations to changes in assumptions, we calculate what the
obligationswouldbeifweweretomakesmallchangestoeachofthekey
assumptions in isolation. The difference between this figure and the
figure calculated using our stated assumptions is an indication of the
sensitivity to changes in each assumption. The results of this sensitivity
analysis are summarised in the table below. Note that this approach is
valid for small changes in the assumptions but will be less accurate for
larger changes in the assumptions. The sensitivity to inflation includes
the impact on pension increases, which are generally linked to inflation
where they are granted.
174 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 2015 2014
Approximate
(increase)/decrease
in obligations
Approximate
(increase)/decrease
in obligations
Assumption Change in assumption
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 960 50 1,166 63
decrease of 0.5 percentage points (1,025) (54) (1,250) (68)
Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points (505) (17) (653) (23)
decrease of 0.5 percentage points 481 14 620 20
Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points (77) (2) (100) (2)
decrease of 0.5 percentage points 75 2 97 2
Demographic – allowance for future
improvements in longevity
Participants assumed to have the mortality
rates of individuals who are one year older 435 15 477 18
Participants assumed to have the mortality
rates of individuals who are one year younger (435) (15) (477) (18)
Medical costs trend rates increase of 1.0 percentage points –(31) – (41)
decrease of 1.0 percentage points –26 –35
Information on the sensitivity of the Group’s earnings to the main assumptions is set out in note 1 (Critical accounting policies and estimates
section (x)) on page 124.
46 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures
As at 31 December
2015
A$m
2014
A$m
Assets
Current assets 6,034 16,523
Non-current assets 11,525 11,302
Total assets 17,559 27,825
Liabilities
Current liabilities (616) (8,230)
Non-current liabilities (4,833) (38)
Total liabilities (5,449) (8,268)
Net assets 12,110 19,557
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 4,004 4,113
Other reserves 373 377
Retained earnings 7,733 15,067
Total equity 12,110 19,557
Profit of the parent company 6,532 9,121
Total comprehensive income of the parent company 6,532 9,122
Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards (AAS). In relation to
Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences
between AAS and IFRS as defined in note 1.
Rio Tinto Limited guarantees
Rio Tinto Limited provides a number of guarantees in respect of
Group companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Group’s
external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt
Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled
A$26.6 billion at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: A$25.4 billion);
in addition these entities also jointly guarantee the Group’s undrawn
credit facility which was A$10.3 billion at 31 December 2015
(31 December 2014: A$9.1 billion).
Rio Tinto Limited has guaranteed external debt held by Rio Tinto Group
entities which totalled A$0.1 billion at 31 December 2015 (31 December
2014: A$0.1 billion) and provided guarantees in respect of certain
derivative contracts which were in a liability position of A$18 million at
31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: A$6 million).
In addition, Rio Tinto Limited has provided a guarantee of certain
obligations of Rio Tinto Finance Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited
issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed
contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 175
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
47 Related undertakings
ThefollowingtablesoutlinetheGroup’ssubsidiaries,associated undertakings and joint ventures as defined in Regulation 7 of the UK
Companies Act 2006. All subsidiaries are included in the Group consolidation.
Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
1043802 Ontario Ltd; – Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100
46106 YUKON INC; – Canada CAD Common shares 100
46117 YUKON INC.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
CAD Preferred shares 100
535630 YUKON INC.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
CAD Preferred shares 100
7999674 CANADA INC.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
9230556 CANADA INC.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
CAD Preferred shares 100
9539549 CANADA INC.; Canada US$ Common shares 100
AGM Holding Company Pte Ltd; Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Alumina Ltda.; Brazil BRL1.00 Quota shares 100
Alcan Aluminium UK Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Asia Limited; Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Betriebs- und Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH; Germany €51.13 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Chemicals Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Composites Brasil Ltda; Brazil BRL0.01 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Corporation; United States US$0.01 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Farms Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Finances USA LLC; United States US$1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Gove Development Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Gove Pty Limited; Australia AUD Class A Shares 100
AUD Class B Shares 100
Alcan Gove Superannuation Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Holdings Australia Pty Limited; Australia AUD Class A Shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Holdings Europe B.V.; Netherlands €455.00 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Holdings Nederland B.V.; Netherlands €4,555.00 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Holdings Switzerland AG (SA/Ltd.); Switzerland CHF0.01 Registered Shares 100
Alcan International Network U.S.A. Inc.; United States US$ Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Lebensmittelverpackungen GmbH; Germany €51.12918 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Management Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.; China US$ Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Management Services Canada Limited/Societe de Services de
Gestion Alcan Canada Limitee; Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Northern Territory Alumina Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Packaging Canada Limited; Canada CAD0.11 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Packaging Mühltal Gmbh & Co. KG; Germany €51.129188 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Primary Metal Australia Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Primary Products Company LLC; United States US$ Units shares 100
Alcan Primary Products Corporation; United States US$0.01 Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Realty Limited/Societe Immobiliere Alcan Limitee; Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan South Pacific Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Alcan Trading AG (SA/Ltd.); Switzerland CHF1,000.00 Registered shares 100
Aluminium & Chemie Rotterdam B.V.; Netherlands €4,555.00 Ordinary shares 65.8
Aluminium Dunkerque; France €16.00 Ordinary shares 100
Aluminium Pechiney; France €16.00 Ordinary shares 100
Aluminum Company of Canada Limited/Aluminium du Canada
Limitee; Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100
Alusuisse Servicios S.A., Panama; Panama PAB1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Alusuisse Servicios S.A., Venezuela; Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of VEB1.00 Ordinary shares 100
AML Exploration Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AML Properties Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Anglesey Aluminium Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
176 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Anglesey Aluminium Metal Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
AP Service; France €15.00 Ordinary shares 100
Aquatic Holdings (Mauritius) Limited; Mauritius US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Argyle Diamond Mines Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Argyle Diamonds (2013) Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Argyle Diamonds Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Class A shares 100
AUD Class B Shares 100
Ashton Canada Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Ashton Mining Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Ashton Nominees Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Asia Gold Mongolia LLC; Mongolia MNT1,250.00 Common shares 100
Asia Naran Bulag LLC; Mongolia MNT1,000.00 Common shares 100
Australian Coal Holdings Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD A shares 100
Australian Coal Resources Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Australian Mining & Smelting Pty Ltd; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Balkhash Saryshagan LLP; Kazakhstan
(c)
––
BaumePty.Limited;Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Beasley River Management Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Beasley River Marketing Pty Ltd; Australia AUD A Class Shares 100
Beasley River Mining Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Bektau B.V.; Netherlands €200.00 Ordinary shares 75
Black Hill Land Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Blair Athol Coal Pty. Ltd.; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Blair Athol Joint Venture; Australia
(c)
––
Borax España, S.A.; Spain €150.00 Ordinary shares 100
Borax Europe Limited; United Kingdom £0.25 Ordinary shares 100
Borax Francais; France €2.75 Ordinary shares 100
Borax Malaysia Sdn Bhd; Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Borax Rotterdam N.V.; Netherlands €453.78 Ordinary shares 100
Bougainville Copper Foundation Ltd; Papua New Guinea PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Bougainville Copper Limited; Papua New Guinea PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 53.8
Boyne Smelters Limited; Australia AUD A1 Class shares 100
AUD A2 Class shares 100
AUD B1 Class shares 100
British Alcan Aluminium Plc; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
British Alcan Overseas Investments Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Canning Resources Pty Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Cape Bougainville Joint Venture; Australia
(c)
–
Capricorn Diamonds Investments Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Carbone Savoie; France €7.70 Ordinary shares 100
Carol Lake Company Ltd.; Canada CAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100
Carrier Holdings Limited; Mauritius US$1.00 Management Share shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Catherine Hill Bay Land Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Cathjoh Holdings Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Champlain Reinsurance Company Ltd.; Switzerland CHF1.23 Registered Shares 100
Channar Finance Limited; Australia AUD Class B shares 100
Channar Financial Services Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Channar Management Services Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Channar Mining Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Channar Security Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 177
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
47 Related undertakings continued
Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Chlor Alkali Unit Pte Ltd; Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary (SGD) shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary (USD) shares 68.4
CIA. Inmobiliaria e Inversiones Cosmos S.A.C.; Peru PEN1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
CNA Bengalla Investments Pty Limited; Australia AUD1.00 Ordinary shares 100
CNA Bengalla Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
CNA Investments (UK) Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
CNA Resources Holdings Pty Limited; Australia AUD “A” Ordinary shares 100
AUD “B” Ordinary shares 100
CNA Resources Limited; Australia AUD “A” Ordinary shares 100
AUD “B” Ordinary shares 100
CNA Sub Holdings Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
CNA UK Limited; United Kingdom US$0.01 Ordinary Bearer shares 100
CNA Warkworth Australasia Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
CNA Warkworth Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Coal & Allied Industries Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 89.8
Coal & Allied Mining Services Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Coal & Allied Operations Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Compagnie Générale D’électrolyse Du Palais; France €0.94 Ordinary shares 100
Compania de Transmision Sierraoriente S.A.C.; Peru PEN1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Corporation De Pêche Ste-Marguerite Inc.; Canada CAD10.00 Ordinary shares 96.8
CRA Exploration (India) Private Limited; India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 99.9
CRA Investments Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
CRA Pty Ltd; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Dampier Salt Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary ($1.00257) shares 68.4
AUD Ordinary ($1.88 on 31/01/2013) shares 68.4
Darex Capital, Inc.; Panama US$0.01 Par Value One Cent shares 100
Daybreak Development LLC; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Daybreak Property Holdings LLC; United States
(c)
––
Daybreak Secondary Water Distribution Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 51.2
Daybreak Water Company; United States US$0.01 Class A Common shares 100
US$0.01 Class B Common shares 2.5
Daybreak Water Holding LLC; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
DB Medical I LLC; United States US$ Units shares 100
DBVC1 LLC; United States
(c)
––
Diamond Producers Association Limited ; United Kingdom
(d)
––
Diavik Diamond Mines (2012) Inc.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
Dolphin Properties Pty. Ltd.; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
East Kalimantan Coal Pte. Ltd; Singapore
(a)
SGD1.00 ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Eastland Management Inc.; United States US$1.00 Common shares 100
Electric Power Generation Limited; New Zealand
(a)
NZD1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Emirates Energy Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Energy Resources of Australia Ltd; Australia AUD A Class Ordinary shares 68.4
Falcon Insurance Ltd; Malta
(a)
US$1.00 Class “A” Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Class “B” shares 100
Flambeau Mining Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Fondation Rio Tinto; Guinea
(c)
––
France Aluminium Recyclage Sa; France €15.00 Ordinary shares 60
Fundsprops Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Gava Exploration Limited Liability Company; Uzbekistan
(c)
––
Gladstone Infrastructure Pty Ltd – Australia AUD Class G Redeemable Preference shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
178 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Gove Aluminium Ltd; Australia AUD A Non Redeemable Preferece shares 100
AUD A Redeemable Preference Shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Gove Joint Venture (the); Australia
(c)
––
GPS Energy Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
GPS Nominee Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
GPS Power Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Green Mountain Mining Venture; United States
(c)
––
Gulf Power Company / La Compagnie Gulf Power; Canada CAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100
Gumala Advisory Company Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 51
Gwandalan Land Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Hail Creek Coal Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Hail Creek Marketing Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 82
Hamersley Associated Investments Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Hamersley Exploration Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Hamersley HMS Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Hamersley Holdings Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Hamersley Iron – Yandi Pty Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Class B Shares 100
AUD Class C shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Hamersley Iron Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Hamersley Resources Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Z Class Ordinary shares 100
Hamersley WA Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Henlopen Manufacturing Co., Inc.; United States US$100.00 Ordinary shares 100
Heruga Exploration LLC; Mongolia MNT12,500.00 Common shares 100
High Purity Iron Inc.; United States US$1.00 Common Shares 100
HImet Corporation Pty Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
HIsmelt (Operations) Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
HIsmelt Corporation Pty Limited; Australia AUD A Class shares 100
Howmet Insurance Company, Inc.; United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
HV Operations Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
HVO Coal Sales Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
IAL Holdings Singapore Pte Ltd; Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100
IEA Coal Research Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
IEA Environmental Projects Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
IGP Holding Company Ltd; Virgin Islands, British USD Ordinary shares 100
Industrias Metalicas Castello S.A.; Spain €6.01 Ordinary shares 100
Integrity Land and Cattle LLC; United States US$ Units shares 100
Iron Ore Company of Canada; United States US$1,000.00 Series A shares 91.4
US$1,000.00 Series E shares 100
US$1,000.00 Series F shares 100
Itallumina Srl; Italy €1.00 Quotas shares 100
Johcath Holdings Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Juna Station Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Kalamah Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Kalimantan Gold Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Kalteng Pty. Ltd; Australia
(a)
AUD A Class Ordinary shares 100
AUD Class B (Fully Paid $1.00 13/01/2003) shares 100
AUD Class B (Paid to $0.12 02/09/2005)
shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Kelian Investment Limited; Virgin Islands, British
(c)
––
Kelian Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Kembla Coal & Coke Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 179
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
47 Related undertakings continued
Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Kennecott Barneys Canyon Mining Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Exploration Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Exploration Mexico, S.A. de C.V.; Mexico MXN1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Kennecott Holdings Corporation; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Land Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Land Investment Company LLC; United States
(c)
––
Kennecott Management Services Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Molybdenum Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Nevada Copper Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Ridgeway Mining Company; United States US$1.00 Common shares 100
Kennecott Royalty Company; United States US$100.00 Common shares 100
Kennecott Services Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Uranium Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Kennecott Utah Copper LLC; United States US$ Units shares 100
Kennecott Water Distribution LLC; United States US$ Ordinary shares 100
Kestrel Coal Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Kestrel Coal Sales Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Kirganik LLC; Russian Federation
(c)
––
Korgantas LLP; Kazakhstan
(c)
––
Kutaibar Holdings Pty Ltd; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Lao Sanxai Minerals Company Limited; Lao People’s Democratic
Republic US$1.00 Ordinary shares 70
Lawson Mardon Flexible Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Lawson Mardon Smith Brothers Ltd.; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Lazurnoe Limited Liability Company; Russian Federation
(c)
––
Lower Hunter Land Holdings Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Magma Arizona Railroad Company; United States US$100.00 Common shares 99.9
Malmikaivos Oy; Finland €168.18793 Ordinary shares 100
Metallwerke Refonda AG; Switzerland CHF125.00 Bearer shares 100
Metals & Minerals Insurance Pte. Limited; Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100
SGD Redeemable Preference Shares 100
Miller Pohang Coal Co Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Minera Kennecott, S.A. de C.V.; Mexico MXN1.00 Series “B” shares 100
Minera Tinyacclla SA; Peru PEN1.00 Ordinary shares 99.9
Minmi Land Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Mitchell Plateau Bauxite Co. Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Mitchell Plateau Joint Venture; Australia
(c)
––
Mongolian Gas and Exploration LLC; Mongolia US$1.00 Common shares 100
Mount Bruce Mining Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Mount Thorley Co Venture; Australia
(c)
––
Mount Thorley Coal Loading Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 72.2
Mount Thorley Operations Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Movele SARL US$ Ordinary shares 100
US$ Preferred shares 100
Mutamba Mineral Sands S.A.; Mozambique MZN100.00 Ordinary shares 100
Namoi Valley Coal Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Class B shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
NBH Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Nhulunbuy Corporation Limited Australia
(c)
––
Nords Wharf Land Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Norgold Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Redeemable Preference shares 100
180 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
North Gold (W.A.) Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Redeemable Preference shares 100
North Insurances Pty. Ltd.; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
North IOC (Bermuda) Holdings Limited; Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
North IOC (Bermuda) Limited; Bermuda US$143.641269 Class A Ordinary Shares (US$143.64126903) 100
US$1.00 Ordinary (US$1.00) shares 100
US$100,000.00 Preferred Shares
(US$100,000) 100
North IOC Holdings Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
North Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
North Mining Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Redeemable Preference shares 100
Northern (Rhondda) Collieries Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Novacoal Australia Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Nozalela Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd; South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Oaklands Coal Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Olkhovoe LLC; Russian Federation
(c)
––
Orian Holding Corp; Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Common shares 100
Oyu Tolgoi Netherlands BV; Netherlands €100.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pacific Aluminium (New Zealand) Limited; New Zealand NZD1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pacific Aluminium Bell Bay Sales Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Pacific Aluminium Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Pacific Aluminium Services Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Pacific Coast Mines, Inc.; United States US$1.00 Common shares 100
Pacific Resource Investments Limited; Cayman Islands
(a)
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pandrew Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Aviatube Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Bâtiment; France €15.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Bécancour, Inc.; United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Cast Plate, Inc.; United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Consolidated Australia Pty Limited; Australia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Preference Shares 100
Pechiney Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi; Turkey TRY25.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Holdings, Inc.; United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Metals LLC; United States
(c)
––
Pechiney Philippines Inc.; Philippines PHP10.00 Ordinary shares 99.9
Pechiney Plastic Packaging (Canada) Inc.; Canada CAD1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Plastic Packaging, Inc.; United States US$ Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Resources Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Sales Corporation; United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Servicios; Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of VEB1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Pechiney Vénézuela, S.A.; Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of VEB1,000.00 A shares 100
VEB10,000.00 B shares 100
Peko Exploration Pty Ltd.; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Peko-Wallsend Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Pilbara Iron Company (Services) Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Project Generation Group Pty Ltd; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
PSZ Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
PT Alcan Packaging Flexipack; Indonesia IDR1,000,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
PT Hutan Lindung Kelian Lestari; Indonesia IDR9,803.00 Ordinary shares 99
PT Kelian Equatorial Mining; Indonesia IDR1,080.00 Ordinary shares 90
PT Mitra Sumbawa Minerals; Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 90
PT Rikit Alas Minerals; Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 90
PT Rio Tinto Consultants; Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 181
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
47 Related undertakings continued
Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
PT Rio Tinto Exploration; Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
PT Rio Tinto Indonesia; Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
PT Rio Tinto Irja; Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
QIT Madagascar Minerals Ltd; Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
QIT Madagascar Minerals SA; Madagascar US$10.00 Certificats d’investissement shares 100
US$10.00 Common Shares 80
QMP Metal Powders (Suzhou) Ltd; China US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway Company / Compagnie de
Chemin de Fer du Littoral Nord de Quebec et du Labrador Inc.; Canada CAD27.59 Ordinary shares 100
Queensland Coal Pty. Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Química e Metalúrgica Mequital Ltda.; Brazil BRL Ordinary shares 100
R.W. Miller (Holdings) Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Ranges Management Company Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Ranges Mining Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Resolution Copper Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Resolution Copper Mining LLC; United States
(c)
-–
Richards Bay Mining (Proprietary) Limited; South Africa ZAR0.01 B Ordinary shares 99.9
ZAR0.01 B Preference shares 100
ZAR0.01 BHP Billiton Preference shares 100
Richards Bay Mining Holdings (Proprietary) Limited; South Africa ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100
ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100
Richards Bay Prefco (Pty) Ltd; South Africa ZAR0.01 Prefence shares 100
Richards Bay Titanium (Proprietary) Limited; South Africa ZAR0.01 B Ordinary shares 100
ZAR0.01 B Preference shares 100
ZAR0.01 BHP Billiton Preference shares 100
Richards Bay Titanium Holdings (Proprietary) Limited; South Africa ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100
ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100
Rio de Contas Desenvolvimentos Minerais Ltda; Brazil BRL Quota shares 100
Rio Sava Exploration DOO; Serbia
(c)
-–
Rio Tinto (Commercial Paper) Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto (Hong Kong) Ltd; Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto (Mauritius) Pty Limited; Mauritius US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Advisory Services Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Alcan Fund Inc.; Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Alcan Iceland Ltd; Iceland ISK1.00 Registered shares 100
Rio Tinto Alcan Inc.; Canada CAD COMMON shares 100
Rio Tinto Alcan International Ltd. / Rio Tinto Alcan International Ltee;
Canada CAD Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Alcan Middle East DMCC; United Arab Emirates AED1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Alcan Technology Pty Ltd; Australia AUD1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Almazpoisk LLC; Russian Federation
(c)
-–
Rio Tinto Aluminium (Bell Bay) Limited; Australia AUD 7.5% Cumulative Preference shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Aluminium (Holdings) Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Aluminium Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto America Holdings Inc.; United States US$0.01 Class A Common shares 100
US$100.00 Series A Preferred Stock shares 100
Rio Tinto America Inc.; United States US$100.00 Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Asia Ltd; Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Asia Pty. Limited.; Australia
(a)
AUD Class A shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
182 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Rio Tinto AuM Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Australian Holdings Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Bahia Holdings Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Base Metals Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Brazilian Holdings Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Brazilian Investments Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Canada Diamond Exploration Inc.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Canada Diamond Operation Management Inc.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Canada Inc; Canada CAD Class B Shares 100
CAD Class C Shares 100
CAD Class D Shares 100
CAD Class J shares 100
Rio Tinto Canada Management Inc./ Rio Tinto Gestion Canada Inc.;
Canada CAD Common Shares 100
CAD Preferred shares 100
Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation; Canada CAD Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Charters Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Coal (Clermont) Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Coal (NSW) Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary Fully Paid Share shares 100
Rio Tinto Coal Australia Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Coal Investments Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Coal NSW Holdings Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Congo RDC SARL; Congo, The Democratic Republic of the US$200.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Desenvolvimentos Minerais LTDA.; Brazil BRL Quotas shares 100
Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada Holding Inc.; Canada CAD Class A (dividend rights) shares 100
CAD Class B shares 100
CAD Class C (voting rights) shares 100
CAD Class P1 Preferred shares 100
Rio Tinto Diamonds Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Diamonds Netherlands B.V.; Netherlands €500.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Diamonds NV; Belgium € Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Eastern Investments B.V.; Netherlands €453.78 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Energy America Inc.; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Energy Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Escondida Limited; Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited; United Kingdom
(b)
£1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration (Asia) Holdings Pte. Ltd.; Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration (PNG) Limited; Papua New Guinea
(a)
PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration and Mining (India) Private Limited; India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration Canada Inc.; Canada CAD Class A shares 100
CAD Class B shares 100
CAD Class C shares 100
CAD Class D shares 100
CAD Class E Preferred shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration DRC Orientale Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration Gabon SA; Gabon XAF10,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration India Private Limited; India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration Kazakhstan LLP; Kazakhstan
(c)
––
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 183
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
47 Related undertakings continued
Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Rio Tinto Exploration Pty Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Class B shares 100
AUD Class C shares 100
AUD Class C Shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Exploration Zambia Limited; Zambia ZMW1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc.; Canada CAD Class B Preference shares 100
CAD Common shares 100
CAD0.01 Preferred Shares 100
Rio Tinto FH Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary Shares 100
Rio Tinto Finance Canada Inc./ Finances Rio Tinto Canada Inc.; Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Finance Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Finance plc; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto France S.A.S.; France €15.25 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Global Employment Company Pte. Ltd.; Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Guinée S.A.; Guinea GNF100,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Holdings Jersey Limited; Jersey
(b)
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Holdings LLC; Mongolia MNT20,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy Australia Pty Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy LLC; United States
(c)
––
Rio Tinto ICT Limited; Cyprus US$10.00 Class ‘A’ Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto India Private Limited; India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Indonesian Holdings Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited; United Kingdom
(b)
£1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto International Trading (Shanghai) Co Ltd; China US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Investments Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Investments One Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Investments Two Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium GmbH; Germany
(c)
––
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Holdings GmbH; Germany
(c)
––
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Canada Inc. / Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Canada
Inc.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Iron Ore Asia Pte Ltd; Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Iron Ore Atlantic Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Iron Ore Europe S.A.S.; France €100.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Iron Ore Trading China Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Japan Ltd; Japan JPY500.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Jersey Holdings 2010 Limited; Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Korea Ltd; Korea, Republic of KRW10,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Logistic Services Pty Ltd; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto London Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Management Services South Africa (Proprietary) Ltd;
South Africa ZAR2.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Marketing Pte. Ltd.; Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Marketing Services Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Medical Plan Trustees Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
184 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Rio Tinto Metals Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Minera Peru Limitada SAC; Peru PEN100.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Mineracao do Brasil Ltda; Brazil BRL1.00 Quotas shares 100
Rio Tinto Minerals Asia Pte Ltd; Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary SGD shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary USD shares 100
Rio Tinto Minerals Development Limited; United Kingdom £0.25 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Minerals Inc.; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Inc.; United States US$1.00 Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration S.A.C.; Peru PEN0.50 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Namibian Holdings Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Nickel Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Nominees Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Orissa Mining Private Ltd; India INR100.00 Ordinary shares 51
Rio Tinto OT Management Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Overseas Holdings Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Pension Investments Limited; United Kingdom
(b)
£1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Peru Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto PNG Limited; Papua New Guinea
(a)
PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Potash Management Inc. / Rio Tinto Potasse Management Inc.;
Canada CAD Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Procurement (Singapore) Pte Ltd; Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Pte Ltd; Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100
SGD1.00 Preference Shares 100
Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Management Inc.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings General Partner Inc.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings Limited Partnership; Canada
(c)
––
Rio Tinto Services Inc.; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Services Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Class Z shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Severo Zapad Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Shared Services Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Shipping (Asia) Pte. Ltd.; Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Shipping Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Shipping Pty. Limited.; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Simfer UK Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd; Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary SGD shares 100
US$ Ordinary USD shares 100
Rio Tinto Sohar Logistics LLC; Oman OMR1.00 Ordinary shares 70
Rio Tinto South East Asia Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Staff Fund Pty Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Sulawesi Holdings Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Technological Resources Inc.; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Rio Tinto Technological Resources UK Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.; China US$ Capital Contribution shares 100
Rio Tinto Uranium Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Uranium Services Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Vostok Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Rio Tinto Western Holdings Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Riversdale Anthracite Colliery (Proprietary) Ltd; South Africa ZAR2.00 Ordinary shares 74
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 185
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
47 Related undertakings continued
Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Riversdale Connections (Proprietary) Ltd; South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Riversdale Holdings (Proprietary) Ltd; South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Robe River Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Robe River Mining Co. Pty. Ltd.; Australia AUD A shares 40
AUD B shares 76.4
Rocklea Station Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Rössing Uranium Limited; Namibia NAD1.00 “B” Shares 71.2
NAD0.10 “C” Shares 70.6
RTA AAL Australia Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary 1 shares 100
RTA Boyne Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Holdco 1 Limited; United Kingdom US$0.0001 Ordinary shares 100
RTA Holdco 4 Limited; United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
US$0.732815 Ordinary shares 100
RTA Holdco 7 Limited; United Kingdom US$0.001 Class A Preference Shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary Shares 100
RTA Holdco 8 Limited; United Kingdom US$0.001 Class A Preference shares 100
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
RTA Holdco Australia 1 Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Holdco Australia 3 Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Holdco Australia 5 Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Holdco Australia 6 Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Pacific Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Resources Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Sales Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Class A shares 100
AUD Class B shares 100
RTA Smelter Development Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Weipa Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTA Yarwun Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTAlcan 1 LLC; United States US$ Class A Preferred shares 100
US$ Common shares 100
RTAlcan 2 LLC; United States US$ Common shares 100
RTAlcan 3 LLC; United States US$ Common shares 100
RTLDS Aus Pty. Ltd; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
RTLDS UK Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
RTMDC LLC; Mongolia MNT1,240.00 Common shares 100
RTPDS Aus Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Saryarka B.V.; Netherlands €200.00 Ordinary shares 75
Savoie Services Y.K.; Japan JPY50,000.00 Ordinary shares 100
Scheuch Unterstuetzungskasse GmbH; Germany €51.129 Ordinary shares 100
SGLS LLC; Mongolia MNT10,000.00 Common shares 100
Simfer Jersey Finance 1 Ltd; Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 100
Simfer Jersey Finance 2 Ltd; Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 53
Simfer Jersey Limited; Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 53
Simfer Jersey Nominee Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
SIMFER S.A.; Guinea GNF100,000.00 Ordinary shares 87.9
Singapore Metals Pte. Ltd.; Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100
Skeleton Coast Diamonds Limited; Namibia NAD2.00 Ordinary shares 100
Skymont Corporation; United States US$ Common shares 100
186 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Société De Financement Des Risques Industriels; Luxembourg € Ordinary shares 100
Société D’entreprises, Carrières Et Mines De L’Esterel; France €9.33 Ordinary shares 100
Société Générale de Recherches et d’exploitations Minières; France €0.02 Ordinary shares 100
Société Immobilière Alpes Provence; France €15.00 Ordinary shares 100
Société Minière Et De Participations Guinée-Alusuisse*; Guinea
(c)
––
Société Port D’Ehoala S.A.; Madagascar US$100.00 Ordinary shares 99.9
Sohio Western Mining Company; United States US$100.00 common shares 100
Southern Copper Pty. Limited; Australia AUD A shares 100
AUD B shares 100
AUD Non Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Spinacia Holdings Limited; Cyprus €1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Swift Current Land & Cattle LLC; United States
(c)
––
Swiss Aluminium Australia Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Stock Unit Shares A 100
AUD Stock Unit Shares B 100
AUD Stock Unit Shares C 100
TBAC Limited; United Kingdom £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Technological Resources Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD A shares 100
AUD B shares 100
The Barrier Corporation (Vic.) Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
The Kelian Community and Forest Protection Trust; Singapore
(c)
––
The Pyrites Company, Inc.; United States US$1.00 Common shares 100
The Roberval and Saguenay Railway Company/ La Compagnie du
Chemin de Fer Roberval Saguenay; Canada CAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100
CAD100.00 Preference shares 6% Non-
Cumulative 100
The Zinc Corporation Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
AUD Z Class Ordinary shares 100
Thos. W. Ward Limited; United Kingdom £0.25 Ordinary shares 100
THR Aruba Holdings LLC A.V.V.; Aruba US$1.00 Common shares 100
THR Delaware Holdings, LLC; United States
(c)
––
THR Kharmagtai Pte Ltd.; Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100
THR MINES (BC) LTD.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
US$ Common shares 100
THR Mines Services Co. Ltd.; Canada CAD Common shares 100
THR Mongolia Development Inc.; Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Common shares 100
THR OYU TOLGOI LTD.; Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
THR Ulaan Pte. Ltd.; Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100
Three Crowns Insurance Company Limited; Bermuda £1.00 Common shares 100
Tinto Holdings Australia Pty. Limited; Australia AUD A shares 100
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Tisand (Proprietary) Limited; South Africa ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100
ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100
ZAR1,000.00 Cumulative Preference Shares 100
Tomago Aluminium Company Pty Limited; Australia AUD Class A Shares 51.6
Trans Territory Pipeline Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Turquoise Hill Netherlands Cooperatif UA; Netherlands US$ COOP share shares 100
Turquoise Hill Resources Limited Luxembourg Branch; Luxembourg
(c)
––
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd.; Canada CAD Common shares 50.8
Turquoise Hill Resources Philippines Inc.; Philippines PHP100.00 Common shares 99.9
Turquoise Hill Resources Singapore Pte Ltd.; Singapore SGD1.00 Common shares 100
U.S. Borax Inc.; United States US$0.10 Common shares 100
Union Creek Ranch LLC; United States
(c)
––
Union Générale Industrielle Africaine; Morocco MAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100
Victoria Technology Inc.; United States
(a)
US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 187
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2015 financial statements
continued
47 Related undertakings continued
Subsidiaries
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Vostin Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Waste Solutions and Recycling LLC; United States US$ Units shares 100
West Kutai Foundation Limited; Singapore
(c)
––
Wimmera Industrial Minerals Pty. Limited; Australia
(a)
AUD Ordinary shares 100
Winchester South Development Company Proprietary Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Wyoming Coal Resources Company; United States US$0.01 Common shares 100
Yalleen Pastoral Co Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 63.7
Zululand Anthracite Colliery (Proprietary) Ltd; South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 74
Zululand Titanium (Pty) Ltd; South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Associated undertakings (equity accounted entities)
Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class
%ofshareclassheldby
Group companies
Alufluor AB; Sweden SEK1,000.00 Ordinary shares 50
Bengalla Coal Sales Co Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 40
Bengalla Mining Company Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 40
CanPacific Potash Inc.; Canada
(e)
––
Channar Investment Nominee Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100
Chinalco Rio Tinto Exploration Co. Ltd; China CNY1.00 Capital Contribution (Ordinary shares) 49
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary (AUD0.18 paid on 25/06/1981) shares 32.1
DB Trail Crossing, LLC; United States
(e)
––
Develor Enterprises Limited; Cyprus €1.71 Ordinary shares 50
Empresa de Mineracao Finesa Ltda.; Brazil BRL Quotas shares 49
Enarotali Gold Project Limited; Jersey £0.001 Ordinary shares 25
Fabrica De Plasticos Mycsa, S.A.; Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of VEF1.00 Common shares 49
Global Hubco BV; Netherlands €1.00 Ordinary shares 33.3
Halco (Mining) Inc.; United States US$100.00 Ordinary shares 45
Half-Tide Marine Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 48.6
Hope Downs Marketing Company Pty Ltd; Australia AUD A Class shares 100
Hunter Valley Resources Pty Ltd; Australia AUD A Class Shares 100
Hydrogen Energy International LLC; United States
(e)
––
Leichhardt Coal Pty Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 44.7
Minera Escondida Ltda; Chile
(e)
––
Mineracao Tabuleiro Ltda; Brazil BRL Quotas shares 48
Northern Land Company Ltd; Canada CAD1.00 Ordinary shares 50
Oyu Tolgoi LLC; Mongolia MNT10,000.00 Common shares 66
Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 66.9
Procivis Savoie; France €19.00 Ordinary shares 22.1
Rightship Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 33.3
Sohar Aluminium Co. L.L.C.; Oman OMR1.00 Ordinary shares 20
Warkworth Coal Sales Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5
Warkworth Mining Limited; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5
Warkworth Pastoral Co Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5
Warkworth Tailings Treatment Pty Ltd; Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5
188 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Joint Ventures (proportionately consolidated entities)
Name of undertaking and country of operation Address of principal place of business Capital % owned by Group
Aluminerie Alouette Inc.; Canada 400, Chemin de la Pointe-Noire, C.P. 1650,
Sept-Îles Québec G4R 5M9, Canada 40
Aluminerie De Bécancour, Inc.; Canada 5555 Pierre Thibault Street, PO 30, Becancour,
Quebec G0X 1B, Canada 25.2
Bao-HI Ranges Joint Venture; Australia Level 22, 152-
158 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 54
Bengalla Joint Venture; Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000,
Australia 32
Channar Mining Joint Venture; Australia Level 22, 152-158 St Georges Terrace, Perth
WA 6000, Australia 60
Consórcio de Alumínio do Maranhão; Brazil Av. Engenheiro Emiliano Macieira, KM18,
Estiva, 65095-604, Sao Luis, Maranhao, Brazil 10
Diavik Joint Venture; Canada P.O. Box 2498, 5007-50th Avenue, Yellowknife
NT X1A 2P8, Canada 60
Gladstone Power Station Joint Venture; Australia NRG Gladstone Operating Service, Gladstone
Power Station, Gladstone QLD 4680, Australia 42.1
Grasberg Joint Venture; Indonesia JI Mandala Raya Selatan, No.1 Kuala Kencana,
Timika, Irian Jaya, 98663, Indonesia 40
Hail Creek Joint Venture; Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000,
Australia 82
Hope Downs Joint Venture; Australia Level 22, 152-158 St Georges Terrace, Perth
WA 6000, Australia 50
Kestrel Joint Venture; Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000,
Australia 80
New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Ltd; New Zealand Level 6, 109 Featherston Street, Wellington,
6011, New Zealand 79.4
Pechiney Reynolds Quebec, Inc.; United States 8770 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60631-3657, U.S.A. 50.2
Queensland Alumina Limited; Australia Plant Operations Building, Parsons Point,
Gladstone QLD 4680, Australia 80
Robe River Iron Associates Joint Venture; Australia Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges
Terrace, PERTH WA 6850, Australia 57.1
Robe River Ore Sales Pty. Ltd.; Australia Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges
Terrace, PERTH WA 6000, Australia 57.1
Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture; Australia 638 Tomago Road, NSW 2324, Tomago,
Australia 51.6
Warkworth Joint Venture; Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000,
Australia 44.5
Winchester South Joint Venture; Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000,
Australia 75
Winter Road Joint Venture; Canada P.O. Box 2498, 5007-50th Avenue, Yellowknife
NT X1A 2P8, Canada
33.3
Yarraloola Pastoral Co; Australia Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges
Terrace, PERTH WA 6850, Australia
57.1
(a) Directly held by Rio Tinto Limited.
(b) Directly held by Rio Tinto plc.
(c) Group ownership is held through an interest in capital. The entity has no classes of shares.
(d) Company limited by guarantee.
(e) Group ownership in the associate is held through an interest in capital. The entity has no classes of shares.
(f) All joint ventures are governed by a joint venture agreement.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 189
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rio Tinto plc
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December Note
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Fixed assets
Investments B 36,180 36,139
36,180 36,139
Current assets
Amounts owed by subsidiaries C 883 940
Cash at bank and in hand 4 3
887 943
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries D (12,079) (11,922)
Dividends payable (18) (17)
(12,097) (11,939)
Net current liabilities (11,210) (10,996)
Total assets less current liabilities 24,970 25,143
Net assets 24,970 25,143
Capital and reserves
Calledupsharecapital E 224 230
Share premium account 4,300 4,288
Other reserves F 11,988 11,982
Profit and loss account 8,458 8,643
Equity shareholders’ funds 24,970 25,143
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”
(FRS 101). Note A explains the principal accounting policies.
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income for the year amounted to US$2,863 million (2014: US$4,821 million). As permitted by section 408 of
the UK Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account for the Rio Tinto plc parent company is shown.
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, profit and loss account and the related notes were approved by the directors on 2 March 2016 and the
balance sheet is signed on their behalf by
Jan du Plessis Sam Walsh AO Chris Lynch
Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer
Rio Tinto plc
Registered number: 719885
190 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Company statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 December 2015
Share
capital
US$m
Share
premium
account
US$m
Other
reserves
US$m
Profit
and loss
account
US$m
Total
equity
US$m
Opening balance 230 4,288 11,982 8,643 25,143
Profit for the financial year (comprehensive income) – – – 2,863 2,863
Dividends – – – (3,119) (3,119)
Proceeds from issue of shares –12 – 1 13
Share buy-back (6) – 6 – –
Share-based payments –– – 70 70
Total 224 4,300 11,988 8,458 24,970
Year ended 31 December 2014
Share
Capital
US$m
Share
premium
account
US$m
Other
reserves
US$m
Profit
and loss
account
US$m
Total
equity
US$m
Opening balance 230 4,269 11,982 6,599 23,080
Profit for the financial year (comprehensive income) – – – 4,821 4,821
Dividends – – – (2,857) (2,857)
Proceeds from issue of shares – 19 – 3 22
Share-based payments – – – 77 77
Total 230 4,288 11,982 8,643 25,143
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 191
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rio Tinto plc
continued
A Principal accounting policies
a. Basis of preparation
Rio Tinto plc has transitioned from the previously extant UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) to Financial Reporting
Standard 101 “Reduced disclosure framework”, (FRS 101), for all periods
presented. There were no measurement or recognition adjustments for
the Company on the adoption of FRS 101.
The Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been prepared
using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of
certain financial liabilities and in accordance with the UK Companies
Act 2006. The financial statements have been prepared on a going
concern basis.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to
all periods presented in these financial statements. The following
exemptions available under FRS 101 have been applied:
– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, “Share-based payment”
(details of the number and weighted average exercise prices of
shareoptions,andhowthefairvalueofgoodsandservicesreceived
was determined.)
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 “Fair value measurement” (disclosure
of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement
of assets and liabilities).
– IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”.
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 “Presentation of financial statements”,
comparative information requirements in respect of
Paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1.
– The following paragraphs of IAS 1 “Presentation of
financial statements”:
– 10(d) (statement of cash flows);
– 16 (statement of compliance with all IFRS);
– 38A (requirement for minimum of two primary statements,
including cash flow statements);
– 38B-D (additional comparative information);
– 111 (cash flow statement information); and
– 134-136 (capital management disclosures).
– IAS 7 “Statement of cash flows”.
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 “Accounting policies, changes in
accounting estimates and errors” (requirement for the disclosure of
information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been
issued and is not yet effective).
– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 “Related party disclosures” (key
management compensation).
– The requirements of IAS 24, “Related party disclosures” to disclose
related-party transactions entered into between two or more
members of a group.
b. Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of
estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to
make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in
applying accounting policies and making critical accounting estimates.
These judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on
management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances,
having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ
materially from the amounts included in the financial statements.
The key area of judgment that has the most significant effect on the
amounts recognised in the financial statements is the review for
impairment of investment carrying values.
c. Currency translation
Items included in the financial statements are measured using the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company
operates (the functional currency). The financial statements are
presented in US dollars, which is the Company’s functional and
presentation currency. Transactions denominated in other currencies,
including the issue of shares, are translated into the functional currency
using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such
transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are
recognised in the profit and loss account.
Exchange rates used are consistent with the rates used by the Group as
disclosed in the consolidated financial statements (note 41).
d. Investments
Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less accumulated impairment
losses. Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
e. Financial guarantees
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequently,
the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the present obligation and the amount
initially recognised less cumulative amortisation.
f. Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of share-based payment plans for
Group employees, the details of which are included in the consolidated
financial statements (note 44). The fair value of the Company’s share
plansisrecognisedasanadditiontothecostoftheinvestmentinthe
subsidiary in which the relevant employees work over the expected
vesting period, with a corresponding entry to the profit and loss account
reserve. Payments received from the Company’s subsidiaries in respect
of these share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in the cost
of the investment. The Company uses fair values provided by
independent actuaries calculated using either a lattice-based option
valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model. The fair value of the
share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any
market-based vesting conditions attached to the award.
Non-market based vesting conditions (eg earnings per share targets) are
taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest. The
estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each
balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is
adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued. No adjustment is made after
the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
g. Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment
is established.
h. Treasury shares
The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and held
as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders’ funds
through the profit and loss account.
B Fixed assets
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Investments in Group companies:
At 1 January 36,139 36,107
Additions 70 78
Other adjustments (29) (46)
At 31 December 36,180 36,139
192 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report At 31 December 2015 the Company had the following principal subsidiaries:
Company Principal activity
Country of
incorporation
Percentage
shareholding
Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100
Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100
In accordance with Section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements
(note 47).
C Amounts owed by subsidiaries
Amounts owed by subsidiaries includes US$833 million (31 December 2014: US$922 million), which is subject to interest based on LIBOR, is
unsecured and repayable on demand.
D Amounts owed to subsidiaries
Amounts owed to subsidiaries include US$11,970 million (31 December 2014: US$11,887 million) which is subject to interest rates based on LIBOR,
is unsecured and repayable on demand.
E Share capital
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each
(a)
At 1 January 230 230
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled
(b)
(6) –
At 31 December 224 230
(a) 21,709 new shares (2014: 971 new shares) were issued during the year and 789,887 shares (2014: 1,450,659 shares) were reissued from treasury pursuant to
share plans.
(b) During the year 40,912,881 shares (2014: nil) were purchased from Rio Tinto Limited and immediately cancelled.
F Other reserves
Other reserves include US$11,936 million which represents the
difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares
issued arising from Rio Tinto plc’s rights issue completed in July 2009.
G Guarantees
Rio Tinto plc provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group
companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Group’s
external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt
Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled
US$19.4 billion at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: US$20.8
billion). In addition, these entities also jointly guarantee the Group’s
undrawn credit facility which was US$7.5 billion at 31 December 2015
(31 December 2014: US$7.5 billion). Rio Tinto plc has provided
guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts that are in a liability
position of US$275 million at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014:
US$55 million). The fair value of financial guarantees has been
determined as US$nil (31 December 2014: US$nil).
Rio Tinto plc has provided a number of guarantees in relation to various
pension funds. Subject to certain conditions, Rio Tinto plc would pay any
contributions due from Group companies participating in these funds in
the event that the companies fail to meet their contribution
requirements. The guarantees were not called upon in 2015.
The aggregate of company contributions to these plans in 2015 was
US$107 million (2014: US$65 million).
Other guarantees issued by Rio Tinto plc in relation to Rio Tinto Group
entities as at 31 December 2015 amount to US$328 million
(31 December 2014: US$439 million). Included within this balance is
US$59 million (31 December 2014: US$59 million) in relation to non-
wholly owned subsidiaries.
Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited
issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed
contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 193
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rio Tinto financial information by business unit
Gross revenue
(a)
for the year ended 31 December
EBITDA
(b)
for the year ended 31 December
Net earnings
(c)
for the year ended 31 December
Rio Tinto
interest
%
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Iron Ore
Pilbara
(d)
13,886 21,482 23,633 7,730 13,701 16,511 4,013 7,956 9,568
Iron Ore Company of Canada 58.7 1,353 1,696 2,258 197 516 927 12 144 305
Product group operations 15,239 23,178 25,891 7,927 14,217 17,438 4,025 8,100 9,873
Evaluation projects/other 66 103 103 (55) 27 4 (73) 7 (15)
15,305 23,281 25,994 7,872 14,244 17,442 3,952 8,107 9,858
Aluminium
(e)
Bauxite 2,057 1,956 2,012 937 752 765 542 429 377
Alumina 2,145 2,158 2,090 (47) (54) (226) (187) (209) (265)
Intersegment (849) (834) (739) – –– – ––
Bauxite & Alumina 3,353 3,280 3,363 890 698 539 355 220 112
Primary Metal 4,931 5,867 5,771 1,245 1,604 976 446 629 200
Pacific Aluminium 2,254 2,483 2,348 408 524 252 147 291 126
Intersegment & Other (1,876) (2,087) (2,087) 132 (43) 8 92 (6) 15
Integrated operations 8,662 9,543 9,395 2,675 2,783 1,775 1,040 1,134 453
Other product group items 1,374 2,373 2,866 (76) 36 32 (50) 26 28
Product group operations 10,036 11,916 12,261 2,599 2,819 1,807 990 1,160 481
Evaluation projects/other 81 207 202 143 111 87 128 88 76
10,117 12,123 12,463 2,742 2,930 1,894 1,118 1,248 557
Copper & Coal
Rio Tinto Kennecott 100.0 1,403 2,186 2,194 437 958 840 44 523 428
Escondida 30.0 1,855 2,282 2,566 760 1,292 1,453 281 612 777
Grasberg joint venture
(f)
– 49 39 (17) 62 (34) (17) (21)
Oyu Tolgoi & Turquoise Hill
(g)
1,636 1,765 237 501 366 (345) 57 (20) (164)
Palabora
(h)
– – 526 – – 105 – –42
Northparkes
(h)
– – 351 – – 227 – – 141
Copper Operations 4,894 6,282 5,913 1,681 2,622 2,282 348 1,098 1,203
Copper Evaluation projects/other
(i)
– –– (186) (231) (350) (111) (147) (232)
Total Copper 4,894 6,282 5,913 1,495 2,391 1,932 237 951 971
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
(j)
2,757 3,560 4,413 497 450 1,041 48 21 367
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
(k)
– 59 88 – (96) (114) – (93) (142)
Coal Operations 2,757 3,619 4,501 497 354 927 48 (72) 225
Coal Evaluation projects/other 54 48 – (5) (5) (85) (3) (11) (68)
Total Coal
(q)
2,811 3,667 4,501 492 349 842 45 (83) 157
Other product group items – 820 (19) (58) (207) (8) (37) (163)
7,705 9,957 10,434 1,968 2,682 2,567 274 831 965
Diamonds & Minerals
Diamonds
(l)
698 901 852 293 315 257 79 104 53
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium
(m)
1,571 2,168 2,251 435 689 728 116 248 264
Rio Tinto Minerals 624 675 657 178 212 205 103 121 131
Dampier Salt 68.4 306 398 404 71 67 43 24 18 7
Uranium
(q)
474 633 936 1 (77) 119 (42) (117) (85)
Product group operations 3,673 4,775 5,100 978 1,206 1,352 280 374 370
Simandou iron ore project – –– (87) (97) (71) (41) (55) (43)
Evaluation projects/other 1 829 (58) (64) (110) (50) (50) (90)
3,674 4,783 5,129 833 1,045 1,171 189 269 237
Other Operations
(n)
13 241 1,761 (81) (287) (398) (88) (240) (279)
Intersegment transactions (29) (344) (1,182) – –(4) – –(4)
Product group total 36,785 50,041 54,599 13,334 20,614 22,672 5,445 10,215 11,334
194 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Gross revenue
(a)
for the year ended 31 December
EBITDA
(b)
for the year ended 31 December
Net earnings
(c)
for the year ended 31 December
Rio Tinto
interest
%
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Other items (546) (755) (995) (375) (593) (730)
Exploration and evaluation (167) (194) (168) (141) (156) (145)
Net interest (389) (161) (242)
Underlying EBITDA/earnings 12,621 19,665 21,509 4,540 9,305 10,217
Items excluded from underlying EBITDA/
earnings (1) – (24) (563) (825) (556) (5,406) (2,778) (6,552)
EBITDA/net (loss)/earnings 12,058 18,840 20,953 (866) 6,527 3,665
Reconciliation to Group income statement
Share of equity accounted unit sales and
intra-subsidiary/equity accounted units sales (1,955) (2,377) (3,404)
Depreciation & amortisation in subsidiaries
excluding capitalised depreciation (4,553) (4,828) (4,470)
Impairment charges, net of reversals (2,791) (221) (7,545)
Depreciation & amortisation in equity
accounted units (462) (472) (401)
Taxation and finance items in equity
accounted units (276) (759) (625)
Consolidated sales revenue/Profit on
ordinary activities before finance items
and tax 34,829 47,664 51,171 3,976 12,560 7,912
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 195
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rio Tinto financial information by business unit
continued
Capital expenditure
(o)
for the year
ended 31 December
Depreciation &
amortisation
for the year
ended 31 December
Operating assets
(p)
as at
Employees
for the year
ended 31 December
Rio Tinto
interest
%
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
Number
2014
Number
2013
Number
Iron Ore
Pilbara
(d)
1,608 4,038 6,480 1,744 1,789 1,461 16,848 19,524 19,498 11,097 12,032 12,143
Iron Ore Company of Canada 58.7 118 173 334 162 164 166 1,155 1,460 1,553 2,316 2,580 2,620
Other – –– – –– 2 311 – –18
1,726 4,211 6,814 1,906 1,953 1,627 18,005 20,987 21,062 13,413 14,612 14,781
Aluminium
(e)
Bauxite 159 122 144 112 126 130 1,050 1,366 1,454 2,603 2,613 2,525
Alumina 158 166 166 207 212 232 2,698 3,166 3,609 2,287 2,228 2,163
Bauxite & Alumina 317 288 310 319 338 362 3,748 4,532 5,063 4,890 4,841 4,688
Primary Metal 1,249 1,781 1,767 629 692 666 10,326 11,455 12,165 7,980 9,270 10,414
Pacific Aluminium 126 129 134 212 135 109 1,198 1,421 405 2,339 2,395 2,377
Intersegment and Other (10) (177) 15 12 15 14 677 889 1,181 210 311 318
Integrated Operations 1,682 2,021 2,226 1,172 1,180 1,151 15,949 18,297 18,814 15,419 16,817 17,797
Copper & Coal
Rio Tinto Kennecott 100.0 408 642 783 344 324 296 2,442 2,603 2,634 1,793 1,976 2,093
Escondida 30.0 770 947 947 293 308 216 3,485 2,999 2,524 1,159 1,344 1,248
Grasberg joint venture
(f)
179 193 176 43 36 38 1,016 878 761 2,868 2,955 2,441
Oyu Tolgoi & Turquoise Hill
(g)
92 166 768 416 379 379 3,597 3,933 6,010 2,798 3,255 3,472
Palabora
(h)
– –18 – –– – –– – – 1,145
Northparkes
(h)
– –18 – –25 – –– – – 269
Copper Operations 1,449 1,948 2,710 1,096 1,047 954 10,540 10,413 11,929 8,618 9,530 10,668
Copper Evaluation projects/
other
(i)
3 10 103 4 48 153 168 141 158 310 505
Total Copper 1,452 1,958 2,813 1,100 1,051 962 10,693 10,581 12,070 8,776 9,840 11,173
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
(j)
108 165 547 336 406 486 2,137 3,099 3,945 3,157 3,187 3,826
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
(k)
– 232 – –28 – 7 119 – 183 263
Coal Operations 108 167 579 336 406 514 2,137 3,106 4,064 3,157 3,370 4,089
Coal other 4 3– 5 7– 2 19 – 809 698 –
Total Coal
(q)
112 170 579 341 413 514 2,139 3,125 4,064 3,966 4,068 4,089
1,564 2,128 3,392 1,441 1,464 1,476 12,832 13,706 16,134 12,742 13,908 15,262
Diamonds & Minerals
Diamonds
(l)
124 148 319 159 168 168 857 1,124 1,279 1,118 1,268 1,255
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium
(m)
150 185 274 194 233 264 3,554 4,424 4,859 4,507 4,787 4,955
Rio Tinto Minerals 28 69 115 45 41 36 585 650 669 987 1,024 1,110
Dampier Salt 68.4 14 21 28 22 28 29 140 193 228 394 479 512
Uranium
(q)
39 54 153 65 135 252 (216) 151 247 1,329 1,243 1,654
Simandou iron ore project 91 85 273 1 14 14 (10) 864 808 912 958 1,011
Other – –– 2 –2 279 571 618 114 109 123
446 562 1,162 488 619 765 5,189 7,977 8,708 9,361 9,868 10,620
Other Operations
(n)
(36) (56) 278 32 34 67 (14) 418 544 296 845 3,887
Product group total 5,382 8,866 13,872 5,039 5,250 5,086 51,961 61,385 65,262 51,231 56,050 62,347
Intersegment transactions 242 238 276
Net assets/(liabilities) of
disposal groups held for sale
(r)
– –– – –– 182 (48) 771 – ––
Other items 65 (416) 145 68 82 106 (1,253) (2,784) (2,352) 3,657 3,725 3,984
Less: equity accounted units (859) (1,032) (1,073) (462) (472) (401)
Total 4,588 7,418 12,944 4,645 4,860 4,791 51,132 58,791 63,957 54,888 59,775 66,331
196 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Capital expenditure
(o)
for the year
ended 31 December
Depreciation &
amortisation
for the year
ended 31 December
Operating assets
(p)
as at
Employees
for the year
ended 31 December
Rio Tinto
interest
%
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2015
Number
2014
Number
2013
Number
Add back: Proceeds from
disposal of property, plant
and equipment 97 744 57
Total capital expenditure per
cash flow statement 4,685 8,162 13,001
Less: Net debt (13,783) (12,495) (18,055)
Less: EAU funded balances
excluded from net debt – (11) (16)
Equity attributable to
owners of Rio Tinto 37,349 46,285 45,886
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 197
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to financial information by business unit
Business units are classified according to the Group’s management
structure. Where presentational revisions are made, comparative
amounts are adjusted accordingly.
a) Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity
accounted units (after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries) in
addition to consolidated sales. Consolidated sales revenue
includes subsidiary sales to equity accounted units which are not
included in gross sales revenue.
b) EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Group’s share of EBITDA relating to
equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance
items, depreciation and amortisation charged to the income
statement in the period. Underlying EBITDA excludes the same
items that are excluded from underlying earnings.
c) Represents profit after tax for the period attributable to the
owners of the Rio Tinto Group. Business unit earnings are stated
before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related
to provisions. Earnings attributed to business units do not include
amounts that are excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
d) Pilbara represents the Group’s 100 per cent holding in Hamersley
and 65 per cent holding of Robe River Iron Associates. 30 per cent
of Robe River Iron Associates is held through a 60 per cent owned
subsidiary and therefore the Group’s net beneficial interest is
53 per cent.
e) Presented on an integrated operations basis splitting activities
between Bauxite & Alumina, Primary Metal, Pacific Aluminium and
Other integrated operations (which in total reflect the results of
the integrated production of aluminium) and Other product group
items, which relate to other commercial activities.
f) Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled
to 40 per cent of material mined as a consequence of expansions
and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998.
g) Rio Tinto’s interest in Oyu Tolgoi is held indirectly through its 50.8 per
cent investment in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd (TRQ) which in turn
owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which owns the Oyu Tolgoi
copper-gold mine. As at 31 December 2015 the principal asset of
TRQ was its interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC. As at 31 December 2014,
TRQ’s investment in SouthGobi Resources Ltd was classified as an
asset held for sale. On 23 April 2015, TRQ completed the block sale
of 48.7 million common shares in SouthGobi Resources and with
further divestments has reduced its interest to below 20 per cent. As
at 31 December 2015 TRQ’s interest in SouthGobi Resources Ltd is
no longer consolidated as a subsidiary and has been classified as an
available for sale investment.
h) Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its 57.7 per cent interest in
Palabora Mining Company on 31 July 2013 and of its 80 per cent
interest in the Northparkes mine on 1 December 2013.
i) In the 2014 Annual report, Copper Evaluation projects/other
included the results of TRQ. As at 31 December 2015 the principal
asset of TRQ was its interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC and, as such, has
been shown combined with Oyu Tolgoi. The 2014 and 2013
comparative periods have been restated to be shown on a
consistent basis.
j) Includes Rio Tinto’s 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied, through
which Rio Tinto held its beneficial interests in Bengalla, Mount
Thorley and Warkworth of 32 per cent, 64 per cent and
44.5 per cent respectively. In February 2016, the restructuring of
the Coal and Allied group completed. As a result, Rio Tinto now
has a 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited
and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and in Hunter Valley Resources
Pty Ltd. Mitsubishi is now a joint venture participant in the Hunter
Valley Operations Joint Venture.
k) On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto disposed of its interest in Rio Tinto
Coal Mozambique (RTCM), including its interests in the Benga
project, a 65:35 joint venture with Tata Steel Limited. Zululand
Anthracite Colliery (ZAC), which was retained, is reported within
Coal Evaluation projects/other. In February 2016, Rio Tinto signed
an agreement to dispose of its interest in ZAC.
l) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Argyle (100 per cent) and Diavik
(60 per cent). Murowa (77.8 per cent) was included until its
disposal to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited.
m) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane (100 per
cent), QIT Madagascar Minerals (80 per cent) and Richards Bay
Minerals (attributable interest of 74 per cent).
n) Other Operations include Rio Tinto’s 100 per cent interest in the
Gove alumina refinery and Rio Tinto Marine.
o) Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases
less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised
evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible
assets. The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries’
capital expenditure and Rio Tinto’s share of the capital expenditure
of joint operations and equity accounted units.
p) Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post-
retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting
net debt. Operating assets are stated after deduction of non-
controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the net
assets of the relevant companies (ie inclusive of such companies’
debt and amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group companies).
q) In 2015 the Energy product group as presented in previous periods
was split with the coal assets taken to the newly formed Copper &
Coal product group and the uranium assets to the Diamonds &
Minerals product group.
r) Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2015 comprise
Rio Tinto’s interests in the Blair Athol coal project, Carbone Savoie,
Bengalla, and Molybdenum Autoclave Process assets.
Assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2014
comprised Rio Tinto’s interests in the Blair Athol coal project and
SouthGobi Resources Ltd.
198 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Australian Corporations Act – summary of ASIC relief
Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Corporations Act),
the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an order
dated 14 December 2015 that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited from
certain requirements of the Corporations Act in relation to the
Company’s financial statements and associated reports. The order
essentially continues the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited since
the formation of the Group’s dual listed companies (DLC) structure in
1995. The order applies to Rio Tinto Limited’s financial reporting
obligations for the financial years and half-years ending between
31 December 2015 and 30 June 2020.
In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act to
prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and its
controlled entities, the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare
consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their
respective controlled entities are treated as a single economic entity. In
addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be prepared:
– in accordance with the principles and requirements of International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU
IFRS) rather than the Australian Accounting Standards (AAS) (except
for one limited instance in the case of any concise report), and in
accordance with UK financial reporting obligations generally;
– on the basis that the transitional provisions of International Financial
Reporting Standard 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards, should be applied using the combined financial
statements previously prepared for Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc
and their respective controlled entities under Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom, under which the DLC
Merger between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc was accounted for
using “merger”, rather than “acquisition”, accounting (reflecting that
neither Rio Tinto Limited nor Rio Tinto plc was acquired by, or is
controlled by, the other; and meaning that the existing carrying
amounts, rather than fair values, of assets and liabilities at the
time of the DLC Merger were used to measure those assets and
liabilities at formation);
– on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single
company (with their respective shareholders being the shareholders
in that single company); and
– with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AAS, of the following amounts:
consolidated loss/profit for the financial year, total consolidated
comprehensive loss/income for the financial year and total
consolidated equity at the end of the financial year (see page 112).
Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in relation
to their compliance with relevant Australian and UK requirements.
Rio Tinto Limited must also prepare a Directors’ report which satisfies
the content requirements of the Corporations Act (applied on the basis
that for these purposes the consolidated entity is the Group, and the
consolidated financial statements cover the Group). This includes a
Remuneration report (see pages 70 to 104) prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the Corporations Act.
Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the
lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act
(including timing requirements) in relation to those consolidated
financial statements (including any concise financial statements), the
Auditor’sreportandtheDirectors’report.TheCorporationsActalso
requires that a non-binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration report
be voted on by shareholders at the Company’s annual general meeting.
Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate consolidated
financial statements solely for it and its controlled entities. Rio Tinto
Limited is also not required to prepare and lodge parent entity financial
statements for itself in respect of each relevant financial year.
Rio Tinto Limited must, however, in accordance with the Corporations Act
include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as a note,
various parent entity information regarding Rio Tinto Limited (including
in relation to assets, liabilities, shareholders’ equity, profit and loss,
income, guarantees, contingent liabilities, and contractual
commitments) prepared in accordance with AAS (see page 175).
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 199
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ declaration
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation to the
Group financial statements, Rio Tinto plc financial
statements and Rio Tinto Limited financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the
Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
UK and Australian company law requires the directors to prepare
financial statements for each financial year. Under UK law the directors
have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by
the European Union and the Rio Tinto plc financial statements in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law),
including FRS 101 “Reduced disclosure framework”.
Under Australian law, the directors are also required to prepare certain
Rio Tinto Limited parent company financial statements in accordance
with Australian Accounting Standards (AAS). In preparing the Group
financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with
IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
Under UK and Australian company law the directors must not approve
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
andfairviewofthestateofaffairsoftheGroupandthecompaniesasat
theendofthefinancialyear,andoftheprofitorlossofthecompanies
and Group for the period (as applicable).
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
– make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
– state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, applicable
UK Accounting Standards and AAS have been followed, subject to
any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and
parent company financial statements respectively; and
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the companies will
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records
that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the companies
and the Group and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the companies and the Group and enable them to
ensure that:
– the Group financial statements comply with the UK Companies Act
2006, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated
14 December 2015 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation;
– the Rio Tinto plc financial statements comply with the UK Companies
Act 2006;
– the Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures comply with the
Corporations Act as amended by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission Order dated 14 December 2015; and
– the Remuneration Report complies with the UK Companies Act 2006
and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 14 December
2015.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Companies and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
Group’s website. Legislation governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ between jurisdictions in
which the Group reports.
Each of the current directors, whose names and function are listed on
pages 51 to 53 in the Governance section, confirm that, to the best of
their knowledge:
– the Rio Tinto Group financial statements and notes, which have been
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the
Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission Order dated 14 December 2015, the UK
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the
Group;
– the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and notes, which have been
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
AccountingPracticegiveatrueandfairviewoftheassets,liabilities,
financial position and profit of the company;
– the Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures, which have been
prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (AAS)
and Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities
and Investments Commission Order dated 14 December 2015 give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit
of the company;
– the Strategic report section of the Annual report include a fair review
of the development and performance of the business and the position
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that it faces; and
– there are reasonable grounds to believe that each of the Rio Tinto
Group, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited will be able to pay its debts
as and when they become due and payable.
The directors have been given the declarations by the chief executive and
chief financial officer required by section 295A of the Corporations Act
2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission Order dated 14 December 2015.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The directors in office at the date of this report have each confirmed that:
– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of
which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of
that information.
Thisdeclarationismadeinaccordancewitharesolutionoftheboard.
Jan du Plessis Sam Walsh AO Chris Lynch
Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer
200 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Auditor’s independence declaration
As lead auditor for the audit of Rio Tinto Limited for the year ended 31 December 2015, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there
have been:
(a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and
(b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit.
This declaration is in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and the entities it controlled during the period.
Paul Bendall
Partner
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Melbourne
2 March 2016
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 201
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
to the members of Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers
to the members of Rio Tinto Limited
For the purpose of this report, the terms “we” and “our” denote
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and
regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of
Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers in relation to Australian legal,
professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to
the members of Rio Tinto Limited. The Group financial statements, as
defined below, consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Limited and their respective subsidiaries (“the Group”) and include the
Group’s share of joint arrangements and associates.
The relevant legislation governing the companies is the United Kingdom
Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as
amended by the ASIC order dated 14 December 2015 (the “ASIC Order”)
for Rio Tinto Limited.
Report on the financial statements and the financial report
Opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on the financial statements
to the members of Rio Tinto plc
In our opinion:
– the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of
the state of the Group’s and of Rio Tinto plc’s affairs as at
31 December 2015 and of the Group’s loss and cash flows for the
year then ended;
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
– the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice; and
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
requirementsoftheCompaniesAct2006and,asregardstheGroup
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in relation to IFRSs
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”)
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition
to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied
IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as
issued by the IASB.
Opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers on the financial report to the
members of Rio Tinto Limited
In our opinion:
– the financial report, as defined below, is in accordance with the
Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including:
i. giving a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as
at 31 December 2015 and of its performance for the year
ended on that date;
ii. complying with Australian Accounting Standards (including
Australian Accounting Interpretations) and the Corporations
Regulations 2001; and
– the Group financial statements also comply with IFRSs as disclosed in
note 1.
What we have audited
The Rio Tinto Group financial statements, included within the Annual
report and Accounts (the “Annual report”), comprise:
– the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2015;
– the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive
income for the year then ended;
– the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended;
– the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
– notes 1 – 45 and 47 to the Group financial statements, which include
a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information;
– the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial
statements (page 112); and
– the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit.
The Rio Tinto plc company financial statements, included within the
Annual report, comprise:
– the Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015; and
– notes A-G to the Rio Tinto plc financial statements, which include a
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information.
The Group’s financial statements and the Rio Tinto plc company financial
statements are referred to in this report as the “financial statements”.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has audited the Group financial statements
and the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2015.
PricewaterhouseCoopers has audited the Reconciliation with Australian
Accounting Standards, the Directors’ remuneration report included in the
Directors’ report and the financial report for 31 December 2015. The
financial report, included within the Annual report, comprises the Group
financial statements, Note 46 “Rio Tinto Limited parent company
disclosures” and the Directors’ declaration on page 200.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the
Annual report rather than in the notes to the financial statements and
the financial report. These are cross-referenced from the financial
statements and the financial report and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the
United Kingdom, applicable law in Australia as amended by the ASIC
Order (described in the Annual report under the heading “Australian
Corporations Act – Summary of ASIC relief”) and IFRSs as adopted by
the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, “Reduced
Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
All currency references are to the United States Dollar, unless
otherwise stated.
202 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Our audit approach
Rio Tinto’s principal activities are minerals and metals exploration, development, production and processing. The Group operates through four product
groups and 84 business units.
Overview
Materiality Overall Group materiality: $300 million (2014: $600 million), which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for
items excluded from underlying earnings (as defined in note 2 to the Group financial statements). The lower
materiality in 2015 reflects the lower underlying profitabilityoftheGroup,principallyduetothesignificantfallin
commodity prices.
Scope We identified two business units (2014: three) which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial
information, due to their financial significance to the Group. Those business units were Pilbara (previously audited
separately as Hamersley Iron and Robe River) and Escondida.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 17 business units
(2014: 14), which comprised 12 (2014: 6) operating business units and 5 (2014: 8) central business units, such as
treasury entities. As a consequence of the lower Group materiality we brought additional business units into scope
and performed extended audit procedures at in-scope business units to maintain appropriate audit coverage.
Areas of focus – We assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and determined that they remain
consistent with 2014.
– Impairment assessments (including indicators of impairment and impairment reversal), with a particular focus
on goodwill (Roughrider), property, plant and equipment (Energy Resources of Australia and Oyu Tolgoi) and
exploration and evaluation assets (Simandou and Roughrider).
– Provisions for uncertain tax positions.
– Provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations.
– Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits.
– Impact of ongoing finance transformation, including shared services transition, on the control environment.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) and Australian Auditing
Standards (“ASAs”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked
at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and
considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls,
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as
“areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the
financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete
list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Impairment/reversal of impairment assessment
Rio Tinto has goodwill of $892 million, indefinite-lived intangible assets of
$1,655 million, property, plant and equipment of $61,057 million, and
exploration and evaluation assets of $706 million as at 31 December 2015,
contained within 47 cash generating units (“CGUs”). Impairment charges
to each of these asset categories have been recognised in prior periods.
In 2015 a pre-tax impairment charge of $2,791 million was recognised,
which primarily related to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant
and equipment.
All CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be
tested for impairment on an annual basis. Management must also
determine the recoverable amount for other assets including property,
plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets when
impairment or impairment reversal indicators are identified.
For the CGUs which contain Rio Tinto’s goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible
assets, property, plant and equipment, and exploration and evaluation
assets, the determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of
value-in-use and fair value less costs to dispose, requires judgement on
the part of management in both identifying and then valuing the relevant
CGUs.Recoverableamountsarebasedonmanagement’sviewofkey
variables and market conditions such as future commodity prices, the
timing and approval of future capital and operating expenditure, and the
most appropriate discount rate.
As well as considering indicators of impairment, management must
determine whether any indicators of reversal of previous impairments are
apparent for assets other than goodwill. Due to the decrease in commodity
prices during the year, impairment reversals were only considered in a
limited number of cases. No impairment reversals were recognised.
For all material goodwill balances, indefinite-lived intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment, and exploration and evaluation assets
we undertook the following:
– We satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of management’s
identification of the Group’s CGUs and the continued satisfactory
operation of the Group’s controls over the impairment
assessment process.
– We evaluated management’s assessment of impairment indicators,
as well as indicators of impairment reversal, including the
conclusions reached.
– With the support of our valuation specialists, we benchmarked
key market related assumptions in management’s valuation
models used to determine recoverable amount, including future
commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates,
against external data.
– We verified the mathematical accuracy of management’s valuation
models and agreed relevant data, including assumptions on timing
and future capital and operating expenditure, to the latest Life of
Mine/production plans and budgets.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 203
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
to the members of Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers
to the members of Rio Tinto Limited
continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
In relation to specific projects or business units we noted the following: In addition to our overall response to impairment risk described above,
we performed additional procedures on certain projects or business
units as follows:
Roughrider – in late 2015 the Group finalised an Order of Magnitude study
for the Roughrider uranium project. Taking into account Rio Tinto’s
updated view of the development concept and geological model, a pre-tax
impairment charge of $116 million was recognised against goodwill, and a
further $113 million against evaluation and exploration assets.
Energy Resources of Australia (“ERA”) – in June 2015 Rio Tinto announced
that it supported ERA’s decision not to proceed with the Final Feasibility
Study of the Ranger 3 Deeps project. Rio Tinto also announced that it did
not support any further study or future development of Ranger 3 Deeps
due to the project’s economic challenges. As a result, at 30 June 2015 Rio
Tinto recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of $260 million,
predominantly related to property, plant and equipment.
Oyu Tolgoi – this project has progressed during 2015, including the
agreement of project-specific financing for the underground development
phase. However, forecast copper prices, to which the recoverable amount
is sensitive, have declined. Management conducted an assessment of the
recoverableamountoftheOyuTolgoiCGUasdescribedinNote1(i)
“Principal accounting policies” (Depreciation and impairment) utilising
those forecast copper prices and a project-specific discount rate.
Simandou–completionofbankablefeasibilitystudiesforthemine,port
infrastructure and rail infrastructure to support the Simandou project was
delayed in 2015 due to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. Draft separate
feasibility studies for the mine, port and rail were issued in December 2015
with the final integrated feasibility study due in May 2016. Due to current
market conditions and uncertainty over infrastructure ownership and
funding Rio Tinto recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of $2,039
million, predominantly related to exploration and evaluation assets and
property, plant and equipment.
Refer to note 6 for management’s conclusions and the Audit Committee’s
views set out on page 59.
– Roughrider – assessed the outcome of management’s recently
completed Order of Magnitude study, which included a revised
geological model and an updated market outlook.;
– ERA – checked management’s decision not to continue to support
ERA’s Ranger 3 Deeps project through Rio Tinto board and
committee meeting minutes and public announcements.;
– Oyu Tolgoi – read the Underground Mine Development and
Financing Plan and independently assessed management’s project-
specific discount rate, considering the terms of the project finance
agreement signed in 2015. We also satisfied ourselves as to the
appropriateness of the copper price assumptions used in
management’s impairment model.; and
– Simandou – understood the key findings from the draft bankable
feasibility studies and discussed these with management
responsible for the project, considered management’s assessment
of external indicators of value for the project and considered the
judgements taken by management in determining the impairment
charge.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 to
the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with
respect to Oyu Tolgoi.
Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations
Rio Tinto has provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental
obligations of $8,426 million as at 31 December 2015.
The calculation of these provisions requires management judgement in
estimating the quantum and timing of future costs, particularly given the
unique nature of each site, the long timescales involved and the potential
associated obligations. These calculations also require management to
determine an appropriate rate to discount these future costs back to their
net present value.
The judgement required to estimate such costs is further compounded by
the fact that there has been limited restoration and rehabilitation activity
and historical precedent against which to benchmark estimates of future
costs.
Management reviews the close-down, restoration and environment
obligations on a semi-annual basis, using experts to provide support in its
assessment where appropriate. This review incorporates the effects of any
changes in local regulations and management’s anticipated approach to
restoration and rehabilitation.
Refer to note 26 and the Audit Committee’s views set out on page 59.
We assessed management’s process for the review of provisions, and
performed detailed testing of the 31 December 2015 provision for five
business units. For the remaining business units, including legacy
operations, we assessed provision movements in the year relating to
close-down, restoration and environmental obligations to check they
were consistent with our understanding of the asset and associated
remediation plans.
As part of our detailed testing of the cost estimates prepared by
management for the five business units selected, we established the
existence of legal and/or constructive obligations with respect to the
restoration and rehabilitation for each business unit to assess the
appropriateness of the intended method of restoration and
rehabilitation and associated cost estimate.
We also considered the competence and objectivity of management’s
experts, whether internal or external to Rio Tinto, who produced the
cost estimates.
We validated the accuracy of calculations and the appropriateness of
the discount rate using our valuations specialists.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions
The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject to
periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters
during the normal course of business, including transfer pricing, indirect
taxes and transaction related tax matters. As at 31 December 2015, the
Group has current and non-current taxes payable of $430 million. Where
the amount of tax payable is uncertain, Rio Tinto establishes provisions
based on management’s judgement of the probable amount of the liability.
Refer to notes 17 and 31, and the Audit Committee’s views set out on
page 59.
We assessed management’s process for identifying uncertain tax
positions and the related accounting policy of provisioning for
tax exposures.
We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the current
status of tax assessments and investigations and to monitor
developments in ongoing disputes. We read recent rulings and
correspondencewithlocaltaxauthorities,aswellasexternaladvice
received by the Group where relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax
provisions had been appropriately recorded or adjusted to reflect the
latest external developments.
204 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits
The Group has approximately 60 defined benefit pension plans. The total
fair value of plan assets is $13,642 million, and the total present value of
obligations is $15,261 million, which are both significant in the context of
theoverallbalancesheetoftheGroup.
The valuation of the pension liabilities requires judgement in determining
appropriate assumptions such as salary increases, mortality rates,
discount rates, inflation levels and the impact of any changes in individual
pension plans. Movements in these assumptions can have a material
impact on the determination of the liability. Management uses external
actuaries to assist in assessing these assumptions.
Judgement is also involved in the measurement of the fair value of certain
pension assets.
Refer to notes 26 and 45 and the Audit Committee’s views set out on
page 59.
We used our actuarial specialists to satisfy ourselves that the
assumptions used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including
salary increases and mortality rate assumptions, were consistent with
the specifics of each plan and, where applicable, with relevant national
and industry benchmarks. We also verified that the discount and
inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension liabilities were
consistent with our internally developed benchmarks and in line with
other companies’ recent external reporting.
For pension plan assets, we obtained third party confirmations of
ownership and third party valuations of individual pension assets. We
re-performed a sample of the valuations independently, for example
testing the valuation of marketable securities to index prices as at
31 December 2015, recalculating valuations based on observable
inputs and using our specialists to help us assess other individual asset
values,whosevalueisnotdeterminedbasedonobservablemarket
inputs,suchasproperty.
Finance transformation – Shared services transition
The shared services transition element of Rio Tinto’s Finance
transformation programme includes the centralisation and outsourcing of
certain back office finance activities (excluding key controls) to third-party
providers. The programme commenced in 2014 and is expected to
complete in 2016. The largest business units had fully transitioned by the
end of 2015.
Certain of the activities being transitioned were previously undertaken in
Rio Tinto’s own shared services centres. A number of additional business
unit finance processes have also been transitioned in 2015.
This centralisation of finance processes and the associated transfer of
responsibilities created a risk of loss of knowledge which could adversely
affect the controls, or allow control gaps to emerge, during the transition
period. There is also a risk that controls over financial reporting, which rely
onthoseactivitiesthathavebeen,oraretobe,transitionedmaynotbe
designed and/or operate effectively.
Refer to the Audit Committee’s views set out on page 59.
We updated our understanding of the Group’s shared services
transition plans, including the timing of business unit transitions and
the extent of activities being transferred.
We assessed the implementation of management’s plans through the
following:
– Assessing the design effectiveness of internal controls over
financial reporting in the processes impacted at both the Group and
business unit levels.
– Testing the operating effectiveness of key controls which operate
within Rio Tinto’s retained organisation.
– In respect of third-party outsourced service providers:
– Evaluating the ‘Statements of Works’ governing the service level
agreements with Rio Tinto and the associated key performance
indicators.
– Visiting the outsourced shared service centres to understand
thestructure,roles,responsibilitiesandtheoutsourcedservice
provider’s knowledge and understanding of the transitioned
processes and procedures. This provided evidence that key
controls still remained within Rio Tinto’s retained organisation.
– Obtaining a report from independent third parties on the Service
Organisation Controls performed in accordance with the
Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE)
No. 16. This provided evidence about the operating effectiveness
of governance and entity level controls operated by the
outsourced service providers.
Howwetailoredtheauditscope
As the Group engagement team, we tailored the scope of our audit to
ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on
the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the
industry in which the Group operates.
Following the reorganisation of the former Energy product group in
February 2015, the Group is organised into four product groups –
Aluminium, Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals, and Iron Ore – all of
which are supported by centralised functions. Each product group is
made up of a number of operating businesses which represent separate
business units. The Group financial statements are a consolidation of
business units, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and
centralised functions. Based on this, we determined the appropriate
business units to perform work over based on factors such as the size of
thebalances,theareasoffocusasnotedaboveandknownaccounting
matters, and to include unpredictability in our audit procedures.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined
the type of work that needed to be performed at business units by us, as
the Group engagement team, or component auditors from either other
PwC network firms or non-PwC firms operating under our instruction. In
2015, we identified two business units (2014: three) which, in our view,
required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their
financial significance to the Group. Those business units were Pilbara
(previously considered as separate Hamersley Iron and Robe River
business units, with both subject to full scope audits) and Escondida.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were
performed at a further 17 business units (2014: 14), primarily to ensure
appropriateauditcoverage.Thisincreaseresultedfromthereductionin
our overall materiality from $600 million to $300 million as explained
below. As we seek to vary our audit procedures each year to ensure an
element of unpredictability, two smaller business units (2014: two) were
included in our Group audit scope for 2015. With the reduction in
materiality we extended certain of our procedures at in-scope business
units when compared with those undertaken during the comparative
period. We also performed work centrally on IT general controls, journals,
taxation,pensionsandtreasury,andonthesharedservicestransitionas
noted above. Together, the central and operating business units at which
work was performed by the Group engagement team and component
auditors accounted for 83% of consolidated revenue, 82% of
consolidated underlying profit before tax and 84% of consolidated total
assets. At the Group level, we also carried out analytical and other
procedures on the business units not covered by the procedures
described above.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 205
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
to the members of Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers
to the members of Rio Tinto Limited
continued
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the
level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those
business units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate
audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group
financial statements as a whole.
We issued formal, written instructions to all component auditors setting
out the audit work to be performed by each of them and maintained
regular communication with the component auditors throughout the
audit cycle. These interactions included attending component clearance
meetings and holding regular conference calls, as well as reviewing and
assessing matters reported. The Group engagement team also reviewed
certain audit working papers of the component auditors of Pilbara,
Escondida, Rio Tinto Aluminium and Turquoise Hill Resources.
In addition, senior members of the Group engagement team visited
component teams across all four product groups in Canada, Australia,
theUnitedStatesofAmerica,Chile,Mongolia,andSingapore.These
visits included meetings with local management and with the component
auditors, and typically operating site tours.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our
audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate
the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial
statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality $300 million (2014: $600 million). This reflects the lower profitability of the Group, principally due to the
significant fall in commodity prices.
How we determined it Consistent with the prior year, 5% of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings (as
defined in note 2 to the financial statements).
Rationale for benchmark
applied
We consider an adjusted measure to be one of the principal considerations for members in assessing the
recurring financial performance of the Group as it best represents results from continuing operations.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall Group
materiality. The range of materiality allocated to each component was between $100 million and $250 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them
misstatements identified during our audit above $30 million (2014: $50
million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view,
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’
statement, set out on page 105, in relation to going concern. We have
nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are also required to report to you if we
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the
directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. We
have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it
is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and
Parent Companies (Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited) have adequate
resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to
do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements
were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the
going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future
events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a
guarantee as to the Group’s and Parent Companies’ ability to continue as
a going concern.
Other required reporting – PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the
Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Information in the Annual report is:
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
– otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions
to report arising from
this responsibility.
The statement given by the directors on page 66, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code
(“the Code”), that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Rio Tinto plc’s position and performance, business model and
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of performing our
audit.
We have no exceptions
to report arising from
this responsibility.
The section of the Annual report on page 59, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions
to report arising from
this responsibility.
206 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
– the directors’ confirmation on page 64 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing
material to add or to
draw attention to.
– the disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. We have nothing
material to add or to
draw attention to.
– the directors’ explanation on page 15 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing
material to add or to
draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing
the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viabilityoftheGroup,setoutonpage15.Ourreviewwassubstantiallylessin
scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the
statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge
acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records andinformationandexplanations
received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our
opinion:
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require
for our audit; or
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches
not visited by us; or
– the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in
our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from
this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the
Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Other required reporting – PricewaterhouseCoopers
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Corporations Act 2001 opinion
Under the Corporations Act 2001 (in respect of Rio Tinto Limited) we are
required to express an opinion on the Directors’ remuneration report
included in the Directors’ report, based on our audit conducted in
accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. The directors of Rio Tinto
Limited are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the
Remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the
Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
In our opinion, the Remuneration report included in the accompanying
Annual report complies with the requirements of section 300A of the
Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
Independence
In conducting our audit, we have complied with the independence
requirements of the Corporations Act 2001.
Responsibilities for the financial statements, the financial
report and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of responsibilities set
out on page 200, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and the financial report and for being satisfied that
they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the
directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the
financial report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial
statements and financial report in accordance with applicable law and
ISAs (UK & Ireland) and Australian Auditing Standards respectively.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and relevant ethical requirements
relating to audit engagements in Australia.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 (in
respect of Rio Tinto plc) and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by
the ASIC Order (in respect of Rio Tinto Limited) and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or
intowhosehandsitmaycomesavewhereexpresslyagreedbyourprior
consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements and the financial report sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that these are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and
the Parent Companies’ circumstances and have been consistently
applied and adequately disclosed;
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 207
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION – the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
directors; and
– the overall presentation of the financial statements and the
financial report.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including
the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial
statements and the financial report whether due to fraud or error. In
making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control
relevant to the entities’ preparation and fair presentation of the financial
statements and the financial report in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entities’ internal control.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements,
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements and the
financial report.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a
combination of both.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited
financial statements and the audited financial report and to identify
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications
for our report.
Richard Hughes (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
2 March 2016
Paul Bendall Partner
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Melbourne, Australia
2 March 2016
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Rio Tinto Group website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since
they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom and Australia governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
208 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report
Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
to the members of Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers
to the members of Rio Tinto Limited
continued Financial summary 2006-2015
US$m 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Gross sales revenue
(a)
25,440 33,518 56,905 42,734 59,008 65,298 55,597 54,575 50,041 36,784
Share of equity accounted
units’ sales revenue and
items excluded from
underlying earnings (2,975) (3,818) (4,044) (2,472) (3,837) (4,769) (4,655) (3,404) (2,377) (1,955)
Consolidated sales revenue 22,465 29,700 52,861 40,262 55,171 60,529 50,942 51,171 47,664 34,829
Underlying profit before
interest and tax (PBIT) 9,912 10,517 17,683 9,843 21,128 23,662 13,467 16,039 13,851 7,310
Finance costs
(b)
(193) (570) (1,706) (1,058) (909) (759) (616) (794) (967) (1,076)
Exchange differences and
derivatives
(c)
83 253 (322) 528 529 2 695 (3,362) (2,021) (3,458)
Other exclusions from
underlying earnings 438 (364) (6,477) (1,453) (257) (9,633) (15,977) (8,378) (1,311) (3,502)
(Loss)/proft before tax
(PBT) 10,240 9,836 9,178 7,860 20,491 13,272 (2,431) 3,505 9,552 (726)
Tax on exclusions (357) 60 988 (91) 42 135 2,896 2,642 423 567
Tax on underlying PBT (2,016) (2,150) (4,730) (1,985) (5,338) (6,607) (3,485) (5,068) (3,476) (1,560)
Loss after tax from
discontinued operations – – (827) (449) (97) (10) (7) – – –
Attributable to non-
controlling interests (429) (434) (933) (463) (860) (955) (1) 2,586 28 853
Net (loss)/earnings 7,438 7,312 3,676 4,872 14,238 5,835 (3,028) 3,665 6,527 (866)
Underlying/adjusted
earnings
(d)
7,338 7,443 10,303 6,298 13,987 15,572 9,269 10,217 9,305 4,540
(Loss)/earnings per share
(basic) – continuing
operations
(e)
456.2c 464.9c 286.8c 301.7c 731.0c 303.9c (163.4)c 198.4c 353.1c (47.5)c
Underlying earnings per
share (basic) – continuing
operations
(e)
450.1c 473.2c 656.2c 357.1c 713.3c 809.7c 501.3c 553.1c 503.4c 248.8c
Dividends per share:
declared for year
(f)
Rio Tinto shareholders
(US cents) 85.07c 111.23c 111.22c 45.00c 108.00c 145.00c 167.00c 192.00c 215.00c 215.00c
Rio Tinto plc (pence) 44.22p 56.20p 67.49p 28.84p 67.35p 90.47p 106.77p 120.10p 134.88p 143.13p
Rio Tinto Limited
(Aus. cents) 110.69c 125.72c 146.22c 51.56c 111.21c 134.01c 160.18c 213.14c 256.07c 296.80c
Net assets
Fixed assets
(g)
25,803 75,888 67,651 72,706 83,895 91,529 90,580 81,554 80,669 70,226
Other assets less liabilities 3,026 11,609 8,469 10,078 4,394 1,632 8,478 8,224 4,596 4,037
Provisions (including
deferred tax) (7,007) (16,013) (14,987) (17,998) (19,706) (25,935) (22,126) (18,221) (18,176) (16,352)
Net debt (2,437) (45,191) (38,672) (18,861) (4,071) (8,342) (19,192) (18,055) (12,495) (13,783)
Non-controlling interests (1,153) (1,521) (1,823) (2,094) (6,265) (6,685) (11,187) (7,616) (8,309) (6,779)
Equity attributable to
owners of Rio Tinto 18,232 24,772 20,638 43,831 58,247 52,199 46,553 45,886 46,285 37,349
Capital expenditure
(h)
(3,992) (5,000) (8,574) (5,388) (4,591) (12,573) (17,615) (13,001) (8,162) (4,685)
Acquisitions (303) (37,539) (9) (396) (907) (4,156) (1,335) 4 – (3)
Disposals 24 13 2,572 2,424 3,800 386 251 1,896 887 (38)
Net cash generated from
operating activities
(i)
7,803 8,491 14,883 9,212 18,277 20,235 9,430 15,078 14,286 9,383
Cash flows before financing
activities
(j)
3,714 (34,251) 8,702 5,855 16,566 3,245 (8,813) 4,132 7,783 4,783
Ratios
Operating margin
(k)
42% 34% 32% 24% 37% 37% 25% 30% 28% 20%
Netdebttototalcapital
(l)
11% 63% 63% 29% 6% 12% 25% 25% 19% 24%
Underlying earnings: owners’
equity
(m)
44% 35% 45% 20% 27% 28% 19% 22% 20% 11%
Interest cover
(n)
89 20 10 9 27 27 13 13 13 7
(a) Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ sales revenue and the Group’s share of the sales revenue of equity accounts units (after adjusting for
sales to subsidiaries).
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 209
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial summary 2006-2015
continued
(b) Finance costs include net interest and amortisation of discount.
(c) Under IFRS, as defined in note 1, certain gains and losses on currency exchange and on revaluation of derivatives are included in the Group’s net (loss)/earnings.
These items are excluded from underlying earnings.
(d) Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto with its IFRS (as defined in note 1) results to provide greater
understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations. It is defined in note 2 to the financial statements. Underlying profit before interest and
tax (PBIT) is similar to underlying earnings except that it is stated before tax and interest.
(e) 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations and underlying earnings per share have been calculated using a number of shares which reflects the
discounted price of the July 2009 rights issues (the bonus factor). 2006 to 2008 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
(f) Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financial year. These usually include an interim dividend paid in the year, and a final dividend
paid after the end of the year. The special dividend of 90 US cents per share paid in 2006 is not included in the table. 2005 to 2008 ordinary dividends per share
have been restated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the July 2009 rights issues (the bonus factor).
(g) Fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and investments in, and long-term loans to, equity accounted units.
(h) Capital expenditure is presented gross, before taking into account any disposals of property, plant and equipment.
(i) Net cash generated from operating activities represents the cash generated by the Group’s consolidated operations, after payment of interest, taxes, and
dividends to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
(j) Cash flow before financing activities is stated before deducting dividends payable to owners of Rio Tinto.
(k) Operating margin is the percentage of underlying PBIT, after excluding tax on equity accounted units, to gross sales revenue.
(l) Total capital comprises equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus net debt and non-controlling interests.
(m)Underlying earnings: owners’ equity represents underlying earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and closing equity attributable to owners
of Rio Tinto.
(n) Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivable (excluding the amortisation of discount but including capitalised interest) is
covered by underlying operating profit, less amortisation of discount, plus dividends from equity accounted units. Underlying operating profit is similar to
underlying earnings but is stated before tax, interest and share of profit after tax of equity accounted units.
210 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Summary financial data in Australian dollars, sterling
and US dollars
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
A$m A$m £m £m US$m US$m
48,878 55,430 24,063 30,367 Gross sales revenue 36,784 50,041
46,281 52,797 22,784 28,925 Consolidated sales revenue 34,829 47,664
(965) 10,581 (475) 5,797 (Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations (726) 9,552
(2,284) 7,199 (1,124) 3,944 (Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (1,719) 6,499
(1,151) 7,230 (567) 3,961 Net (loss)/earnings attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders (866) 6,527
6,033 10,307 2,970 5,647 Underlying earnings
(a)
4,540 9,305
(63.1)c 391.1c (31.0)p 214.3p Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
(b)
(47.5)c 353.1c
330.6c 557.6c 162.8p 305.5p Basic underlying earnings per ordinary share
(a)(b)
248.8c 503.4c
Dividends per share to Rio Tinto shareholders
(c)
297.89c 223.23c 146.90p 122.72p – paid 226.5c 204.5c
151.89c 152.98c 74.21p 77.98p – proposed 107.5c 119.0c
6,356 8,621 3,129 4,723 Cash flow before financing activities 4,783 7,783
(18,924) (15,243) (9,294) (8,026) Net debt (13,783) (12,495)
51,280 56,463 25,184 29,729 Equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders 37,349 46,285
(a) Underlying earnings exclude net impairment and other charges of US$5,406 million (2014 charges: of US$2,778 million), which are analysed on page 127.
(b) Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share and basic underlying earnings per ordinary share do not recognise the dilution resulting from share options on issue.
(c) The Australian dollar and sterling amounts are based on the US dollar amounts, retranslated at average or closing rates as appropriate, except for the dividends
which are the actual amounts.
The financial data above has been extracted from the financial information set out on pages 107 to 189.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 211
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Contents
Production, reserves and operations
Metals and minerals production 213
Ore reserves 217
Mineral resources 221
Competent Persons 226
Mines and production facilities 228
212 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Metals and minerals production
2015 Production 2014 Production 2013 Production
Rio Tinto
%share(a) Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share
ALUMINA (’000 tonnes)
Jonquière (Vaudreuil) (Canada) (b) 100.0 1,449 1,449 1,444 1,444 1,439 1,439
Jonquière (Vaudreuil) specialty plant (Canada) 100.0 110 110 108 108 103 103
Queensland Alumina (Australia) 80.0 3,747 2,997 3,568 2,854 3,384 2,707
São Luis (Alumar) (Brazil) 10.0 3,667 367 3,639 364 3,425 343
Yarwun (Australia) 100.0 2,864 2,864 2,688 2,688 2,446 2,446
7,788 7,458 7,037
Other Aluminium
Gove Refinery (Australia) (c) 100.0 –– 676 676 2,270 2,270
676 2,270
Rio Tinto total 7,788 8,134 9,307
ALUMINIUM (’000 tonnes)
Alma (Canada) 100.0 466 466 455 455 440 440
Alouette (Sept-Îles) (Canada) 40.0 606 242 583 233 582 233
Alucam (Edéa) (Cameroon) (d) – –– 93 43 75 35
Arvida (Canada) 100.0 173 173 173 173 175 175
Arvida AP60 (Canada) (e) 100.0 59 59 59 59 9 9
Bécancour (Canada) 25.1 437 109 446 112 435 109
Bell Bay (Australia) 100.0 191 191 188 188 187 187
Boyne Island (Australia) 59.4 579 344 553 328 561 333
Dunkerque (France) 100.0 275 275 270 270 258 258
Grande-Baie (Canada) 100.0 221 221 222 222 224 224
ISAL (Reykjavik) (Iceland) 100.0 201 201 206 206 197 197
Kitimat (Canada) 100.0 110 110 125 125 172 172
Laterrière (Canada) 100.0 244 244 244 244 239 239
Lochaber (UK) 100.0 47 47 42 42 44 44
Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne (France) (f) – –– – – 85 85
Shawinigan (Canada) (g) 100.0 –– – – 74 74
Sohar (Oman) 20.0 377 75 364 73 354 71
SØRAL (Husnes) (Norway) (h) – –– 76 38 89 45
Tiwai Point (New Zealand) 79.4 333 265 327 260 324 257
Tomago (Australia) 51.6 579 299 561 289 545 281
3,322 3,361 3,468
Other Aluminium
Sebree (US) (i) – –– – – 87 87
87
Rio Tinto total 3,322 3,361 3,555
See notes 216
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 213
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
METALS AND MINERALS PRODUCTION
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Metals and minerals production
continued
2015 Production 2014 Production 2013 Production
Rio Tinto
%share(a) Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share
BAUXITE (’000 tonnes)
Gove (Australia) 100.0 7,497 7,497 6,528 6,528 8,029 8,029
Porto Trombetas (MRN) (Brazil) 12.0 16,162 1,939 16,376 1,965 15,729 1,887
Sangaredi (Guinea) 23.0(j) 14,615 6,577 15,803 7,111 15,437 6,947
Weipa (Australia) 100.0 27,663 27,663 26,266 26,266 26,341 26,341
Rio Tinto total 43,677 41,871 43,204
BORATES (’000 tonnes) (k)
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron (US) 100.0 476 476 508 508 495 495
Rio Tinto total 476 508 495
COAL (hard coking) (’000 tonnes)
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Hail Creek Coal (Australia) 82.0 6,218 5,099 6,492 5,324 6,839 5,608
Kestrel Coal (Australia) 80.0 3,450 2,760 2,163 1,730 2,553 2,043
Total Australian hard coking coal 7,859 7,054 7,651
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
Benga (l) – –– 641 416 867 564
Rio Tinto total hard coking coal 7,859 7,471 8,214
COAL (semi-soft coking) (’000 tonnes)
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Hunter Valley (Australia) 80.0 2,966 2,373 1,935 1,548 2,634 2,107
Mount Thorley (Australia) 64.0 1,398 895 1,952 1,250 1,846 1,182
Warkworth (Australia) 44.5 853 380 933 415 1,281 569
Rio Tinto total semi-soft coking coal 3,647 3,213 3,859
COAL (thermal) (’000 tonnes)
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Bengalla (Australia) (m) 32.0 8,319 2,662 8,558 2,739 8,232 2,634
Clermont (Australia) (n) – –– 4,832 2,421 11,782 5,903
Hail Creek Coal (Australia) (o) 82.0 3,245 2,661 2,304 1,890 191 157
Hunter Valley (Australia) 80.0 10,048 8,039 11,924 9,539 11,002 8,802
Kestrel Coal (Australia) 80.0 637 509 564 451 463 371
Mount Thorley (Australia) 64.0 2,815 1,802 2,241 1,434 2,357 1,508
Warkworth (Australia) 44.5 6,663 2,965 6,803 3,027 6,995 3,110
Total Australian thermal coal 18,638 21,501 22,485
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
Benga (l) – –– 593 385 754 490
Rio Tinto total thermal coal 18,638 21,886 22,975
See notes 216
214 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report 2015 Production 2014 Production 2013 Production
Rio Tinto
%share(a) Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share
COPPER (mined) (’000 tonnes)
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 92.0 92.0 204.3 204.3 211.0 211.0
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 1,148.8 344.7 1,137.6 341.3 1,121.5 336.5
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (p) (q) 40.0 0.0 0.0 19.2 7.7 15.7 6.3
Northparkes (Australia) (r) – –– – – 50.6 40.4
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (s) 33.5 202.2 67.8 148.4 49.8 76.7 25.7
Palabora (South Africa) (t) – –– – – 22.2 11.6
Rio Tinto total 504.4 603.1 631.5
COPPER (refined) (’000 tonnes)
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 326.3 97.9 301.5 90.5 305.3 91.6
Rio Tinto Kennecott (US) 100.0 115.2 115.2 204.1 204.1 193.6 193.6
Palabora (South Africa) (t) – –– – – 25.8 14.9
Rio Tinto total 213.0 294.6 300.1
DIAMONDS (’000 carats)
Argyle (Australia) 100.0 13,472 13,472 9,188 9,188 11,359 11,359
Diavik (Canada) 60.0 6,406 3,843 7,233 4,340 7,243 4,346
Murowa (Zimbabwe) (u) – 99 77 442 344 414 322
Rio Tinto total 17,392 13,872 16,027
GOLD (mined) (’000 ounces)
Barneys Canyon (US) 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 130.8 130.8 259.8 259.8 206.7 206.7
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 88.5 26.6 90.1 27.0 94.2 28.3
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (p) (q) 40.0 0.0 0.0 5.6 2.3 0.0 0.0
Northparkes (Australia) (r) – –– – – 61.6 49.3
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (s) 33.5 653.4 219.0 588.7 197.3 157.0 52.6
Palabora (South Africa) (t) – –– –– 5.5 3.1
Rio Tinto total 376.4 486.8 340.4
GOLD (refined) (’000 ounces)
Rio Tinto Kennecott (US) 100.0 179.0 179.0 252.2 252.2 192.3 192.3
IRON ORE (’000 tonnes)
Hamersley mines (Australia) (v) 189,421 189,421 163,163 163,163 143,347 143,347
Hamersley – Channar (Australia) 60.0 10,561 6,337 10,913 6,548 11,047 6,628
Hope Downs (Australia) 50.0 44,745 22,373 42,715 21,358 33,788 16,894
Iron Ore Company of Canada (Canada) 58.7 17,691 10,388 14,775 8,676 15,368 9,024
Robe River – Pannawonica (Australia) 53.0 32,482 17,216 34,535 18,304 33,308 17,654
Robe River – West Angelas (Australia) 53.0 32,665 17,313 29,264 15,510 29,093 15,419
Rio Tinto total 263,048 233,557 208,966
MOLYBDENUM (’000 tonnes)
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 7.6 7.6 11.5 11.5 5.7 5.7
See notes 216
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 215
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
METALS AND MINERALS PRODUCTION
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Metals and minerals production
continued
2015 Production 2014 Production 2013 Production
Rio Tinto
%share(a) Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share
SALT (’000 tonnes)
Dampier Salt (Australia) 68.4 8,103 5,539 9,938 6,793 9,841 6,728
SILVER (mined) (’000 ounces)
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 1,458 1,458 2,935 2,935 2,876 2,876
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 4,812 1,443 4,883 1,465 4,032 1,210
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (p) (q) 40.0 00 00 00
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (s) 33.5 1,223 410 893 299 489 164
Others – 00 0 0 687 515
Rio Tinto total 3,311 4,699 4,765
SILVER (refined) (’000 ounces)
Rio Tinto Kennecott (US) 100.0 1,843 1,843 2,811 2,811 2,158 2,158
TITANIUM DIOXIDE SLAG (’000 tonnes)
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium
(Canada/South Africa) (w) 100.0 1,089 1,089 1,443 1,443 1,622 1,622
URANIUM (’000 lbs U
3
O
8
)
Energy Resources of Australia (Australia) (x) 68.4 4,421 3,023 2,569 1,757 6,525 4,462
Rössing (Namibia) (x) 68.6 2,747 1,884 3,401 2,333 5,312 3,643
Rio Tinto total 4,907 4,089 8,105
Notes:
Mine production figures for metals refer to the total quantity of metal produced in concentrates,
leach liquor or doré bullion irrespective of whether these products are then refined on site,
except for the data for bauxite and iron ore which can represent production of marketable
quantities of ore plus concentrates and pellets. Production figures are sometimes more precise
than the rounded numbers shown, hence small differences may result from calculation of
Rio Tinto share of production.
(a) Rio Tinto percentage share, shown above, is as at the end of 2015. The footnotes below
include all ownership changes over the three years. The Rio Tinto share varies at
individual mines and refineries in the “others” category and thus no value is shown.
(b) Jonquière’s (Vaudreuil’s) production shows smelter grade alumina only and excludes
hydrate produced and used for specialty alumina.
(c) The curtailment of production at the Gove refinery was completed on 28 May 2014.
(d) Rio Tinto sold its 46.7 per cent interest in the Alucam (Edéa) smelter with an effective
date of 31 December 2014. Production data are shown up to that date.
(e) Rio Tinto started production at the Arvida AP60 Technology Centre in the fourth quarter
of 2013.
(f) Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in the Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne smelter with an
effective date of 16 December 2013. Production data are shown up to that date.
(g) The Shawinigan smelter ceased production on 29 November 2013.
(h) Rio Tinto sold its 50 per cent interest in the SØRAL (Husnes) smelter with an effective
date of 31 October 2014. Production data are shown up to that date.
(i) Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in the Sebree aluminium smelter with an effective
date of 1 June 2013. Production data are shown up to that date.
(j) Rio Tinto has a 22.95 per cent shareholding in the Sangaredi mine but benefits from
45.0 per cent of production.
(k) Borate quantities are expressed as B
2
O
3
.
(l) Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique and its 65 per cent interest in
the Benga mine with an effective date of 7 October 2014. Production data are shown up
to that date.
(m) On 30 September 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement for
the sale of its interest in the Bengalla Joint Venture.
(n) Rio Tinto sold its 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont mine with an effective date of
29 May 2014. Production data are shown up to that date.
(o) Hail Creek commenced production of thermal coal from a processing plant by-product
stream following completion of a successful trial in the third quarter of 2013.
(p) Through a joint venture agreement with Freeport-McMoRan (FCX), Rio Tinto is entitled to
40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and
developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. Total production reflects the
quantities attributable to the joint venture.
(q) Production from Grasberg did not exceed the metal attributable to PT Freeport Indonesia
per the joint venture agreement for the year 2015. Accordingly, Rio Tinto’s share of joint
venture production of copper, gold and silver was zero for the year 2015.
(r) Rio Tinto sold its 80 per cent interest in Northparkes with an effective date of
1 December 2013. Production data are shown up to that date.
(s) Rio Tinto owns a 33.52 per cent indirect interest in Oyu Tolgoi through its 50.79 per cent
interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Production included in the table is from 1 May
2013.
(t) The sale of Rio Tinto’s 57.7 per cent interest in Palabora Mining Company was completed
on 31 July 2013. Production data have been reported up to 30 June 2013.
(u) Rio Tinto sold its 77.8 per cent interest in Murowa Diamonds with an effective date of
17 June 2015. Production data are shown up to that date.
(v) Includes 100 per cent of production from Paraburdoo, Mt Tom Price, Marandoo,
Yandicoogina, Brockman, Nammuldi and the Eastern Range mines. Whilst Rio Tinto owns
54 per cent of the Eastern Range mine, under the terms of the joint venture agreement,
Hamersley Iron manages the operation and is obliged to purchase all mine production
from the joint venture and therefore all of the production is included in Rio Tinto’s share
of production.
(w) Quantities comprise 100 per cent of Rio Tinto Fer et Titane and Rio Tinto’s share of
Richards Bay Minerals’ production. Ilmenite mined in Madagascar is being processed
in Canada.
(x) ERA and Rössing report drummed U
3
O
8
.
216 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Ore reserves
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources for Rio Tinto managed operations
are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of
Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December
2012 (the JORC Code) as required by the Australian Securities Exchange
(ASX). Codes or guidelines similar to JORC with only minor regional
variations have been adopted in South Africa, Canada, the US, Chile,
Peru, the Philippines, the UK, Ireland and Europe. Together these
Codes represent current best practice for reporting Ore Reserves
and Mineral Resources.
TheJORCCodeenvisagestheuseofreasonableinvestment
assumptions, including the use of projected long-term commodity
prices, in calculating Ore Reserve estimates. However, for US reporting,
the US Securities and Exchange Commission requires historical price
data to be used. For this reason, some Ore Reserves reported to the
SEC in the Form 20-F may differ from those reported below.
Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource information in the tables below is
based on information compiled by Competent Persons (as defined by
JORC), most of whom are full time employees of Rio Tinto or related
companies. Each has had a minimum of five years’ relevant estimation
experience and is a member of a recognised professional body whose
members are bound by a professional code of ethics. Each Competent
Person consents to the inclusion in this report of information they have
provided in the form and context in which it appears. Competent Persons
responsible for the estimates are listed on pages 226 and 227, by
operation, along with their professional affiliation, employer and
accountability for Ore Reserves and/or Mineral Resources. Where
operations are not managed by Rio Tinto, the Ore Reserves are published
asreceivedfromthemanagingcompany.TheOreReservefiguresinthe
following tables are as of 31 December 2015. Summary data for year end
2014 are shown for comparison. Metric units are used throughout. The
figures used to calculate Rio Tinto’s share of Ore Reserves are often
more precise than the rounded numbers shown in the tables, hence
small differences might result if the calculations are repeated using the
tabulated figures.
Proved ore reserves
at end 2015
Probable ore
reserves
at end 2015
Total ore reserves 2015
compared with 2014
Rio Tinto
share
Type of
mine (a) Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
Interest
%
Recoverable
mineral
2015 2014 2015 2014
BAUXITE (b)
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Al
2
O
3
%Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating
mines
Gove (Australia) O/P 131 49.4 14 49.1 145 146 49.4 49.4 100.0 145
Porto Trombetas
(MRN)
(Brazil) (c) O/P 56 49.4 20 49.9 76 94 49.5 49.5 12.0 9
Sangaredi (Guinea) (d) O/P 104 48.8 267 48.4 372 278 48.5 49.4 23.0 85
Weipa (Australia) O/P 512 51.8 1,090 52.5 1,601 1,485 52.3 52.5 100.0 1,601
Total 1,841
Marketable
product
BORATES (e)
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mine
Rio Tinto Minerals –
Boron (US) O/P 11 12 23 22 100.0 23
Reserves Marketable reserves Marketable reserves
Marketable
coal quality
Average %
yield to
Coal
type (f) Proved
Probable at
end 2015 Proved
Probable at
end 2015
Total
2015
Total
2014
give
marketable
reserves
Marketable
reserves
COAL (g)
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
Calorific
value
MJ/kg (h)
Sulphur
content
%(h)
millions of
tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Rio Tinto Coal
Australia
Bengalla (i) O/C SC 152 106 123 86 208 217 27.40 0.50 81 32.0 67
Hail Creek (j) O/C SC + MC 82 171 63 103 165 85 25.74 0.35 65 82.0 136
Hunter Valley
Operations (k) O/C SC + MC 684 206 484 144 629 404 27.50 0.54 71 80.0 503
KestrelCoal U/GSC+MC 3195 2779 106 110 31.60 0.59 84 80.0 85
Mount Thorley
Operations(l) O/CSC+MC 155 93 13 18 29.94 0.44 62 64.0 8
Warkworth (m) O/C SC + MC 178 153 116 100 217 226 29.82 0.45 65 44.5 96
Total 894
Other undeveloped
reserves(n)
Rio Tinto Coal
Australia
Mount Pleasant (o) O/C SC 625 474 474 474 27.24 0.50 76 80.0 379
See notes 220
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 217
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ORE RESERVES
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Ore reserves
continued
Proved ore reserves
at end 2015
Probable ore
reserves
at end 2015
Total ore reserves 2015
compared with 2014
Average
mill
recovery
%
Rio Tinto
share
Type of
mine (a) Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
Interest
%
Recoverable
metal
2015 2014 2015 2014
COPPER
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Cu %Cu
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Bingham Canyon (US) O/P 439 0.48 251 0.40 690 693 0.45 0.45 88 100.0 2.723
Escondida (Chile)
– sulphide (p) O/P 3,711 0.73 1,893 0.56 5,604 5,109 0.67 0.69 82 30.0 9.277
– sulphide leach (p) O/P 1,858 0.46 763 0.41 2,622 2,220 0.44 0.43 31 30.0 1.064
– oxide O/P 86 0.81 38 0.63 125 133 0.75 0.74 65 30.0 0.182
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G 776 1.21 1,354 0.96 2,130 2,269 1.05 1.02 89 (q) 6.653
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Oyut open pit O/P 353 0.54 598 0.39 951 995 0.45 0.45 78 33.5 1.114
– Oyut stockpiles (r) 35 0.42 35 26 0.42 0.37 85 33.5 0.043
Total 21.056
Reserves at development projects
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 464 1.66 464 464 1.66 1.66 92 33.5 2.371
– Hugo Dummett North Extension U/G 35 1.59 35 35 1.59 1.59 92 30.0 0.153
Total 2.524
Recoverable
diamonds
DIAMONDS (b)
millions
of tonnes
carats
per
tonne
millions
of tonnes
carats
per
tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
carats
per
tonne
carats
per
tonne
millions
of carats
Reserves at operating mines
Argyle (Australia) (s) U/G 35 2.4 35 41 2.4 2.4 100.0 83.1
Diavik (Canada) (t) O/P + U/G 11 3.0 8 2.7 19 18 2.8 2.9 60.0 31.7
Murowa (Zimbabwe) (u) O/P – 4 – 1– –
Total 114.8
Recoverable
metal
GOLD
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
grammes
per tonne
millions
of ounces
Reserves at operating mines
Bingham Canyon (US) O/P 439 0.19 251 0.17 690 693 0.18 0.18 67 100.0 2.675
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G 776 1.03 1,354 0.76 2,130 2,269 0.86 0.83 67 (q) 11.778
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Oyut open pit O/P 353 0.35 598 0.23 951 995 0.28 0.29 69 33.5 1.971
– Oyut stockpiles (r) 35 0.21 35 26 0.21 0.23 78 33.5 0.064
Total 16.488
Reserves at development projects
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 464 0.34 464 464 0.34 0.34 83 33.5 1.408
– Hugo Dummett North Extension U/G 35 0.55 35 35 0.55 0.55 84 30.0 0.156
Total 1.564
See notes 220
218 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Proved ore reserves
at end 2015
Probable ore
reserves
at end 2015
Total ore reserves 2015
compared with 2014
Average
mill
recovery
%
Rio Tinto
share
Type of
mine (a) Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
Interest
%
Marketable
product
2015 2014 2015 2014
IRON ORE (b) (v)
millions
of
tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Fe %Fe
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Hamersley Iron (Australia)
– Brockman 2 (Brockman ore) (w) O/P 47 62.5 46 62.1 93 62 62.3 62.8 100.0 93
– Brockman 4 (Brockman ore) (x) O/P 310 62.3 155 60.4 465 516 61.7 61.9 100.0 465
– Marandoo (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 175 63.4 12 61.8 187 193 63.3 63.3 100.0 187
– Mt Tom Price (Brockman ore) O/P 10 63.0 34 64.5 44 46 64.1 63.8 100.0 44
– Mt Tom Price (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 8 61.0 1 58.1 9 9 60.8 60.8 100.0 9
– Nammuldi (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 66 62.9 104 62.2 170 164 62.4 62.6 100.0 170
– Paraburdoo (Brockman ore) O/P 8 61.7 7 63.6 15 16 62.6 62.7 100.0 15
–S ilvergrassEast(MarraMambao re)( y ) O/P 114 62.6 44 59.5 157 146 61.7 62.1 100.0 157
– Western Turner Syncline
(Brockman ore) O/P 210 62.4 79 61.1 289 319 62.1 62.1 100.0 289
– Yandicoogina (Pisolite ore HG) (z) O/P 637 58.5 4 58.8 642 247 58.5 58.7 100.0 642
Channar JV (Australia)
– Brockman ore (aa) O/P 15 62.3 32 61.6 47 60 61.8 62.0 60.0 28
Eastern Range JV (Australia)
– Brockman ore O/P 45 62.0 12 60.5 57 59 61.7 62.0 54.0 31
Hope Downs JV (Australia)
– Hope Downs 1 (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 3 61.4 193 61.6 196 212 61.6 61.6 50.0 98
– Hope Downs 4 (Brockman ore) O/P 60 63.0 95 63.2 154 154 63.1 63.1 50.0 77
Robe River JV (Australia)
– Pannawonica (Pisolite ore) (bb) O/P 110 57.2 84 56.4 194 216 56.8 56.8 53.0 103
– WestAngelas (MarraMambaore) (cc) O/P 153 62.0 55 60.0 209 185 61.4 61.5 53.0 111
Iron Ore Company of Canada
(Canada) (dd) O/P 259 65.0 316 65.0 575 556 65.0 65.0 58.7 337
Total 2,856
Reserves at development projects
Hamersley Iron (Australia)
– Koodaideri (Brockman ore) O/P 253 62.1 198 61.5 452 467 61.8 61.8 100.0 452
– Turee Central (Brockman ore) O/P 72 62.0 6 61.4 78 78 61.9 61.9 100.0 78
Simandou (Guinea) (ee) O/P 1,844 65.5 1,844 1,844 65.5 65.5 46.6 859
Total 1,388
Recoverable
metal
MOLYBDENUM
millions
of
tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Mo %Mo
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mine
Bingham Canyon (US) (ff) O/P 439 0.039 251 0.024 690 693 0.034 0.036 65 100.0 0.151
SILVER
millions
of
tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
grammes
per tonne
millions
of ounces
Reserves at operating mines
Bingham Canyon (US) O/P 439 2.09 251 2.09 690 693 2.09 2.04 67 100.0 31.089
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G 776 4.67 1,354 4.36 2,130 2,269 4.47 4.32 70 (q) 76.367
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Oyut open pit O/P 353 1.40 598 1.11 951 995 1.22 1.23 75 33.5 9.326
– Oyut stockpiles (r) 35 0.74 35 26 0.74 0.35 81 33.5 0.229
Total 117.011
Reserves at development projects
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 464 3.37 464 464 3.37 3.37 86 33.5 14.579
– Hugo Dummett North Extension U/G 35 3.72 35 35 3.72 3.72 86 30.0 1.079
Total 15.657
See notes 220
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 219
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ORE RESERVES
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Ore reserves
continued
Proved ore reserves
at end 2015
Probable ore
reserves
at end 2015
Total ore reserves 2015
compared with 2014
Average
mill
recovery
%
Rio Tinto
share
Type of
mine (a) Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Interest %
Marketable
product
2015 2014 2015 2014
TITANIUM DIOXIDE FEEDSTOCK (gg)
millions of
tonnes
%Ti
minerals
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
minerals
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
minerals
%Ti
minerals
millions of
tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 454 3.5 15 3.5 469 483 3.5 3.7 80.0 6.0
RBM (South Africa) D/O 1,067 2.1 698 2.5 1,765 1,847 2.3 2.3 74.0 13.1
RTFT (Canada) (hh) O/P 115 83.1 115 121 83.1 83.9 100.0 37.8
Total 56.9
Recoverable
metal
URANIUM
millions
of tonnes % U
3
0
8
millions
of tonnes % U
3
0
8
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %U
3
0
8
%U
3
0
8
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Energy Resources of Australia
(Australia)
– Ranger #3 stockpiles (ii) 12 0.086 12 5.0 0.086 0.123 83 68.4 0.006
Rössing SJ (Namibia) O/P 21 0.032 95 0.035 116 121 0.035 0.034 82 68.6 0.023
Total 0.028
Marketable
product
ZIRCON
millions
of tonnes
%
Zircon
millions
of tonnes
%
Zircon
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
%
Zircon
%
Zircon
millions of
tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 454 0.2 15 0.2 469 483 0.2 0.2 80.0 0.4
RBM (South Africa) D/O 1,067 0.3 698 0.4 1,765 1,847 0.3 0.3 74.0 3.3
Total 3.7
Notes:
(a) Type of mine: O/P = open pit, O/C = open cut, U/G = underground,
D/O = dredging operation.
(b) Reserves of bauxite, diamonds and iron ore are shown as recoverable Reserves of
marketable product after accounting for all mining and processing losses. Mill recoveries
are therefore not shown.
(c) Reserves tonnes decreased at Porto Trombetas (MRN) as a result of mine production.
(d) Reserves tonnes increased at Sangaredi as a result of lowering of the cut-off grade
following updated technical and economic studies.
(e) Reserves of borates are expressed in terms of marketable product (B
2
O
3
) after all
mining and processing losses.
(f) Coal type: SC: steam/thermal coal, MC: metallurgical/coking coal.
(g) For coal, the yield factors shown reflect the impact of further processing, where
necessary, to provide marketable coal.
(h) Coals have been analysed on an “air dried” moisture basis in accordance with Australian
Standards and gross calorific value and sulphur content are reported here on that basis.
Marketable Reserves tonnages are reported on a product moisture basis.
(i) On 30 September 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement for
the sale of its interest in the Bengalla Joint Venture.
(j) The completion of technical and economic studies has resulted in an increase in the Hail
Creek Reserves tonnes. This work included the development of a new life of mine design
and schedule. A JORC table 1 in support of this change will be released to the market
contemporaneously with the release of this Annual report and can be viewed at riotinto.
com/factsheets/JORC.
(k) A re-optimisation of the Hunter Valley Operations Resource was undertaken during
2015, following completion of an updated Resource model. This work included the
development of a new life of mine design and schedule and resulted in an increase in the
Hunter Valley Operations Reserves tonnes. A JORC table 1 in support of this change will
be released to the market contemporaneously with the release of this Annual report and
can be viewed at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(l) Mount Thorley Operations Reserves tonnes decreased following mine production and pit
design changes.
(m) Following the Planning Assessment Commission determination which approved the
Mount Thorley Warkworth continuation projects, the current Warkworth mine design and
Reserves were confirmed on 30 November 2015.
(n) The term “other undeveloped reserves” is used here to describe material that is
economically viable on the basis of technical and economic studies but for which mining
and processing permits may have yet to be requested or obtained. There is a reasonable,
but not absolute, certainty that the necessary permits will be issued and that mining can
proceed when required.
(o) On 27 January 2016, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement for
the sale of its Mount Pleasant thermal coal assets.
(p) The increase in the Escondida – sulphide and sulphide leach Reserves tonnes is due to
the conversion of Resources to Reserves following substantial additional drilling. This
increase was released to the market by BHP Billiton on 25 August 2015.
(q) Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between Rio Tinto and FCX, Rio Tinto is
entitled to a direct 40 per cent share in Reserves discovered after 31 December 1994
and it is this entitlement that is shown.
(r) The variation in Oyut stockpiles Reserves tonnes and grade follows mine production.
(s) Argyle Reserves tonnes decreased following mine production and are based on a nominal
1 millimetre lower cut-off size and a final re-crushing size of 8 millimetres.
(t) Diavik Reserves are based on a nominal 1 millimetre lower cut-off size and a final
re-crushing size of 5 millimetres.
(u) Rio Tinto sold its 77.8 per cent interest in Murowa Diamonds with an effective date of
17 June 2015.
(v) Australian and Guinean iron ore Reserves tonnes are reported on a dry weight basis.
(w) Hamersley Iron Brockman 2 (Brockman ore) Reserves tonnes increased due to the
inclusion of additional pits, updated geological models and cut-off grade changes.
A JORC table 1 in support of this change will be released to the market
contemporaneously with the release of this Annual report and can be viewed at
riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(x) Hamersley Iron Brockman 4 (Brockman ore) Reserves tonnes decreased due to
production depletion and schedule updates.
(y) Silvergrass East is reported under operating mines for the first time following
commencement of production.
(z) Hamersley Iron Yandicoogina (Pisolite ore HG) Reserves tonnes increased due to the
inclusion of additional pits. A JORC table 1 in support of this change will be released to
the market contemporaneously with the release of this Annual report and can be viewed
at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(aa) Channar JV Brockman ore Reserves tonnes decreased due to production depletion and
updated models.
(bb)Robe River JV Pannawonica (Pisolite ore) Reserves tonnes decreased due to production
depletion and pit design modifications.
(cc) Robe River JV West Angelas (Marra Mamba ore) Reserves tonnes increased due to the
addition of a new pit, updated geological models and pit design modifications. A JORC
table 1 in support of this change will be released to the market contemporaneously with
the release of this Annual report and can be viewed at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(dd)Reserves at Iron Ore Company of Canada are reported as marketable product
(58 per cent pellets and 42 per cent concentrate for sale) at a natural moisture content
of two per cent. The marketable product is derived from mined material comprising
637 million dry tonnes at 38.3 per cent iron (Proved) and 792 million dry tonnes at
37.8 per cent iron (Probable) using process recovery factors derived from current IOC
concentrating and pellet operations.
(ee)As noted on page 37, an impairment charge of US$1,118 million (net of non-controlling
interests and tax) was announced in respect of Simandou in February 2016. These
reserves remain technically and economically viable notwithstanding the impairment.
The project will be reviewed in the months following the completion of the BFS
scheduled to be submitted to the Government of Guinea in May 2016.
(ff) Bingham Canyon Reserves molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration drilling
assays have been factored based on a long reconciliation history to blast hole and mill
samples.
(gg)The marketable product (TiO
2
slag) is shown after all mining and processing losses. The
Reserves are expressed as in situ tonnes.
(hh)Development of RTFT Reserves beyond 2026 requires permitting and commissioning of a
new waste dump by 2023. The feasibility study and permitting process to support this
dump is scheduled for completion in late 2016 and is designed to support full extraction
of reserves to 2060, including all associated water management infrastructure.
(ii) The variation in Ranger #3 stockpiles Reserves tonnes and grade results from the
inclusion of additional low grade stockpile ore in the mine schedule.
220 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Mineral resources
As required by the Australian Securities Exchange, the following tables
contain details of other mineralisation that has a reasonable prospect of
being economically extracted in the future but which is not yet classified
as Proved or Probable Ore Reserves. This material is defined as Mineral
Resources under the JORC Code. Estimates of such material are based
largely on geological information with only preliminary consideration of
mining, economic and other factors. While in the judgment of the
Competent Person there are realistic expectations that all or part of the
Mineral Resources will eventually become Proved or Probable Ore
Reserves, there is no guarantee that this will occur as the result depends
on further technical and economic studies and prevailing economic
conditions in the future. As in the case of Ore Reserves, managed
operations’ estimates are completed using or testing against Rio Tinto
long-term pricing and market forecasts/scenarios. Mineral Resources are
stated as additional to the Ore Reserves reported earlier. Where
operations are not managed by Rio Tinto, the Mineral Resources are
published as received from the managing company. Where new project
Mineral Resources or Ore Reserves are footnoted as being reported for
the first time, additional information about them can be viewed on the
Rio Tinto website.
Likely
mining
method (a)
Measured resources
at end 2015
Indicated resources
at end 2015
Inferred resources
at end 2015
Total resources 2015
compared with 2014
Rio Tinto
interest
%
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
2015 2014 2015 2014
BAUXITE
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Al
2
O
3
%Al
2
O
3
Gove (Australia) (b) O/P 12 48.9 30 49.4 4 50.1 46 52 49.3 49.4 100.0
Porto Trombetas (MRN) (Brazil) O/P 293 49.6 40 48.9 134 49.9 468 468 49.6 49.6 12.0
Sangaredi (Guinea) O/P 41 44.9 5,053 47.3 644 46.4 5,738 5,687 47.2 47.1 23.0
Weipa (Australia) (c) O/P 85 51.8 1,017 51.8 448 51.9 1,549 1,905 51.8 51.5 100.0
BORATES (d)
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
Jadar (Serbia) U/G 18 18 18 100.0
Coal
type (e)
Coal resources at end 2015
Measured Indicated Inferred 2015 2014
COAL (f)
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Bengalla (g) O/C + U/G SC + MC 57 49 80 187 187 32.0
Blair Athol (h) O/C SC 10 0.2 10 10 71.2
Hail Creek (i) (j) O/C + U/G SC + MC 103 440 48 591 172 82.0
Hunter Valley Operations (i) (k) O/C + U/G SC + MC 348 571 912 1,831 1,373 80.0
Kestrel Coal (i) (l) U/G SC + MC 1 205 100 306 142 80.0
Lake Elphinstone O/C SC + MC 120 42 162 162 82.0
Mount Pleasant (m) O/C + U/G SC + MC 97 217 257 571 571 80.0
Mount Robert (i) (n) O/C SC + MC 31 31 – 82.0
Mount Thorley Operations O/C + U/G SC + MC 1 20 94 114 113 64.0
Oaklands O/C SC 596 584 90 1,270 1,270 80.0
Valeria O/C SC 698 64 762 762 71.2
Warkworth (i) (o) O/C + U/G SC + MC 6 125 481 613 475 44.5
Winchester South (i) (p) O/C MC 78 146 132 356 192 75.0
See notes 225
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 221
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
MINERAL RESOURCES
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mineral resources
continued
Likely
mining
method (a)
Measured resources
at end 2015
Indicated resources
at end 2015
Inferred resources
at end 2015
Total resources 2015
compared with 2014
Rio Tinto
interest
%
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
2015 2014 2015 2014
COPPER
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Cu %Cu
BinghamCanyon(US)
– Open Pit (q) O/P 40 0.30 26 0.26 5 0.21 71 80 0.28 0.27 100.0
– North Rim Skarn U/G 1 3.50 9 3.60 10 3.70 20 20 3.65 3.65 100.0
Escondida (Chile)
– Chimborazo – sulphide O/P 139 0.50 84 0.60 223 223 0.54 0.54 30.0
– Escondida – sulphide O/P 140 0.64 473 0.44 10,040 0.50 10,653 10,683 0.50 0.51 30.0
– Escondida – mixed O/P 13 0.76 4 0.48 60 0.43 77 77 0.49 0.44 30.0
– Escondida – oxide (r) O/P 23 0.60 1 0.61 25 0.55 49 65 0.57 0.56 30.0
– Pampa Escondida – sulphide O/P 294 0.53 1,150 0.55 6,000 0.43 7,444 7,444 0.45 0.45 30.0
– Pinta Verde – sulphide O/P 23 0.50 37 0.45 60 60 0.47 0.47 30.0
– Pinta Verde – oxide O/P 109 0.60 64 0.53 15 0.54 188 188 0.57 0.57 30.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (s) O/P + U/G 414 0.81 1,793 0.70 98 0.53 2,304 2,567 0.71 0.66 (t)
La Granja (Peru) O/P 130 0.85 4,190 0.50 4,320 4,320 0.51 0.51 100.0
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Heruga ETG U/G 1,700 0.39 1,700 1,700 0.39 0.39 30.0
– Heruga OT U/G 117 0.41 117 117 0.41 0.41 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 41 1.56 365 1.15 807 0.77 1,213 1,213 0.91 0.91 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North Extension U/G 89 1.57 173 0.99 263 263 1.19 1.19 30.0
– Hugo Dummett South U/G 839 0.77 839 839 0.77 0.77 33.5
– Oyut Open Pit O/P 12 0.39 90 0.34 388 0.29 491 491 0.30 0.30 33.5
– Oyut Underground U/G 14 0.40 94 0.35 158 0.39 265 265 0.38 0.38 33.5
Resolution (US) U/G 1,766 1.51 1,766 1,766 1.51 1.51 55.0
DIAMONDS
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
carats
per tonne
Argyle (Australia)
– AK1 pipe (u) O/P + U/G 11 3.5 26 3.3 6 3.6 44 40 3.4 3.6 100.0
Bunder (India) (v) O/P 44 0.7 44 47 0.7 0.7 100.0
Diavik (Canada) (w) O/P + U/G 0.4 2.6 1.8 2.8 2.2 3.5 2.7 2.6 60.0
Murowa (Zimbabwe) (x) O/P – 4.6 – 0.3 –
GOLD
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
grammes
per tonne
BinghamCanyon(US)
– Open Pit (q) O/P 40 0.18 26 0.15 5 0.17 71 80 0.17 0.16 100.0
– North Rim Skarn U/G 1 2.10 9 1.70 10 1.50 20 20 1.62 1.62 100.0
Escondida (Chile)
– Pampa Escondida – sulphide O/P 294 0.07 1,150 0.10 6,000 0.04 7,444 7,444 0.05 0.05 30.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (s) O/P + U/G 414 0.69 1,793 0.61 98 0.46 2,304 2,567 0.62 0.59 (t)
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Heruga ETG U/G 1,700 0.37 1,700 1,700 0.37 0.37 30.0
– Heruga OT U/G 117 0.29 117 117 0.29 0.29 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 41 0.41 365 0.30 807 0.27 1,213 1,213 0.28 0.28 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North
Extension U/G 89 0.53 173 0.35 263 263 0.41 0.41 30.0
– Hugo Dummett South U/G 839 0.07 839 839 0.07 0.07 33.5
– Oyut Open Pit O/P 12 0.36 90 0.23 388 0.16 491 491 0.18 0.18 33.5
– Oyut Underground U/G 14 0.77 94 0.59 158 0.32 265 265 0.44 0.44 33.5
See notes 225
222 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Likely
mining
method (a)
Measured resources
at end 2015
Indicated resources
at end 2015
Inferred resources
at end 2015
Total resources 2015
compared with 2014
Rio Tinto
interest
%
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
2015 2014 2015 2014
IRON ORE (y)
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Fe %Fe
Hamersley Iron (Australia)
– Brockman O/P 489 62.5 677 62.4 1,913 61.9 3,079 2,998 62.1 62.0 100.0
– Brockman Process Ore O/P 340 57.5 208 57.3 632 57.3 1,180 1,137 57.4 57.4 100.0
– Marra Mamba O/P 303 61.6 460 61.6 834 61.5 1,597 1,468 61.6 61.8 100.0
– Detrital O/P 3 63.4 150 60.7 517 61.2 670 642 61.1 61.2 100.0
– Channel Iron Deposit (z) O/P 574 56.8 98 58.1 2,319 57.3 2,991 3,358 57.3 57.2 100.0
Channar JV (Australia)
– Brockman (aa) O/P 34 61.8 13 61.8 1 61.6 48 60 61.8 61.8 60.0
– Brockman Process Ore O/P 20 58.0 7 58.0 27 28 58.0 58.0 60.0
Eastern Range JV (Australia)
– Brockman (bb) O/P 13 61.7 4 61.5 7 61.7 24 31 61.7 61.9 54.0
– Brockman Process Ore (cc) O/P 19 57.3 3 57.2 2 57.9 24 30 57.3 57.3 54.0
Hope Downs JV (Australia)
– Brockman O/P 21 61.6 110 62.1 440 62.3 571 540 62.3 62.3 50.0
– Brockman Process Ore O/P 52 56.8 94 56.9 202 56.5 348 341 56.6 56.7 50.0
– Marra Mamba O/P 71 62.8 120 61.2 205 61.7 396 395 61.7 61.9 50.0
– Detrital (dd) O/P 26 59.2 14 59.4 30 59.5 70 53 59.4 59.4 50.0
Rhodes Ridge JV (Australia)
– Brockman O/P 565 63.9 1,476 62.5 2,041 2,041 62.9 62.9 50.0
– Brockman Process Ore O/P 176 57.6 460 56.5 636 636 56.8 56.8 50.0
– Marra Mamba O/P 404 62.4 2,042 62.0 2,446 2,316 62.0 62.1 50.0
– Detrital O/P 65 60.5 226 60.1 291 291 60.2 60.2 50.0
Robe JV (Australia)
– Brockman O/P 50 61.8 50 46 61.8 61.9 53.0
– Brockman Process Ore O/P 32 57.0 32 32 57.0 57.0 53.0
– Marra Mamba O/P 121 61.8 154 61.3 254 61.7 529 579 61.6 61.6 53.0
– Detrital O/P 6 59.6 94 60.6 100 98 60.6 60.6 53.0
– Channel Iron Deposit O/P 212 56.7 1,743 58.3 2,575 55.6 4,530 4,273 56.7 56.8 53.0
Iron Ore Company of Canada
(Canada) (ee) O/P 393 38.9 1,497 37.6 871 36.9 2,762 2,706 37.6 37.8 58.7
Simandou (Guinea) (ff) O/P 5 67.1 107 64.3 723 65.1 835 835 65.0 65.0 46.6
LITHIUM
millions
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Li
2
O %Li
2
O
Jadar (Serbia) U/G 117 1.8 117 117 1.8 1.8 100.0
See notes 225
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 223
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
MINERAL RESOURCES
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mineral resources
continued
Likely
mining
method (a)
Measured resources
at end 2015
Indicated resources
at end 2015
Inferred resources
at end 2015
Total resources 2015
compared with 2014
Rio Tinto
interest
%
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
2015 2014 2015 2014
MOLYBDENUM
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Mo %Mo
BinghamCanyon(US)
– Open Pit (gg) O/P 40 0.063 26 0.077 5 0.011 71 80 0.064 0.058 100.0
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Heruga ETG U/G 1,700 0.011 1,700 1,700 0.011 0.011 30.0
– Heruga OT U/G 117 0.011 117 117 0.011 0.011 33.5
Resolution (US) U/G 1,766 0.035 1,766 1,766 0.035 0.035 55.0
SILVER
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
grammes
per tonne
BinghamCanyon(US)
– Open Pit (q) O/P 40 1.60 26 1.50 5 2.22 71 80 1.61 1.54 100.0
– North Rim Skarn U/G 1 20.00 9 21.00 10 21.00 20 20 20.95 20.95 100.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (s) O/P + U/G 414 3.55 1,793 3.47 98 2.49 2,304 2,567 3.44 3.55 (t)
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Heruga ETG U/G 1,700 1.39 1,700 1,700 1.39 1.39 30.0
– Heruga OT U/G 117 1.56 117 117 1.56 1.56 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 41 3.71 365 2.84 807 2.34 1,213 1,213 2.54 2.54 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North
Extension U/G 89 4.07 173 2.72 263 263 3.18 3.18 30.0
– Hugo Dummett South U/G 839 1.78 839 839 1.78 1.78 33.5
– Oyut Open Pit O/P 12 1.21 90 1.06 388 0.87 491 491 0.91 0.91 33.5
– Oyut Underground U/G 14 1.16 94 1.19 158 0.86 265 265 0.99 0.99 33.5
TITANIUM DIOXIDE FEEDSTOCK
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
minerals
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
minerals
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
minerals
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
minerals
%Ti
minerals
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 16 2.4 1,109 4.2 186 3.2 1,311 1,351 4.0 4.0 80.0
RBM (South Africa) D/O + O/P 16 15.8 16 17 15.8 15.3 74.0
RTFT (Canada) O/P 11 84.9 11 11 84.9 84.9 100.0
URANIUM
millions
of tonnes % U
3
O
8
millions
of tonnes % U
3
O
8
millions
of tonnes % U
3
O
8
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %U
3
O
8
%U
3
O
8
Energy Resources of Australia
(Australia)
– Jabiluka U/G 1.2 0.887 14 0.520 10 0.545 25 25 0.547 0.547 68.4
– Ranger #3 Deeps (hh) U/G 3.7 0.272 10 0.218 5.4 0.203 20 13 0.224 0.277 68.4
– Ranger #3 stockpiles (ii) 31 0.039 31 38 0.039 0.047 68.4
Rössing (Namibia)
– Rössing SJ (jj) O/P 8.8 0.025 90 0.023 4.5 0.021 103 135 0.023 0.023 68.6
– Rössing Z20 O/P 87 0.028 115 0.026 202 202 0.027 0.027 68.6
ZIRCON
millions
of tonnes % Zircon
millions
of tonnes % Zircon
millions
of tonnes % Zircon
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Zircon %Zircon
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 16 0.1 1,109 0.3 186 0.3 1,311 1,351 0.3 0.3 80.0
RBM (South Africa) D/O + O/P 16 8.7 16 17 8.7 8.5 74.0
See notes 225
224 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Notes:
(a) Likely mining method: O/P = open pit; O/C = open cut; U/G = underground;
D/O = dredging operation.
(b) Gove Resources tonnes decreased following conversion of Resources to Reserves.
(c) Weipa Resources tonnes decreased following updated technical and economic studies
and conversion of Resources to Reserves.
(d) Borates Resources are reported as in situ B
2
O
3
, rather than marketable product as in
Reserves.
(e) Coal type: SC = steam/thermal coal, MC = metallurgical/coking coal.
(f) Rio Tinto reports coal Resources on an in situ moisture basis.
(g) On 30 September 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement for
the sale of its interest in the Bengalla Joint Venture.
(h) Blair Athol closed in the last quarter of 2012. Divestment efforts continue in parallel with
preparation for rehabilitation.
(i) Hail Creek, Hunter Valley Operations, Kestrel, Mount Robert, Warkworth and Winchester
South have had material Resources changes since previous publication. A JORC table 1
in support of these changes will be released to the market contemporaneously with the
release of this Annual report and can be viewed at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(j) The increase in Resources tonnes at Hail Creek follows the completion of a Pre-feasibility
study.
(k) Resources tonnes increased at Hunter Valley Operations following technical and
economic studies.
(l) Resources tonnes increased at Kestrel Coal following re-evaluation of the recoverable
coal footprint for a potential underground development in addition to technical and
economic studies. Kestrel West is now reported under Kestrel Coal.
(m) On 27 January 2016, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement for
the sale of its Mount Pleasant thermal coal assets.
(n) Mount Robert Resources are reported for the first time following technical and economic
studies.
(o) Resources tonnes increased at Warkworth following re-evaluation of the recoverable coal
footprint for a potential underground development.
(p) Resources tonnes increased at Winchester South following technical and economic
studies.
(q) Bingham Canyon Open Pit Resources tonnes decreased following production depletion,
schedule subtractions and conversion of Resources to Reserves.
(r) The decrease in Escondida – oxide Resources tonnes is due to a revised estimate based
on additional drilling.
(s) The reduction of Resources tonnes at Grasberg follows a revision of cut-off grades.
(t) Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between Rio Tinto and FCX, Rio Tinto is
entitled to a direct 40 per cent share in Resources discovered after 31 December 1994.
(u) Some coarse tailings material was added to the AK1 pipe Resources following technical
and economic studies. Argyle Resources are based on a nominal 0.5 millimetre lower
cut- off size and a final re-crushing size of 6 millimetres.
(v) Bunder Resources are based on a nominal 1 millimetre lower cut-off size and a final
re-crushing size of 6 millimetres.
(w) Diavik Resources are based on a nominal 1 millimetre lower cut-off size and a final
re-crushing size of 5 millimetres. Resources tonnes have decreased following conversion
of Resources to Reserves.
(x) Rio Tinto sold its 77.8 per cent interest in Murowa Diamonds with an effective date of
17 June 2015.
(y) Australian and Guinean iron ore Resources tonnes are reported on a dry weight basis.
(z) Hamersley Iron Channel Iron Deposit Resources tonnes have decreased as a result of
conversion of Resources to Reserves.
(aa) Channar JV Brockman Resources tonnes have decreased as a result of additional drilling
and updated geological models.
(bb)Eastern Range JV Brockman Resources tonnes have decreased as a result of additional
drilling and updated geological models.
(cc) Eastern Range JV Brockman Process Ore Resources tonnes have decreased as a result of
additional drilling and updated geological models.
(dd)Hope Downs Detrital Resources tonnes have increased as a result of additional drilling
and updated geological models.
(ee)Resources at Iron Ore Company of Canada are reported on an in-situ dry basis and are
estimated to produce marketable product (58 per cent pellets and 42 per cent
concentrate for sale) at a natural moisture content of two per cent of 158 million tonnes
at 65 per cent iron (Measured), 584 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron (Indicated) and
338 million dry tonnes at 65 per cent iron (Inferred) using process recovery factors
derived from current IOC concentrating and pellet operations.
(ff) As noted on page 37, an impairment charge of US$1,118 million (net of non-controlling
interests and tax) was announced in respect of Simandou in February 2016.
(gg)Bingham Canyon Open Pit Resources tonnes decreased and molybdenum grade
increased following production depletion, schedule subtractions and conversion of
Resources to Reserves. Molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration drilling assays
have been factored based on a long reconciliation history to blast hole and mill samples.
(hh)Ranger #3 Deeps Resources tonnes increased and grade decreased following an updated
resource estimate, as released to the market by Energy Resources of Australia on
10 July 2015.
(ii) Ranger #3 stockpiles Resources tonnes and grade decreased following mining depletion
and conversion of Resources to Reserves.
(jj) Rössing SJ Resources tonnes decreased following a pit re-design based on updated
technical and economic studies.
Mineral resources and ore reserves
corporate governance
Rio Tinto has established a governance process supporting the
generation and publication of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves,
which includes a series of structures and processes independent of the
operational reporting through business units and product groups.
The Audit Committee has in its remit the governance of resources and
reserves. This includes an annual review of Mineral Resources and Ore
Reserves at a Group level, as well as review of findings and progress from
the Group Resources and Reserves internal audit programme within the
regular meeting schedule.
Rio Tinto also has an Ore Reserves Steering Committee (ORSC), which
meets at least quarterly, chaired by the Group executive, Technology &
Innovation, and comprises senior representatives from technical,
financial, governance and business groups within the Group. The ORSC
role includes oversight of the appointment of Competent Persons
nominated by the business units, review of Exploration results, Mineral
Resources or Ore Reserve data prior to public reporting and development
of Group Resource and Reserves standards and guidance.
The Resource and Reserve internal audit programme is conducted by
independent external consulting personnel in a programme managed by
Group Audit & Assurance with the assistance of the ORSC. In 2015,
seven internal audits were completed. Material findings are reported
outside of the product group reporting line to the Audit Committee , and
all reports and action plans are reviewed by the ORSC for alignment to
internal and external reporting standards.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves from externally managed
operations, where Rio Tinto holds a minority share, are reported as
received from the managing entity. Figures from Rio Tinto managed
operations are the responsibility of the managing directors of the
business units and estimates are carried out by Competent Persons as
defined by JORC.
Rio Tinto has continued the development of internal systems and
controlsinordertomeetJORC(2012)complianceinallexternal
reporting including the preparation of all reported data by Competent
Persons as members of The Australasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy (The AusIMM), Australian Institute of Geoscientists (AIG) or
recognised professional organisations (RPOs). JORC Table 1 reports for
new or materially upgraded significant deposits are released to market
by Rio Tinto and are also available on the Group’s website. JORC Table 1
and NI 43-101 technical reports generated by non-managed units or joint
venture partners are referenced within the reporting footnotes with the
location and initial reporting date identified.
As well as the establishment of an enhanced governance process, there
have been a number of process improvements and training initiatives
introduced by the ORSC over recent years, including a web-based group
reporting and sign-off database, annual internal Competent Person
reports and Competent Person development and training.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 225
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
MINERAL RESOURCES
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Competent Persons
Primary commodity Name Association (a) Employer Accountability Deposits
BAUXITE
L McAndrew AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserve
Gove, Weipa
J Bower AusIMM Resource
J-F Durand-Smet EuroGeol
CBG Consultant
Reserve
Sangaredi
G Girouard AusIMM Compagnie des
Bauxites de Guinée
Resource
C J da Silva AusIMM
Mineração Rio do Norte
Reserve
Trombetas
M A H Monteiro AusIMM Resource
BORATES
B Griffiths SME
Rio Tinto
Reserve
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron
R Torres AusIMM Resource
COAL
G Doyle AusIMM Resource and
Reserve
Rio Tinto Coal Australia (RTCA) – Blair Athol,
Hunter Valley Operations, Mount Robert,
Mount Thorley Operations, Warkworth
A Prentice AusIMM Reserve RTCA – Bengalla
J O’Connell AusIMM Reserve RTCA – Mount Pleasant
M Hillard AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserve RTCA – Hail Creek
L Mildon AusIMM Reserve RTCA – Kestrel
R Ruddock AusIMM Resource RTCA – Bengalla, Hail Creek, Hunter Valley
Operations, Kestrel, Kestrel West, Lake
Elphinstone, Mount Robert, Mount Pleasant,
Mount Thorley Operations, Oaklands, Valeria,
Warkworth, Winchester South
COPPER
C Hehnke AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resource
Resolution (c)
A Issel APGO
Freeport-McMoRan Inc
Resource and
Reserve
PT Freeport – Grasberg (b) (d)
G MacDonald SME Resource and
Reserve
J Dudley AusIMM Reserve
RSingh AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserve
Oyu Tolgoi (b) (c) (d)
O Togtokhbayar AusIMM Resource
J Vickery AusIMM Resource and
Reserve
N Armstrong AusIMM Reserve
G Austin AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resource
Kennecott Utah Copper (b) (c) (d)
R Hayes AusIMM Resource
K Schroeder AusIMM Resource
P Rodriguez AusIMM Resource
P Sandoval AusIMM
Minera Escondida Ltda.
Reserve
Escondida
L Soto AusIMM Resource
Escondida, Pampa Escondida – sulphide (b),
Pinta Verde
M Cortes AusIMM Resource
L Vaccia AusIMM Resource
Escondida – Chimborazo – sulphide
P Salazar AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resource
La Granja
226 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Primary commodity Name Association (a) Employer Accountability Deposits
DIAMONDS
S Brennan AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resource and
Reserve
Argyle Diamonds
D Ford AIG Resource and
Reserve
M Rayner AusIMM Resource and
Reserve
M Rayner AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resource
Bunder
K Thompson NAPEGG
Rio Tinto
Resource and
Reserve
Diavik
C Yip AusIMM Resource and
Reserve
IRON ORE
R Taylor AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserve
Simandou – Oueleba, Pic de Fon
M Franks AusIMM
AMEC Foster Wheeler
Resource
TLeriche PEGNL
Rio Tinto
Resource and
Reserve
Iron Ore Company of Canada
R Williams PEGNL Reserve
B Wallace PEGNL Resource
R Way PEGNL Resource
C Tabb AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserve
Rio Tinto Iron Ore – Hamersley, Channar,
Eastern Range, Hope Downs, Robe
A Do AusIMM Reserve
P Savory AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resource
Rio Tinto Iron Ore – Hamersley, Channar,
Eastern Range, Hope Downs, Rhodes Ridge,
Robe B Sommerville AusIMM Resource
LITHIUM
JGarcia EuroGeol
Rio Tinto
Resource
Rio Tinto Minerals – Jadar (e)
TITANIUM
DIOXIDE
FEEDSTOCK
J Dumouchel APEGGA Rio Tinto Resource
QIT Madagascar Minerals (f),
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane – Havre-Saint-Pierre
PDeKock SAIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserve
QIT Madagascar Minerals (f)
JCyr OIQ
Rio Tinto
Reserve
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane – Havre-Saint-Pierre
Y Bourque OIQ Resource
TDaling SAIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserve
Richards Bay Minerals (f)
J Nel SACNASP Resource
URANIUM
W-D Wieland SAIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserve
Ro ¨ssing
T Murasiki SAIMM Resource
S Pevely AusIMM Rio Tinto Resource and
Reserve
Energy Resources of Australia – Ranger 3,
Jabiluka
(a) AusIMM: Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; AIG: Australasian Institute of Geoscientists; EuroGeol: European Geologist member of the European
Federation of Geologists, APGO: Association of Professional Geoscientists of Ontario; SAIMM: South African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; SME: Society of
Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration; AIPG: American Institute of Professional Geologists; NAPEGG: Association of Professional Engineers; Geologists and
Geophysicists of the Northwest Territories; PEGNL: Professional Engineers and Geoscientists Newfoundland and Labrador; APEGGA: Association of Professional
Engineers, Geologists and Geophysicists of Alberta; OIQ: Ordre des Ingénieurs du Québec; SACNASP: South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions.
(b) Includes gold.
(c) Includes molybdenum.
(d) Includes silver.
(e) Includes borates.
(f) Includes zircon.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 227
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
COMPETENT PERSONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mines and production facilities
Group mines as at 31 December 2015
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown)
Mine Location Access Title/lease
ALUMINIUM
Bauxite
CBG Sangaredi (22.95%) Sangaredi, Guinea Road, air and port Mining concession expires in 2040.
Gove Gove, Northern
Territory, Australia
Road, air and port All leases were renewed in 2011 for a further period of 42 years. The residue disposal
area is leased from the Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust. The Northern Territory
government is the lessor of the balance of the leases; however, on expiry of the
42-year renewed term, the land subject of the balances of the leases will all vest to
the Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust.
MRN Porto Trombetas (12%) Porto Trombetas,
Para, Brazil
Air and port Mining concession granted under the Brazilian mining code with no expiration date.
Weipa/Ely Weipa, Queensland,
Australia
Road, air and port The Queensland Government Comalco (ML7024) lease expires in 2042 with an option
of a 21-year extension, then two years’ notice of termination; the Queensland
Government Alcan lease (ML7031) expires in 2048 with a 21-year right of renewal
with a two-year notice period.
COPPER & COAL
Copper
Escondida (30%) Atacama Desert,
Chile
Pipelineandroadto
deep sea port at
Coloso; road and rail
Rights conferred by Government under Chilean Mining Code.
Grasberg joint venture
(40% share of production
above specified levels)
Papua, Indonesia Pipeline, road
and port
Indonesian Government Contracts of Work expire in 2021 with option of two ten-year
extensions.
Rio Tinto Kennecott
Bingham Canyon
Near Salt Lake City,
Utah, US
Pipeline, road
and rail
Owned.
Oyu Tolgoi (51% of Turquoise
Hill Resources Ltd. which owns
66% of Oyu Tolgoi LLC)
Gobi Desert,
Mongolia
Air and road Three mining licences are held by Oyu Tolgoi LLC and two further licences are held in
joint venture with Entrée Gold LLC. The licence term under the Minerals Law of
Mongolia is 30 years with two 20-year extensions. First renewals are due in 2033 and
2039 for the Oyu Tolgoi and Entrée Gold licences respectively.
Coal
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Bengalla (32%)
Hail Creek (82%)
Hunter Valley Operations
(80%)
Kestrel (80%)
Mount Thorley Operations
(64%)
Warkworth (44.46%)
New South Wales
and Queensland,
Australia
Road, rail, conveyor
and port
Leases granted by respective state governments. Please refer to page 34 for an
update on the ownership changes since 31 December 2015.
Zululand Anthracite Colliery
(Pty) Ltd (74%)
Mahlabatini district,
KwaZulu-Natal,
South Africa
Road, rail and port Okhukho Reserve no. 14376 over mineral leases 1, 2 and 6 awarded to ZAC as a new
order mining right no. 46/2007 on 10 April 2007, expiry date 9 April 2027. Protocol
number 1461/2010, an extended mining right over the remainder of reserve no. 20,
no. 15840 and portions 10, 11 and 12 of Reserve 12 no. 15832, awarded
11 November 2010 and valid through to 10 November 2030.
228 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report History Type of mine Power source
Bauxite mining commenced in 1973. Shareholders are 51% Halco and 49% Government of Guinea. The
Rio Tinto interest in 45 per cent of Halco was first acquired in 2004. Rated production capacity is 13.5 million
tonnes per annum and actual annual production in 2015 was 14.8 million tonnes on a dry basis. Rio Tinto
currently benefits from approximately 45 per cent of the mine’s production. In 2013, CBG signed a contract
with Abu Dhabi state-owned investment fund Mubadala to supply up to 4.9 million tonnes of bauxite per
annum from December 2017. CBG has been examining possible expansion of its mine, processing plant and
associated infrastructure to increase production capacity from 13.5 to 18.5 million tonnes per annum by 2018,
as well as studying other expansion options.
Open cut On-site generation (fuel oil)
Bauxite mining commenced in 1970, feeding both the Gove refinery and export market, capped at two million
tonnes per annum. Bauxite export ceased in 2006 with feed intended for the expanded Gove refinery. Bauxite
exports recommenced in 2008 and will increase in the coming years following the curtailment of the refinery
production in 2014. Current annual production capacity is 8 million tonnes on a dry basis.
Open cut On-site generation (diesel)
Mineral extraction commenced in 1979. Initial production capacity 3.4 million tonnes annually. From 2003,
production capacity up to 16.3 million tonnes per year on a dry basis. Capital structure currently: Vale (40%),
BHP Billiton (14.8%), Rio Tinto (12%), CBA (10%), Alcoa/Abalco (18.2%), and Norsk Hydro (5%).
Open cut On-site generation
(diesel)
Bauxite mining commenced in 1961 at Weipa. Major upgrade completed in 1998. Rio Tinto interest increased
from 72.4% to 100% in 2000. In 1997, Ely Bauxite Mining Project Agreement signed with local Aboriginal land
owners. Bauxite Mining and Exchange Agreement signed in 1998 with Comalco to allow for extraction of ore
at Ely. The Western Cape Communities Co-Existence Agreement, an Indigenous Land Use Agreement, was
signed in 2001. In 2004 a mine expansion was completed at Weipa that lifted annual capacity to 21.5 million
tonnes on a dry basis. Mining commenced on the adjacent Ely mining lease in 2006, in accordance with the
1998 agreement with Alcan (first ore extracted at Ely in 2007). A second shiploader to increase the shipping
capability was commissioned in 2006 at Weipa. Annual production capacity has now reached
28 million tonnes.
Open cut On-site generation (diesel)
supplemented by a solar
generation facility
Production started in 1990 and expanded in phases to 2002 when the new concentrator was completed;
production from Norte started in 2005 and the sulphide leach produced the first cathode during 2006.
Open pit Supplied from SING grid
under various contracts with
local generating companies
Joint venture interest acquired 1995. Capacity expanded to over 200,000 tonnes of ore per day in 1998.
Addition of underground production of more than 35,000 tonnes per day in 2003. Expansion to 50,000 tonnes
per day in mid-2007 and to 80,000 tonnes in 2010.
Open pit and
underground
Long-term contract with
US-Indonesian consortium
operated purpose-built
coal-fired generating station
Interest acquired in 1989. In 2012, the pushback of the south wall commenced, extending the mine life from
2018 to 2030.
Open pit On-site generation
supplemented by long-term
contracts with Rocky
Mountain Power
Oyu Tolgoi was first discovered in 1996. Construction began in late 2009 after signing of an Investment
Agreement with the Government of Mongolia, and first concentrate was produced in 2012.
First sales of concentrate were made to Chinese customers in 2013.
Open pit and
underground
Grid power from China and
supplementary diesel power
generation site
Kestrel Mine in Queensland, Rio Tinto Coal Australia’s sole underground mine, was acquired and
recommissioned in 1999, and Hail Creek Mine in Queensland was officially opened in 2003. Blair Athol Mine
ceased operations in 2012.
Rio Tinto completed the privatisation of Coal & Allied during 2011, which was owned 80/20 with Mitsubishi
Development until 3 February 2016, when Rio Tinto assumed 100 per cent ownership of Coal & Allied. This
followed the completion of a change to the ownership structure which saw Mitsubishi Development move from
a 20 per cent interest in Coal & Allied to a direct 32 per cent holding in the Hunter Valley Operations mine.
Open cut and
underground
State-owned grid
Operations commenced at Zululand Anthracite Colliery (Pty) Ltd on 13 August 1984. Rio Tinto took ownership of
the mine in 2011. Zululand Anthracite Colliery became a Rio Tinto fully managed company as from 2014.
Underground anthracite
mine, with five active
shafts
Eskom grid, with diesel
generator back-up
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 229
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
METALS AND MINERALS PRODUCTION
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mines and production facilities
continued
Group mines as at 31 December 2015 continued
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown)
Mine Location Access Title/lease
DIAMONDS & MINERALS
Diamonds
Argyle Diamonds Kimberley Ranges,
Western Australia
Road and air Mining tenement held under Diamond (Argyle Diamond Mines Joint Venture)
Agreement Act 1981; lease extended for 21 years from 2004 with option to renew.
Diavik (60%) Northwest
Territories (NWT),
Canada
Air, ice road in winter Mining leases from NWT Government, expiring in 2017 and 2018 with options to
renew.
Industrial minerals
Dampier Salt (68.4%) Dampier, Lake
MacLeod and Port
Hedland, Western
Australia
Road and port State agreements (mining leases) expiring in 2034 at Dampier, 2018 at
Port Hedland and 2021 at Lake MacLeod, with options to renew at the latter two
sites.
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron California, US Road and rail Owned.
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Lac Tio Havre-Saint-Pierre,
Quebec, Canada
Rail and port
(St Lawrence River)
Mining covered by two concessions granted by Quebec State in 1949 and 1951 which,
subject to certain Mining Act restrictions, confer rights and obligations of an owner.
QIT Madagascar Minerals
(80%)
Fort-Dauphin,
Madagascar
Road and port Mining lease granted by central government.
Richards Bay Minerals (74%) Richards Bay,
KwaZulu-Natal,
South Africa
Rail, road and port Mineral rights for Reserve 4 and Reserve 10 issued by South African State and
converted to new order mining rights from 9 May 2012. Mining rights run until
8 May 2041 for both lease areas.
Uranium
Energy Resources of Australia
(68.4%)
Ranger
Northern Territory,
Australia
Road, rail and port Mining tenure granted by Federal Government.
Rössing Uranium (68.6%) Erongo Region,
Namibia
Rail, road and port Mining licence granted by Namibian State.
IRON ORE
Hamersley Iron
Brockman 2
Brockman 4
Marandoo
Mount Tom Price
Nammuldi
Paraburdoo
Western Turner Syncline
Yandicoogina
Channar (60%)
Eastern Range (54%)
Hamersley Ranges,
Western Australia
Railway and port
(owned by
Hamersley Iron
andoperatedby
Pilbara Iron)
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia.
Hope Downs 1
(50% mine,
100% infrastructure)
Pilbara region,
Western Australia
Railway (owned by
Hamersley Iron and
operated by
Pilbara Iron)
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia.
Hope Downs 4
(50% mine,
100% infrastructure)
Pilbara region,
Western Australia
Railway (owned by
Hamersley Iron and
operated by
Pilbara Iron)
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia
Iron Ore Company of Canada
(IOC) (58.7%)
Labrador City,
Province of Labrador
and Newfoundland
Railway and port
facilities in Sept-Îles,
Quebec (owned and
operated by IOC)
Sublease with the Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation which has lease
agreements with the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador that are due to be
renewed in 2020 and 2022.
Robe River Iron Associates
(53%)
Mesa J
Mesa A
West Angelas
Pilbara region,
Western Australia
Railway and port
(owned by Robe
River and operated
by Pilbara Iron)
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia.
230 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report History Type of mine Power source
Interest increased from 59.7% following purchase of Ashton Mining in 2000. Underground mine project
approved in 2005 to extend mine life to 2020.
Underground
(previously open pit)
Long-term contract with
Ord Hydro Consortium and
on-site generation
Deposits discovered 1994-1995. Construction approved 2000. Diamond production started 2003.
Second dike closed off in 2005 for mining of additional orebody. The underground mine started production
in 2010, ramping up to full production in 2013.
Underground
(previously open pit)
On-site diesel generators;
installed capacity 44MW
and 9.2MW of wind capacity
Construction of the Dampier field started in 1969; first shipment in 1972. Lake MacLeod was acquired in 1978
as an operating field. Port Hedland was acquired in 2001 as an operating field.
Solar evaporation of
seawater(Dampierand
Port Hedland) and
underground brine (Lake
MacLeod); extraction of
gypsum from surface of
Lake MacLeod
Dampier supply from
Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd;
Lake MacLeod from
Western Power and on-site
generation units; Port
Hedland from Western
Power
Deposit discovered in 1925 and acquired by Rio Tinto in 1967. Open pit On-site co-generation units
and local power grid
Production started 1950; interest acquired in 1989. Open pit Long-term contract with
Hydro-Québec
Exploration project started in 1986; construction approved 2005. Ilmenite and zirsil production started 2008.
QMM intends to extract ilmenite and zirsil from heavy mineral sands over an area of about 6,000 hectares
along the coast over the next 40 years.
Mineral sand dredging On-site heavy fuel oil
generators
Production started 1977; initial interest acquired 1989. Fifth mining plant commissioned in 2000. One mining
plant decommissioned in 2008. In September 2012, Rio Tinto doubled its holding in Richards Bay Minerals to
74 per cent following the acquisition of BHP Billiton’s entire interests.
Dune sand dredging Contract with ESKOM
Mining commenced 1981. Interest acquired through acquisition of North 2000. Open pit mining ended 2012,
since when ERA has been processing ore stockpiles.
Stockpile On-site diesel generation
Production began in 1976. Open pit Supplied by NamPower via
grid network
Mount Tom Price began operations in 1966, followed by Paraburdoo in 1974. In the 1990s, Channar, Brockman
2, Marandoo and Yandicoogina achieved first ore. Annual capacity increased to 68 million tonnes during the
1990s and has more than doubled in the past 25 years. Since 2000, Eastern Ranges, Nammuldi, Brockman 4
and Western Turner Syncline have joined the network of Hamersley Iron mines. The brownfield mine
expansion at such sites as Paraburdoo, Brockman 2, Nammuldi and Yandicoogina will enable production to
meet expanded port and rail capacity in the coming years.
Open pit Supplied through the
integrated Hamersley and
Robe power network
operated by Pilbara Iron
Joint venture between Rio Tinto and Hancock Prospecting. Construction of Stage 1 to 22 million tonnes per
annum commenced 2006 and first production occurred 2007. Stage 2 to 30 million tonnes per annum
completed 2009.
Open pit Supplied through the
integrated Hamersley and
Robe power network
operated by Pilbara Iron
Joint venture between Rio Tinto and Hancock Prospecting. Construction of wet plant processing to 15 million
tonnes per annum commenced 2011 and first production occurred 2013.
Open pit Supplied through the
integrated Hamersley and
Robe power network
operated by Pilbara Iron
Interest acquired in 2000 through North. Current operation began in 1962 and has processed over one billion
tonnes of crude ore since. Annual capacity 23.3 million tonnes of concentrate of which 12.5 million tonnes can
be pelletised.
Open pit Supplied by Newfoundland
Hydro
First shipment in 1972 from Robe Valley. Interest acquired in 2000 through North. First ore was shipped
from West Angelas in 2002. In 2014, total production of the Robe River Iron Associates joint venture was
64 million tonnes.
Open pit Supplied through the
integrated Hamersley and
Robe power network
operated by Pilbara Iron
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 231
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
METALS AND MINERALS PRODUCTION
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mines and production facilities
continued
Group smelters and refineries
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown)
Smelter/refinery Location Title/lease Plant type/product
Capacity as of
31 December 2015
(based on 100%
ownership)
ALUMINIUM
Alma Alma, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium rod, t-foundry, molten metal,
high purity, remelt
466,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Alouette (40%) Sept-Îles, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium high purity, remelt
606,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Arvida Saguenay, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium billet, molten metal, remelt
176,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Arvida AP60 Saguenay, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium high purity, remelt
60,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Bécancour (25.1%) Bécancour, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium slab, billet, t-foundry, remelt,
molten metal
446,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Bell Bay Bell Bay, Northern
Tasmania, Australia
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium slab, molten metal, small form
and t-foundry, remelt
195,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Boyne Smelters
(59.4%)
Boyne Island,
Queensland, Australia
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium
billet, EC grade, small form and
t-foundry, remelt
584,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Dunkerque Dunkerque, France 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium
slab, small form foundry, remelt
282,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Grande-Baie Saguenay, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium
slab, molten metal, high purity, remelt
225,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
ISAL Reykjavik, Iceland 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium remelt, billet
205,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Jonquière (Vaudreuil) Jonquière, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Refinery producing specialty alumina
and smelter grade alumina
1,559,000 tonnes
per year alumina
Kitimat (a) Kitimat, British Columbia,
Canada
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium slab, remelt, high purity
420,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Laterrière Saguenay, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium slab, remelt, molten metal
244,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Lochaber Fort William, Scotland,
UK
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium slab, remelt
47,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Queensland Alumina
(80%)
Gladstone, Queensland,
Australia
73.3% freehold; 26.7% leasehold
(of which more than 80% expires in
2026 and after)
Refinery producing alumina 3,950,000 tonnes per
year alumina
São Luis (Alumar)
(10%)
São Luis, Maranhão,
Brazil
100% freehold Refinery producing alumina 3,667,000 tonnes per
year alumina
Sohar (20%) Sohar, Oman 100% leasehold (expiring 2039) Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium, high purity, remelt
377,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Tiwai Point (New
Zealand Aluminium
Smelters) (79.4%)
Invercargill, Southland,
New Zealand
19.6% freehold; 80.4% leasehold
(expiring in 2029 and use of certain
Crown land)
Aluminium smelter producing aluminium
billet, slab, small form foundry,
high purity, remelt
365,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Tomago (51.6%) Tomago, New South
Wales, Australia
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing
aluminium billet, slab, remelt
580,000 tonnes
per year aluminium
Yarwun Gladstone, Queensland,
Australia
97% freehold. 3% leasehold
(expiring 2101 and after)
Refinery producing alumina 3,100,000 tonnes per
year alumina
232 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Smelter/refinery Location Title/lease Plant type/product
Capacity as of
31 December 2015
(based on 100%
ownership)
OTHER ALUMINIUM
Gove Gove, Northern
Territory, Australia
100% leasehold. All leases were
renewed in 2011 for a further period of
42 years. The residue disposal area is
leased from the Arnhem Land
Aboriginal Land Trust. The Northern
Territory government is the lessor of the
balance of the leases; however, on expiry
of the 42-year renewed term, the land
subject of the balances of the leases will
all vest to the Arnhem Land Aboriginal
Land Trust.
Refinery producing alumina 2,650,000 tonnes per
year alumina. The
Group curtailed
production at Gove as of
May 2014.
COPPER & COAL
Rio Tinto Kennecott Magna, Salt Lake City,
Utah, US
100% freehold Flash smelting furnace/Flash convertor
furnace copper refinery
335,000 tonnes per
year refined copper
DIAMONDS &
MINERALS
Boron California, US 100% freehold Borates refinery 576,000 tonnes per
year boric oxide
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane
Sorel Plant
Sorel-Tracy, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Ilmenite smelter 1,300,000 tonnes per
year titanium dioxide
slag, 1,000,000 tonnes
peryeariron
Richards Bay Minerals
(74%)
Richards Bay,
South Africa
100% freehold Ilmenite smelter 1,050,000 tonnes per
year titanium dioxide
slag, 565,000 tonnes
peryeariron
IRON ORE
IOC Pellet Plant
(58.7%)
Labrador City,
Newfoundland and
Labrador, Canada
100% leaseholds (expiring in 2020,
2022 and 2025 with rights of renewal for
further terms of 30 years)
Pellet induration furnaces producing
multiple iron ore pellet types
12.5 million tonnes per
year pellet
Note:
(a) Kitimat has started to ramp up towards nameplate capacity of 420,000 tonnes (a more than 48 per cent increase over previous nameplate capacity), which is expected to be achieved in
early 2016.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 233
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
MINES AND PRODUCTION FACILITIES
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mines and production facilities
continued
Information on Group power plants
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown)
Power plant Location Title/lease Plant type/product
Capacity as of
31 December 2015
(based on 100%
ownership)
ALUMINIUM
Gladstone power station
(42%)
Gladstone, Queensland,
Australia
100% freehold Thermal power station 1,680MW
Gove power station Nhulunbuy, Northern
Territory, Australia
100% leasehold Diesel generation 24MW
Highlands power stations Lochaber, Kinlochleven, UK 100% freehold Hydroelectric power 105MW
Kemano powerstation Kemano, British Columbia,
Canada
100% freehold Hydroelectric power 865MW
Quebec power stations Saguenay, Quebec, Canada
(Chute-à-Caron, Chute-à-la-
Savane, Chute-des-Passes,
Chute-du-Diable, Isle-
Maligne, Shipshaw)
100% freehold
(certain facilities leased
from Quebec
Government until 2058
puruant to Peribonka
Lease)
Hydroelectric power 3,147MW
Yarwun alumina refinery
co-generation plant
Gladstone, Queensland,
Australia
100% freehold Gas turbine and heat recovery steam generator 160MW
Weipa power stations and
solar generation facility
Lorim Point, Andoom,
and Weipa
100% leasehold Diesel generation supplemented by solar
generation facility
38MW
COPPER & COAL
Rio Tinto Kennecott
power stations
Salt Lake City, Utah, US 100% freehold Thermal power station
Steam turbine running off waste heat boilers
at the copper smelter
Combined heat and power plant supplying
steam to the copper refinery
175MW
31.8MW
6.2MW
234 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Power plant Location Title/lease Plant type/product
Capacity as of
31 December
2015 (based on
100% ownership)
DIAMONDS & MINERALS
Boron co-generation plant Boron, California, US 100% freehold Co-generation uses natural gas to generate
steam and electricity, used to run Boron’s
refining operations
48MW
Energy Resources of
Australia (Rio Tinto: 68.4%)
Ranger Mine, Jabiru,
Northern Territory, Australia
Lease Five diesel generator sets rated at 5.1MW;
one diesel generator set rated at 1.9MW; four
diesel generator sets rated at 2MW
35.4MW
IRON ORE
IOC power station Sept Îles, Quebec, Canada Statutory grant Hydroelectric power 22MW
Paraburdoo power station Paraburdoo, Western
Australia, Australia
Lease Three LM6000PC gas-fired turbines One
Frame5 dual-fuel turbine
138MW
Yurralyi Maya power station
(Rio Tinto: 84.2%)
Dampier, Western Australia,
Australia
Miscellaneous licence Four LM6000PD gas-fired turbines One
LM6000PF gas-fired turbine (duel fuel potential)
200MW
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 235
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
MINES AND PRODUCTION FACILITIES
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information
Organisational structure
The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc,
which is registered in England and Wales under
company number 719885, and is listed on the
London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited,
which is registered in Australia under
ABN 96 004 458 404, and is listed on the
Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto is headquartered in London and has a
corporateofficeinMelbourne.
Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility and
the underlying shares are registered with the
US Securities and Exchange Commission and
arelistedontheNewYorkStockExchange.
Nomenclature and financial data
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate
together and are referred to in this report as Rio
Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the
Group. These collective expressions are used
for convenience only, since both Companies,
and the individual companies in which they
directly or indirectly own investments, are
separate and distinct legal entities. “Limited”,
“plc”, “Pty”, “Inc.”, “Limitada”, “L.L.C.”, “A.S.” or
“SA” have generally been omitted from Group
company names, except to distinguish between
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited. Financial
data in US dollars (US$) is derived from, and
should be read in conjunction with, the 2015
financial statements. In general, financial data in
pounds sterling (£) and Australian dollars (A$)
have been translated from the consolidated
financial statements and have been provided
solely for convenience; exceptions arise where
data can be extracted directly from source
records. Certain key information has been
provided in all three currencies in the 2015
financial statements.
History
Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March
1962 (then called The Rio Tinto- Zinc
Corporation Limited (RTZ)) and was formed by
the merger of The Rio Tinto Company Limited
and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited.
The Rio Tinto Company was incorporated in
1873 to reopen ancient copper workings in
Spain. The Consolidated Zinc Corporation
Limited’s origins trace back to the Australian
mining industry in the early twentieth century.
Operating out of Broken Hill in New South
Wales, it came to prominence with the mining
of silver, lead and zinc deposits and later
expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on
17 December 1959 (then called The Rio Tinto
Mining Company of Australia Limited) and
in 1962 the Australian interests of
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited and
The Rio Tinto Company Limited were merged
to form Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited as
a limited liability company under the laws of
the State of Victoria, Australia. In 1980,
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited changed
itsnametoCRALimited.
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA
discovered important mineral deposits,
developed major mining projects and also grew
through acquisition.
RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through
a dual listed companies structure. In 1997,
RTZ became Rio Tinto plc and CRA became
Rio Tinto Limited.
Dual listed companies structure
In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the
terms of the dual listed companies merger (the
DLC structure) which was designed to
place the shareholders of both Companies in
substantially the same position as if they held
shares in a single entity owning all of the
assets of both Companies.
Following the approval of the DLC structure,
both Companies entered into a DLC Merger
Sharing Agreement (the Sharing Agreement)
through which each Company agreed to ensure
that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a unified
basis, to ensure that the boards of directors of
each Company are the same, and to give effect
to certain arrangements designed to provide
shareholders of each Company with a common
economic interest in the DLC structure.
In order to achieve this third objective, the
Sharing Agreement provided for the ratio of
dividend, voting and capital distribution rights
attached to each Rio Tinto plc share and to
each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed in an
Equalisation Ratio which has remained
unchanged at 1:1. The Sharing Agreement has
provided for this ratio to be revised in special
circumstances where, for example, certain
modifications are made to the share capital of
one Company, such as rights issues, bonus
issues, share splits and share consolidations,
but not to the share capital of the other.
Outside these specified circumstances, the
Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the
approval of shareholders under the Class
Rights Action approval procedure described
under Voting rights below. In addition, any
adjustments are required to be confirmed by
the Group’s external auditors.
Consistent with the creation of the DLC
structure, directors of each Company seek to
act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
The Class Rights Action approval procedure is
intended to deal with instances where there
may be a conflict of interest between the
shareholders of each Company.
To ensure that the boards of both Companies
are identical, resolutions to appoint or remove
directors must be put to shareholders of both
Companiesasajointelectorate(asJoint
Decisions as described under Voting rights).
It is a requirement of the constitution of each
Company that a person can only be a director
of one Company if that person is also a director
of the other Company. So, for example, if a
person was removed as a director of Rio Tinto
plc,heorshewouldalsoceasetobeadirector
of Rio Tinto Limited.
One consequence of the DLC merger is that
Rio Tinto is subject to a wide range of laws,
rules and regulatory review across multiple
jurisdictions. Where these rules differ,
RioTinto,asaGroup,aimstocomplywiththe
strictest applicable level.
Dividend arrangements
The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends
paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited
shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that
is without taking into account any associated
tax credits. Dividends are determined in US
dollars and are then, except for ADR holders,
translatedandpaidinsterlingandAustralian
dollars. The Companies are also required to
announce and pay their dividends and other
distributions as close in time to each other
as possible.
In the unlikely event that one Company did not
have sufficient distributable reserves to pay the
equalised dividend or the equalised capital
distribution, it would be entitled to receive a
top-up payment from the other relevant
Company. The top-up payment could be made
as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, or by
way of a contractual payment.
If the payment of an equalised dividend would
contravene the law applicable to one of the
Companies they may depart from the
Equalisation Ratio. However, should such a
departure occur, the relevant Company will put
aside reserves to be held for payment on the
relevant shares at a later date.
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to
enforce the dividend equalisation provisions of
the Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to
provide the Group with flexibility for internal
funds management by allowing dividends to be
paid between the Companies and their
subsidiaries.
Voting arrangements
In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides
for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate
on all matters which affect shareholders of
both Companies in similar ways. These are
referred to as Joint Decisions. Such Joint
Decisions include the creation of new classes of
share capital, the appointment or removal of
directors and auditors and the receiving of the
annual financial statements. All shareholder
resolutions including Joint Decisions are voted
on a poll.
The Sharing Agreement also provides for the
protection of shareholders of each Company by
requiring their separate approval for decisions
that do not affect the shareholders of both
Companies equally. Matters requiring this
approval procedure are referred to as Class
Rights Actions and are voted on a poll.
For example, fundamental elements of the DLC
structure cannot be changed unless
approved separately by shareholders of both
Companies under the Class Rights Action
approval procedure.
236 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Exceptions to these principles can arise in
situations such as where legislation requires
the separate approval of a decision by the
appropriate majority of shareholders in
one Company, and approval of the matter
by shareholders of the other Company is
not required.
Where a matter has been expressly
categorised as either a Joint Decision or a Class
Rights Action, the directors do not have the
power to change that categorisation. If a matter
falls within both categories, it is treated as a
Class Rights Action. In addition, the directors
can determine that matters not expressly
listed in either category should be put
to shareholders for their approval under
either procedure.
To facilitate the joint voting arrangements,
each Company has entered into shareholder
voting agreements. Each Company has issued
a Special Voting Share to a special purpose
company held in trust for shareholders by a
common Trustee.
Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting
Share (RTP Special Voting Share) to RTL
Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has
issued its Special Voting Share (RTL Special
Voting Share) to RTP Shareholder SVC. The
total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions
by the shareholders of one Company are voted
at the parallel meeting of the other Company.
The role of these special purpose companies in
achieving this is described below.
In exceptional circumstances, certain
shareholders of the Companies can be
excluded from voting at the respective
Company’s general meetings because they
have acquired shares in one Company in excess
of a given threshold without making an offer for
all the shares in the other Company. If this
should occur, the votes cast by these excluded
shareholders will be disregarded.
Following the Companies’ general meetings
the overall results of the voting are announced
to the stock exchanges, to the media and
published on the Rio Tinto website.
At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders’ meeting at
which a Joint Decision is considered, each
Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote and the
holderofitsSpecialVotingSharehasonevote
for each vote cast by the public shareholders of
Rio Tinto Limited in their parallel meeting. The
holderoftheSpecialVotingShareisrequired
to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the
votes cast by public shareholders for and
against the equivalent resolution at the parallel
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders’ meeting.
The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary
shares do not actually hold any voting shares
in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in
Rio Tinto Limited and cannot enforce the
voting arrangements relating to the Special
Voting Share.
At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders’ meeting at
which a Joint Decision is considered, each
Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and
the holder of its Special Voting Share will have
one vote for each vote cast by the public
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel
meeting. The holder of the Special Voting
Shareisrequiredtovotestrictly,andonly,in
accordance with the votes cast for and against
the equivalent resolution at the parallel
Rio Tinto plc shareholders’ meeting.
The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares
do not actually hold any voting shares in
Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in
Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting
arrangements relating to the Special
Voting Share.
Capital distribution arrangements
If either of the Companies goes into liquidation,
the Sharing Agreement provides for a valuation
to be made of the surplus assets of both
Companies. If the surplus assets available for
distribution by one Company on each of the
shares held by its shareholders exceed the
surplus assets available for distribution by the
other Company on each of the shares held by
its shareholders, then an equalising payment
between the two Companies shall be made, to
theextentpermittedbyapplicablelaw,such
that the amount available for distribution on
each share held by shareholders of each
Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The objective is to ensure that the
shareholders of both Companies have
equivalent entitlements to the assets of the
combined Group on a per share basis, taking
account of the Equalisation Ratio.
The Sharing Agreement does not grant any
enforceable rights to the shareholders of either
Company upon liquidation of a Company.
Limitations on ownership of shares and
merger obligations
ThelawsandregulationsoftheUKand
Australia impose restrictions and obligations
on persons who control interests in publicly
listed companies in excess of defined
thresholds that, under certain circumstances,
include obligations to make a public offer for all
of the outstanding issued shares of the
relevant company. The threshold applicable to
Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations is
30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under
Australian law and regulations is 20 per cent
(on a standalone basis or, taking into account
only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint
Decision basis).
As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of
Association of Rio Tinto plc and the
Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were
amended with the intention of extending these
laws and regulations to the combined
enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that a
person cannot exercise control over one
Company without having made offers to the
public shareholders of both Companies.
It is consistent with the creation of the single
economic enterprise, and the equal treatment
of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws
and regulations should operate in this way. The
Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the
Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose
restrictions on any person who controls,
directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more of the
votes on a Joint Decision. If, however, such a
person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto
Limited or Rio Tinto plc, the restrictions will
only apply if they control, directly or indirectly,
30percentormoreofthevotesatthat
Company’s general meetings.
If one of the thresholds specified above is
breached, subject to certain limited exceptions
and notification by the relevant Company, such
persons may not attend or vote at general
meetings of the relevant Company, may not
receive dividends or other distributions from
the relevant Company and may be divested of
their interest by the directors of the relevant
Company. These restrictions continue to apply
untilsuchpersonshaveeithermadeapublic
offer for all of the publicly held shares of the
other Company, or have reduced their
controlling interest below the thresholds
specified, or have acquired through a permitted
means at least 50 per cent of the publicly held
shares of each Company.
These provisions are designed to ensure that
offers for the publicly held shares of both
Companies would be required in order to avoid
the restrictions set out above, even if the
interests which breach the thresholds are only
held in one of the Companies. The directors do
not have the discretion to exempt a person
from the operation of these rules.
Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies
agree to co-operate to enforce the above
restrictions contained in their Articles of
Association and Constitution.
Guarantees
In 1995 each Company entered into a Deed
Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the
other Company. Pursuant to the Deed Poll
Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the
contractual obligations of the other Company
and the obligations of other persons which are
guaranteed by the other Company, subject to
certain limited exceptions. Beneficiaries under
the Deed Poll Guarantees may make demands
upon the guarantor thereunder without first
having recourse to the Company or persons
whose obligations are being guaranteed. The
obligations of the guarantor under each Deed
Poll Guarantee expire upon termination of the
Sharing Agreement and under other limited
circumstances, but only in respect of
obligations arising after such termination and,
in the case of other limited circumstances, the
publication and expiry of due notice. The
shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce
the provisions of the Deed Poll Guarantees in
relation to their interest in the shares of the
other Company.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 237
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information
continued
Markets
Rio Tinto plc
The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is
the London Stock Exchange with the shares
trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic
Trading Service (SETS) system.
Rio Tinto plc American depositary receipts are
listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Further details relating to Rio Tinto plc
American depositary receipts are available in
Rio Tinto’s Annual report on Form 20-F.
Rio Tinto Limited
Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the
Australian Securities Exchange (ASX).
TheASXistheprincipaltradingmarketfor
Rio Tinto Limited shares. The ASX is a
national stock exchange with an automated
trading system.
Share ownership
Substantial shareholders
Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency
RulesandtheAustralianCorporationsAct,any
shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights
of three per cent or more, or any person with
voting power of five per cent or more in
Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the
relevant companies with notice.
The shareholders who have provided such, or an equivalent, notice as of 15 February 2016 are:
Rio Tinto plc
Date of
notice Number of shares
Percentage of
issued share
capital
AXA S.A. 29 Jan 2008 48,493,873 4.86
BlackRock Inc. 4 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38
Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd 13 Mar 2012 182,550,329 12.7
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3 April 2014 55,307,243 3.91
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 24 Feb 2015 56,647,518 4.01
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 17 Sep 2015 54,763,331 3.93
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 9 Oct 2015 55,867,795 4.02
Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd 26 Jan 2016 182,550,329 13.1
Rio Tinto Limited
Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd 10 June 2009 see footnote (a) see footnote (a)
BlackRock Inc 24 Mar 2015 22,161,984 5.13
BlackRock Inc 13 April 2015 see footnote (b) see footnote (b)
BlackRock Inc 30 Oct 2015 see footnote (c) see footnote (c)
(a) In its substantial holding notice filed on 10 June 2009 Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd, a Singapore-based
entity owned by Chinalco (Aluminium Corporation of China) disclosed a holding of 182,550,329 Rio Tinto
plc shares which, at that time, through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified,
gave these entities and their associates voting power of 9.3 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint
Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
Rio Tinto plc has subsequently, by notice dated 26 January 2016, disclosed that Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd’s holding of 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares gave these entities and their associates voting power of
13.1 per cent in Rio Tinto plc, which in turn would give these entities and their associates voting power of
10.1 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision Matter.
(b) In its substantial holding notice filed on 13 April 2015, BlackRock Inc and its associates disclosed a
holding of 120,174,604 shares in Rio Tinto plc and 22,330,443 shares in Rio Tinto Limited. Through the
operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, these interests gave BlackRock Inc and its
associates voting power of 7.7 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter, making them
substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
(c) By subsequent notice dated 30 October 2015 BlackRock Inc and its associates disclosed that they no
longer held a relevant interest in 5 per cent or more of Rio Tinto Limited’s issued capital.
Asfarasisknown,RioTintoplcandRioTinto
Limited are not directly or indirectly owned or
controlled by another corporation or by any
government or natural person. Rio Tinto is not
aware of any arrangement which may result in
a change in control. No shareholder possesses
voting rights that differ from those attaching
to Rio Tinto plc’s and Rio Tinto Limited’s
securities.
As of 15 February 2016, the total amount of
the Group’s voting securities owned by the
directorsinRioTintoplcwas90,034ordinary
shares of 10p each or ADRs and in Rio Tinto
Limited was 205,388 ordinary shares, in
aggregate representing less than one per cent
of the Group’s total number of shares in issue.
238 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Analysis of ordinary shareholders
Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited
As at 15 February 2016
No. of
accounts % Shares %
No. of
accounts % Shares %
1 to 1,000 shares 32,561 76.47 10,539,914 0.77 160,014 83.38 47,437,846 11.18
1,001 to 5,000 shares 7,860 18.46 15,613,622 1.14 28,515 14.86 57,171,126 13.48
5,001 to 10,000 shares 706 1.65 4,917,260 0.36 2,275 1.19 15,775,701 3.72
10,001 to 25,000 shares 407 0.96 6,370,525 0.46 863 0.45 12,704,647 3.00
25,001 to 125,000 shares 486 1.14 29,962,167 2.18 187 0.10 8,388,811 1.98
125,001 to 250,000 shares 165 0.39 29,263,689 2.13 17 0.01 3,094,350 0.73
250,001 to 1,250,000 shares 267 0.63 148,594,918 10.81 25 0.01 14,586,615 3.44
1,250,001 to 2,500,000 shares 56 0.13 98,764,192 7.19 4 0.00 7,099,028 1.67
2,500,001 shares and over
(a)
71 0.17 1,030,030,042
(b)
74.96 10 0.01 257,934,288 60.81
1,374,056,329
(c)
100.00 424,192,412
(d)
100.00
Number of holdings less than marketable
parcel of A$500 6,555
(a) Excludes shares held in Treasury.
(b) This includes 116,136,119 shares held in the name of a nominee on the share register. The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of ADRs.
(c) The total issued share capital is made up of 1,384,496,455 publicly held shares; of which 10,440,126 shares are held in Treasury.
(d) Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Twenty largest registered shareholders
In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of
shares and the percentage of issued capital each holds as at 15 February 2016:
Rio Tinto Limited
Number of
shares
Percentage of
issued share
capital
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 93,147,007 21.96
J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 74,935,815 17.67
National Nominees Limited 38,405,986 9.05
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 21,019,827 4.96
BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd (DRP) 10,356,104 2.44
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited (Colonial First State Inv A/C) 6,193,139 1.46
BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd (Agency Lending DRP A/C) 4,750,214 1.12
Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,651,753 0.86
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited (NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A/C) 2,963,704 0.70
Argo Investments Limited 2,510,739 0.59
AMP Life Limited 2,291,564 0.54
UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 1,697,680 0.40
UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 1,689,825 0.40
Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd (RE 3000086 A/C) 1,419,959 0.33
RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited (PI Pooled A/C) 1,219,856 0.29
Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd (RE 3000091 A/C) 1,176,763 0.28
National Nominees Limited (DB A/C) 955,275 0.23
Australian United Investment Company Limited 950,000 0.22
Navigator Australia Ltd (MLC Investment Sett A/C) 818,580 0.19
RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited (MBA A/C) 732,201 0.17
Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 239
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information
continued
Dividends
BothCompanieshavepaiddividendsontheir
ordinary shares every year since incorporation
in 1962. The process by which Rio Tinto
shareholders receive dividends is explained
under the description of the DLC structure on
page 236.
Dividend policy
In February 2016, the board revised the
dividend policy. The former progressive
dividend policy was honoured in respect of the
final dividend declared for 2015. The new policy
set out below was adopted.
At the end of each financial period, the board
will determine an appropriate total level of
ordinary dividend per share, taking into account
the results for the financial year, the outlook for
our major commodities, the board’s view of the
long-term growth prospects of the business
and the Company’s objective of maintaining a
strong balance sheet. The intention is that the
balance between the interim and final dividend
is weighted to the final dividend.
The board expects total cash returns to
shareholders over the longer term to be in a
range of 40 to 60 per cent of underlying
earnings in aggregate through the cycle.
The board is committed to maintaining an
appropriate balance between cash returns
to shareholders and investment in the
business, with the intention of maximising
shareholder value.
Acknowledging the cyclical nature of the
industry, in periods of strong earnings and
cashgeneration,itistheboard’sintention
to supplement the ordinary dividends with
additional returns to shareholders.
Dividend determination
Themajorityofoursalesaretransactedin
US dollars, making this the most appropriate
measure for our global business performance.
It is our main reporting currency and,
consequently, the natural currency for dividend
determination. Dividends determined in
US dollars are translated at exchange rates
prevailing two days prior to the declaration and
payableinsterlingbyRioTintoplcandin
Australian dollars by Rio Tinto Limited.
On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can
elect to receive dividends in Australian dollars
and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders can elect to
receive dividends in pounds sterling. If such an
election is made, the dividend amounts
received will be calculated by converting the
declared dividend using the exchange rates
applicable to sterling and Australian dollars
five days prior to the dividend payment date.
Shareholders who wish to receive their
dividends in any other currencies should
contact the Companies’ share registrars, who
offer payment services in other currencies,
subject to a fee.
2015 dividends
The 2015 interim and final dividends were
determined at 107.5 US cents and at
107.5 US cents per share respectively and the
applicable conversion rates for the interim and
final dividend were US$1.55975 and
US$1.44850 to the pound sterling and
US$0.74185 and US$0.70775 to the Australian
dollar respectively. For those Rio Tinto plc
shareholders who elected to receive their
interim dividend in Australian dollars the
applicable conversion rate was A$2.1671 and
for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders who elected
to receive their dividend in sterling the
applicable conversion rate was £0.46145.
Final dividends of 74.21 pence or 151.89
Australiancentspersharewillbepaidon
7 April 2016. For those Rio Tinto plc
shareholders requesting the 2015 final
dividend be paid in Australian dollars, those
holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs (each
representing one share) and those Rio Tinto
Limited shareholders requesting the 2015 final
dividend be paid in pounds sterling, the
applicable conversion rates will be announced
on 31 March 2016.
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRP)
Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered
shareholders, which provides the opportunity
to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto
shares in the market. Due to local legislation
the DRP cannot be extended to shareholders in
the US, Canada and certain other countries.
Material contracts
Articles of Association and Constitution, and
DLC Sharing Agreement
As explained on pages 236 to 237, under the
terms of the DLC structure the shareholders of
Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered
into certain contractual arrangements which
are designed to place the shareholders of both
Companiesinsubstantiallythesameposition
as if they held shares in a single entity which
owned all of the assets of both Companies.
Generally, and as far as is permitted by the UK
Companies Act and the Australian Corporations
Act and ASX Listing Rules, this principle is
reflected in the Articles of Association of
Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of
Rio Tinto Limited. The summaries below
include descriptions of material rights of the
shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited.
Objects
At the 2009 annual general meetings,
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Limited approved amendments to the
constitutional documents whereby the object
clauseswereremovedtoallowtheCompanies
to have the widest possible scope of activities.
Directors
UnderRioTintoplc’sArticlesofAssociation,a
director may not vote in respect of any
proposal in which he or she, or any other
person connected with him or her, has any
interest, other than by virtue of his or her
interests in shares or debentures or other
securities of, or otherwise in or through, the
Company, except in certain prescribed
circumstances, including in respect of
resolutions:
– indemnifying him or her or a third party in
respect of obligations incurred by the
director on behalf of, or for the benefit of,
theCompany,orinrespectofobligationsof
the Company, for which the director has
assumed responsibility under an indemnity,
security or guarantee;
– relating to an offer of securities in which he
or she may be interested as a holder of
securities or as an underwriter;
– concerning another body corporate in which
the director is beneficially interested in less
than one per cent of the issued shares of
any class of shares of such a body
corporate;
– relating to an employee benefit in which the
director will share equally with other
employees;
– relating to liability insurance that the
Company is empowered to purchase for the
benefit of directors of the Company in
respect of actions undertaken as directors
(or officers) of the Company; and
– concerning the giving of indemnities in
favour of directors or the funding of
expenditure by directors to defend criminal,
civil or regulatory proceedings or actions
against a director.
Under Rio Tinto Limited’s Constitution, except
where a director is constrained by Australian
law, a director may be present at a meeting of
theboardwhileamatterinwhichthedirector
has a material personal interest is being
considered and may vote in respect of
that matter.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the
powersoftheCompaniestoborrowmoney,to
charge any property or business of the
Companies or all, or any, of their uncalled
capitalandtoissuedebenturesorgiveany
other security for a debt, liability or obligation
of the Companies or of any other person.
The directors shall restrict the borrowings
of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the
aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by
the Company and its subsidiaries shall not
exceed an amount equal to one and one half
times the Companies’ share capital plus
aggregate reserves unless sanctioned by an
ordinary resolution of the Company.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of
either Company by way of qualification. The
Remuneration Report on pages 79 and 86
provides information on shareholding policies
relating to executive and non-executive
directors. Please refer to the Corporate
governance section on pages 55 to 56 for
information on the appointment of directors.
Rights attaching to shares
Under English law, dividends on shares may
only be paid out of profits available for
240 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report distribution, as determined in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and
bytherelevantlaw.Shareholdersareentitled
to receive such dividends as may be declared
bythedirectors.Thedirectorsmayalsopay
shareholders such interim dividends as appear
to them to be justified by the financial position
of the Group.
Under the Australian Corporations Act,
dividends on shares may only be paid if the
company’s assets exceed its liabilities
immediately before the dividend is declared
and the excess is sufficient for the payment of
thedividend,thepaymentofthedividendisfair
and reasonable to the Company’s shareholders
as a whole, and the payment of the dividend
does not materially prejudice the Company’s
ability to pay its creditors. Any Rio Tinto plc
dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the
date the dividend was declared, or became due
for payment, will be forfeited and returned to
the Company. Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend
unclaimed may be invested or otherwise used
by the board for the benefit of the Company
until claimed or otherwise disposed of
according to Australian law. Rio Tinto Limited is
governed by Victorian unclaimed monies
legislation, which requires the Company to pay
to the State Revenue Office any unclaimed
dividend payments of A$ 20 or more that at
1 March each year have remained unclaimed
forover12months.
Voting
Voting at any general meeting of shareholders
on a resolution on which the holder of the
Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be
decided by a poll, and any other resolution
shallbedecidedbyashowofhandsunlessa
poll has been duly demanded. On a show of
hands, every shareholder who is present in
person or by proxy or other duly authorised
representative and is entitled to vote has one
vote regardless of the number of shares held.
The holder of the Special Voting Share is not
entitled to vote on a show of hands. On a poll,
every shareholder who is present in person or
by proxy or other duly authorised
representative and is entitled to vote has one
vote for every ordinary share for which he or
sheistheholderand,inthecaseofJoint
Decisions, the holder of the Special Voting
Sharehasonevoteforeachvotecastin
respect of the publicly held shares of the
other Company.
A poll may be demanded by any of the
following:
– the chairman of the meeting;
– at least five shareholders entitled to vote on
the resolution;
– any shareholder or shareholders
representing in the aggregate not less than
one tenth (Rio Tinto plc) or one 20th
(Rio Tinto Limited) of the total voting rights
of all shareholders entitled to vote on the
resolution;
– any shareholder or shareholders holding
Rio Tinto plc shares conferring a right to
vote at the meeting on which there have
been paid-up sums in the aggregate equal
to not less than one tenth of the total sum
paid up on all the shares conferring that
right; or
– the holder of the Special Voting Share of
either Company.
A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy
the authority to demand a poll, or to join others
in demanding one.
The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc
general meeting is three members present (in
person or by proxy or other duly authorised
representative) and entitled to vote, and for a
Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two
members present (in person or by proxy or
other duly authorised representative).
Matters are transacted at general meetings by
the proposing and passing of resolutions as:
– ordinary resolutions, which require the
affirmativevoteofamajorityofthevotesof
those persons voting at a meeting at which
thereisaquorum,forexampletheelection
of directors; and
– special resolutions, which require the
affirmative vote of not less than three-
fourths of the persons voting at a meeting
at which there is a quorum, for example
amending the Articles of Association of
Rio Tinto plc or the Constitution of
Rio Tinto Limited.
The Sharing Agreement further classifies
resolutions as “Joint Decisions” and “Class
Rights Actions” as explained under Voting
arrangements on page 235.
Annual general meetings must be convened
with 21 days’ written notice for Rio Tinto plc
and with 28 days’ notice for Rio Tinto Limited.
In accordance with the authority granted by
shareholders at the Rio Tinto plc annual
general meeting on 16 April 2015, other
meetings of Rio Tinto plc may be convened
with 14 days’ written notice for the passing of a
special resolution and with 14 days’ notice for
any other resolution, depending on the nature
ofthebusinesstobetransacted.Allmeetings
of Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days’ notice. In
calculating the period of notice the days of
delivery or receipt of the notice and the date of
the meeting are not included. Among other
things, the notice must specify the nature of
thebusinesstobetransacted.
Variation of rights
If, at any time, the share capital is divided into
different classes of shares, the rights attached
to any class may be varied, subject to the
provisions of the relevant legislation, with the
consent in writing of holders of three-fourths in
value of the shares of that class or upon the
adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed
at a separate meeting of the holders of the
shares of that class. At every such separate
meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of
Association and Constitution relating to
proceedings at a general meeting apply, except
that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two
or more persons who hold or represent by
proxy not less than one-third in nominal value
of the issued shares of the class.
Rights upon a winding-up
Exceptastheshareholdershaveagreedormay
otherwise agree, upon a winding-up, the
balance of assets available for distribution:
– after the payment of all creditors including
certain preferential creditors, whether
statutorily preferred creditors or normal
creditors; and
– subject to any special rights attaching to
any class of shares.
is to be distributed among the holders of
ordinary shares according to the amounts
paid-up on the shares held by them. This
distribution is generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption
of a special resolution of the shareholders,
divide among the shareholders the whole or
any part of the assets in specie or kind.
The Sharing Agreement further sets out further
arrangements relating to the distribution of
assets of each of the Companies in the event of
a liquidation as explained on page 237.
Facility agreement
Details of the Group’s US$7.5 billion
multi-currency committed revolving credit
facilities are set out in note 30 to the 2015
financial statements.
Exchange controls and foreign
investment
Rio Tinto plc
There are no UK foreign exchange controls or
other UK restrictions on the import or export of
capital or on the payment of dividends to non-
resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that
materially affect the conduct of Rio Tinto plc’s
operations. It should be noted, however, that
varioussanctions,laws,regulationsor
conventions may restrict the import or export
of capital by, or the payment of dividends to,
non-resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plc’s
Articles of Association or under UK law that
limittherightofnon-residentownerstoholdor
vote Rio Tinto plc shares. However, certain of
the provisions of the Australian Foreign
Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 described
below also apply to the acquisition by non-
Australian persons of interests in securities of
Rio Tinto plc.
Rio Tinto Limited
Under current Australian legislation,
permission is not required for the movement of
funds into or out of Australia. However, there is
a prohibition on, or in some cases the specific
prior approval of the Department of Foreign
Affairs and Trade or Minister for Foreign Affairs
must be obtained for, certain payments or
other dealings connected with countries or
parties identified with terrorism, or to whom
United Nations or autonomous Australian
sanctions apply.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 241
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information
continued
Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct
withholding tax from foreign remittances of
dividends, to the extent that they are
unfranked, and from payments of interest.
Acquisitions of interests in shares, and certain
other equity instruments in Australian
companies by non-Australian (“foreign”)
persons are subject to review and approval by
the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of
Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and
Takeovers Act 1975 (the Takeovers Act). In
broad terms, the Takeovers Act applies to
acquisitions of interests in securities in an
Australian entity by a foreign person where, as
a result, a single foreign person (and any
associate) would control 20 per cent or more of
the voting power or potential voting power in
the entity, or several foreign persons (and any
associates) would control 40 per cent or more
of the voting power or the potential voting
power in the entity. The potential voting power
in an entity is determined having regard to the
voting shares in the entity that would be on
issue if all rights (whether or not presently
exercisable) to be issued voting shares in the
entity were exercised. The Takeovers Act also
applies to direct investments by foreign
government investors, in certain
circumstances regardless of the size of the
investment. Persons who are proposing
relevant acquisitions or transactions may be
required to provide notice to the Treasurer
before proceeding with the acquisition or
transaction. The Treasurer has the power to
order divestment in cases where relevant
acquisitions or transactions have already
occurred, including where prior notice to the
Treasurer was not required. The Takeovers Act
does not affect the rights of owners whose
interests are held in compliance with the
legislation.
Limitations on voting and shareholding
Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act,
there are no limitations imposed by law,
RioTintoplc’sArticlesofAssociationor
Rio Tinto Limited’s Constitution, on the rights
of non-residents or foreigners to hold or vote
the Group’s ordinary shares or ADRs that
would not apply generally to all shareholders.
UK Listing Rules cross reference table
The following table contains cross references identifying the location of information required to be disclosed in the Annual report by the UK Listing
Authority’s Listing Rule 9.8.4 R.
Listing rule Description of Listing Rule Reference in Report
9.8.4 (1) A statement of any interest capitalised by the Group during the year Note 8 Finance income and
finance costs and Note 17
Deferred taxation
9.8.4 (2) Any information required by Listing Rule 9.2.18 R N/A
9.8.4 (4) Details of any long-term incentive scheme as required by LR 9.4.3R N/A
9.8.4 (5) Details of any arrangement under which a director has waived any emoluments N/A
9.8.4 (6) Details of any arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive future emoluments N/A
9.8.4 (7) Details of any allotments of shares by the company for cash not previously authorised by shareholders N/A
9.8.4 (8) Details of any allotments of shares for cash by a major subsidiary of the company N/A
9.8.4 (9) Details of the participation by the company in any placing made by its parent company N/A
9.8.4 (10) Details of any contract of significance with the company in which a director has a material interest; or a
contract between the company and a controlling shareholder N/A
9.8.4 (11) Details of any contract for the provision of services to the company by a controlling shareholder N/A
9.8.4 (12) Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends Note 11 Dividends
9.8.4 (13) Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends N/A
9.8.4 (14) Information required by LR 9.2.2AR (2)(a) N/A
242 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Financial calendar
2016
19 January Fourth quarter 2015 operations review
11 February Announcement of unaudited results for 2015
24 February Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted “ex-dividend” for 2015 final dividend
25 February Rio Tinto plc shares quoted “ex-dividend” for 2015 final dividend
26 February Record date for 2015 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs
3 March Publication of 2015 Annual report, 20-F and Notices of annual general meetings
15 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plans and date for electing dividends paid in alternate
currency for the 2015 final dividend
31 March Dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited
holders electing to receive pounds sterling)
7 April Payment date for 2015 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs
14 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc, London
19 April First quarter 2016 operations review
5 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited, Brisbane
19 July Second quarter 2016 operations review
3 August Announcement of half year results for 2016
10 August Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted “ex-dividend” for 2016 interim dividend
11 August Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio Tinto Limited shares quoted “ex-dividend” for 2016 interim dividend
12 August Record date for 2016 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs
1 September Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plans and date for electing dividends paid in alternate
currency for the 2016 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited
15 September Dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited
holders electing to receive pounds sterling)
22 September Payment date for 2016 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs
20 October Third quarter 2016 operations review
2017
January Fourth quarter 2016 operations review
February Announcement of unaudited results for 2016
April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc, London
April First quarter 2017 operations review
May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited, Sydney
July Second quarter 2017 operations review
August Announcement of half year results for 2017
October Third quarter 2017 operations review
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 243
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
FINANCIAL CALENDAR – CONTRACTS Contact details
Registered offices
Rio Tinto plc
6 St James’s Square
London
SW1Y 4AD
Registered in England No. 719885
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7781 2000
riotinto.com
Rio Tinto Limited
Level 33
120 Collins Street
Melbourne
Victoria 3000
ABN 96 004 458 404
Telephone: +61 (0) 3 9283 3333
Fax:+61(0)392833707
riotinto.com
Rio Tinto’s agent in the US is Cheree Finan,
who may be contacted at
Rio Tinto Services Inc.
80 State Street
Albany, NY 12207-2543
Shareholders
Please refer to the Investor Centre of the
respective registrar if you have any queries
about your shareholding.
Rio Tinto plc
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 6ZZ
Telephone: +44 (0) 370 703 6364
Fax: +44 (0) 370 703 6119
UK residents only,
Freephone: 0800 435021
Website: www.computershare.com
Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs)
Please contact the ADR administrator if you
have any queries about your ADRs.
ADR administrator
JPMorgan Chase & Co
PO Box 64504
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504
Telephone: +1 (651) 453 2128
US residents only, toll free general:
(800) 990 1135
US residents only, toll free Global invest direct:
(800) 428 4237
adr.com
jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com
Rio Tinto Limited
Computershare Investor Services
Pty Limited
GPO Box 2975
Melbourne
Victoria 3001
Telephone: +61 (0) 3 9415 4030
Fax: +61 (0) 3 9473 2500
Australian residents only, toll free:
1300 813 292
New Zealand residents only, toll free:
0800 450 740
Website: www.computershare.com
Former Alcan Inc. shareholders
Computershare Investor
Services Inc.
9th Floor
100 University Avenue
Toronto, ON M5J 2Y1
Ontario
Telephone: +1 416 263 9200
North American residents only,
toll free: +1 (866) 624-1341
computershare.com
Investor Centre
Investor Centre is Computershare’s free,
secure, self service website, where
shareholders can manage their holdings
online. The website enables shareholders to:
– View share balances
– Change address details
– View payment and tax information
– Update payment instructions
In addition, shareholders who register their
email address on Investor Centre can be
notified electronically of events such as annual
general meetings, and can receive shareholder
communications such as the Annual report or
Notice of meeting electronically online.
Rio Tinto plc shareholders
investorcentre.co.uk/riotinto
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders
investorcentre.com/rio
244 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report Printed by Park Communications 
on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified company and its 
Environmental Management System is 
certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based,  
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further  
use and, on average 99% of any waste associated  
with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Inaset Offset, a paper 
containing fibre sourced from well-managed, 
responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an 
elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
Design and produced by SampsonMay  
Telephone 020 7403 4099 
sampsonmay.com
Typesetting and formatting by RR Donnelley 
rrdonnelley.com
3923-RIO-AR-cover-AN-010316.indd   6 01/03/2016   20:48
Contents
Navigating through Rio Tinto’s Annual and Strategic report
The first 43 pages of Rio Tinto’s 2015 Annual report constitute its 2015 Strategic report. References to 
page numbers beyond 43 are references to pages in the full 2015 Annual report. This is available online at 
riotinto.com/ar2015 or shareholders may obtain a hard copy free of charge by contacting Rio Tinto’s 
registrars, whose details are set out on page 244 of this document.
Please visit Rio Tinto’s website to learn more about the Group’s performance in 2015.
This Annual report, which includes the Group’s 2015 Strategic report, complies with Australian and UK reporting requirements.
Copies of Rio Tinto’s shareholder documents – the 2015 Annual report and 2015 Strategic report, along with the 2016 Notices
of annual general meeting – are available to view on the Group’s website: riotinto.com/ar2015
Cautionary statement about forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and 
business of the Rio Tinto Group. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the  
US Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “intend”, “aim”, “project”, 
“anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan”, “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “should”, “will”, “target”, “set to” or similar expressions,  
commonly identify such forward-looking statements.
Examples of forward-looking statements in this Annual report include those regarding estimated ore reserves, anticipated 
production or construction dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors. Forward-looking statements 
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set forth in this document that are beyond the 
Group’s control. For example, future ore reserves will be based in part on market prices that may vary significantly from current 
levels. These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments. Other factors include the ability to 
produce and transport products profitably, demand for our products, changes to the assumptions regarding the recoverable  
value of our tangible and intangible assets, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, 
and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from projected future results 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements which speak only as to the date of this Annual report. Except as 
required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any 
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. The Group cannot guarantee that its 
forward-looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.
Strategic report
Performance highlights  1
Group overview  2
Chairman’s letter  4
Chief executive’s statement  5
Strategic context  7
Key performance indicators  8
Group strategy  10
Business model  12
Principal risks and uncertainties  16
Sustainable development  22
 Independent assurance statement  29
Capital allocation  30
Product groups
 Aluminium  32
 Copper & Coal  34
 Diamonds & Minerals  36
 Iron Ore  38
Exploration  40
Technology & Innovation  41
Financial overview  42
Five year review  43
Directors’ report
Contents  45
Directors’ report  46
Board of directors  51
Executive Committee  54
Corporate governance  55
Remuneration Report
 Annual statement by the
 Remuneration Committee chairman  67
 Remuneration Policy Report  70
 Remuneration Implementation Report  78
Financial statements
Contents  106
Group income statement  107
Group statement of
 comprehensive income  108
Group cash flow statement  109
Group balance sheet  110
Group statement of changes in equity  111
Notes to the 2015 financial statements  113
Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet  190
Rio Tinto financial information by
 business unit  194
Australian Corporations Act – summary
 of ASIC relief  199
Directors’ declaration  200
Auditor’s independence declaration  201
Independent auditors’ report  202
Financial summary 2006-2015  209
Summary financial data  211
Production, reserves and operations
Contents  212
Metals and minerals production  213
Ore reserves  217
Mineral resources  221
Competent Persons  226
Mines and production facilities  228
Additional information
Shareholder information  236
UK Listing Rules cross reference table  242
Financial calendar  243
Contact details  244
To be more environmentally friendly, Rio Tinto is reducing the print  
run of all publications. We encourage you to visit: riotinto.com for  
more information, and view all available PDFs of this Annual report.
Page reference for more information within this report
Denotes key performance indicators KPI
Key
3923-RIO-AR-cover-AN-010316.indd   4 01/03/2016   20:48 201 5 Annual report riotinto.com/ar2015
riotinto.com/ar2015
201 5 Annual report
201 5 Annual report
3923-RIO-AR-cover-AN-010316.indd   3 01/03/2016   20:48
riotinto.com/ar2015
Get more information online
Find out more about our business and performance:
riotinto.com
View our 2015 Annual report:
riotinto.com/ar2015
View our 2015 Sustainable development online report:
riotinto.com/sd2015
3923-RIO-AR-cover-AN-010316.indd   1 01/03/2016   20:48
