 ROBERT WALTERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
ROBERT WALTERS PLC Robert Walters is a market-
leading international specialist 
professional recruitment group 
spanning 24 countries.
We specialise in the placement of the highest calibre 
professionals across a range of professional disciplines. 
The Group’ s outsourcing division, Resource Solutions, 
is a market leader in recruitment process outsourcing 
and managed services. DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
REVENUE
£812.7m
(2014: £679.6m)
NET FEE INCOME
£234.4m
(2014: £215.3m)
OPERATING PROFIT
£23.1m
(2014: £18.2m)
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION
£22.4m
(2014: £18.2m)
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
20.6p
(2014: 15.3p)
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
Strategic Report 01-27
2015 Highlights 01
Robert Walters at a Glance 02
Strategic Framework 04
Strategy in Action 06
Our People and Culture 12
Innovation 14
Chairman’s Statement 17
Chief Executive’s Statement 18
Financial Review 20
Key Performance Indicators 21
Corporate Responsibility Statement 22
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 26
Directors’ Report 28-55
Corporate Governance Statement 28
Report of the Audit Committee 33
Report of the Remuneration Committee 35
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 52
Directors’ Report 53
Directors and Advisors 55
Financials 56-86
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
 Members of Robert Walters plc 56
Consolidated Income Statement 60
Consolidated Statement of  
 Comprehensive Income 60
Consolidated Balance Sheet 61
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 62
Consolidated Statement of 
 Changes in Equity 63
Statement of Accounting Policies 64
Notes to the Group Accounts 67
Company Balance Sheet 81
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 82
Notes to the Company Accounts 83
01 Robert Walters plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 02   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
ROBERT WALTERS AT A GLANCE
In what is an increasingly 
complex and ever-changing 
global recruitment market,  
the Group provides our clients,  
from the largest multinational 
corporates through to SMEs  
and start ups, with an  
end-to-end recruitment  
offering on a global basis.
Our business is all about the development of 
long-term and high-quality relationships with our 
clients and candidates. The recruitment industry 
is unique in that we have two very distinct but 
overlapping stakeholders – our candidates are 
our clients of the future and our clients are our 
potential candidates.
Quality (in terms of relationships and service levels), 
integrity and professionalism are the Group’s 
watch-words and we believe provide a clear point 
of differentiation for the Robert Walters Group.
MARKET-LEADING 
GLOBAL BRAND
Our Services
Recruitment process outsourcing
Resource Solutions is a market leader in 
recruitment process outsourcing (RPO)  
and managed services. Resource Solutions 
designs and deploys tailored recruitment 
outsourcing solutions for clients across  
the globe.
Specialist professional recruitment
Permanent, contract and interim 
recruitment across the core disciplines of: 
accounting & finance; banking & financial 
services; engineering; HR; IT; legal; sales & 
marketing; secretarial & support; and 
supply chain & procurement. 03   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
 69% Permanent
 31% Contract
Geographic Net Fee Income
The Group’s international network of offices spans 24 countries 
and enables us to meet the demands of clients and candidates 
whose needs extend beyond local markets, whilst our strong 
local foundations provide us with unique insights into local 
industry and culture.
EMPLOYEES
2,916
COUNTRIES
24
ASIA PACIFIC
41 %
EUROPE
20%
UK
34 %
OTHER INTERNATIONAL
5%
PERMANENT/CONTRACT RECRUITMENT NET FEE INCOME 04   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR MISSION AND 
STRATEGY
Our mission is to be the world’s leading specialist professional 
recruitment consultancy with a clear differentiation based on the 
quality of service delivered to our clients and our candidates.
The Group’s strategy for growth is centred on organic 
international expansion and discipline diversification, ensuring 
a balanced footprint covering mature and developing markets. 
Our core principles within the Group are innovation, vision, 
leadership and integrity. These values are central to the activity 
of all our staff worldwide.
OUR FOUNDATIONS
01
NON-COMMISSION 
TEAM PROFIT
 > Our specialist recruiters don’t 
receive individual commission, 
unlike the majority of competitors
 > Team-based profit share 
ensures candidates and clients 
come first
 > No candidate ownership – teams 
of consultants market candidates 
to a broad range of organisations
02
PEOPLE & CULTURE
 > Home-grown senior 
management team
 > Ever-increasing number of staff 
move internationally through our 
mobility programme
 > Meritocratic: career 
opportunities based on 
performance
03
COMMITMENT TO QUALITY
 > Long-term relationships with 
clients and candidates
 > Focus on service levels and 
client/candidate satisfaction
 > Relationships built on integrity 
and professionalism 05   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
04
INNOVATION
 > Entrepreneurial culture 
 > First recruiter to launch a 
recruitment outsourcing arm
 > Industry-first sponsorships and 
brand development
05
SPECIALISTS
 > Teams specialise by discipline
 > Industry specialists within 
each team
 > Specialist consultants recruiting 
specialist professionals
06
LONG-TERM OUTLOOK
 > Organic growth strategy
 > Invest in new offices, 
markets and disciplines with 
a long-term view
 > Maintain presence in markets, 
even when times are tough
Driving growth through expansion into new 
geographic locations. Growth is largely organic with 
the Group having made only three market-entry 
acquisitions in its 30 year history.
INTERNATIONAL  
EXPANSION
Driving growth through the building of scale 
in existing disciplines and the launch of 
new disciplines.
DISCIPLINE 
DIVERSIFICATION
The Group’s strategy ensures that the business has a 
well-balanced international footprint covering both mature 
and developing recruitment markets, underpinned by a blend 
of revenue streams that together provide resilience when 
economic conditions are tough but present an opportunity 
for rapid growth through operational gearing when economic 
conditions improve. Spain is a good recent example of this 
strategy (see page 7).
Organic growth is critical to how we drive sustainable and 
profitable growth. By focusing on long-term, international 
careers we are able to effectively embed our culture in new 
territories. By promoting our international mobility programme 
we encourage successful staff to move around the world, 
building new businesses and strengthening existing ones.
There are no shortage of opportunities to enter new 
markets and develop new disciplines, it is always a question 
of timing and management. A new market or new discipline 
must represent a long-term growth opportunity for the Group 
and secondly, the right management must be in place to 
ensure we effectively maintain and grow our Robert Walters 
Group culture.
Local senior management have the responsibility for 
identifying new market and new discipline opportunities 
and are required to present a clear business case to the 
Board for approval. The Group has benefited greatly over 
the years from early entry and accelerated growth in new and 
developing recruitment markets, where first-mover advantage 
can be beneficial. This will remain a key focus point of our 
strategy moving forward. 
We feel we have the right blend of a structured due 
diligence process, coupled with speed and agility, to 
maximise opportunities as and when they arise. As an 
illustration Rachna Ratra, Director, Japan, talks about the 
growth of our healthcare division in Japan on page 9.
COUNTRIES WITH RECORD  
NET FEE INCOME
16 06   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGY IN ACTION
LONG-TERM  
INVESTMENT
The Group invests in 
new offices, markets 
and disciplines on a  
long-term basis in line  
with a clear business  
plan to ensure profits  
are generated quickly.
This long-term approach also means that 
we aim to maintain our presence in markets, 
with appropriate close cost control, when 
times are tough. The Group successfully 
followed this strategic approach through the 
most recent global financial crisis and was 
able to immediately benefit from an 
improvement in market conditions.
Our Spanish business illustrates this strategy 
in action. At a time when many of our 
competitors were closing, we retained both 
our market presence and our key staff. DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
07   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
“ Before the economy started to 
improve we were ahead of the 
rest of the market – we had the 
right team in place and I knew 
we would be in a position to 
grow quickly.”
When I joined Robert Walters, Spain was in 
the middle of the deepest downturn for a 
generation. We had no visibility when it would 
end, millions were unemployed and the 
recruitment market in Spain was one of the 
worst affected in the world. 
Nevertheless, I trusted the senior 
management team’s long-term vision for  
the business and joined in 2010. For two to 
three years it was very tough but we were 
committed to growing the brand and building 
a team for the future.
It was hard to make money, we had to work 
twice as hard to get results. Our strategy was 
to hire junior people we could train and grow 
with the business – critical too was creating 
a great atmosphere in the office. 
Slowly but surely, we started to deliver 
sustainable results. Our people were proud to 
be part of what we were building when a lot of 
their peers were out of work.  
We were happy to be together too, in and out 
of the office. There was so much pessimism 
in the market that creating a fun environment, 
focused on achievement, was vital in 
delivering those early results.
Before the economy started to improve we 
felt we were already ahead of the rest of the 
market. It was just a question of time; with the 
right team in place I knew we would be in a 
position to grow quickly. 
In the last three years we’ve grown net fee 
income in excess of 100% year on year. But in 
line with the Group’s strategy for growth we’re 
taking things step by step, we always make 
sure our existing businesses are successful 
before opening new teams and offices. We 
have grown four core teams in Madrid and 
excitingly have recently opened a new office  
in Barcelona to further extend our footprint 
across the Spanish market.
Success factors
 > Developing a fun, team-focused culture
 >
Hiring junior consultants and training them well
 > Growing relationships and retaining business
STAYING AHEAD OF THE MARKET
Marco Laveda, Managing Director, Spain 08   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGY IN ACTION
DISCIPLINE 
DIVERSIFICATION
Driving growth through the 
creation of new disciplines 
and building scale within 
existing disciplines is a 
strategic priority.
Our healthcare business in Japan 
showcases our step-by-step approach to 
building new businesses whilst maintaining 
our Group culture and quality approach. 
Our Hong Kong contract business is an 
example of how we build scale within an 
existing business.  DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
09   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
As early as 2006 we saw the opportunity  
for specialising in healthcare recruitment. 
Japan has the second largest healthcare 
market in the world and every company in 
the sector wants to have a presence here. 
We also knew from recruiting back office 
positions for our healthcare clients that they 
just couldn’t source enough good people 
for a whole range of industry specific roles.
When you’re starting a new business  
with such growth potential it’s tempting to 
overstretch but specialising has been key  
to our success. We’ve been able to gain 
traction by focusing on very niche areas, 
building a reputation of delighting clients, 
finding excellent candidates and step-by-
step building sustainable teams and profit. 
We started healthcare out of our business-
to-consumer sales and marketing team. 
First we looked very specifically at sales and 
marketing positions in pharmaceutical and 
medical device companies. Over time this 
grew into our dedicated consumer and 
healthcare team. As we developed 
relationships with clients we also saw there 
Back in 2009 there was no specialist 
professional contract market in Hong Kong. 
In fact, there was a real stigma attached to 
contracting. Candidates felt that contract 
roles were for ‘lesser’ professionals and there 
was no concept of the ‘career contractor’ like 
we see in the Australian and UK markets. 
Many businesses hadn’t used a contractor 
before and there was limited awareness of the 
benefits of using a recruitment consultancy  
to manage payroll and candidate benefits.
As the global financial crisis hit we saw a 
potential new candidate pool emerging as 
immediately available candidates came onto 
the market. 
We started with IT recruitment and the first 
job was to educate both candidates and 
clients. First, we focused on candidates.  
If an immediately available candidate came 
through the door we’d talk to them about the 
benefits of contracting: freedom of choice, 
chance to work in different industries and  
in some cases higher earning potential. Our 
team-based culture helped; the consultants  
in the permanent teams would proactively tell 
the contract guys if they were talking to an 
immediately available candidate. Our policy  
of ‘no candidate ownership’ is very effective.
was a huge need for technical roles and 
started to recruit clinical, regulatory and 
quality assurance roles.
Healthcare is a hard market to break into. 
The demand for domestic talent is high, yet 
there’s a shortage of bilingual candidates 
who aren’t keen to move jobs. Candidates 
are very specialised too, so our strategy had 
to focus on targeted headhunting, 
networking and referrals. 
Honesty with clients has also been critical. 
We could have quickly found hundreds of 
roles and clients but it takes time to build 
a sustainable candidate base. Instead, we 
worked with one or two clients and built our 
reputation role by role. We would also tell 
clients if we didn’t specialise in their area 
yet, but reinforce that in time we would. 
We’ve experienced record growth each 
year. Today we have two profitable industry 
specific teams within healthcare in Tokyo 
and Osaka and are well positioned for 
future growth.
The concept spread by word of mouth as 
a result and through proactive marketing 
campaigns and events we started to build 
a database of candidates willing to take on 
contract roles. 
Even though it was becoming more important 
for businesses in Hong Kong to have a pool  
of flexible resource as headcount restrictions 
tightened, many organisations didn’t always 
see the benefits. Advising hiring managers  
on the advantages of paying slightly higher 
contract rate equivalents was tough.
It took 18 months to start to see mindsets 
change. What really makes Robert Walters 
unique is that we invest in the decisions we 
make. We take a long-term view and knew 
that with mindsets changing revenue 
would follow.
Contract is now an extremely profitable 
business. We started with two people and 
one P&L, today we have the largest contract 
desk in the Hong Kong market with teams 
across IT, HR, sales and marketing, business 
support and banking and finance.
Having an established professional contract 
business is now a great differentiator for us, 
cementing our reputation as a leader in the 
Hong Kong recruitment market.
Success factors
 > Step-by-step approach
 > Expectation management
 > Networking and referrals
PROFITABLE DISCIPLINE DIVERSIFICATION
Rachna Ratra, Director of Healthcare Recruitment, Japan
CREATING NEW MARKETS 
Matthew Bennett, Managing Director, Greater China
“ Today, contract is an extremely 
profitable business for us. We 
started with two people and one 
P&L, now we have the largest 
professional contract desk in  
the Hong Kong market.”
“ Our key to success has been 
hyper specialisation and not 
doing too much too soon. We’ve 
experienced record growth each 
year and are well positioned for 
the future.” 10   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGY IN ACTION
EMERGING MARKETS 
AND TRENDS
Our strategy of long-term 
investment in both 
established and emerging 
markets has enabled  
us to deliver strong 
sustainable growth.
The Group has benefited from early  
entry and accelerated growth in new  
and developing recruitment markets.  
Our recent success in South East Asia is 
a great example of this strategy at work. 
Diversity in our business model, through 
our recruitment process outsourcing arm, 
Resource Solutions, is also key to our strategy. DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
11   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
“ The Resource Solutions 
business model complements 
our recruitment business very 
well by allowing us to monetise 
non-agency channels.”
“ The key to success, even  
in such diverse and varied 
markets is essentially the  
same – to identify growth 
opportunities early to benefit 
from first mover advantage.”
Investment in emerging recruitment  
markets is a cornerstone of the Group’s 
strategy for growth and the development  
of our business across South East Asia  
is a testament to this approach.
We have five businesses across the  
region – well-established businesses in  
the more developed recruitment markets  
of Singapore and Malaysia, alongside very  
fast growing operations in the emerging 
recruitment markets of Indonesia,  
Thailand and Vietnam.
Each market is in a different phase of 
development and that’s an exciting growth 
proposition. Yet, the key to success, even 
in such diverse markets is essentially the 
same – to identify growth opportunities 
early to benefit from first mover advantage, 
to invest in a market for the long term and to 
Organisations have always used non-agency 
channels as part of their recruitment mix: 
by hiring internally, through referrals or by 
recruiting direct to market. When we go 
on-site we are able to take advantage of 
those additional revenue streams for 
the Group.
The advantages of a balanced  
RPO model
When a business gets to the size and scale 
where they’re considering outsourcing, 
it’s also advantageous to the Group to 
have Resource Solutions on-site. We work 
with clients to develop a truly balanced 
recruitment supply chain in order to give 
our clients the best coverage of the market.
have the right management and people  
in place to embed the Robert Walters DNA.
We have followed these principles in South 
East Asia. For example, we grew our 
Malaysia business out of our Singapore 
business and were the first international 
specialist professional recruiter to enter the 
Thailand market. We also invested in new 
businesses in Indonesia and Vietnam during 
the most recent financial crisis, recognising 
an opportunity for growth, with our Country 
Head in Indonesia transferring to Jakarta 
from our Melbourne business.
What I have learnt is that the principles of 
the Group apply whether you are recruiting 
in the Thames Valley or Thailand - build trust 
with clients and candidates and your own 
people, focus on quality service delivery 
and the profits will follow.
We’re one company
Both our recruitment and recruitment 
process outsourcing business share the 
same commitment to professionalism and 
quality and many of our people have 
worked in both businesses. We share the 
same DNA. The Resource Solutions 
business is committed to acting impartially 
but a close working relationship with the 
recruitment business and a shared 
understanding of the recruitment challenges 
and opportunities faced by clients and 
candidates is a huge positive.
Innovation
We also take the latest thinking on diversity 
and innovation to our RPO clients – then we 
can share that best practice with the wider 
Group, using it to benefit our own internal 
processes and Robert Walters’ clients.
INVESTING IN EMERGING MARKETS 
Toby Fowlston, Managing Director, South East Asia
COMPLEMENTARY MODELS FOR AN EVOLVING INDUSTRY
Oliver Harris, CEO, Resource Solutions
SOUTH EAST ASIA OFFICES
INDONESIA
MALAYSIA
SINGAPORE
THAILAND
VIETNAM
Success factors
 > Complementary income streams
 > Shared values across our outsourcing and recruitment business
 > Focus on innovation
Success factors
 > First mover advantage
 > Having key people in place to spread our ‘DNA’
 > Build trust with clients and candidates 12   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Investing and retaining talent
Home-grown management team
We’ve built a home-grown management 
team and encourage long-term  
career development within the business. 
In fact, the average tenure of our senior 
management team is currently over 12 years. 
The long-term development and retention of 
home-grown management is critical to the 
success of the Group.
Long-term and international careers
We’re proud that many of our senior 
management team have been with us since 
joining as consultants and have grown the 
business across the globe, taking our unique 
culture with them. Now, they are leaders of 
our largest businesses. Providing a career 
path into management is something we’ve 
traditionally been very good at and helps us 
preserve and grow our culture.
Supporting organic growth
By promoting our international mobility 
programme we encourage successful staff 
to move around the world, building new 
businesses and strengthening existing ones, 
supporting our strategy of organic, 
sustainable growth. 
Non-commission team-based profit
Our non-commission model is integral to our 
team-based ethos. We don’t pay individual 
commission, unlike the majority of our 
competitors, but instead focus on team-
based profit share. This is fundamental to 
our culture and our success. It ensures the 
needs of our clients and candidates come 
first and that our candidates are marketed 
to a broad range of organisations.
This team-based model is scalable and 
means we are able to rapidly increase 
headcount to benefit from positive market 
conditions or conversely scale back in 
more challenging periods. In the case 
of challenging market conditions, whilst 
recognising that cost control is essential to 
protect short-term profitability, we do take a 
longer-term view and it is the Group’s policy 
to maintain headcount wherever possible so 
as to ensure we are well positioned to benefit 
from a recovery.
Meritocratic culture
Our culture is meritocratic with clear 
opportunities for progression and promotion 
based on performance. To aid key senior 
staff retention we encourage senior 
management to participate in equity 
incentive programmes. More details  
can be found in note 18 to the accounts.
Maximising productivity 
The Group is always focused on the 
maximisation of our consultants’ productivity 
across the globe. It is essential that new 
consultants, disciplines and offices become 
productive and profitable as quickly as 
possible through the provision of training, 
desk-side management support, effective 
systems and first class marketing.
Our people and culture are critical to  
the successful delivery of the Group’s 
strategy for growth.
OUR MOST  
VALUABLE ASSETS
OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE
“ Whilst an individual’s 
contribution is critical, 
everyone gets rewarded 
as a team – it’s at the 
heart of our business.”
Ingrid Armstead, Group HR Director
Find out more about our people and culture, including 
video case studies of our people, in our Sustainability 
Report: investors.robertwalters.com
NATIONALITIES REPRESENTED
78 13   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Case study
Building my career
Sinead Hourigan
Managing Director, Brisbane
“I joined the business in 2003 to revitalise the government accounting focus for Robert 
Walters. The team quickly grew and I widened my remit to manage the broader accounting 
team. Responsibility for secretarial and support recruitment followed and in 2004 I was 
promoted to Director. 
It was a fast rise and the senior management team gave me the chance to run the  
whole Brisbane business in 2004. I think what’s different about the Group is that 
commitment and hard work matter, not your longevity with the business. That’s inspiring 
and a real differentiator. 
We’ve consistently delivered results since 2005 and it’s our people that make the 
difference. Thinking back to the 2011 floods, we had to close the business for three 
weeks, yet we ended up having our best financial year – our consultants wouldn’t  
give up and sheer grit and determination won through. 
The Group’s focus on long-term careers is key too. The tenure in my senior team  
(12 years, 8 years and 6 years) allows us to drive the culture and values deep into  
the business. 
Since joining I’ve become a mum with two children under ten and it’s been a very 
positive journey. I kept in touch with the business whilst I was on maternity leave and 
came back in staggered hours. Many of the team have young families now and it’s 
important not to miss the milestones. We make time for sports days and the like – you 
don’t get that time back.”
INTERNATIONAL STAFF MOVES
46
AVERAGE TENURE OF SENIOR TEAM (YEARS)
12
“ I’m an absolute believer in the Group’s values.  
Being a partner with our clients, not just a provider , 
has brought both myself and the team success 
and rewarding, long-term careers.” 
“ I am honoured to feature  
in the top 100 women in 
staffing around the globe.  
I believe there are many 
more women in the Group 
who could have qualified 
for this accolade.”
Louise Campbell, Managing Director, 
Ireland
Louise was nominated in the ‘Global Power 100’ Women 
in Staffing. 14   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Awards
Innovation continues to be central  
to our strategy for growth, providing 
unique ways to strengthen relationships 
with clients and candidates.
INNOVATION – AT THE HEART 
OF EVERYTHING WE DO
INNOVATION
Sponsorships
We sponsor and support a 
range of diverse partners: from 
international sporting brands to 
art galleries and not-for-profit 
institutions worldwide. 
Our sponsorship of Japan’s national rugby 
team builds upon our successful partnership 
with The British & Irish Lions and further 
cements the Group’s position as a key 
supporter of established and emerging 
rugby brands. Japan is a growing force in 
international rugby and has been selected as 
the host nation for the 2019 Rugby World Cup.
 
Corporate sponsorship of institutions like  
the Saatchi Gallery and the Victoria & Albert 
Museum in London, and the National Art 
Center, Tokyo allows us to create bespoke 
events, private viewings and artist-led gallery 
tours that offer our clients a different 
perspective. The international nature  
of the exhibitions and focus on artists and 
designers from across the globe aligns with 
our international brand positioning.
New websites
We launched 37 fully 
responsive new country 
websites.
With up to 50% of web traffic now 
coming from mobile devices we 
decided to upgrade our existing  
mobile offering and design fully 
responsive sites. 
We commissioned global focus groups 
asking candidates about our sites and 
a range of competitor sites. The new 
websites have been based on that 
feedback – everything from design, 
usability and search has been 
optimised for real jobseekers.
 
Our streamlined job search functions  
in a similar way to Google, making it 
easier for job seekers to find relevant 
roles. Jobs are also geo-targeted, so  
if you’re searching for roles on the US 
site and are based in San Francisco, 
you will see jobs from that location.
 
We’ve also completely revamped the 
design of the sites – giving a more 
contemporary look. These innovations 
mean that our websites are now 
industry leading.
We’ve won awards for our 
service, innovation and 
employer brand across the 
world in 2015.
France: Great Place to Work 2015
Japan: Recruiter International  
Asia Awards 
 – The International Recruitment 
Company of the Year 
 – FMCG Consumer Product 
Recruitment Company of the Year
Singapore: Asia Pacific Awards
 – Best Large Recruitment Business
Malaysia: HR Asia Recruitment 
Awards
 – Recruitment agency of the year
 – Best recruitment consultant of the 
year: Kimberlyn Lu
 – Best client service 
 – Best candidate experience
 – Asia Recruitment Grand Winner 2015 
Resource Solutions: HRM Asia 
Readers Choice Award 
– Best HR Tech Outsourcing Firm
UK: Job Crowd Awards 
 – Top 100 Companies for Graduates 
to Work for  15   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Industry commentary
Leading recruitment 
commentator across national 
TV , radio and online.
Our staff are experts in their field and  
are regular commentators on a range  
of topics from job market insights to 
discussing salary levels and hiring trends 
at a macro and sector level. Here’s just 
a selection:
App innovations
We were the first  
recruitment consultancy to 
create a salary checker app.
The Group has a range of mobile apps 
and publications which we regularly 
update. The Salary Checker, updated 
annually, is available on iTunes and 
Google Play and has received over 
315,000 downloads, an average of 
63,000 a year. 
The app has regularly been in the top 
10 business apps, actually occupying 
the number one spot in multiple 
countries.
Global Salary Survey
Now in its 17th year.
We were the first to launch a Global 
Salary Survey: a comprehensive 
400-page guide to salaries and 
contract rates around the world.  
The first edition was released in 2000 
and the book is now in its seventeenth 
year – recognised by our clients and 
candidates as the de facto barometer 
of salary trends.
Thought leadership 
Our industry thought 
leadership gives our clients 
and candidates unique insight.
Throughout the year we produce 
regular recruitment market reports  
on key recruitment topics, including: 
Gender Diversity & Leadership, 
Attracting & Retaining Millennials and 
Recruiting in a Candidate Short Market. 
Our annual compensation and bonus 
surveys also serve as crucial decision-
making tools for clients. Jobs Indices 
track advertising volumes to provide 
key insights into the job market.
Social media
We’ve achieved a top 3 place 
in LinkedIn’s most socially 
engaged recruiters. 
Achieving a top 3 placing in LinkedIn’s 
most socially engaged recruiters is 
testament to our smart, content-focused 
strategy which focuses on sharing quality 
content with our followers.
CNBC, Jobs & the City
Bloomberg, Returning Malaysians
CNBC, Digital Upselling
Channel 5 News, Talent Retention 16   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our strong performance was 
underpinned by growth across both 
emerging and established recruitment 
markets, permanent, interim and 
contract recruitment and recruitment 
process outsourcing.
GLOBAL, DIVERSIFIED, 
SPECIALIST 17   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
This strong performance was underpinned 
by growth across both emerging and 
established recruitment markets, permanent, 
interim and contract recruitment and 
recruitment process outsourcing, reflecting 
the Group’s strategic objectives of building 
a truly global and diversified specialist 
professional recruitment business.
Revenue was up 20% (24%*) to £812.7m 
(2014: £679.6m) and gross profit (net fee 
income) increased by 9% (12%*) to £234.4m 
(2014: £215.3m). Operating profit was up 27% 
(29%*) to £23.1m (2014: £18.2m) and earnings 
per share increased by 35% to 20.6p per 
share (2014: 15.3p per share). The Group 
has further strengthened its balance sheet 
with net cash of £17.8m as at 31 December 
2015 (31 December 2014: £14.3m). 
Permanent recruitment represents 69% 
(2014: 69%) of recruitment net fee income.
In line with the growth we have seen 
across the business, headcount has 
increased by 11% to 2,916 (2014: 2,631). 
A significant proportion of the headcount 
increase has been within our recruitment 
process outsourcing business, Resource 
Solutions, as a result of increased service 
penetration into existing clients and a 
number of international client wins.
The Board will be recommending an 18% 
increase in the final dividend to 5.13p per 
share which combined with the interim 
dividend of 1.95p per share would result in a 
total dividend of 7.08p per share (2014: 6.0p). 
In 2015, 0.2m shares were purchased at an 
average price of £3.63 for £0.8m through the 
Group’s Employee Benefit Trust. A further 
1.1m shares have been purchased at an 
average price of £3.31 for £3.6m since 
31 December 2015. The Board is authorised 
to re-purchase up to 10% of the Group’s 
issued share capital and will be seeking 
approval for the renewal of this authority at 
the Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2016.
In January 2016, Giles Daubeney was 
promoted to the role of Deputy CEO.  
The appointment was made as part of the 
Group’s planning for the future, to ensure 
appropriate succession. In his new role, 
Giles is working more closely with myself 
and the rest of the Board, taking a more 
active role in the Group’s strategy and its 
engagement with the City and Investor 
Relations. Giles has maintained the 
responsibilities of his previous role of Chief 
Operating Officer. There are no plans for 
Robert Walters, CEO, to leave the business. 
Last but certainly not least, I would like 
to express my sincere thanks to all of the 
Group’s staff across the globe for their 
ongoing drive, hard work and commitment 
to delivering a premium, high-quality 
service to our candidates and clients.
Leslie Van de Walle
Chairman
9 March 2016
2015 was another strong year for the Group, with 
profit before taxation increasing by 23% (28%*)  
to £22.4m (2014: £18.2m). 
REVENUE
+20%
£812.7m
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
+35%
20.6p
OPERATING PROFIT
+27 %
£23.1m
*  Constant currency is calculated by applying prior year 
exchange rates to local currency results for the current 
and prior years. 18   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The strong performance in 2015 has once again 
highlighted the strength, depth and diversity that the 
Group now has in terms of geography, discipline and 
revenue streams. 
STRENGTH, DEPTH  
AND DIVERSITY
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Review of operations
The Group now has over 2,900 staff 
spanning 24 countries, a balanced footprint 
covering both established and emerging 
recruitment markets including the industry’s 
strongest emerging market footprint in the 
fast developing Asia region and a healthy 
blend of permanent, contract and interim 
recruitment businesses.
The evolution of recruitment process 
outsourcing (RPO) is arguably the biggest 
current trend impacting the global 
recruitment industry, with Nelson Hall 
predicting RPO to grow by 15% per year  
until 2019. In Resource Solutions we have  
a market-leading business in this space  
that complements our core recruitment 
businesses and also enables the Group to 
work with clients to deliver a truly end-to-end 
and global resourcing solution. 
Asia Pacific (41% of net fee income)
Revenue was £285.1m (2014: £251.4m) and 
net fee income increased by 6% (10%*) to 
£96.3m (£99.8m*) (2014: £90.5m). This 
delivered an operating profit increase of 23% 
(21%*) to £12.9m (£12.7m*) (2014: £10.5m).
In Japan, the Group’s most profitable 
business, we further consolidated our 
market-leading position, growing net fee 
income strongly across both Tokyo and 
Osaka. In addition, our sponsorship of the 
‘Brave Blossoms’, Japan’s national rugby 
team further strengthened our profile in  
what is a very brand conscious market. 
Of our other large and well-established 
markets, Hong Kong had a very good year, 
whilst growth was steady in mainland China 
and Malaysia. The market in Singapore  
was more challenging, particularly within 
financial services. 
Our emerging markets in Asia continued  
to go from strength to strength and it is 
particularly pleasing to report that all our 
offices in these newer markets are now 
profitable. Indonesia and Taiwan both more 
than doubled net fee income, whilst Vietnam 
and Thailand also produced excellent 
results, increasing net fee income by  
more than 90% and 55% respectively.
Our business in Australia had a solid year, 
despite challenging market conditions, 
delivering four consecutive quarters of single 
digit net fee income growth and a significant 
increase in operating profit. 
Resource Solutions in Asia continues to 
grow well, winning a number of new clients 
in both new markets and sectors.
UK (34% of net fee income)
Revenue was £403.4m (2014: £311.9m), net 
fee income increased by 13% to £80.4m 
(2014: £71.1m) and operating profit increased 
by 17% to £6.2m (2014: £5.2m).
NET FEE INCOME – ASIA PACIFIC
£96.3m
(2014: £90.5m)
NET FEE INCOME – UK
£80.4m
(2014: £71.1m)
OPERATING PROFIT – ASIA PACIFIC
£12.9m
(2014: £10.5m)
OPERATING PROFIT – UK
£6.2m
(2014: £5.2m) 19   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Recruitment activity levels across both 
permanent and contract recruitment were 
strong during the first three quarters of the 
year, delivering broad based growth across 
both London and the regions. However, 
permanent recruitment activity slowed 
noticeably during the fourth quarter, 
particularly across the financial services 
market. Notwithstanding the change in 
sentiment we saw in the fourth quarter,  
the UK delivered good net fee income and 
operating profit growth, with activity levels 
highest across commerce finance and legal 
in London and Manchester and Milton 
Keynes in the regions. A new office was 
opened in St Albans in the first half of  
the year to further develop our regional  
office network.
Resource Solutions had a strong year, 
winning a number of new clients and 
delivering a significant increase in net fee 
income. Investment has continued in both 
headcount and global infrastructure, 
including the growth of client sourcing 
centres in Jacksonville, Johannesburg  
and Manchester. 
Europe (20% of net fee income)
Revenue was £112.7m (2014: £106.4m)  
and net fee income increased 6% (16%*) to 
£46.3m (£51.0m*) (2014: £43.8m) producing 
a 53% increase in operating profit to £3.3m 
(£4.3m*) (2014: £2.2m).
Market conditions across the Eurozone 
trended positively throughout 2015. Our 
businesses in the Netherlands and Belgium 
both delivered strong performances across 
permanent and contract recruitment, whilst 
Ireland and Spain continued the positive 
progress we have seen over the past two 
years. A new office was opened in Barcelona 
to further grow our presence across the 
Spanish market. 
In France, our largest business in the region, 
contract performed well throughout the year, 
whilst encouragingly we also began to see 
an upturn in permanent recruitment activity 
during the fourth quarter.
Across Switzerland and Germany we made 
senior management changes during the year 
and are already seeing early signs of an 
improvement in business performance.
Other International (5% of net fee income)
Revenue was £11.5m (2014: £9.9m) and  
net fee income increased by 16% (11%*) to 
£11.5m (£11.0m*) (2014: £9.9m) producing  
a doubling of operating profit to £0.7m 
(£0.3m*) (2014: £0.3m).
Other International comprises the US, South 
Africa, the Middle East and Brazil. In the US, 
our office in San Francisco continues to 
benefit from the strength of Silicon Valley, 
whilst in New York our commerce finance 
business in particular performed well.  
In the Middle East, our business in Dubai 
continued to perform strongly and now has  
a diversified offering covering legal, financial 
services and commerce finance. Market 
conditions in both South Africa and Brazil 
have been challenging.
Current trading and outlook
The global macro-economic backdrop 
became noticeably more uncertain towards 
the end of 2015 and had an impact on time 
to hire and client and candidate confidence. 
Looking ahead, whilst mindful of the ongoing 
global market uncertainty, we believe that the 
strength, depth and diversity the Group now 
has in terms of geography, discipline and 
revenue streams ensures that we are well 
positioned for the future. Our expectations  
for the full year remain unchanged.
Robert Walters
Chief Executive
9 March 2016
NET FEE INCOME – EUROPE
£46.3m
(2014: £43.8m)
NET FEE INCOME – OTHER INTERNATIONAL
£11.5m
(2014: £9.9m)
OPERATING PROFIT – EUROPE
£3.3m
(2014: £2.2m)
OPERATING PROFIT – OTHER INTERNATIONAL
£0.7m
(2014: £0.3m)
*  Constant currency is calculated by applying prior year 
exchange rates to local currency results for the current 
and prior years. 20   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Financial and operational highlights
Year ended 2015 2014
% 
change
% 
change 
(constant 
currency*) 
Revenue £812.7m £679.6m 20% 24%
Gross profit (net fee income) £234.4m £215.3m 9% 12%
Operating profit £23.1m £18.2m 27% 29%
Profit before taxation £22.4m £18.2m 23% 28%
Basic earnings per share 20.6p 15.3p 35%
*  Constant currency is calculated by applying prior year exchange rates to local currency results for the current and 
prior years.
Revenue
Revenue for the Group is the total income 
from the placement of permanent and 
contract staff, and therefore includes the 
remuneration costs of contract candidates 
and the total cost of advertising recharged  
to clients. It also includes outsourcing fees, 
consultancy fees and the margin derived 
from payrolling contracts charged by 
Resource Solutions to its clients.
Revenue increased 20% (24%*) to £812.7m 
(2014: £679.6m) with 53.5% (2014: 54.4%)  
of the annual total being generated in the 
second half of the year. The Group continues 
to focus on consultant productivity and 
hiring in the areas of the business where 
recruitment activity levels are increasing.
Gross profit (net fee income)
Net fee income is the total placement fees of 
permanent candidates, the margin earned 
on the placement of contract candidates and 
the margin from advertising. It also includes 
the outsourcing, consultancy and payrolling 
margin earned by Resource Solutions.
Net fee income for the year increased by  
9% (12%*) to £234.4m (2014: £215.3m).  
Net fee income was £120.5m in the  
second half compared to £113.9m in the  
first half (2014: 1H £101.9m, 2H £113.4m). 
The increase in net fee income was due  
to growth in both the permanent and 
temporary Robert Walters divisions  
and the Resource Solutions business.
Operating profit
Operating profit increased by 27% (29%*)  
to £23.1m (2014: £18.2m) and administrative 
expenses were £211.3m (2014: £197.1m). 
The principal reason for the 7% (6%*) 
increase in costs was due to an increase  
of 10% in the Group’s average headcount  
to 2,771 in 2015, up from 2,512 during 2014.
Interest and financing costs
The Group incurred a net interest charge for 
the year of £0.5m (2014: £0.3m). The Group 
has a £35.0m four-year committed financing 
facility until December 2019. At 31 December 
2015, £25.1m (2014: £23.4m) was drawn 
down under this facility. The Group also has 
an outstanding loan of £0.5m which was 
used to finance the growth in working capital 
of our business in China. This Renminbi-
denominated loan is secured by cash 
deposits in Hong Kong and is repayable in 
instalments over four years. More details are 
provided in note 13 to the accounts.
A foreign exchange loss of £0.3m arose 
during the year on translation of the Group’s 
intercompany trading accounts and external 
borrowings (2014: gain of £0.3m).
Taxation
The tax charge in 2015 was £7.1m (2014: 
£6.9m) which gives an effective rate of 31.6% 
(2014: 38.0%). The reduction in the effective 
tax rate is primarily due to the lower standard 
tax rates in the UK and Japan as compared 
to 2014. The tax rate is higher than the 
standard UK rate of 20.25%, primarily as a 
result of higher rates of overseas taxation in 
Japan, Australia and France, the impact of 
adjustments to accounting profit in the tax 
calculation and disallowable entertainment.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 20.6p (2014: 
15.3p) and the weighted average number of 
shares for the year was 74.2m (2014: 73.8m).
Dividend 
A final dividend of 5.13p (2014: 4.35p) per 
ordinary share is being proposed by the 
Board. Together with the interim dividend of 
1.95p (2014: 1.65p) per ordinary share paid 
in October 2015, the total dividend per share 
would amount to 7.08p (2014: 6.0p). The final 
dividend, if approved, which amounts to 
£3.8m, will be paid on 10 June 2016 to  
those shareholders on the register as at 
20 May 2016.
Balance sheet
The Group had net assets of £91.7m at 
31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: 
£77.4m) including goodwill of £8.0m (2014: 
£8.0m). The increase in the Group net assets 
of £14.3m comprises profit for the year of 
£15.3m and credits relating to share 
schemes of £4.7m offset primarily by 
dividends paid of £4.7m and currency 
movements of £1.3m.
Cash flow and net cash position
At 31 December 2015, the Group had net 
cash balances of £17.8m (31 December 
2014: £14.3m). Cash inflow from operating 
activities was £23.2m (2014: £11.3m).  
The significant payments made from 
operational cash flow were £3.9m of fixed 
asset expenditure, £7.4m of corporation  
tax payments, £4.7m of dividends, £0.8m  
of own shares purchased and £2.1m on 
computer software. The Group had positive 
cash flows from operations and is currently 
well placed to meet future working capital 
cash requirements.
Surplus cash balances are invested with 
financial institutions with favourable credit 
ratings that offer competitive rates of return.
Subsidiary undertakings
The subsidiary undertakings principally 
affecting the profits or net assets of the 
Group in the year are listed in note 10  
to the accounts.
Going concern
Details on the Directors continuing to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the 
accounts can be found on page 54. 21   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Net fee income 
£234.4m
(2014: £215.3m)
Definition
Net fee income is the total placement fees of 
permanent candidates, the margin earned on the 
placement of contract candidates and the margin 
from advertising. It also includes the outsourcing, 
consulting and payrolling margin earned by 
Resource Solutions.
Analysis
Net fee income grew by 9% (12%*), mainly in  
line with the Group’s strategy for growth through 
investment in headcount in both mature and 
developing recruitment markets and the 
RPO  business. 
Operating profit
£23.1m
(2014: £18.2m)
Definition
Operating profit represents net fee income less 
administrative expenses.
Analysis
Strong net fee income growth along with improved 
productivity driving a 27% (29%*) increase in 
operating profit.
Productivity
£126.4k*
(2014: £123.1k)
Definition
Productivity represents the total net fee income 
generated per fee earner.
Analysis
In 2015, productivity improved in constant currency 
by 3%, as the Group capitalised on improving 
market conditions across many of our markets.
Earnings per share
20.6p
(2014: 15.3p)
Definition
Earnings per share is defined as profit for the year 
attributable to the Group’s equity shareholders, 
divided by the weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the year.
Analysis
The increase reflects the increase in profitability of 
the Group during the year.
T otal shareholder return (TSR)
107.3%
(2014: 69.5%)
Definition
TSR is share price growth plus dividends attributable 
to shareholders over a three-year period.
Analysis
The increase reflects the upturn in share price 
growth over the three-year period ended 31 
December 2015.
International mix
66%
(2014: 67%)
Definition
International mix represents the percentage of net fee 
income generated outside UK operations expressed 
as a percentage of total net fee income.
Analysis
There has been a 1% reduction in the international 
mix, primarily due to the pace of the recovery of the 
UK business during 2015 and the weakness of foreign 
currencies such as the Yen and the Australian Dollar.
Net cash
£17.8m
(2014: £14.3m)
Definition
Net cash represents the Group’s cash and short 
term deposits less bank overdrafts and loans.
Analysis
After an increase in cash paid on dividends of 15% 
and £0.8m of shares purchased by the Group’s 
Employee Benefit Trust, net cash still increased to 
£17.8m from £14.3m.
Risk management
Continue to enhance 
the risk management 
framework
Definition
The Group’s risk framework is designed to 
safeguard the Group’s assets and to manage the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Analysis
A risk exercise was undertaken during the year to 
assess the principal risks in the existing framework 
against the current environment and operations with 
the required changes made to the risk profile.
Environmental
Decreased carbon 
emissions per head
Definition
The Group is targeting to reduce the mandatory 
scope 1 and 2 CO
2
e emissions per head by 20% 
across the Group by 2023, from a Full Year 
2013 baseline.
Analysis
The Group’s scope 1 and 2 mandatory emissions 
per head are down to 1.25 from the 2013 base year 
revised number of 1.27.
*  Constant currency is calculated by applying prior year exchange rates to local currency results for the current and prior years.
Debtor days
27
(2014: 28)
Definition
Debtor days represents the length of time it takes 
the Group to receive payments from its debtors.  
It is calculated by reference to the number of days’ 
billings it takes to cover the debtor balance.
Analysis
Tight control over debtor collection assists in 
reducing the overall risk profile of the business. 
Business mix
Permanent v contract 
69% : 31%
(2014: 69% : 31%)
Definition
Business mix represents the ratio of permanent and 
contract recruitment net fee income.
Analysis
The mix remains unchanged year-on-year. Growth in 
permanent recruitment net fee income enables the 
Group to benefit quickly from operational gearing,  
whilst contract provides a cash hedge in the event  
of a downturn.
Candidate engagement
Glassdoor rating
Definition
The Glassdoor rating recognises companies 
that embrace transparency and engage with 
job seekers.
Analysis
Our company rating is 3.6 out of 5 – considered  
a high score. 22   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Board recognises its responsibilities in respect  
of social, environmental and ethical (SEE) matters. 
The Board monitors all significant risks to the Group, 
including SEE risks, which may impact the Group’s 
short and long-term value. During 2015, no significant 
SEE risks were identified.
Our digitally-published Sustainability Report details our approach  
to corporate responsibility, covering four key sustainability themes: 
People, our Clients & Candidates, Communities & Culture and  
the Environment.
Our approach 
Building a sustainable approach to business 
has been at the heart of the Robert Walters 
culture through the past 30 years. The 
business started with the creation of a 
fulfilling environment for our people to work 
in and instilling a belief in doing recruitment 
the right way. We are particularly proud that 
so many of our people stayed with us, have 
developed their careers for the long term 
and have helped to grow our business 
across the globe.
For more detail, view the Sustainability 
Report at investors.robertwalters.com or 
search for Robert Walters Publications in 
iTunes or the Google Play store.
Our people
Growing tomorrow’s leaders
The Group’s strategy for growth is centred 
on international expansion and discipline 
diversification. Our people are integral to the 
success of this strategy and as a result 
we’ve always focused on building long-term 
careers, a home-grown management team 
and international mobility to deliver organic, 
sustainable growth. 
2014 Average Employees 2015 Average Employees
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Board Directors 6 1 7 6 1 7
Senior Managers
1
115 52 167 111 43 154
Other Employees 869 1,469 2,338 969 1,641 2,610
Total 990 1,522 2,512 1,086 1,685 2,771
1  A senior manager is a person who is responsible for managing significant activities within the Group, or who is 
strategically important to part of the Group. This will include any operating country or regional Directors and functional 
heads of department.
Diversity
Diversity is at our heart in such an international 
business. We are an equal opportunities 
employer and aim to provide a working 
environment and culture that values difference 
– a diverse workforce allows us to fully realise 
the Group’s potential right across the globe. 
Our diversity policy forms a critical part of our 
staff induction programme and all employees 
participate in our diversity workshops.
Diversity is as critical an issue for our 
candidates and clients as it is for our own 
staff. All candidates are encouraged to 
complete an equal opportunities form on 
registration, the data from which is important 
to both the Group and our clients to ensure 
we are introducing candidates from the 
widest possible talent pool and helping 
clients fulfil their own diversity programmes. 
We are proud to partner with OUTstanding. 
OUTstanding is a not-for-profit professional 
network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and 
transgender (LGBT) executives and  
their allies. 23   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Gender diversity
In accordance with The Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013, the Group has provided  
the table on page 22 on gender diversity.
The Board has a policy to encourage diversity, 
including gender. On 1 January 2014, the 
Board implemented a policy to ensure that 
there will be an equal gender quota for any 
future long list for a Board appointment.
Clients & Candidates
Productive long-term relationships
We have always focused on building 
relationships and retaining our candidates 
and clients for the long-term. Ensuring that 
enough time is taken to deliver a high level  
of service means clients use us again  
and candidates trust us to manage their 
careers. Doing things the right way means 
candidates become our clients – a continual 
reinvestment in the future of the business.
Communities & Culture
Charity initiatives supporting  
local communities
Our approach is to keep charity and 
community initiatives relevant to our local 
communities, building on the strengths  
of our people and making them integral to 
our business. Whether that’s back to work 
interview skills for the long-term unemployed 
or working together as a team to volunteer  
at organisations like the Ang Mo Kio –  
Thye Hua Kwan Hospital in Singapore.
 
Commitment to our local communities 
continued during the year with a wide  
variety of activities taking place across the 
world. In total the Group made charitable 
donations of £32,000. Our Australian 
business supported Wear for Success, 
a charity helping supply job seekers with 
work-appropriate clothing. The Australian 
team also raised significant funds for their 
charity partner Youngcare: which helps 
young people get out of Aged Care into 
life-changing accommodation. The UK 
chose a charity partner for the year too, 
focusing all their efforts on raising money  
for Macmillan Cancer.
 
In Ireland, our consultants worked in 
conjunction with Jobcare, a charity committed 
to working with people caught in the trap of 
unemployment, hosting mock interviews and 
providing training and advice for unemployed 
people looking for work. In France, 
consultants participated in the Coup de 
Pouce, organised through the Syntec Conseil 
en Recrutement (the French Federation  
of Recruitment Professionals). This event 
matches people unemployed for more than  
six months, with recruitment consultants who 
advise them on their resumes, the interview 
process and how best to present their skills.
 
Staff from our Dubai office took part in  
the Small Box Big Difference appeal, filling 
boxes with donated essential everyday items 
to give to under privileged construction 
workers from overseas. For this year’s 
Mandela Day staff in our South Africa 
business spent the day making improvised 
toys to help underprivileged children reach 
their development milestones in aid of 
Cotlands, a non-profit early childhood 
development organisation.
Global Charity Day
Staff in every country also participated in  
our fourth annual Global Charity Day on 
Friday 9 October 2015, raising £82,000 
(2014: £66,000) through a winning display of 
fun, teamwork and creativity. Staff members 
globally donated to wear ‘casuals for a 
cause’ and charity runs, make-overs, bake 
sales and fancy dress were popular themes. 
Joshua Bryant from Japan brought his dog 
into the office and accepted donations from 
the team in return for stroking or walking 
him, with proceeds going to the Special 
Olympics & Smile for a Bridge. In Singapore, 
MD of South East Asia, Toby Fowlston  
tried his hand as a make-up artist for his 
team to support a local charitable hospital. 
Volunteering was a key theme too, with staff 
in San Francisco volunteering their time to 
help pack food boxes at the San Francisco 
– Marin Food Bank, which disburses food to 
families struggling with unemployment and 
rising living costs. 
 
Singapore Tokyo San Francisco
Global Charity Day 2015 24   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT CONTINUED
Environment
Although our impact on the environment is 
minimal, as an office-based organisation, 
we’re working towards becoming a carbon-
balanced business. That means we’re 
investing in projects that offset emissions 
through reforestation initiatives. In 2015,  
the whole of Robert Walters’ UK operations 
were carbon balanced through a partnership 
with the Woodland Trust and a Carbon 
Balanced programme in Vietnam via  
World Land Trust.
The Group is active in working towards  
the achievement of local Environmental 
Management Standards. In 2015, 26% of  
the Group’s employees worldwide were 
operating in locations which were certified  
to ISO14001, the International Standard for 
Environmental Management. The Standard 
provides a framework for achieving the 
balance between enhancing profitability 
while setting targets for improving the 
organisation’s environmental performance. 
Greenhouse gas reporting
In September 2013, the Mandatory Carbon 
Reporting requirements prescribed by the 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors’ 
Regulations Report came into effect. This 
section includes our mandatory reporting  
of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 
(the Regulations).
Reporting year
The greenhouse gas emissions report has 
been prepared based on a reporting year  
of 1 January to 31 December 2015, which  
is the same as the Group’s financial 
reporting period.
FTSE4Good index
The Group has held FTSE4Good status 
since 2008. FTSE4Good index inclusion 
criteria covers a number of corporate 
responsibility themes, such as environmental 
management, climate change, countering 
bribery and supply chain labour standards. 
Our continued inclusion in the index 
recognises that our policies and management 
systems enable us to address and mitigate 
key corporate responsibility risks.
Organisational boundary
The Group has chosen to report based on 
an operational boundary and all entities and 
offices which are either owned or under 
operational control have been included.
Methodology and scope
The methodology used to calculate the 
Group’s emissions is based on the 
‘Environmental Reporting Guidelines: 
including mandatory greenhouse gas 
emissions reporting guidance’ (June 2013) 
issued by the Department for Environment, 
Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). The Group 
has also utilised DEFRA’s 2015 conversion 
factors within the reporting methodology.
The greenhouse gas emissions data has 
been prepared with reference to GHG 
protocol, which categorises greenhouse  
gas emissions into three scopes. Reporting 
on emissions from Scope 1 (direct GHG 
emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect GHG 
emissions) activities is mandatory. The 
reporting of Scope 3 (other indirect 
emissions from sources not owned or 
controlled by the company) emissions is 
voluntary and therefore the Group reports  
on all those Scope 3 activities which it feels 
have a significant impact on its greenhouse 
gas emissions. 
All other Scope 3 activities have been 
considered but the Group feels that the 
impact of these was so limited in respect 
of potential impact as to be negligible and 
has decided not to disclose these activities 
within this report. This decision will be 
reviewed on an annual basis or sooner if 
changes are made to regulatory reporting 
requirements.
Emissions data has been reported for all of 
the offices we operate in globally. 
Greenhouse gas emission source (base year 2013)
2015  
Dec YTD 
tCO 2 e
2015  
Dec YTD 
tCO 2 e  
per head
2013  
Dec YTD 
tCO 2 e
2013  
Dec YTD 
tCO 2 e  
per head
Scope 1
Vehicle fleet & purchased gas 608 0.27 494 0.26
Total Scope 1 Emissions 608 0.27 494 0.26
Scope 2
Purchased electricity and heat 2,193 0.98 2,147 1.11
Total Scope 2 Emissions 2,193 0.98 2,147 1.11
Scope 3
Business travel – Air 853 0.38 489 0.25
Business travel – Land¹ 318 0.14 231 0.12
Transmission and distribution 160 0.07 166 0.09
Total Scope 3 Emissions 1,331 0.59 886 0.46
Total Group Emissions 4,132 1.84 3,527 1.83
Carbon offset (4,132) (1.84) (935) (0.48)
Total Net Emissions 0 0 2,592 1.35
1  Land travel includes all forms of land transport, such as rail and taxi, but excludes travel in the Group’s vehicle fleet. 
The appropriate conversion factor for the method of transportation is applied to the distance travelled. 25   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Intensity metric
The Group has recorded the total global 
emissions, in tonnes of CO
2
e, and has 
decided to use an intensity metric of tonnes 
of CO
2
e per head, which the Group believes 
is the most relevant indication of our growth 
and provides the best comparative measure 
over time.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data
The table on page 24 shows the total global 
emissions, in tonnes of CO
2
e and tonnes of 
CO
2
e per head for the Group.
The Group will continue to closely monitor 
emissions and will aim to meet its carbon 
reduction target by 2023.
Base year
The 2013 financial year was the base year for 
the Group’s greenhouse gas reporting, being 
the first year the Group completed a global 
calculation.
The base year has been recalculated for 
changes to the scope of operation and 
measurements, including any additions to 
measured Scope 3 data. The base year and 
previous year’s data are also recalculated if 
better quality data for the previous year 
is identified.
Reducing carbon 
The Group is targeting to reduce CO
2
e per 
head emissions by 20% across the Group by 
2023, from a FY 2013 baseline.
The Group continues to actively reduce the 
carbon footprint of the business through:
 – Consulting closely with the Carbon Trust 
and considering its recommendations as 
environmental objectives;
 – Establishing objectives for minimising travel 
to that which is totally necessary; and
 – Offsetting carbon emissions through 
accredited reforestation schemes 
covering the UK, Europe and Asia Pacific. 
Human rights and ethical behaviour
The Group respects all human rights and in 
conducting its business the Group regards 
those rights relating to non-discrimination, 
fair treatment and respect for privacy to be 
the most relevant and to have the greatest 
potential impact on its key stakeholder 
groups of clients, candidates, employees 
and suppliers.
The Board has overall responsibility for 
ensuring the Group upholds and promotes 
respect for human rights. The Group seeks 
to anticipate, prevent and mitigate any 
potential negative human rights impacts as 
well as enhance positive impacts through its 
policies and procedures and, in particular, 
through its policies regarding employment, 
equality and diversity. Group policies seek 
both to ensure that employees comply with 
all applicable legislation and regulation and 
to promote good practice.
The Group’s policies are formulated and kept 
up to date by the relevant business areas, 
authorised by the Board and communicated 
to all employees.
The Group has a zero tolerance approach  
to bribery and corruption and has specific 
processes in place to prevent it. The Group’s 
Anti-Bribery Policy (with specific reference  
to the Bribery Act) is issued to all employees. 
The Anti-Bribery Policy is reviewed annually 
to ensure that it is current.
The Group undertakes extensive monitoring 
of the implementation of all of its policies  
and has not been made aware of significant 
breaches of policy or any incident in which 
the organisation’s activities have resulted  
in an abuse of human rights.
The Group is aware of the new UK Modern 
Slavery Act 2015 and will comply with its 
obligations under it.
Health and safety
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility 
for the implementation of the Group’s health 
and safety policy, with specific operational 
responsibility delegated to managers at each 
location. Every effort is made to ensure that 
all national safety requirements are met at all 
times and there were no notable injuries or 
health and safety issues identified during 
the year.
Political donations
The Group made no political donations 
during the year (2014: £nil). 26   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Risk management process
The Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively 
monitoring the full range of financial and non-financial risks facing  
the business, at both a local and Group level. Following the risk 
assessment exercise undertaken by the Internal Audit function 
during the year, the risk profile was updated to reflect the current 
environment and operations. By regularly reviewing the risk profile  
of the business, the Board ensures that the risk exposure remains 
appropriate at any point in the cycle. The effectiveness of the risk 
management process is monitored by the Audit Committee. The 
process involves identifying and prioritising the key risks within the 
Group and developing and implementing appropriate mitigation 
strategies to address those risks.
We review our risks in terms of likelihood of occurrence and potential 
impact on the business and the Audit Committee reviews and 
considers the extent to which management has addressed the key 
risks through appropriate controls and actions to mitigate those 
risks. Each local management team continues to consider key risk 
areas on an ongoing basis with a specific periodic review at least 
once a year of their system of internal controls to ensure that each 
risk area is addressed within the business. The Internal Audit 
function reviews and tests the effectiveness of these controls  
to ensure that risk is being managed properly and effectively.
A summary of the key risks that we believe could potentially impact 
the Group’s operating and financial performance, together with 
associated key actions, is shown below:
Risk Actions to mitigate risk
Economic environment – Job availability 
and the level of candidate confidence in  
the employment market are important 
factors in determining the total number of 
recruitment transactions in a given year. 
Candidates are less inclined to move jobs 
when the number of jobs available is 
stagnant or in decline, which could lead  
to a deterioration in the Group’s financial 
performance.
The Group is geographically diversified, spanning 24 countries, which reduces the reliance on 
the success of any particular market. The Group also continues to develop its contract and 
Resource Solutions businesses, both of which provide more resilient revenue streams in the 
event of an economic downturn. Historically, the Group has successfully diversified into other 
sectors to reduce its concentration risk in the event of a downturn.
The Board’s strategy when facing a slowdown in a market is to balance the cost base, such 
that the impact on profit is mitigated, against the perceived future benefit from the retention of 
key staff. Historically, the Group has benefited substantially from increased operational gearing 
as a result of its policy of deliberately retaining key staff through economic downturns.
Business model – Competition risk varies 
in each of the Group’s main regions 
depending on the maturity of the client and 
candidate market. The emergence of new 
technology platforms such as social media 
for recruitment purposes may also lead to 
increased competition.
The development of strong commercial relationships with clients has enabled the Group to 
win and then maintain its contracts with large global organisations and the Group also has a 
significant and diverse income stream across the SME marketplace.
The Group reviews and monitors changes in social media trends to ensure that it evolves 
appropriately. The Group continues to promote itself as a relationship recruiter operating in 
specialised markets and to ensure that its online presence is providing competitive and a 
high-quality customer experience.
People management – The Group relies 
heavily on recruiting and retaining talented 
individuals with the right skill sets to grow 
the business. In addition, as the Group 
expands its operations in emerging 
markets, the supply of people with the 
required skills in specific geographic 
regions may be limited. The failure to 
attract and retain key employees with  
the required sales, management and 
leadership skills may adversely affect  
the Group’s financial results.
The Group’s policy of linking bonuses to profitability in discrete operating units has a high 
correlation to the retention of efficient and effective members of staff.
The long-term incentive schemes that are detailed in note 18 to the accounts form a key part of 
a wider strategy to improve levels of staff retention, particularly of the Group’s senior employees.
Other elements of the strategy to improve staff retention and maximise career opportunities 
include significant investment of time and financial resources in employee training and 
development, including regular weekly appraisals, aimed at core consultant competencies  
and focused on enhancing management potential. The Group’s culture and the associated 
processes help to increase productivity and also improve the employee’s alignment to the 
business. A comprehensive approach to succession planning is also in place across the Group.
The Group offers international career opportunities and actively encourages the redeployment 
of existing talent to international offices and also to establish new offices.
Brand and reputation – There is an inherent 
risk that the brand and reputation of the 
Group could be impacted by a failure to 
maintain high-quality service levels to both 
candidates and clients.
Quality control standards are maintained and reviewed for each stage of the recruitment 
cycle, with all new employees receiving appropriate levels of training applicable to their role.
Candidate and client satisfaction surveys are carried out on a regular basis, with Directors 
addressing any negative feedback directly with the client or candidate.
A ‘Contact us’ email address is available on the Group’s website so any negative feedback  
or improper conduct can be acted upon swiftly by the Group Marketing Director and local 
senior management.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 27   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Risk Actions to mitigate risk
Laws and regulations – The Group 
operates in a number of diverse 
jurisdictions and has to comply with 
numerous domestic and international laws 
and regulations, any change to which 
could have a detrimental effect on the 
Group’s financial performance.
To ensure compliance, our legal department works with leading external advisors as  
required to monitor potential changes in employment legislation across the markets in which 
we operate.
Contractual terms and conditions are thoroughly reviewed before signing to ensure contract 
provisions are fully understood and risks are fairly allocated between parties.
An escalation process exists such that contracts with non-standard terms are reviewed and 
approved by the General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer as appropriate.
Technology – The Group is reliant on its 
technological infrastructure to maintain 
client and candidate data. A critical 
infrastructure or system disruption could 
have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial results, whilst a loss of confidential 
and competitive information can have an 
adverse impact on operations and the 
reputation of the Group.
The Group maintains a comprehensive IT security policy, which is reviewed on a regular basis, 
covering all areas of IT security from user access through to server access.
All sensitive candidate and customer information is held securely with restricted access.
Appropriate guidance and training on the security and handling of both manual and electronic 
documents, including confidential and sensitive data, is provided to all staff.
The Group has a dedicated Chief Technology Officer with a specific remit as part of his job to 
consider and ensure that appropriate and reasonable steps are taken, particularly in respect 
of cyber-related threats.
The Group continues to review and improve its Business Continuity Plan to mitigate against 
any critical infrastructure disruptions.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL
The Strategic Report, outlined on pages 1 to 27, incorporates the 2015 Highlights, Robert Walters at a Glance, Strategic Framework, 
Strategy in Action, Our People and Culture, Innovation, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement, the Financial Review, 
Key Performance Indicators, Corporate Responsibility Statement and Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
By order of the Board,
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer
9 March 2016 28   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report that your Company has again complied in  
full throughout the year with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As a Board, we continually strive to ensure that high standards of 
corporate governance are maintained. We monitor developments 
and trends in corporate governance both in the UK and 
internationally, adopting any emerging practice we feel would 
improve our governance whether or not it becomes mandatory.
One of our core values that is continually communicated within the 
Group is a belief that the highest standards of integrity are essential 
in business. As a Group, we have an expressed aim of respecting 
the needs of shareholders, employees, clients, candidates, 
contractors and suppliers.
The Board has a wide range of responsibilities and it is my duty to 
ensure it has the right mix of skills and talent and to ensure that it 
works effectively as a team towards shared goals. An equally 
important responsibility is that of succession planning to Robert 
Walters. Whilst Robert Walters has given no indication as to when 
he might retire, Giles Daubeney was promoted to Deputy CEO in 
January 2016 as a clear indication of the Board’s intention that he  
is the preferred candidate to succeed Robert. Giles has for many 
years played a vitally important leadership role in the Company and 
has been the primary driver in establishing world class operational 
processes and disciplines. Following the promotion, he has taken 
on several additional responsibilities and will play a more active role 
in the development of the Company’s strategy and in its 
engagement with institutional shareholders.
The Board Committees have had a successful year. The Audit 
Committee continued to see significant improvements in all areas  
of risk management, with the Internal Audit function granted 
additional resource in line with the growth of the Group and the 
conclusion of the Internal Audit five year plan review. There was 
increased focus on the Group’s risk register and overall risk 
environment during the year with local management forming an 
integral part in reviewing and updating the risk profile of the Group. 
The Remuneration Committee has continued to engage with 
our shareholders, in particular with regards to Giles Daubeney’s 
promotion and his remuneration package. 
Whilst there were no appointments to the Board during the year, the 
Nominations Committee remains committed to ensuring an equal 
gender representation on all future long lists for Board appointments.
A key aspect for ensuring your Board’s effectiveness is our annual 
Board and Committee evaluation process, which had a positive 
outcome. We will continue to look to enhance the positioning of  
the business and continue to adapt and improve the Group’s risk 
culture and framework.
On the following pages we describe our corporate governance 
framework in more detail.
Leslie Van de Walle
Chairman
9 March 2016 29   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate  
Governance Code
The Company has complied fully throughout the year ended 
31 December 2015 with the Code provisions set out in the 2014  
UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code).
The Board of Directors is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance and has applied the principles set out in the 
Code, including the Main Principles, the Supporting Principles and 
the Provisions by complying with the Code as reported above. 
Further explanation of how we integrate the Main Principles of the 
five sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code into our 
business, these being: Leadership; Board Effectiveness; Relations 
with Shareholders; Accountability; and Remuneration, is set out 
below. Our principles and policy in relation to remuneration are 
covered separately in our Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 51.
Leadership
The Board and its role
The Board is responsible to the Group’s shareholders for the 
conduct and performance of the Group’s business. Having strong 
governance processes and oversight helps drive the culture of  
the business so that it can better deliver on its responsibility to  
all of our stakeholders.
The Board has developed a Board governance framework which 
sets out the governance structure of the Board and its Committees. 
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading 
and controlling the Group by:
 – Having a Board constitution which details the Board’s 
responsibility to the Group’s shareholders for the management of 
the Group’s affairs. It exercises direction and supervision of the 
Group’s operations throughout the world and defines the line of 
responsibility from the Board to the Chief Executive and the 
Executive Directors in whom responsibility for the executive 
management of the business is vested;
 – The Board retaining specific responsibility for agreeing the 
strategic direction of the Group, the approval of accounts, 
business plan, budget and capital expenditure, the review of 
operating results, the effectiveness of governance practice and 
risk management, and also the appointment of senior executives 
and succession planning;
 – A high level of attendance by the Directors at the seven Board 
meetings held during the year. There were no apologies;
 – The provision of appropriate training to all new Directors at the 
time of appointment to the Board, and by ensuring that existing 
Directors receive such training as to be equipped with the skills 
required to fulfil their roles; and
 – Delegating responsibilities to sub-Committees: Audit Committee; 
Remuneration Committee; and Nominations Committee.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s primary focus is to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities. During the year the Committee 
met three times and reviewed the following:
 – Half-year results and the annual financial statements;
 – The effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls, 
internal audit and risk management;
 – The performance of the external auditor, their terms of 
engagement, the scope of the audit and audit findings including 
findings on key judgements and estimates in the financial 
statements; and
 – The opinions of management and the Auditor in relation to the 
appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted, significant 
estimates and judgements and whether disclosures were 
balanced and fair.
Further information on the work of the Committee during the year 
can be found on pages 33 and 34.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee met three times during the year and  
its activities included:
 – Monitoring the Board’s structure, size, composition and diversity 
to achieve a balanced and effective Board in terms of skills, 
knowledge and experience;
 – Reviewing the leadership needs and succession planning  
of the Group including identifying and developing talent;
 – Recommending any changes in the membership of the 
Board Committees;
 – Assessing potential conflicts of interest of all Directors; and
 – An annual review of progress achieved, including the diversity 
objectives of the Group to increase the level of female 
representation on the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year and its 
activities included:
 – Engaging with our largest shareholders to ensure a strong level 
of communication and dialogue;
 – Determining the individual remuneration packages for Executive 
Directors, in particular Giles Daubeney’s remuneration package;
 – Approving the targets and performance assessments for 
performance-related incentive schemes; and 
 – Overseeing the operation of all incentive schemes and awards 
and determining whether the performance criteria had been met.
Further information on the work of the Committee during the year 
can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 51.
  30   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Attendance at meetings
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year are set out 
below.
Board 
(7 meetings)
Audit 
Committee 
(3 meetings)
Nominations 
Committee 
(3 meetings)
Remuneration 
Committee 
(4 meetings)
Leslie Van de Walle 7 n/a 3 n/a
Robert Walters 7 n/a 3 n/a
Giles Daubeney 7 n/a n/a n/a
Alan Bannatyne 7 n/a n/a n/a
Andrew Kemp 7 3 3 4
Carol Hui 7 3 3 4
Brian McArthur-Muscroft 7 3 3 4
Division of responsibilities between Chairman and  
Chief Executive
The Board has shown its commitment to dividing responsibilities for 
the Board and running the Company’s business by keeping the 
roles of Chairman and Chief Executive separate. The roles are set 
out in writing and have been approved by the Board. The key 
responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are 
summarised below:
 – During the year, as Chairman, Leslie Van de Walle was 
responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and its 
integrity. The Chairman sets the tone for the Company, 
and ensures the links between the Board and shareholders  
are strong. 
 – As Chief Executive, Robert Walters was responsible for  
the day-to-day management of the Group’s operations, 
implementing Board approved strategic objectives and  
policies, and developing vision and strategy for the Board’s 
review and approval.
Board balance and independence
The Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and 
three independent Non-executive Directors. The Board annually 
reviews its composition to ensure there is an appropriate balance 
between Executive and Non-executive Directors and by promoting 
diversity ensures the Board has the appropriate mix of skills, 
experience, and knowledge. The Group’s commitment to achieving 
a balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors is shown by:
 – The Non-executive Directors comprising more than half of the 
Board of Directors; and
 – The Non-executive Directors: Leslie Van de Walle; Brian 
McArthur-Muscroft; Carol Hui; and Andrew Kemp, being 
considered to act independently of management and free from 
any business or other relationship that could materially interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Senior Independent Director
The Board has appointed Andrew Kemp as the Senior Independent 
Director. Andrew Kemp is available to shareholders when they may 
have issues or concerns where contact through the normal 
channels of either the Chairman or the Executive Directors  
has either failed to resolve concerns, or contact is deemed 
inappropriate. 
Board effectiveness
Transparency of Board appointments
The Nominations Committee is responsible for nominating 
candidates to fill Board vacancies, considers the ongoing 
succession of the Board and its Committees and makes 
recommendations on Board composition and balance. The 
members of the Committee are the Non-executive Directors and 
Robert Walters. During the year, the Nominations Committee met  
to consider and approve the re-election of the remaining Directors  
at the June 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Board has a policy to encourage diversity, including gender, 
and this was a focus of the Nominations Committee during the 
current year. There were no Board appointments during the year, 
however it remains the policy of the Board to ensure that there  
will be an equal gender quota for any future long list for a 
Board appointment.
The Nominations Committee has written terms of reference which 
are available on request. The procedure for appointments to the 
Board includes the requirement to specify the nature of the position 
in writing and to ensure that appointees have sufficient time available 
to meet the demands of the position. The terms of the contracts for 
the Non-executive Directors are available upon request.
Understanding the business
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly briefed 
on issues arising at Board meetings by establishing procedures for:
 – Distributing Board papers in advance of meetings in the 
appropriate form, including detailed reports and presentations,  
to enable it to discharge its duties;
 – Presentations on different aspects of the Company’s business 
from members of the senior management team;
 – The Non-executive Directors meet senior operational management 
at the annual global senior management conference;
 – Regularly reviewing financial plans, including budgets and forecasts; 
 – Adjourning meetings or deferring decisions when Directors  
have concerns about the information available to them; and
 – Making the Company Secretary responsible to the Board  
for the timeliness and quality of information.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED 31   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Professional development
On appointment, the Directors receive relevant information about 
the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its 
decision-making, the terms of reference and membership of the 
principal Board Committees and the powers delegated to those 
Committees, the Group’s corporate governance policies and 
procedures and the latest financial information about the Group. 
Throughout their period in office, the Directors are regularly updated 
on the Group’s business and the environment in which it operates, 
by written briefings and by meetings with senior executives, who are 
invited to attend and present at Board meetings from time to time. 
They are also updated on any changes to the legal and governance 
requirements of the Group and those which affect them as Directors 
and are able to obtain training, at the Group’s expense, to ensure 
they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and changing 
commercial risks.
Performance evaluation 
In line with the Code, a formal and rigorous performance appraisal 
of the Board, its Committees, the Directors and the Chairman is 
conducted annually as we recognise that our effectiveness is critical 
to the Group’s continued success.
In 2015, a detailed review was completed by each Director and 
individual discussions took place between the Chairman and each 
of the Directors and, in the case of the Chairman’s performance  
and leadership, this was reviewed by the Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director. Subsequently, there was a full Board 
discussion of the matters that were raised and a process to ensure 
that the decisions taken were appropriately implemented. Overall, 
the outcome of the evaluation process was very positive, with good 
progress noted on the areas of focus raised in previous evaluations. 
This process did not identify any material issues that needed to be 
addressed in either the previous or the current year.
Regular re-election of Directors
In line with the recommendations of the Code, the Board has 
agreed to submit all Directors for annual election. As a result of  
their annual performance evaluation, the Board considers that their 
individual performances continue to be effective, with each Director 
demonstrating commitment to their role. The Board is therefore 
pleased to support their re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
Succession planning 
A clear focus on career progression for employees is core to the 
Group’s growth and helps attract and retain talented individuals. 
The Group remains committed to maximising career opportunities 
through significant investment in training and professional 
development. Executive succession planning discussions were  
held in 2015 and a clear succession plan is in place for all Board 
members and their direct reports.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives 
between the Company and its institutional shareholders by:
 – Making annual and interim presentations to institutional investors;
 – Meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and obtain 
their views;
 – Providing direct access to the Chairman for regular meetings 
with shareholders, including an annual invitation to meet with  
the top 10 shareholders;
 – Communicating regularly throughout the year; and
 – Regular meetings of the Board being used as the forum to 
ensure that Non-executive Directors are updated on the views  
of major shareholders that have been communicated to the 
Executive Directors.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting as an 
opportunity for all shareholders to question the Board and the 
Chairmen of the Board Committees on matters put to the meeting 
including the Annual Report. The Board seeks to encourage 
shareholder participation by:
 – Inviting shareholders to submit questions in advance; and 
 – Providing a balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects.
The results of voting at general meetings are published on the 
Company’s website, investors.robertwalters.com, as required  
by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Accountability
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal control. A review has been completed by the Board for 
the year ended 31 December 2015 and up to the date of approval  
of the Annual Report, in accordance with the recommendations  
of the Turnbull Report. The Board’s monitoring covers all controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk 
management. It is based primarily on reviewing reports from 
management and Internal Audit to consider whether significant risks 
are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any 
significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need 
for more extensive monitoring. The Audit Committee assists the 
Board in discharging its review responsibilities. During the course  
of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not 
identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which  
it has determined to be significant.  32   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The Group’s system of internal control is designed to safeguard  
the Group’s assets and to ensure the reliability of information used 
within the business and for publication. Such a system is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The full Board meets regularly and has a schedule of matters which 
are required to be brought to it or its duly authorised Committees  
for decision, aimed at maintaining full and effective control over 
appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues 
on an ongoing basis.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly 
defined responsibilities and delegation of authority. The Board 
constitution clearly sets out those matters for which the Board  
is required to give its approval. The Board delegates the 
implementation of the Board’s policy on risk and control to executive 
management and this is monitored by the Internal Audit function 
which reports back to the Board through the Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit function provides objective assurance to both the 
Audit Committee and to the Board. The Internal Audit annual plan  
is submitted for approval by the Audit Committee and the reviews 
and tests of key business processes and control activities are 
reported on throughout the year, including follow up in respect of  
the implementation of management action plans to address any 
identified control weaknesses or potential improvements. It was 
pleasing to note that once again there were no findings that indicated 
the existence of key control weaknesses and that for areas capable 
of improvement identified in 2014, improvements had been made 
during 2015. In conclusion there were no areas that were deemed to 
be unfit for purpose.
To assist the Board in reviewing the principal risks of the business, 
the Internal Audit function undertook a risk exercise during the year 
to assess the principal risks in the existing framework against the 
current environment and operations. Following the required 
changes made to the risk profile, the Board concluded that the 
principal risks and framework are in line with the current business 
model. The risk profile and framework is reviewed by the Board on 
an ongoing basis.
Audit Committee and Auditor
A separate Report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 33 
and 34 and provides details of the role and activities of the 
Committee and its relationship with the external auditor.
Leslie Van de Walle
Chairman
9 March 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED 33   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholder
I would like to give you an overview of the operation and scope of 
the Audit Committee and report on our work over the past year. 
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the  
Non-executive Directors of the Company. The Audit Committee’s  
terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 7.1 and the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit 
Committee and are available upon request.
Members of the Audit Committee include myself – Brian McArthur-
Muscroft (Chairman), Carol Hui and Andrew Kemp, all of whom are 
Non-executive Directors. The Committee met three times during the 
year, with full attendance at each of the meetings.
The Audit Committee is required to include one financially qualified 
member, with this requirement currently fulfilled by myself and all 
Audit Committee members are considered to be financially literate. 
The composition of the Committee was reviewed during the year, 
with the Board and Committee satisfied that it has the expertise  
and resource to fulfil its responsibilities effectively, including those 
relating to risk and control.
As Audit Committee Chairman, I invited the Chairman of the Board 
and the Executive Directors to each meeting. In addition, the Group 
Financial Controller, the Internal Audit Manager and representatives 
from the Group’s external auditor, Deloitte LLP, were present at  
each meeting.
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to review the 
interim and annual financial statements, the accounting policies of 
the Group, its internal financial control procedures and compliance 
with accounting standards, business risk, legal requirements and the 
requirements of all other matters indicated by the terms of reference.
A process has been in existence throughout the period that this 
report relates to in order to assess the risks within the business and 
to report and monitor such risks. The Audit Committee regularly 
receives reports identifying the key internal controls in existence  
and also risk reports from the business. The Audit Committee then 
evaluates the effectiveness of those controls and the management 
of key risks within the Group.
The Audit Committee discharges its responsibility in respect of the 
annual financial statements by: reviewing the terms of the scope  
of the external audit in advance of the audit; and, subsequently 
evaluating the findings of the external audit as presented to the  
Audit Committee by the auditor prior to the approval of the annual 
financial statements.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates
The Committee reviewed the Group’s draft full-year and half-yearly 
results statements prior to Board approval and reviewed the external 
auditor’s detailed reports thereon. In particular the Committee 
reviewed the opinions of management and the Auditor in relation to 
the appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted, significant 
estimates and judgements and whether disclosures were balanced 
and fair. The main areas of focus in 2015 and matters where the 
Committee specifically considered the judgements that had been 
made are set out below:
Revenue recognition
Revenue in respect of permanent placements is deemed to be 
earned when a candidate accepts a position and a start date is 
determined. A provision is made by management, based on 
historical evidence, for the proportion of those placements where 
the candidate is expected to reverse their acceptance prior to the 
start date. The Committee reviewed the detailed criteria for revenue 
recognition and a report on the cut-off testing performed on earned 
but not invoiced revenue and were satisfied by the judgements 
made by management.
The Committee also reviewed the back-out provision applied to this 
revenue, whereby a percentage of candidates may in reality reverse 
their acceptance prior to their start date and the level of provision is 
considered to be appropriate based upon historical trends.
Bad debt provisioning
At each balance sheet date each subsidiary evaluates the 
collectability of trade receivables and records a provision based on 
anticipated recoverable cash flows, nature of counterparty, past due 
date, geographical location, the costs of recovery and the fair value 
of any guarantee received. 
The Committee reviewed the ageing profile of trade receivables and 
considered this to be consistent with previous periods. They also 
considered that the level of the bad debt provision is appropriate 
given the risk profile of the Group’s trade receivables.
Other significant matters considered by the Committee
The Committee considered other significant matters as set  
out below:
Going concern
In order to support the going concern assumption, the Committee 
was presented with detailed forecasts showing the current  
Group financing position and future cash flows for the three-year 
period ending 31 December 2018; the Group’s financing 
arrangements include:
 – Net funds totalling £17.8m (this is net of the facility drawn 
down to the extent of £25.1m at 31 December 2015);
 – A further £0.5m Renminbi denominated loan;
 – A guaranteed four-year borrowing facility of £35.0m;
 – Net current assets of £66.3m.
The Committee considered the three-year period appropriate as  
it is the longest timeframe over which any reasonable view can  
be formed given the cyclical nature of the market in which the  
Group operates.
Based on the current financing position and projected cash flows, 
the Committee concluded that the going concern assumption 
was appropriate.
Deferred tax asset
The judgement to recognise a deferred tax asset is dependent upon 
the Group’s expectations regarding the future profitability of certain 
businesses, which contain a degree of inherent uncertainty. The 
Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect of tax, 
including deferred tax assets, their recoverability and the nature of 
the requirements under International Financial Reporting Standards 
to satisfy recognition on the balance sheet. The Committee 
concluded that based on management’s assumptions and current 
forecasts, the level of recognition appears reasonable. 
Goodwill impairment
In reviewing the results for 2015, the Committee reviewed the 
assessments made for goodwill impairment. This included 
measuring the carrying value of goodwill against the discounted 
cash flows of each cash generating unit (CGU) where a goodwill 
balance is held. Each local business is considered to be a CGU. 
There are a number of judgements made by management, including  34   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
the forecast of future performance, discount rates used, the  
growth rates applied and the sensitivity analysis undertaken.  
The Committee confirmed, based on management’s expectations 
of future performance of individual business units, that no goodwill 
impairment charges were required in 2015.
Future accounting standards
The Committee received an update on future accounting standards 
changes and the potential impact that these may have on the 
Group’s financial statements. Some of these new accounting 
standards will apply for the financial year 2016 and the Committee 
will continue to assess the impact on the Group’s financial 
statements.
Fair, balanced and understandable
A final draft of the Annual Report is reviewed by the Audit 
Committee prior to consideration by the Board and the Committee 
considered whether the 2015 Annual Report was fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether it provided the necessary information 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy. They were satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provided 
the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Internal Audit and risk
At the end of 2014, the Committee approved the Internal Audit plan 
for 2015. During the year, the Internal Audit function has delivered 
both significant geographic and financial coverage, as well as 
risk-based assurance across a wider remit including operational 
activities and support departments such as human resources. 
In depth on-site audit reviews at Resource Solutions’ clients have 
also been carried out. Internal Audit reports on key business 
processes and control activities, including following up the 
implementation of management action plans to address any 
identified control weaknesses. At each meeting, the Committee 
received a summary of new audit findings and a progress update  
on previously raised audit recommendations. 
Throughout the year, the Internal Audit function has continued to 
enhance the risk management framework and undertook a risk 
assessment exercise to benchmark the principal risks in the  
existing framework against the current environment and operations. 
A number of risk identification sessions, led by industry specialists, 
were carried out across the Group. In certain areas, improvements 
to the existing areas of focus were identified and the appropriate 
changes were made to the risk profile and to the activity of  
Internal Audit.
The Internal Audit function was granted additional resource during 
the year in line with the growth of the Group and to increase its 
focus on the Group’s risk register and overall risk environment.
The Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity of the 
Internal Audit function and approved the Internal Audit plan for 2016.
Assessment of effectiveness of external audit process
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit 
process by obtaining feedback from all parties involved in the 
process, including management and the external auditor. As part  
of a formal review process, audit effectiveness questionnaires are 
completed by members of the Audit Committee and senior finance 
employees from across the Group. A summary report of these 
responses, including recommendations for future improvement,  
was presented to the Committee for their consideration. It was 
concluded that the external audit process was operating effectively. 
The Committee held private discussions with Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) 
at both of the Audit Committee meetings which considered the 
financial statements to provide an opportunity for open dialogue and 
feedback without management being present. Matters discussed 
included the preparedness and efficiency of management with 
respect to the audit, the strengths and any perceived weaknesses 
of the financial management team, confirmation that no restriction 
on scope had been placed on them by management and how they 
had exercised professional judgement.
Based on this formal feedback and its own ongoing assessment, 
the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the audit.
Re-appointment of Auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board regarding the appointment of its external auditors and 
their remuneration. Deloitte has been the Group’s auditor since 
2002. The Audit Committee, following a review during the year, 
remains satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of 
Deloitte. Nevertheless, in line with the new European Union Audit 
Directive and Regulation, it is the intention that the Group audit will 
be put out for tender in 2019. In line with our Auditor Independence 
Policy, the Group Audit Partner is required to rotate after a 
maximum of five years; the current audit partner, John Charlton, 
was appointed in 2014. The Audit Committee will give further 
consideration during the audit partner’s term to the application of 
the audit tendering provision of the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. There are no contractual obligations restricting 
our choice of external auditors and no auditor liability agreement  
has been entered into.
Independence of our external auditor
The Audit Committee recognises the importance of ensuring the 
independence and objectivity of the Group’s auditor and reviews  
the service provided by the auditor and the level of their fees. Any 
non-audit fees greater than £25,000 (individually or in aggregate) 
require the approval of the Audit Committee each financial year. 
Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to the external auditor are  
in note 3. The Audit Committee has adopted a policy with respect  
to the provision of non-audit services provided to the Group by the 
external auditor that complies with the requirements of the Code. 
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee  
for making recommendations on the appointment, evaluation  
and dismissal of the external auditor.
After due and careful consideration, taking account of the 
processes above, the Committee has recommended to the Board 
that Deloitte be reappointed as the Company’s Auditor.
Raising concerns in confidence
The Audit Committee also reviews the Group’s whistleblowing 
procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place  
for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety  
in confidence, with suitable follow-up action. The Audit Committee 
considers that the nomination of Brian McArthur-Muscroft, as  
a point of contact, for raising any such matter is an appropriate 
measure and the procedure for raising such concerns is detailed  
on the Group’s intranet.
Approved
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 
2016 and is signed on its behalf by:
Brian McArthur-Muscroft
Audit Committee Chairman
9 March 2016
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED 35   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholder
The performance of the Group has again been very pleasing in 2015 
and the pay outcomes in respect of the Executive Directors reflect 
this as the Directors’ Remuneration Report shows.
This Remuneration Report is split into two parts and comprises:
 – The Annual Report on Remuneration detailing payments made  
to Directors, showing the link between Group performance  
and remuneration for the 2015 financial year and the intended 
approach to be applied to the 2016 financial year. The Annual 
Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote  
by our shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
 – The Directors’ Remuneration Policy which sets out the Group’s 
remuneration policy for Directors, as approved by shareholders 
at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. This is included for 
information only and to provide additional context. 
The performance of the business in 2015 
It has been a strong year for the Group, with a 9% (12% in constant 
currency) increase in net fee income to £234.4m. We are a global 
business and the performance of the Group is subject to continuing 
global economic uncertainty. Despite this, we have grown revenues 
in the majority of our markets as well as establishing new offices,  
for example, in Barcelona. Our headcount continues to grow as  
we invest further in recruiting experienced, talented employees, and 
at the same time our productivity has continued to improve. The 
balance sheet remains strong and our net cash position was £17.8m 
at the year end. Two thirds of our net fee income now comes from 
outside the UK and 85% of recruitment net fee income outside the 
financial services sector. Overall profit before taxation for the year 
was £22.4m, an increase of 23% (28% in constant currency) on the 
prior year profit of £18.2m. 
In accordance with our Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the annual 
bonus for 2015 was based on profit before taxation and a basket  
of personal Key Performance Indicators. The profit before taxation 
achieved for the year was just short of the maximum hurdle of 
£22.8m set at the start of the year. This hurdle was 26% higher  
than the profit before taxation reported for 2014. The Remuneration 
Committee has assessed whether the profit before taxation target 
remains commercially sensitive and has decided that it is willing to 
disclose the financial target set for 2015 on a retrospective basis  
in light of the views of our major shareholders. Unless the Board 
decides it would be against shareholders’ interests, we shall 
continue to do so on an annual basis going forward. The specific 
strategic KPIs set included both individual objectives for the 
Executive Directors and team objectives. Key areas of focus  
this year included the opening of new offices, staff retention  
and development of our Resource Solutions business. The 
Remuneration Committee has also been very pleased with  
the performance against the KPIs and has decided that bonus 
payments amounting to 93% of the maximum bonus opportunity  
of 100% (140% of salary) should be made. The Annual Report  
on Remuneration has more details. A third of the bonus earned  
is deferred into shares. 
Our Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over the three-
year period from 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2015 was 
107.3% which is more than twice the result for the FTSE Small Cap 
Index of 50.6%. This, coupled with strong EPS growth over the 
period of 45.2%, has resulted in the full vesting of share options  
and performance shares granted in 2013. 
Executive Directors’ pay in 2016
Giles Daubeney was promoted to Deputy Chief Executive Officer  
in January 2016. This is an important appointment and has been 
made as part of the Company’s succession planning for the future. 
In the Board’s view, it is impossible to overstate Giles’s contribution 
throughout his 28 years of working for the business. He has, 
particularly since he was appointed to the Board in 2000, played  
a vitally important leadership role in the Company and has  
been the primary driver in establishing world class operational 
processes and disciplines. He has also helped to create a positive 
organisational ‘culture’ which has enabled the Company to grow 
successfully. In his new role, in addition to maintaining all his  
existing responsibilities as Chief Operating Officer, he has taken  
on additional responsibilities and will play a more active role in the 
development of the Company’s strategy and in its engagement with 
institutional shareholders. He received a promotion increase to his 
salary effective from 1 January 2016 of 8% of salary and his new 
salary will be 89% of the CEO’s (previously 83%) which we believe  
is fair and reasonable in the light of his expanded responsibilities. 
This is an important matter for the Board and, together with the 
Chairman, I engaged with our largest shareholders and the voting 
guidance services to explain our rationale for the salary increase. 
I am glad to say that feedback received from shareholders has  
been supportive. There are no other changes to Giles’s terms  
and conditions. The increases for both Robert Walters and 
Alan Bannatyne were 1.5% of salary, considerably below the  
global average increase for employees across the Group of 3.6%.
At the AGM, the Board is asking shareholders to approve a new 
Executive Share Option Scheme. The scheme is intended for 
employees below the Board. Share options under the scheme  
do not form part of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and hence 
Executive Directors are not eligible to participate.
I hope our shareholders find the 2015 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report clear and that it will receive their support.
Andrew Kemp
Remuneration Committee Chairman
9 March 2016
  36   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
This section of the report provides details of the payments made to Directors in respect of the 2015 financial year and is subject to audit.
Performance graph 
The following graph shows the Company’s TSR performance compared with the TSR performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index, selected 
because Robert Walters plc is a constituent. 
TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH (since 1 Jan 2009)
400
350
300
250
2009 2012 2013 2015 2014 2011 2010
200
150
100
50
0
Robert Walters FTSE Small Cap
TSR is calculated by Datastream as the growth or fall in value of a shareholding from the date of initial investment over time, with the 
assumption that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares in the Company.
Single total figure (audited)
As illustrated by the TSR performance graph above, the Group has performed better than the average of the FTSE Small Cap.
Executive Directors (audited)
The total remuneration for 2015 and comparative prior year figures for each Executive Director are set out in the table below.
2015
Base 
salary 
£’000
Other
1
benefits 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Total 
fixed pay 
£’000
Bonus
2
£’000
LTIPs
3
 
£’000
Total 
variable pay 
£’000
Total 
£’000
R C Walters 567 60 113 740 794 2,029 2,823 3,563
G P Daubeney 473 48 94 615 662 1,689 2,351 2,966
A R Bannatyne 346 27 69 442 484 1,257 1,741 2,183
1,386 135 276 1,797 1,940 4,975 6,915 8,712
2014
Base 
salary 
£’000
Other
1
 
benefits 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Total 
fixed pay 
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
LTIPs 
£’000
Total 
variable pay 
£’000
Total 
£’000
R C Walters 550 60 110 720 550 238 788 1,508
G P Daubeney 459 48 91 598 459 199 658 1,256
A R Bannatyne 336 27 67 430 336 146 482 912
1,345 135 268 1,748 1,345 583 1,928 3,676
1 Each of the Executive Directors is entitled to a range of benefits, comprising permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, car allowance and mortgage subsidy. 
All benefits are subject to annual review and there was nil increase in the current year. These benefits for Robert Walters and Giles Daubeney have not been increased since 
2000; and in the case of Alan Bannatyne since his promotion to Chief Financial Officer in 2007.
2 This bonus reflects the new bonus scheme, introduced when share options and the opportunity to co-invest were removed from the Executive Directors’ remuneration with the 
effect of decreasing pay potential overall, effective 1 January 2015. Two thirds of the annual bonus is paid in cash, one third will be deferred and held as shares.
3 The performance conditions, targets and actual performance for both the Performance Share Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme are detailed on pages 38 and 39.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 37   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Chairman and Non-executive Directors (audited)
The total remuneration for 2015 and 2014 for the Chairman and each Non-executive Director is set out in the table below.
2015 2014
Base 
salary 
£’000
Total
1
 
fixed pay 
£’000
Base 
Salary 
£’000
Total
1
 
fixed pay 
£’000
L Van de Walle 106 106 103 103
A D Kemp 66 66 64 64
B McArthur-Muscroft 64 64 62 62
C Hui 54 54 52 52
290 290 281 281
1 No taxable benefits are payable to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee increased the Chairman’s fee by 2.9% from 1 January 2015. The Chairman and the Executive Directors on 
behalf of the Board determined an increase in the basic fee of the Non-executive Directors of 3.4%.
Additional details in respect of the single total figure
Base salary
For 2015, the Committee gave Robert Walters, Giles Daubeney and Alan Bannatyne a base salary increase of 3% and this came into effect 
on 1 January 2015. These salary increases were lower than the average salary increase for employees across the Group of 3.5%.
Other benefits
Each of the Executive Directors is entitled to a range of benefits, comprising permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, car 
allowance and mortgage subsidy. All benefits are subject to annual review and, for 2015, there were no changes to benefits for any of the 
Executive Directors.
Pensions
Each of the Executive Directors is entitled to an annual defined contribution pension of 20% of salary into an approved money purchase 
scheme (or cash in lieu of pension). The Chief Executive takes his pension contribution as a cash allowance. Both the Chief Financial Officer 
and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer opted to take that element of their contribution, over and above the limit set by HMRC, in cash.
The normal retirement age of each Director is in line with government legislation and no additional benefit would become receivable by a 
Director in the event that the Director retires early.
Annual bonus
For 2015, the Committee determined the annual bonus payment for the Executive Directors by reference to specific performance targets set 
at the beginning of the year. The performance measures and bonus payments were as follows:
Bonus for profit before  
taxation performance
Bonus for personal  
KPIs performance Total bonus
Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual
R C Walters £’000 595 567 255 227 850 794
% of salary 105% 100% 45% 40% 150% 140%
% of maximum 70% 67% 30% 26% 100% 93%
G P Daubeney £’000 497 473 213 189 710 662
% of salary 105% 100% 45% 40% 150% 140%
% of maximum 70% 67% 30% 26% 100% 93%
A R Bannatyne £’000 363 346 156 138 519 484
% of salary 105% 100% 45% 40% 150% 140%
% of maximum 70% 67% 30% 26% 100% 93%
 – As in the prior year, the profit before taxation (70% weighting) threshold and maximum targets for 2015 were set having considered both 
internal budgets and market expectations. The Remuneration Committee has discussed the disclosure of financial performance targets 
and has decided that, on a retrospective basis, the disclosure of the profit before taxation targets set for 2015 will not be damaging. The 
Remuneration Committee will take a view on this each year depending on the measures adopted and the targets set. The Group profit 
before taxation thresholds and maximum targets set for 2015 were £18.6m and £22.8m respectively. The outcome of profit before 
taxation was £22.4m. This was 98% of the maximum of the range set or 95% of the maximum payable under this measure and resulted 
in the payment of 100% of salary for each Executive Director or 67% of the maximum bonus. 38   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 – Performance against the personal KPIs (30% weighting) was assessed against a number of areas, financial and environmental, social  
and governance. These included strategic performance objectives such as the successful execution of the Group’s investment strategy, 
opening of new offices, staff retention and development, client and candidate satisfaction, innovation, such as the roll out of the Group’s 
social media strategy and cost effective improvements to IT infrastructure, including the development of Resource Solutions. All bar  
one of the KPIs were either met in full or exceeded. Two examples of significant over achievement were; the deployment of a globally 
responsive website across all 24 countries during the year; and growth in profitability in excess of 20% in a key business unit. The Board 
considers that the nature of the personal KPIs remain commercially sensitive and therefore continues to believe that further disclosure 
would not be in the best interests of shareholders. Based on the assessment of the Remuneration Committee of performance against all 
KPIs set, it was determined that 89% of the maximum is payable under this element to each Executive Director, representing 26% of the 
maximum bonus and 40% of salary.
Consequently, bonuses totalling 93% of the maximum were awarded to all Executive Directors, representing 140% of salary. One third of the 
earned bonus for 2015 will be deferred for two years into shares, payable in equal tranches at the end of 2016 and 2017. The bonus figure 
shown above in the single total figure is the total bonus awarded in relation to performance for the year, including the portion that is deferred. 
Details of the cash payment and the deferred shares are set out below.
Annual 
bonus 
£’000
Cash 
payment – 
two thirds 
£’000
Deferred 
payment 
– one third 
£’000
R C Walters 794 529 265
G P Daubeney 662 441 221
A R Bannatyne 484 323 161
Over the last five years, the average total bonus pay-out has been 76% of salary and 69% of total bonus opportunity. This period has been  
a very challenging one, particularly the years 2012 and 2013 with a crisis of confidence in the Eurozone and a second recession in the space 
of three years in the UK. Notwithstanding the difficult macro-economic background, the business has continued to follow its core strategy 
and taken investment decisions for the longer term, successfully achieving growth every year and increasing the global footprint of the 
business, now 24 countries across the globe. Despite this very substantial level of investment, the Company is now closer to historical peak 
profits than its peer group. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the bonus payments fully reflect the strong operating performance 
of the Group.
Long-term incentive plans
The long-term incentive plan (LTIP) figures that are presented in the single total figure table on page 36 show the total vested value of both 
share options and shares granted under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) which are detailed below:
(a) Share options (legacy awards)
The 2015 value has been calculated based on a share price of 390p in respect of the share options granted in March 2013. The share 
options which vested in March 2016 were subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions determined at the beginning 
of 2013, over the three-year period ended on 31 December 2015. Details of the performance levels achieved over this three-year period 
are set out below:
Performance measure Weighting
Performance required for minimum 
vesting (i.e. 33% of award)
Performance required for maximum 
vesting (i.e. 100% of award) Actual performance
% of vesting 
achieved
Compound annual 
increase in EPS 
compared to the 
increase in RPI over 
three years.
100% The Group’s annualised EPS 
growth rate must exceed the 
UK retail price index by at 
least an annual compound 
growth of 8% (RPI + 8%).
The Group’s annualised EPS 
growth rate must exceed the 
UK retail price index by at 
least an annual compound 
growth of 14% (RPI + 14%).
The Group’s annualised 
compound EPS growth 
was 45.2% and hence 
above the maximum of the 
performance range.
100%
Total to vest in March 2016 100%
As the maximum performance level required has been achieved, the share options awarded in March 2013 vested in full in March 2016. 
For the last five years, period ended 31 December 2015, the average actual percentage vesting of the options has amounted to 20% of the 
initial award and last year the options which were due to vest lapsed. This highlights the stretching nature of the EPS targets over that period.
The performance conditions for all outstanding share options can be found on page 41.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 39   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
The table below details the number of share options granted in March 2013, the potential value of these options at grant date and the 
estimated value of the shares under option included in the single figure table in 2015.
Options 
granted
Grant price 
p
1
Strike price or 
‘face value’ 
£’000
2
Fair value 
£’000
3
% of vesting 
achieved
No. of vested 
awards
Value of 
vested 
awards
4
£’000
R C Walters 300,000 211 633 183 100% 300,000 537
G P Daubeney 250,000 211 528 152 100% 250,000 448
A R Bannatyne 200,000 211 422 123 100% 200,000 358
1 Grant price is the market value at the time of grant.
2 Face value has been calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures and targets are met, multiplied by the share price at date of grant.
3 Fair value has been calculated as the fair value of one share as provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street’s stochastic option pricing model, multiplied by the number of options granted.
4 The value of vested awards has been estimated using the average share price for the final quarter of 2015 of 390p per share. The actual value of the award may differ as it is 
dependent on the share price on the vesting date. 
(b) Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The 2015 value represents an estimate of the value of the performance awards held by the Executive Directors that were granted in April 2013. 
PSP awards granted in April 2013 are scheduled to vest in April 2016 subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions over 
the three-year period ending on 31 December 2015. Details of the performance levels achieved over this three-year period are set out below:
Performance measure Weighting
Performance required for minimum 
vesting (i.e. 33% of award)
Performance required for maximum 
vesting (i.e. 100% of award) Actual performance
% of vesting 
achieved
Compound annual 
increase in EPS 
compared to the 
increase in RPI over 
three years.
50% The Group’s annualised 
EPS growth rate to exceed 
the UK retail price index 
by at least an annual 
compound growth of 8%.
The Group’s annualised 
EPS growth rate to exceed 
the UK retail price index 
by at least an annual 
compound growth of 14%.
The Group’s annualised 
compound EPS growth 
was 45.2% and hence 
above the maximum of the 
performance range.
100% 
Relative TSR 
measured against  
the FTSE Small  
Cap Index over  
three years.
50% Relative TSR of the Group 
matches the median relative 
TSR performance of the 
FTSE Small Cap Index.
Relative TSR of the Group 
exceeds the median relative 
TSR performance of the 
FTSE Small Cap Index by at 
least an annual compound 
growth of 12.5%.
TSR over the three-year 
period ended 31 December 
2015 was 107.3% 
compared to a median 
TSR of the FTSE Small Cap 
Index of 50.6%.
100%
Total to vest in April 2016 100%
The maximum level of performance required under both performance measures was exceeded and hence the shares awarded in April 2013 
under the Performance Share Plan will vest in full in April 2016.
The table below details the awards granted in April 2013, the potential value of these awards at grant date and the estimated value of the 
vested shares awarded under the Performance Share Plan included in the single figure table in 2015.
No. of PSP 
awards 
granted
Grant price 
p
1
Face value 
£’000
2
Fair value 
£’000
3
% 
of vesting 
achieved
No. of vested 
awards
 Value of 
vested 
awards
4
£’000
R C Walters 269,901 225 607 395 100% 269,901 1,053
G P Daubeney 224,251 225 505 329 100% 224,251 875
A R Bannatyne 161,789 225 364 237 100% 161,789 631
1 Grant price is the market value at the time of grant.
2 Face value has been calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures and targets are met, multiplied by the share price at date of grant.
3 Fair value has been calculated as the fair value of one share as provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street’s stochastic option pricing model, multiplied by the number of options granted.
4 The value of vested awards has been estimated using the average share price for the final quarter of 2015 of 390p per share. The actual value of the award may differ as it is 
dependent on the share price on the vesting date.
The Executive Directors also participated in the co-investment opportunity in April 2013, with each of them investing in shares equivalent in 
value to 25% of salary after tax. An award of co-investment shares was then made over the number of shares which could have been 
acquired had the amount of salary been invested on a pre-tax basis. The performance conditions are the same as the PSP awards above 
and, as a consequence, the co-investment shares will therefore also vest in full in April 2016. 40   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The table below details the estimated value for the co-investment awards included in the single figure table in 2015.
No. of 
PSP awards 
granted
Grant price 
p
1
Face value 
£’000
2
Fair value 
£’000
3
% 
of vesting 
achieved
No. of vested 
awards
Value of 
vested 
awards
4
£’000
R C Walters 112,534 225 253 165 100% 112,534 439
G P Daubeney 93,823 225 211 137 100% 93,823 366
A R Bannatyne 68,709 225 155 101 100% 68,709 268
1 Grant price is the market value at the time of grant.
2 Face value has been calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures and targets are met, multiplied by the share price at date of grant.
3 Fair value has been calculated as the fair value of one share as provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street’s stochastic option pricing model, multiplied by the number of options granted.
4 The value of vested awards has been estimated using the average share price for the final quarter of 2015 of 390p per share. The actual value of the award may differ as it is 
dependent on the share price on the vesting date.
The Committee has limited powers to exercise discretion in relation to the vesting of the PSP or co-investment awards, subject to being 
satisfied that there has been a genuine improvement in the underlying financial performance of the business and there was no discretion 
exercised in the current year. The performance conditions for all outstanding awards under the Performance Share Plan can be found on 
page 42. 
Long-term incentives awarded in 2015 (audited)
Share options
In accordance with the new remuneration policy, which is applicable for the 2015 to 2017 financial years, no share options were granted to 
the Executive Directors in February 2015.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
In February 2015, the Executive Directors were granted PSP awards under the new Performance Share Plan, as approved by shareholders 
at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The value of these awards was 180% of salary as follows:
Share awards
Co-
investment 
awards
Grant price 
p
1
Face value 
£’000
2
Fair value 
£’000
3
% award 
vesting at 
minimum 
threshold 
performance
% of face 
value that 
could vest
R C Walters 291,293 – 360 1,048 765 30% 100%
G P Daubeney 242,862 – 360 874 637 30% 100%
A R Bannatyne 177,853 – 360 640 467 30% 100%
1 Grant price is the market value at the time of grant.
2 Face value has been calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures and targets are met, multiplied by the share price at date of grant.
3 Fair value has been calculated as the fair value of one share as provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street’s stochastic option pricing model, multiplied by the number of options 
granted.
The performance conditions and weightings for these PSP awards are set out as follows:
Performance measures Weighting
% of award 
vesting at 
threshold
Total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the FTSE Small Cap Index over a three-year period 50% 15%
Earning per share (EPS) growth over a three-year period 50% 15%
Total 100% 30%
In relation to the PSP performance conditions, the vesting criteria are split into the following two components:
a. In determining the three-year EPS targets, the first year is set using a specific growth target, which represents the most reasonable 
current expectation for year one performance of the Committee, taking into account all available data. For 2015 the first year target is set 
at 15%. Years two and three targets are then based on a fixed rate of growth in earnings per share of UK RPI + 8%. The overall threshold 
target will be the compound result of years one, two and three. There is then a straight-line increase in vesting with 100% vesting 
occurring where EPS growth matches the annual compound growth rate of UK RPI + 14% in respect of years two and three.
b. In relation to the three-year TSR performance condition, no vesting will occur unless performance at least matches the performance of 
the FTSE Small Cap Index and full vesting occurs when TSR exceeds the FTSE Small Cap Index by annual compound growth of 12.5%.
Executive Directors are no longer able to participate in co-investment awards and are additionally now subject to share ownership guidelines 
– see page 42.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 41   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
Share options
Details of the options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors under the Company’s Executive Share 
Option Scheme or SAYE Option Scheme are as follows:
Options at 
1 January 
2015
Options 
granted 
during the 
year
Options 
exercised 
during the 
year
Options 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Options at  
31 December 
2015
1
Price granted 
p
2
Share price 
on exercise 
p
Gain on 
exercise 
p Exercise dates
R C Walters
Executive Options
Executive Options
Executive Options
Executive Options
SAYE Options
300,000
300,000
300,000
300,000
6,792
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(300,000)
–
–
–
300,000
–
300,000
300,000
6,792
208
227
211
353
265
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Mar 2013 – Mar 2020
Mar 2015 – Mar 2022
Mar 2016 – Mar 2023
Mar 2017 – Mar 2024
 May 2017 – Nov 2017
1,206,792 – – (300,000) 906,792
G P Daubeney
Executive Options
Executive Options
Executive Options
Executive Options
SAYE Options
250,000
250,000
250,000
250,000
6,792
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(250,000)
–
–
–
250,000
–
250,000
250,000
6,792
208
227
211
353
265
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Mar 2013 – Mar 2020
Mar 2015 – Mar 2022
Mar 2016 – Mar 2023
Mar 2017 – Mar 2024
 May 2017 – Nov 2017
1,006,792 – – (250,000) 756,792
A R Bannatyne
Executive Options
Executive Options
Executive Options
Executive Options
SAYE Options
200,000
200,000
200,000
200,000
6,792
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(200,000)
–
–
–
200,000
–
200,000
200,000
6,792
208
227
211
353
265
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Mar 2013 – Mar 2020
Mar 2015 – Mar 2022
Mar 2016 – Mar 2023
Mar 2017 – Mar 2024
 May 2017 – Nov 2017
806,792 – – (200,000) 606,792
3,020,376 – – (750,000) 2,270,376
1 In total there are 750,000 options that have vested but are unexercised.
2  Market price when awarded, except for SAYE Options which were granted at a 20% discount to the market price.
The performance criteria of the options are detailed in note 18.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 was 360p per share (2014: 309p per share) and the range during the year was 
308p to 475p per share. 42   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Performance Share Plan (PSP) (audited)
There are currently 63 senior executives who participate in the PSP including the Executive Directors. The table below shows the number of 
shares that have been awarded to the Executive Directors under the Performance Share Plan and that remained unexercised at the end of 
the financial year and also shows the shares which were granted, which vested and which lapsed during the year. 
Date of grant Share awards
Co-
investment 
awards
Vested 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 
31 December 
2015
Share price 
on date of 
award 
p
1
Exercise date
R C Walters
March 2012
April 2013
May 2014
February 2015
243,909
269,901
174,673
291,293
117,719
112,534
82,406
–
(65,907)
–
–
–
(295,721)
–
–
–
–
382,435
257,079
291,293
220
217
315
360
March 2015
April 2016
May 2017
February 2018
979,776 312,659 (65,907) (295,721) 930,807
G P Daubeney
March 2012
April 2013
May 2014
February 2015
203,356
224,251
145,631
242,862
98,146
93,823
44,479
–
(54,949)
–
–
–
(246,553)
–
–
–
–
318,074
190,110
242,862
220
217
315
360
March 2015
April 2016
May 2017
February 2018
816,100 236,448 (54,949) (246,553) 751,046
A R Bannatyne
March 2012
April 2013
May 2014
February 2015
148,922
161,789
106,649
177,853
71,875
68,709
50,313
–
(40,240)
–
–
–
(180,557)
–
–
–
–
230,498
156,962
177,853
220
217
315
360
March 2015
April 2016
May 2017
February 2018
595,213 190,897 (40,240) (180,557) 565,313
1 Market price when awarded.
In accordance with the guidance issued by The Investment Association and consistent with the rules of the Company’s share schemes, the 
maximum number of new shares that may be issued in respect of all share schemes is limited to 10% of the issued share capital. At 
1 January 2016 the Company had outstanding options representing 6.5% of issued share capital. Share awards under the PSP are satisfied 
with market-purchased shares through the Employee Benefit Trust.
In the event of a change of control, the rules specify that all awards would vest subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions. The 
awards would normally then be pro-rated to reflect the period of time between the date of grant and the date of change of control. Further 
information relating to all equity awards currently available to Executive Directors is detailed on pages 41 and 42 and in note 18 to the 
accounts.
Directors’ interests in shares
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2015 had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:
31 December 
2015 
Number
31 December 
2014 
Number 
R C Walters 2,317,781 2,283,006
G P Daubeney 1,639,113 1,610,120
A R Bannatyne 302,410 281,178
L Van de Walle 25,587 25,587
A D Kemp 10,000 10,000
C Hui 10,000 10,000
B McArthur-Muscroft 7,140 7,140
Executive Directors are subject to share ownership guidelines with a minimum recommended holding of 200% of salary. Their holdings are 
all well in excess of this which we believe aligns their interests with those of shareholders. For the avoidance of doubt, Directors are not 
permitted to take forward-options, pledge, or in any way securitise their holdings of Robert Walters plc shares. 
The percentage and value of the shareholdings of the Executive Directors, based on the share price at 31 December 2015 and expressed as 
a percentage of salary are as follows:
Shares held
% of issued 
share capital % of salary
R C Walters 3.00% 1,472%
G P Daubeney 2.12% 1,248%
A R Bannatyne 0.39% 315%
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 43   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
CEO information
The Group believes strongly that remuneration should be linked to performance. The following graph and table give a perspective of the 
Chief Executive’s base salary over a period of six years. 
Total Shareholder Return (since 1 Jan 2009)
400
350
300
250
2015 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009
200
150
100
50
0
CEO FTSE Small Cap Robert Walters plc
CEO BASE PAY AND TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH
This graph shows how the Chief Executive’s base salary has increased since 2009 against the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of the FTSE 
Small Cap Index and Robert Walters plc over the same period, 2009 being selected for the purposes of consistency having been selected 
as the base year set by the updated 2014 Regulations. 
The following table shows the Chief Executive’s total realised pay (calculated using the same approach we have used to calculate the single 
total figure) over the last six years.
R C Walters
Single total 
figure showing 
realised 
remuneration 
£’000
1
% of total 
bonus paid 
against 
maximum 
opportunity
2
% of LTIPs 
vesting 
against 
maximum 
opportunity
3
Period over 
which the LTIPs 
performance targets 
are based on
2015 3,563 93% 100% 2012 – 2015
2014 1,463 100% 18% 2011 – 2014
2013 1,241 100% 0% 2010 – 2013
2012 1,168 0% 71% 2009 – 2012
2011 1,699 40% 35% 2008 – 2011
2010 2,112 120% 32% 2007 – 2010
2009 630 0% 0% 2006 – 2009
Total average 65% 37%
1 Total remuneration is calculated as the total of fixed and variable pay based on the same calculation method used in the single total figure table on page 36.
2 % of total bonus paid against maximum opportunity is calculated as the annual bonus pay out in each respective year based on the same calculation method used in the single 
total figure table as a % of the maximum opportunity.
3 % of LTIP shares vesting against maximum opportunity is calculated as the number of share options and PSP awards that have qualified to vest in the year as a % of the face 
value of the award.
Chief Executive’s pay compared to employees
The table below shows the year-on-year percentage movement of base pay, other benefits and annual bonus in 2015 for the Chief Executive, 
compared with the average percentage change for Group employees.
The Chief Executive’s remuneration disclosed in the table below uses the same information for base salary, other benefits and bonus as the 
single total figure on page 36. The Group employee pay is calculated using the movement of the average remuneration (per head) for all 
Group employees.
Base salary
Other benefits 
including 
pension Bonus 
R C Walters 3% 0% 44.4%
1
All employees 3.5% 1.4% 8.5%
1 This reflects the introduction of the new Directors’ Remuneration Policy which increased annual bonus potential, whilst pay potential overall decreased. 44   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The graph below shows details of the Group’s profit after taxation, dividends paid, share buybacks, total spend on pay and tax paid for the 
years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015.
160
£m
2014 2015
140
120
100
60
40
20
80
0
SPEND ON PAY
Proﬁt after taxation 
(£m)
11.3
15.3
2014 2015
Dividends paid 
(£m)
4.1 4.7
2014 2015
Shares purchased 
by EBT (£m)
4.0
0.8
2014 2015
Overall spend 
on pay (£m)
143.2
147.6
2014 2015
Tax paid 
(£m)
3.2
7.4
+15% +36% -80%
+3%
+129%
1 Total remuneration of employees includes wages and salaries, social security costs, pension costs and share-based payments for all employees, including Directors. Further 
details of the total remuneration of the Group are given in note 4.
2 The total dividend paid during the year ended 31 December 2015 was £4.7m based on a final dividend of £3.2m, paid on 12 June 2015, and an interim dividend of £1.5m paid on 
16 October 2015. Further details on dividends are given in note 6.
3 Tax paid during the year represents the corporation taxation paid for the Group during the year ended 31 December 2015.
4 The shares purchased by the EBT represent the total amount spent by the Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) on shares during the year ended 31 December 2015.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2016
The Group’s policy on Executive Directors’ remuneration and implementation for the year ended 31 December 2016 will be as follows:
(i) Base salary
(a) Executive Directors
For 2016, the average salary increases for employees across the Group other than Executive Directors is expected to be approximately 
3.6%. The Committee has decided to give the Executive Directors salary increases lower than the average salary increase. Robert Walters 
and Alan Bannatyne will each receive a base salary increase of 1.5%.
 
Giles Daubeney was promoted to Deputy Chief Executive Officer in January 2016 and will take on additional responsibilities over and above 
his existing duties as Chief Operating Officer. There are no plans for Robert Walters to retire but Giles Daubeney is the Board’s preferred 
candidate to succeed him in due course. His promotion is key to succession planning. As Deputy CEO, he will work much more closely with 
the Chairman and the Board and take a more active role in the Company’s strategy and in its engagement with shareholders. He will 
therefore receive a promotion increase of 8% of salary effective from 1 January 2016. The graph below sets out the base salaries of the 
Executive Directors over the last three years and the salaries for 2016.
600,000
£
2013
537,000
550,000
567,000
575,000
448,000
459,000
473,000
510,000
328,000
336,000
346,000
351,000
2014
Chief Executive Ofcer Deputy Chief Executive Ofcer Chief Financial Ofcer
2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016
500,000
400,000
300,000
100,000
200,000
0
BASE SALARIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 45   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
(b) Chairman and Non-executive Directors
For 2016, the fees for the Chairman (as determined by the Remuneration Committee) and the Non-executive Directors (as determined by the 
Chairman and Executive Directors) have been agreed as follows:
2016 2015
Base 
salary 
£’000
Total
1
 
fixed pay 
£’000
Base 
salary 
£’000
Total
1
 
fixed pay 
£’000
L Van de Walle 107 107 106 106
A D Kemp 67 67 66 66
B McArthur-Muscroft 65 65 64 64
C Hui 55 55 54 54
294 294 290 290
1 No other taxable benefits are payable to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each received an increase in remuneration of 1.5% effective 1 January 2016.
(ii) Other benefits
No changes will be made to benefits in 2016.
(iii) Annual bonus
For 2016, the Committee has determined that the annual bonus payment for the Executive Directors will be by reference to specific 
performance targets set at the beginning of the year. The performance measures are:
 – Profit before taxation for the Group (70% weighting); and
 – Personal KPIs (30% weighting) which include strategic performance objectives such as the successful execution of the Group’s 
investment strategy, opening of new offices, staff retention and development, client and candidate satisfaction and in particular a focus on 
the strength of candidate engagement, innovation, and the successful phase one roll-out of the new software platform for Resource 
Solutions. Specific objectives were also set with respect to certain aspects of the Group’s conversion ratio. 
For 2016 and in accordance with the approved policy, the on-target bonus for each of the Executive Directors will be set at 97.5% of salary 
and the maximum bonus will be set at 150% of salary. One third of any earned bonus will be deferred for two years into shares, payable in 
equal tranches at the end of 2017 and 2018.
(iv) Long-term incentive plan
For 2016, it is proposed that each Executive Director will receive awards under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) to the value on grant of 
180% of base salary.
The performance period is the three-year period ending 31 December 2018. The performance conditions and weightings for these PSP 
awards are set out as follows:
Performance condition Weighting
% of award 
vesting at 
threshold
Total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the FTSE Small Cap Index over three-years 50% 15%
Earnings per share (EPS) growth over a three-year period 50% 15%
Total 100% 30%
In relation to the PSP performance conditions, the vesting criteria are split into the following two components:
a. In determining the three-year EPS targets, the first year is set using a specific growth target, which represents the most reasonable 
current expectation for year one performance of the Committee, taking into account all available data. For 2016 the first year target is set 
at 15%. Years two and three targets are then based on a fixed rate of growth in earnings per share of UK RPI + 8%. The overall threshold 
target will be the compound result of years one, two and three. There is then a straight-line increase in vesting with 100% vesting 
occurring where EPS growth matches the annual compound growth rate of UK RPI + 14% in respect of years two and three.
b. In relation to the TSR performance condition, no vesting will occur unless performance at least matches the performance of the FTSE 
Small Cap Index and full vesting occurs when TSR exceeds the FTSE Small Cap Index by annual compound growth of 12.5%.
(v) Pensions
No changes in the level of pension contributions as a percentage of base salary are permitted for any of the Executive Directors in 2016.  46   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Andrew Kemp (Chairman), Brian McArthur-Muscroft and Carol Hui, all of whom are independent 
Non-executive Directors and it is the intention of the Chairman of the Board, Leslie Van de Walle, to be in attendance at all meetings. 
The purpose of the Committee is to consider all aspects of Executive Directors’ remuneration and to determine the specific remuneration 
packages of the Executive Directors, including bonus schemes, pension contributions and other benefits. The Committee also recommends 
to the Board the remuneration of the Chairman. The Committee ensures that the remuneration packages are competitive within the 
recruitment industry, and reflect both Group and personal performance during the year, whilst also having regard to the broader levels of 
remuneration within the Group itself and environmental, social and governance issues. The Committee meets when required to consider all 
aspects of Executive Directors’ remuneration and received independent external advice from Towers Watson and Hewitt New Bridge Street 
Consultants LLP during the year. The Committee has satisfied itself that the advice provided is independent and objective. Towers Watson 
and Hewitt New Bridge Street have been formally appointed by the Committee. Neither firm provides other services to the Committee and 
both are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the Committee is satisfied that no conflicts of interest have arisen. The fees 
paid to these firms during the year were £13,400 to Towers Watson and £4,000 to Hewitt New Bridge Street. The terms of reference of the 
Remuneration Committee are available on our website. FIT Remuneration Consultants, who are members of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group, were also formally appointed by the Remuneration Committee to advise on Directors’ pay on 2 November 2015. The Committee has 
used its best judgement to satisfy itself that the advice is has received is independent. The fees paid to FIT were £4,700. The fees of all the 
advisers are charged on a time and expenses basis.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting
At the Group’s AGM in June 2015, shareholders approved the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The table below shows the results in respect of the resolution. 
Resolution Votes for % Votes against % Votes withheld
Approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report 51,541,913 86.99 7,698,618 13.01 6,163,968
Certain of our major shareholders voted against the Directors’ Remuneration Report last year because targets in respect of bonuses were 
not disclosed and some of our major shareholders do not support the Remuneration Committee’s choice of performance measures and 
particularly of EPS growth in respect of awards under the Performance Share Plan. Our response to this is to continue the dialogue with our 
shareholders and make the case for our policy as effectively as we can, noting in particular that the Performance Share Plan is one of three 
components of remuneration and only 50% is related to EPS growth. The Remuneration Committee has also listened to shareholders’ views 
in respect of the disclosure of targets for the annual bonus plan and reconsidered its position during the year. Targets have accordingly been 
retrospectively disclosed for 2015.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 47   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
This section details the Group’s remuneration policy for the Board Directors. It is here for information purposes only as a reminder of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy that was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
Executive Directors
The table below sets out the detailed workings of each component of total remuneration which will be provided to Executive Directors, from 
2015 onwards. This policy is applicable from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 and was approved by the shareholders in a binding vote 
during the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Element 
Link to  
strategic objectives Operation
Maximum  
potential
Performance conditions  
and assessment
Base  
salary
The base salary of 
each Executive Director 
takes into account the 
performance of each 
individual and is set at 
an appropriate level 
to secure and retain 
the talent needed to 
deliver the Group’s 
strategic objectives.
Salaries are reviewed 
annually on 1 January and 
are influenced by:
 – Information from relevant 
comparator groups;
 – The performance of each 
individual Executive 
Director; and
 – Average increases for 
employees across the 
Group as a whole.
Annual increases will not 
exceed 7.5% + RPI, or 
the average increase of 
employees across the Group 
in any given year, whichever 
is higher.
The level of increase may 
deviate from this maximum 
in the case of special 
circumstances (for example, 
increases in responsibilities 
or promotion). In these cases, 
any exceptional increase will 
not exceed 20% a year.
Base salary increases are set in 
line with market movement and 
also consider the average salary 
increase for other employees 
across the Group. 
Pensions To provide a competitive 
employment benefit and 
long-term security.
Robert Walters operates 
a money purchase pension 
scheme. Executive Directors 
participating in the pension 
plan benefit from annual 
Group contributions worth 
20% of base salary.
Executive Directors are 
entitled to take all or part of 
their pension contributions as 
a cash allowance.
20% of salary. N/A
Other 
benefits
3,4
To provide competitive 
employment benefits.
Benefits currently include 
car allowance, mortgage 
subsidy, permanent health 
insurance and private 
medical insurance, and may 
also include other benefits in 
future. Relocation assistance 
may also be provided – see 
notes for further clarity.
All benefits are subject to 
annual review to ensure 
they remain in line with 
market practice.
The Company will continue 
to operate the Save As 
You Earn (SAYE) option 
scheme – see notes for 
further detail.
Maximum benefit costs 
will not exceed a value of 
£70,000 a year, indexed 
to inflation.
Maximum benefit costs will be in 
line with the market related cost 
of providing these benefits. 48   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Element 
Link to  
strategic objectives Operation
Maximum  
potential
Performance conditions  
and assessment
Annual bonus
1
The annual bonus is
designed to drive the
achievement of the 
Group’s financial and 
strategic business targets 
on an annual basis.
The on-target bonus
opportunity is 97.5% of
salary and is dependent
upon the achievement
of specific annual 
performance conditions.
One third of any earned
bonus will be deferred for two 
years into shares, payable in 
equal tranches at the end of 
years 1 and 2.
A clawback provision will 
operate in respect of any 
deferred shares in the event 
of material restatement of 
previously published financial 
statements.
A malus provision will 
operate in respect of any 
act or omission by the 
participant which, in the 
opinion of the Remuneration 
Committee, has amounted 
to gross misconduct.
The maximum bonus 
opportunity is 150% of 
salary for the achievement 
of stretch performance in 
any given year (i.e. 110% 
of budget or higher). 
Threshold performance 
(i.e. 90% of budget) equates 
to 52.5% of salary based 
on achieving threshold 
profit before taxation. Zero 
payment will be made 
for performance below 
threshold performance.
Performance is measured over 
one financial year, based on the 
following measures:
 – Financial targets as set out in 
the budget at the start of the 
year; and
 – Individual KPIs set against 
predetermined strategic 
performance objectives.
The intended weighting of these 
measures is not less than 70% 
financial and no more than 30% 
individual. The Committee will 
reserve the right to determine 
which performance measures 
and targets are to be used at the 
beginning of each financial year 
in order to align to the Group’s 
strategic objectives. 
The Committee will not
change the mix of measures 
or targets mid-year but does 
retain the right to apply its 
judgement when assessing 
formulaic outcomes in the case 
of a material misstatement 
of financial results or similar 
situation. The Committee 
will not exercise discretion to 
reward failure and will report 
on any exercise of discretion 
that changes the amount of 
remuneration paid in any year.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 49   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Element 
Link to  
strategic objectives Operation
Maximum  
potential
Performance conditions  
and assessment
Performance 
Share 
Plan (PSP) 
award
2,5
The PSP is designed to 
promote staff retention, 
motivate employees 
across the Group and 
promote the unification of 
efforts towards Group-
wide strategic objectives.
The longer-term nature 
of these equity awards 
also aligns leadership with 
the longer-term returns 
of the business and 
shareholder interests.
PSP awards are granted 
annually and vest after 
three years, dependent 
on the achievement of 
performance conditions 
over a three-year period. 
The normal level of award 
is 180% of salary, and the 
intention is that this will be 
the initial level applied 
in 2015.
The Group will apply a 
clawback provision in the 
event of material restatement 
of previously published 
financial statements within 18 
months of the financial year 
end of the year in which the 
PSP shares were awarded.
A malus provision will 
operate in respect of any 
act or omission by the 
participant which, in the 
opinion of the Remuneration 
Committee, has amounted to 
gross misconduct.
The maximum award of 
performance shares that may 
be made to an Executive 
Director in any financial year 
is limited to shares with an 
aggregate market value of 
200% of base salary. 
Threshold performance will 
result in the vesting of 30% 
of the shares under award 
while maximum performance 
will result in full vesting. 
There will be no vesting 
for performance below 
threshold.
Performance will be measured 
over a three-year period 
subject to the following 
performance conditions:
 – 50% of the award will vest 
based on total shareholder 
return (TSR) relative to the 
FTSE Small Cap Index; and 
 – 50% of the award will vest 
based on earnings per share 
(EPS) growth over the period. 
The TSR and EPS components 
will operate independently. 
Vesting levels between threshold 
and maximum performance 
will be calculated on a 
straight-line basis.
Notes to the policy table:
1 In relation to the annual bonus:
a.  The financial performance target will be set by the Board at the beginning of each year and will include measures such as profit before taxation. In order to achieve maximum 
pay-out the financial target will be significantly ahead of budgets and market consensus.
b.  Personal KPIs are linked to the delivery of key projects designed to enhance the Group’s operational strength and competitiveness in line with future strategy. At the end of  
the financial year, the Committee meets to assess the performance of each Executive Director against the financial performance targets and personal KPIs and determine  
the bonus pay-out. Examples of KPIs include successful execution of the Group’s investment strategy, opening of new offices, staff retention and development, client and 
candidate satisfaction, innovation and cost effective improvements to IT infrastructure. There is no formulaic threshold vesting for personal KPIs and it is for the Remuneration 
Committee to judge performance against individual KPIs.
c.  The financial targets of the awards (e.g. profit before taxation) are not currently disclosed as these are deemed to be commercially sensitive. The Committee proposes to 
disclose these targets in future at such a time when they are no longer deemed to be commercially sensitive.
2 In relation to the PSP, the vesting criteria are split into the following two components:
a.  In determining the three-year EPS targets, the first year will be set using a specific growth target, which represents the most reasonable current expectation for year one 
performance of the Committee, taking into account all available data. Years two and three targets are then based on a fixed rate of growth in earnings per share of UK RPI + 
8%. The overall threshold target will be the compound result of years one, two and three. At threshold, 30% of the awards will vest. There is then a straight-line increase in 
vesting with 100% vesting occurring where EPS growth matches the annual compound growth rate of UK RPI + 14% in respect of years two and three, likely to be in excess 
of 65% compound growth in EPS in a reasonably favourable economic environment. 
b.  In relation to the TSR performance condition, no vesting will occur unless performance at least matches the performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index and full vesting 
occurs when TSR exceeds the FTSE Small Cap Index by annual compound growth of 12.5%. This level of performance is deemed to be broadly equivalent to upper 
quartile performance.
c.  The two criteria above have been selected on the basis that they are considered to be stretching and that they align the interests of management with shareholders. The 
existence of a market-related component ensures that performance is also benchmarked against relative performance and not just absolute performance. In addition, any 
vesting will be subject to satisfactory financial performance over the period, as determined by the Committee. The Committee will retain the right to change the performance 
measures, targets and weightings (within the framework of policy) as appropriate at the beginning of each plan cycle to reflect the Company’s current operations. Performance 
measures, targets and weightings will be set at the beginning of each three-year period and will not be adjusted mid cycle although the Committee does retain the right to alter 
formulaic vesting of awards in the case of material misstatement of financial results or similar situation. The Committee will not exercise discretion to reward failure and will report 
on any exercise of discretion that changes the amount of remuneration paid in any year.
3 In addition, the Group operates the Robert Walters Save As You Earn (SAYE) option scheme, which is an HMRC-approved scheme open to all permanent UK employees. Each 
individual is allowed to acquire options over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount of up to 20% of their market price up to a maximum value of £18,000. Options granted 
under the scheme can normally be exercised during a period of six months starting on the third anniversary of the start of the relevant SAYE contract. The current scheme started 
in 2014 and will vest in 2017. All Executive Directors have enrolled in this new scheme to the maximum value of £18,000.
4 In respect of other benefits, the maximum benefit costs of £70,000 a year exclude potential costs in respect of any relocation.
5 Dividends do not accrue to unvested equity awards. 50   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman and Non-executive Directors
The table below sets out the fees payable to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors:
Element 
Link to  
strategic objectives Operation
Maximum  
potential
Performance conditions  
and assessment
Chairman The Group seeks to pay 
fees which reflect the level 
of responsibility expected 
of the Chairman which 
remain competitive with peer 
company fee levels.
In order to ensure no 
potential impairment to the 
required impartiality and 
objectivity of the Chairman, 
there is intentionally no link to 
performance.
The remuneration of the 
Chairman is determined 
annually by the Remuneration 
Committee.
The fee levels are set based 
on outside independent 
advice, along with a review 
of current practices in 
other companies.
Employment contracts are 
terminable by either party 
giving not less than three 
months’ written notice at 
any time. 
The Chairman does not 
participate in any of the 
Company’s share schemes, 
pension schemes or 
bonus arrangements. 
The fees for the Chairman 
are determined by reference 
to benchmark market data.
Reasonable travel expenses 
are reimbursed.
Increases in fee value in any 
given year will be in line with 
market movement and will 
not exceed a maximum of 
10% + RPI in any given year.
The Chairman is subject to 
an annual Board evaluation 
but no element of pay 
is specifically linked to 
performance conditions 
or the outcome of 
this assessment.
Non-
executive 
Directors
The Group seeks to pay 
fees which reflect the level 
of responsibility expected 
of Non-executive Directors 
which remain competitive 
with peer company fee levels.
In order to ensure no 
potential impairment to the 
required impartiality and 
objectivity of the Non-
executive Directors, there is 
intentionally no link 
to performance.
The remuneration of the 
Non-executive Directors is 
determined annually by the 
Board as a whole.
The fee levels are set based 
on outside independent 
advice, along with a review 
of current practices in other 
companies.
Employment contracts are 
terminable by either party 
giving not less than three 
months’ written notice at 
any time.
Non-executive Directors 
do not participate in any 
of the Company’s share 
schemes, pension schemes 
or bonus arrangements.
The fees for Non-executive 
Directors are determined 
by reference to benchmark 
market data.
A Board Committee 
Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director 
may receive an additional 
fee commensurate to the 
additional responsibility and 
time commitment.
In addition to the above, 
reasonable travel expenses 
are reimbursed.
Increases in fee value in any 
given year will be in line with 
market movement and will 
not exceed a maximum of 
10% + RPI in any given year.
Non-executive Directors 
are subject to an annual 
Board evaluation but no 
element of pay is specifically 
linked to performance 
conditions or the outcome 
of this assessment.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 51   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Recruitment and appointment policy
Any remuneration arrangements for a new Director will be in line 
with the remuneration policy for existing Directors. Incentive awards 
will be in line with the current awards given to Directors and will be 
subject to the same maximum award levels and vesting criteria.
Where the appointee has variable remuneration arrangements with 
a previous employer that will be forfeited on the termination of that 
employment, the Committee reserves the right to offer a share-
based buyout for value foregone. This is meant to facilitate the 
recruitment of key individuals in accordance with the rules of  
the UK Listing Authority. Any such award would only be made in 
exceptional circumstances, would not exceed the expected value 
being forfeited and would include performance and timing 
conditions appropriate to the Group.
Relocation costs which are reasonable and appropriate may also be 
paid should the recruitment require.
Policy on payment for loss of office
In the event of early termination of a Director’s service contract, the 
Group has an absolute requirement to pay compensation reflecting 
the salary and benefits to which the Director would have become 
entitled to under the contract during the notice period. Alternatively 
the Group may, under the contracts of employment in place and  
the rules of the plans, at its discretion make the following payments 
in the event of a ‘good leaver’ scenario:
 – Notice period of 12 months’ base salary, pension and  
contractual benefits or payments in lieu of notice;
 – Bonus payable for the period worked, subject to the  
achievement of the relevant personal and financial performance 
conditions; and
 – Vesting of PSPs and existing share options granted under the 
Executive Share Option Scheme are governed by the rules of the 
relevant incentive plans. These rules provide the Committee with 
discretion to allow partial vesting depending on the extent to 
which performance conditions have been met at the date of 
cessation and the length of time the awards or options have 
been held.
The Committee may settle any other amounts reasonably due to the 
Executive Director, for example to reimburse the leaver for a reasonable 
level of legal fees in connection with a settlement agreement.
Service contracts 
The service contracts for each of the Executive Directors are subject 
to review annually. These service contracts are terminable by either 
party giving up to 12 months’ written notice at any time and there 
are no specific provisions relating to any payments for early 
termination of office, or in the event of a change of control.
None of the Executive Directors currently hold significant Non-
executive Director positions and it is expected that the Executive 
Directors would seek approval from the Board prior to the 
acceptance of any such positions in companies outside the Group.
Contracts of service Date of contract
Executive Directors
R C Walters 19 June 2000
G P Daubeney 19 June 2000
A R Bannatyne 1 March 2007
Non-executive Directors
A D Kemp 26 November 2013
C Hui 1 January 2012
L Van de Walle 1 October 2012
B McArthur-Muscroft 1 May 2013
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors stand 
for election at the Annual General Meeting every year.
Legacy awards and any other contractual obligations
All contractual commitments or awards made which are  
consistent with the remuneration policy in force at the time that  
the commitment or award was made will be honoured even if they 
would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when 
the commitment is fulfilled or awards vest. For example, this will 
include payment for the vesting of option awards made prior to the 
introduction of this policy. Any contractual commitments entered 
into before the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 came into 
force or before a person became a Director will also be honoured.
The tables on pages 41 and 42 show the details of the share options 
and PSP awards that are currently held by each Director and when 
they will vest. 
Statement of employment conditions elsewhere in  
the Group
Each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors, the Remuneration Committee is presented with a report 
detailing remuneration practice across the Group, including an 
overview by country of how employee pay compares to the market, 
and material changes during the year. This report includes detailed 
comparative analysis of basic pay and variable pay changes within 
the UK where all of the Executive Directors are based. The Group 
does not directly consult with employees as part of the process  
of reviewing executive pay.
Consideration of shareholders views
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders  
and holds annual meetings with the Company’s largest investors to 
discuss and take feedback on its remuneration policy and governance 
matters. In particular, the Committee discusses any significant 
changes to the policy or the measures used to assess performance.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 
2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Kemp
Remuneration Committee Chairman
9 March 2016 52   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required  
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and have 
chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 (FRS 101)  
(UK Accounting Standards and applicable laws). Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that 
period. In preparing these financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 – Properly select and apply appropriate accounting policies;
 – Present information, including accounting policies, in a  
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
 – Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
 – Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as  
a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time  
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider 
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. When arriving at this position the Board was assisted 
by a number of processes, including the following:
 – The Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management 
with overall co-ordination by the Group Marketing Director and 
Group Financial Controller to ensure consistency across sections;
 – An extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure 
factual accuracy;
 – Comprehensive reviews of drafts of the report are undertaken by 
members of the Executive Board and senior management team;
 – An advanced draft is considered and reviewed by two Senior 
Directors below Board level and the Legal General Counsel; and
 – The final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to 
consideration by the Board.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;
 – The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
 – The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a  
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position, performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 9 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer
9 March 2016 53   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Overview
The Directors present their Annual Report on the activities of the 
Group, together with the audited financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. 
The Strategic Report provides information relating to the Group’s 
activities, its business and strategy, the principal risks and 
uncertainties faced by the business and environmental and 
employee matters. These sections, together with the Corporate 
Governance and the Directors’ Remuneration reports provide an 
overview of the Group and give an indication of future developments 
in the Group’s business, so providing a balanced assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects in accordance with the latest 
narrative reporting requirements.
Results and dividends
The Group’s audited financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2015 are set out on pages 60 to 80 and the 
Company’s audited financial statements are set out on pages 
81 to 84. The Group’s profit after taxation for the year ended 
31 December 2015 was £15,290,000 (2014: £11,255,000).
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.13p per ordinary 
share (2014: 4.35p) to be paid on 10 June 2016 to shareholders  
on the register on 20 May 2016, which together with the interim 
dividend of 1.95p paid on 16 October 2015 makes a total of 
7.08p per share for the year (2014: 6.0p).
Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant post balance sheet events to report 
since 31 December 2015.
Directors
The Directors who served during the year and at the date of this 
report are shown as follows:
Leslie Van de Walle
1
 
Robert C Walters
Giles P Daubeney
Alan R Bannatyne
Brian McArthur-Muscroft
1
Andrew D Kemp
1
Carol Hui
1
1 Non-executive Directors.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts are shown in the Report  
of the Remuneration Committee on page 51.
Details of share options granted to Directors and the interests of the 
Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown on 
pages 40 to 42.
The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions 
for the benefit of its Directors, which were in place during the year 
and remain in force at the date of this report.
Employees
The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to 
applications for employment by disabled persons, bearing in mind 
their aptitudes and abilities. In the event of an employee becoming 
disabled whilst working for the Group, every effort will be made by 
the Group to ensure their continued employment and to provide 
re-training where practicable and appropriate.
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during the year, are shown in note 17. Each share carries the right to 
one vote at general meetings of the Company. Further information 
on the voting and other rights of shareholders, including deadlines 
for exercising voting rights, are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association and in the explanatory notes that accompany the Notice 
of the Annual General Meeting, which are available on the 
Company’s website at investors.robertwalters.com.
Restrictions on securities
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on  
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders  
of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights. Awards of shares under the 
Company’s incentive arrangements, the Performance Share Plan 
and the Executive Share Option Scheme, are subject to restrictions 
on the transfer of shares prior to vesting. 
Certain share awards under the Company’s incentive arrangements 
are held in trust on behalf of the beneficiaries. The Trustee of the 
Robert Walters Employee Benefit Trust does not seek to exercise 
the voting rights on these shares.
Substantial shareholdings
On 9 March 2016 the Company has been notified, in accordance 
with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 
following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company:
Name of shareholder 
Number of 
shares %
BlackRock Investment Mgt 10,161,269 13.14
Aberforth Partners 6,839,088 8.84
Kames Capital 4,815,121 6.23
Hargreave Hale 4,159,306 5.38
Robert Walters plc EBT
1
3,979,674 5.00
Standard Life Investments 3,858,326 4.99
JPMorgan Asset Mgt 3,722,405 4.81
Aberdeen Asset Mgt 3,471,000 4.49
Schroder Investment Mgt 3,222,153 4.17
1 Robert Walters plc EBT is restricted to 5% voting rights.
Appointment and retirement of Directors
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more additional 
Directors. The Board may appoint any person to be a Director 
(so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the  
limit prescribed in the Articles of Association). The UK Corporate 
Governance Code recommends that all Directors be subject to 
annual re-election by shareholders. Therefore, all Directors will offer 
themselves for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting. 54   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Power of Company’s Directors and acquisition of Company’s 
own shares
The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, 
who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to legislation, 
the provisions of the Articles of Association and any directions given 
by special resolution.
The Directors were authorised at the Company’s last Annual 
General Meeting, held on 3 June 2015, to make market purchases 
of ordinary shares representing up to 10% of its share capital  
at that time and to allot shares within certain limits permitted by 
shareholders and the Companies Act. The Directors intend to renew 
this authority annually and will continue to exercise this power only 
when, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they 
believe that the effect of such purchases will be to increase earnings 
per share and will likely promote the success of the Company for 
the benefit of its members as a whole.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, ordinary shares of the 
Company were purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust at an 
average price of £3.63 for a total cost of £0.8m. A further £3.6m  
of Company ordinary shares have been purchased at an average 
price of £3.31 since 31 December 2015.
Provisions on change of control 
The Company’s revolving credit facility agreement for £35.0m 
includes a provision for a lending counterparty to amend, alter or 
cancel the relevant commitment to the Group following a change  
of control of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or 
employee that would provide specific compensation for loss  
of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that 
provisions of the Company’s share plans may cause options  
and awards to vest on a takeover.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended  
by a special resolution of the members.
Viability statement
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
on pages 20 and 21. 
The Directors have assessed the long-term prospects of the Group 
based upon business plans and upon cash flow projections for the 
three-year period ending 31 December 2018. 
The three-year period was chosen as it is considered the longest 
timeframe over which any reasonable view can be formed, given  
the cyclical nature of the market in which the Group operates.  
The forecasts and cash flow projections being used to assess  
going concern have been comprehensively stress-tested by using 
simulation techniques involving sensitivity analysis. It should be 
noted that the Group has limited forward visibility and consequently 
there is a high degree of uncertainty in respect of future outcomes. 
Cash risk is mitigated to an extent as in the event of a reduction in 
the overall number of contractors, working capital is released.
In forming their opinion the Directors have performed a robust 
assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the  
Group as set out on pages 26 and 27. In addition, note 16 to the 
accounts includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; 
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group had £17.8m of net cash at 31 December 2015 and a 
£35.0m four-year committed financing facility until December 2019. 
Further details of the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described within the 
Financial Review. 
The Group has a strong balance sheet and considerable financial 
resources and remains confident of the Group’s long-term  
growth prospects, together with a diverse range of clients and 
suppliers across different geographic locations and sectors.  
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement,  
at the time of approving the accounts, that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue  
in operational existence and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the three-year assessment period. For this reason, the Directors 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Auditor and disclosure of information to the Auditor
As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the 
Directors as at 9 March 2016 confirms that:
 – So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware; and
 – The Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken 
as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s Auditor is aware  
of that information.
Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as 
Auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 June 2016 and the 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting, including an explanation of 
the special business of the meeting, will be sent out in due course.
By order of the Board,
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer
9 March 2016
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED 55   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
DIRECTORS AND ADVISORS
Leslie Van de Walle 
Non-executive Chairman
Appointed: October 2012
Committees: Nominations (Chairman) 
Leslie is Non-executive Chairman of SIG plc and he is also a 
Non-executive Director of DCC plc. He was formerly Chief Executive 
Officer of Rexam plc, Executive Vice President of Global Retail,  
a division of Royal Dutch Shell plc and a Non-executive Director  
of Aegis Group plc and Aviva plc. He also previously held a number  
of senior management positions with Cadbury Schweppes plc and 
United Biscuits Limited. 
Robert Walters
Chief Executive
Appointed: July 2000
Committees: Nominations 
After three years at Touche Ross, Robert joined the recruitment  
firm Michael Page as one of its very first employees. Following  
an eight-year period which included setting up the New York office, 
he returned to London and established, in 1985, Robert Walters, 
specialising in the professional candidate recruitment sector. 
Giles Daubeney
Deputy Chief Executive
Appointed: July 2000
After working in recruitment for Accountancy Selection Limited and 
Badenoch & Clark Limited, Giles joined the Group in 1988. From 
1990 to 1994, he was based in Amsterdam and was responsible  
for the Group’s Dutch and Belgian operations. Giles was appointed 
to the role of Chief Operating Officer in 1999, and was appointed  
to the Board of Robert Walters plc in July 2000. Giles was promoted 
to Deputy Chief Executive in January 2016.
Alan Bannatyne 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
Appointed: March 2007
After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte & Touche, 
Alan was Commercial Manager of Primecom and then Financial 
Director of Foresight, both subsidiaries of Primedia, a listed South 
African Media Group. Alan joined Robert Walters plc as Group 
Financial Controller in September 2002 and was appointed to the 
Board of Robert Walters plc as Chief Financial Officer in March 2007 .
Andrew Kemp 
Non-executive Director
Appointed: November 2007
Committees: Remuneration (Chairman), Audit and Nominations
Andrew was latterly Group HR Director at De La Rue plc. He 
previously held Group HR Director appointments at Bovis, Transport 
Development Group plc, News International, Aegis and Rentokil 
Initial plc. Prior to Bovis, Andrew held a number of HR appointments 
at the rank of Captain and Major in the British Army. 
Carol Hui
Non-executive Director
Appointed: January 2012
Committees: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration
Carol is a qualified lawyer and a senior executive with extensive  
legal and commercial experience. She is the General Counsel and 
Executive Director of Heathrow Airport. Previously, she has held  
the positions of Board Director and General Counsel of Amey plc, 
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary of TDG plc and 
Deputy General Counsel of BG plc. She was also a solicitor with 
Slaughter and May. Carol was awarded European General Counsel 
of the Year by the International Law Office and Association of 
Corporate Counsel and won a number of other awards from the  
FT, Mulan Foundation, The Lawyer and the Legal 500. She also 
served as a member of the Review Body on Doctors’ and Dentists’ 
Remuneration. She is on the Board of Governors of London South 
Bank University.
Brian McArthur-Muscroft
Non-executive Director
Appointed: May 2013
Committees: Audit (Chairman), Nominations and Remuneration
Brian is currently the Chief Financial Officer of Paysafe. Prior to 
joining Paysafe in January 2015, Brian was Group Finance Director 
at Telecity Group Plc where he led the IPO of the business in 2007 
and raised £400m in senior debt facilities with major UK institutions. 
Brian was chosen as Business Week’s Finance Director of the Year 
in 2013 and ICAEW’s FTSE 250 Finance Director of the Year in 2012. 
Also a restructuring specialist, Brian was the Interim CFO on the 
successful turnaround of MCI Worldcom EMEA. Brian holds a law 
degree and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers in London.
Registered office
11 Slingsby Place
St Martin’s Courtyard
London WC2E 9AB
Registered number
03956083
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditor
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Solicitors
Dechert
160 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4V 4QQ
Stockbrokers
Investec
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Principal bankers
Barclays
Level 28
1 Churchill Place
Canary Wharf
London E14 5HP
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU 56   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ROBERT WALTERS PLC
Opinion on financial statements of Robert Walters plc
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 
and of the Group’s and the parent Company’s profit for the year then ended;
 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
as adopted by the European Union;
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes 
in Equity, the Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 33. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in  
the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Going concern and the Directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of 
accounting contained within the Accounting Policies note in the financial statements and the Directors’ statement on the longer-term viability 
of the Group contained within the Directors’ report.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 – the Directors’ confirmation on page 54 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 – the disclosures on pages 26 to 27 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 – the Directors’ statement in the Accounting Policies note in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to 
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
 – the Director’s explanation on page 54 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and 
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of 
the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have not provided 
any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards. 57   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue recognition
For permanent placements, which accounted for 69% of the Net 
Fee Income (gross profit) of the Group’s recruitment business in 
2015, the Group’s policy (as detailed in the Accounting Policies note) 
is to record revenue when specific recognition criteria have been 
met, namely where a candidate accepts a position in writing and 
a start date is agreed. Accordingly revenue is accrued in respect 
of permanent placements meeting the above criteria but which 
remain unbilled. 
A provision is made for placements expected to be cancelled prior 
to the start date (back-outs) on the basis of past experience.
The application of this part of the Group’s revenue recognition policy 
involves a significant degree of management judgement.
Our testing involved agreeing a sample of permanent placement fees 
earned but not invoiced to written evidence of candidate acceptance, 
including confirmation of start date.
We assessed the level of provision held at the year-end against the 
average level of back-outs experienced on a monthly basis during the 
year. We also evaluated the back-outs following the year end.
Recoverability of trade receivables and bad debt 
provisioning
Gross trade receivables at 31 December 2015 were £140.7m.
Whilst historically the Group has not suffered from a significant 
level of write-offs, given the relatively small balances due from a 
large number of customers, significant management judgement 
is required in estimating the appropriate level of provision against 
trade receivables.
The Group’s policy is to record a provision based on anticipated 
recoverable cash flows, nature of counterparty, past due date, 
geographical location, the costs of recovery and the fair value of any 
guarantee received, as detailed in the Accounting Policies note. 
We focused our substantive testing on the higher risk balances on the 
basis of the ageing profile, collection history and credit quality of the 
customer. We agreed a sample of balances to debtor confirmations, 
supporting invoices and subsequent cash receipts. We have 
evaluated the diligence applied by management in determining the 
risk associated with the recoverability of the receivables balance and 
tested the adequacy of provisioning by recalculating the provision for 
significantly aged balances, and considering receivables where the 
ageing profile of debtors has deteriorated or there is evidence that 
the credit quality of the debtor is considered a risk, and challenged 
management to justify why no provision is required. 
We analysed the make-up of the year end provision for bad debts 
and assessed it against the bad debt cost experienced in the year. 
Additionally, we evaluated post year-end developments to determine 
whether any provisions required reversal or further provision.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: the recoverability of deferred tax assets. This is not 
included as a risk this year as the deferred tax assets held in relation to brought forward tax losses in the UK have now largely been utilised.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on 
page 33 to 34.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we 
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 58   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT CONTINUED
TO THE MEMBERS OF ROBERT WALTERS PLC
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.35 million (2014: £1.1 million), which represents 6% (2014: 7%) of pre-tax profit, is below 
0.6% (2014: 0.6%) of net fee income and below 1.5% (2014: 1.5%) of equity. Materiality was determined on the basis of pre-tax profit, which  
is consistent with the basis used in 2014. The basis for our materiality and the reduction in the percentage applied are reflective of market 
practice and investor expectations. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £50,000 (2014: £50,000),  
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. 
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven significant components, which were all 
subject to a full audit. These seven significant components, being the United Kingdom, Australia, France, Japan, Hong Kong, China, and 
Singapore, represent the principal business units and account for 85% of the Group’s revenue (2014 which also included the Netherlands: 
88%), 75% of the Group’s net fee income (NFI) (2014: 79%) and 82% of the Group’s total assets (2014: 83%). They were also selected to 
provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at  
the seven significant components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group 
materiality and capped at £877,500 (2014: £550,000). In addition we also performed specified audit procedures at one other location,  
the Netherlands, representing 2% of the Group’s revenue, 3% of the Group’s net fee income and 3% of total assets, where the extent of our 
testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations in the Netherlands. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a 
senior member of the Group audit team visits, on an annual basis, a number of the significant components (three in the current year) where 
the Group audit scope was focused. In 2015, as well as the UK, this included visits to France and Japan (2014: France, Holland and Hong 
Kong). Annually, for each of the seven significant components (and any offices where specified audit procedures are performed), we include 
the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss and agree their risk assessment and audit approach before their work commences 
and attend the audit close meetings either via telephone, teleconference or in person, and, for a number of the components (four in the 
current year), on a rotational basis, review a selection of working papers on scoped significant audit risks.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 59   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the Directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International 
Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are 
effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Charlton (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
9 March 2016 60   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
Note
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Revenue 1 812,715 679,604
Cost of sales (578,287) (464,286)
Gross profit 234,428 215,318
Administrative expenses (211,325) (197,098)
Operating profit 23,103 18,220
Finance income 168 137
Finance costs 2 (630) (464)
(Loss) gain on foreign exchange (283) 266
Profit before taxation 3 22,358 18,159
Taxation 5 (7,068) (6,904)
Profit for the year 15,290 11,255
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 15,290 11,255
Earnings per share (pence): 7
Basic 20.6 15.3
Diluted 18.7 13.9
The amounts above relate to continuing operations. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Profit for the year 15,290 11,255
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (1,347) (1,553)
Total comprehensive income and expense for the year 13,943 9,702
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 13,943 9,702 61   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 8 10,788 9,577
Property, plant and equipment 9 7,740 8,156
Deferred tax assets 14 8,785 8,216
27,313 25,949
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 11 191,849 168,240
Corporation tax receivables 1,103 117
Cash and cash equivalents 16 43,378 38,205
236,330 206,562
Total assets 263,643 232,511
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 12 (139,906) (125,527)
Corporation tax liabilities (4,276) (3,672)
Bank overdrafts and loans 13 (25,573) (23,904)
Provisions 15 (294) (377)
(170,049) (153,480)
Net current assets 66,281 53,082
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (4) (10)
Provisions 15 (1,933) (1,647)
(1,937) (1,657)
Total liabilities (171,986) (155,137)
Net assets 91,657 77,374
Equity
Share capital 17 17,249 17,192
Share premium 21,836 21,753
Other reserves 19 (73,410) (73,410)
Own shares held 19 (7,136) (8,765)
Treasury shares held 19 (19,860) (19,860)
Foreign exchange reserves 1,085 2,432
Retained earnings 151,893 138,032
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 91,657 77,374
The accounts on pages 60 to 80 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer 62   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash generated from operating activities 20 23,214 11,270
Income taxes paid (7,433) (3,232)
Net cash from operating activities 15,781 8,038
Investing activities
Interest received 169 137
Purchases of computer software (2,058) (1,016)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (3,929) (2,294)
Purchase of non-controlling interest (498) (482)
Net cash used in investing activities (6,316) (3,655)
Financing activities
Equity dividends paid (4,688) (4,087)
Proceeds from issue of equity 140 15
Interest paid (630) (464)
Proceeds from bank loans and overdrafts 1,672 12,381
Purchase of own shares (822) (4,032)
Proceeds from exercise of share options 452 465
Net cash (used) generated in financing activities (3,876) 4,278
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 5,589 8,661
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 38,205 30,071
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (416) (527)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 43,378 38,205 63   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
Group
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Own 
shares
held
£’000
Treasury 
shares
held
£’000
Foreign 
exchange
reserves
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
equity
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 17,177 21,753 (73,410) (5,876) (19,860) 3,985 130,113 73,882
Profit for the year – – – – – – 11,255 11,255
Foreign currency translation differences – – – – – (1,553) – (1,553)
Total comprehensive income and expense for the year – – – – – (1,553) 11,255 9,702
Dividends paid – – – – – – (4,087) (4,087)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – – 1,708 1,708
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions – – – – – – (280) (280)
Transfer to own shares held on exercise of equity incentives – – – 677 – – (677) –
New shares issued and own shares purchased 15 – – (3,566) – – – (3,551)
Balance at 31 December 2014 17,192 21,753 (73,410) (8,765) (19,860) 2,432 138,032 77,374
Profit for the year – – – – – – 15,290 15,290
Foreign currency translation differences – – – – – (1,347) – (1,347)
Total comprehensive income and expense for the year – – – – – (1,347) 15,290 13,943
Dividends paid – – – – – – (4,688) (4,688)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – – 4,656 4,656
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions – – – – – – 602 602
Transfer to own shares held on exercise of equity incentives – – – 1,999 – – (1,999) –
New shares issued and own shares purchased 57 83 – (370) – – – (230)
Balance at 31 December 2015 17,249 21,836 (73,410) (7,136) (19,860) 1,085 151,893 91,657 64   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
Robert Walters plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the 
UK under the Companies Act.
The financial report for the year ended 31 December 2015 has  
been prepared in accordance with the historic cost convention and 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), including 
International Accounting Standards and Interpretations as adopted 
for use by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis. This is discussed in the Financial Review on page 20.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are summarised 
below and have been applied consistently in all aspects throughout 
the current year and preceding year.
(a) Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements 
of Robert Walters plc and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 
31 December each year. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the 
Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly 
or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
(b) Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase 
method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate  
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities 
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group  
in exchange for control of the acquiree.
All costs directly attributable to the business combination are 
accounted for as expenses in the periods in which the costs are 
incurred and the services received. The only exception to this is in 
respect of the costs incurred to issue debt or equity securities, 
which should be recognised in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39. 
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for 
non-current assets (or disposal Groups) that are classified as held 
for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured 
at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially 
measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business 
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.  
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of  
the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is 
recognised immediately in the income statement and is not 
subsequently reversed.
Non-controlling interests in the acquired entity are initially measured 
at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net fair value of the 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
(c) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, 
representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given 
over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired,  
is not amortised but reviewed for impairment at least annually.  
Any impairment is recognised in the Consolidated Income 
Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to 
IFRSs has been retained at the net 1 January 2004 Pounds Sterling 
UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that 
date. On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included  
in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
(d) Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is 
provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the 
tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantially 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for  
all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits  
will be available against which deductible temporary differences  
can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax is reviewed at each balance 
sheet date and is calculated at the tax rates that are expected  
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is 
realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantially 
enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement 
except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly  
to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
(e) Employee share schemes
The cost of awards made under the Group’s employee share 
schemes after 7 November 2002 is based on the fair value of the 
shares at the time of grant and is charged to the Consolidated 
Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a stochastic model. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s 
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations.  65   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
(f) Revenue
Revenue comprises the value of services, net of VAT and other 
sales-related taxes, provided in the normal course of business.  
Any bad debt provision that may be deemed necessary is treated  
as an administrative expense.
Revenue from the placement of permanent staff is recognised  
when a candidate accepts a position and a start date is determined. 
A provision is made for the cancellation of placements prior to or 
shortly after the commencement of employment based on past 
experience of this occurring.
Revenue from temporary placements represents the amounts billed 
for the services of temporary staff including the salary costs of those 
staff. This is recognised as the service is provided and accrued 
where necessary, to the extent that the Group is acting as a 
principal. Where the Group is not considered to act as a principal, 
the salary costs of the temporary staff are excluded from revenue 
and only the net margin is recognised as revenue. Revenue in 
respect of outsourcing and consultancy is recognised and accrued 
where necessary as the service is provided.
(g) Gross profit (net fee income)
Gross profit is the total placement fees of permanent candidates, 
the margin earned on the placement of contract candidates and 
advertising margin. It also includes the outsourcing and consultancy 
margin earned by Resource Solutions.
(h) Operating profit
Operating profit is the total revenue less the total associated costs 
incurred in the production of revenue. The only items that are 
excluded from operating profit are finance costs (including foreign 
exchange), investment income and expenditure, taxation, and, if 
deemed appropriate, amounts that are identified as non-recurring 
material items.
(i) Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of 
exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet 
date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date, 
with any gain or loss that may arise as a result being included in net 
profit or loss for the period.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average 
rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the 
rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising 
on translation of the opening net assets and the results of overseas 
operations are dealt with through other comprehensive income and 
reserves, and recognised as income or as expenses in the period in 
which an operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected to treat 
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before 
the date of transition to IFRSs as Pounds Sterling denominated 
assets and liabilities.
(j) Property, plant and equipment and computer software
Property, plant and equipment and computer software is stated at 
cost, net of depreciation. Depreciation is provided on all property, 
plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less 
estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over 
its expected useful life, as follows:
 – Leasehold improvements and finance leases: the shorter of 
estimated useful life and the period of the lease;
 – Motor vehicles: 17.5%;
 – Fixtures, fittings and office equipment: 10% to 20%; and
 – Computer equipment and computer software: 33.3%.
(k) Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term even if the payments are not made on such 
a basis.
(l) Investments
Investments are shown at cost, less provision for impairment  
where appropriate.
(m) Receivables
Trade and other receivables are recorded at cost, less any provision 
for impairment.
(n) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand 
deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value.
(o) Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are measured at fair 
value, net of transaction costs.
(p) Pensions
The Group currently contributes to the money purchase pension 
plans of certain individual Directors and employees. Contributions 
payable in respect of the year are charged to the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
(q) Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
contractual obligation as a result of a past event for which it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation and when the amount can be reliably estimated. If the 
effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the 
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects the current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the liability. 66   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
(r) Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual 
rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers 
the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither 
transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards  
of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset,  
the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an 
associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group 
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a 
transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the 
financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for  
the proceeds received.
(s) Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, 
the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled, or they expire.
Developments in accounting standards/IFRSs
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have 
been adopted by the Group in the current year. Their adoption has 
not had any material impact on the disclosure or amounts reported 
in these financial statements:
 – Annual Improvements 2011 – 2013 Cycle; and
 – IFRIC 21 Levies.
 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group 
has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been 
issued but are not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been 
adopted by the EU:
− IFRS 9 Financial Instruments;
− IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts;
− IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers;
− IFRS 16 Leases;
− IFRS 11 (amendments) Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests  
in Joint Operations; 
− IAS 1 (amendments) Disclosure Initiative;
− IAS 19 (amendments) Defined Benefit Plans: Employee 
Contributions;
− IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amendments) Clarification of Acceptable 
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation;
− IAS 27 (amendments) Equity Method in Separate Financial 
Statements;
− IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (amendments) Sale or Contribution of Assets 
between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture;
− IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 (amendments) Investment Entities: 
Applying the Consolidation Exemption;
− Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments 
to IAS 19);
− Annual improvements 2010 – 2012 Cycle; and
− Annual improvements 2012 – 2014 Cycle.
The Group does not consider that these Standards or 
Interpretations will have a significant impact on the financial 
statements of the Group when they come into effect, except for 
IFRS 16, which will have an impact on both the measurement and 
disclosure of the Group’s leases.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and other factors, including expectation  
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making 
estimates and assumptions, actual outcomes could differ from 
those assumptions and estimates. 
– Deferred tax: the judgement to recognise a deferred tax asset is 
dependent upon the Group’s expectations regarding the future 
profitability of certain businesses, which contain a degree of 
inherent uncertainty. Deferred tax assets are only recognised  
to the extent that they are considered recoverable based on 
forecasts of available taxable profits against which they can 
be utilised.
– Impairment of goodwill: the Group annually tests whether 
goodwill has been impaired. Management make judgements  
to allocate goodwill to the most appropriate group of cash 
generating units (CGUs) and this reflects the level at which 
goodwill is monitored. The recoverable amount of the CGUs that 
the goodwill has been allocated to is determined based on value 
in use calculations, which require estimating future cash flows 
and applying a suitable discount rate.
Critical accounting judgements 
The critical judgements that have been made in arriving at the 
amounts recognised in the Group’s financial statements and the  
key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk  
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets  
and liabilities have been identified by management as revenue 
recognition and bad debt expense.
 – Revenue recognition: in making this judgement, management 
considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue 
from permanent placements who had accepted a position and 
agreed a start date, but had not started employment. A provision 
is made by management, based on historical evidence, for the 
proportion of those placements where the candidate is expected 
to reverse their acceptance prior to the start date.
 – Bad debt provisioning: at each balance sheet date each 
subsidiary evaluates the collectability of trade receivables and 
records a provision based on anticipated recoverable cash flows, 
nature of counterparty, past due date, geographical location, the 
costs of recovery and the fair value of any guarantee received.
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 67   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
1. Segmental information
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
i) Revenue:
Asia Pacific 285,145  251,363 
UK 403,437  311,941 
Europe 112,676  106,351 
Other International 11,457  9,949 
812,715 679,604
ii) Gross profit:
Asia Pacific 96,270 90,536
UK 80,352 71,100
Europe 46,349 43,798
Other International 11,457 9,884
234,428 215,318
iii) Profit before taxation:
Asia Pacific 12,930 10,502
UK 6,162 5,248
Europe 3,316 2,173
Other International 695 297
Operating profit 23,103 18,220
Net finance costs (745) (61)
Profit before taxation 22,358 18,159
iv) Net assets:
Asia Pacific 31,765 28,318
UK 28,903 22,247
Europe 6,050 6,993
Other International 1,526 864
Unallocated corporate assets and liabilities* 23,413 18,952
91,657 77,374
* For the purposes of segmental information, unallocated corporate assets and liabilities include cash, bank loans, corporation and deferred tax balances.
The analysis of revenue by destination is not materially different to the analysis by origin and the analysis of finance income and costs are 
not significant.
The Group is divided into geographical areas for management purposes, and it is on this basis that the segmental information has 
been prepared.
P,P&E and 
software 
additions
£’000
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation
£’000
Non-current 
assets
£’000
Assets
£’000
Liabilities
£’000
v) Other information – 2015:
Asia Pacific 1,436 1,261 10,897 58,001 (26,236)
UK 3,262 1,739 6,612 119,644 (90,741)
Europe 1,205 1,202 887 28,121 (22,071)
Other International 84 74 132 4,611 (3,085)
Unallocated corporate assets and liabilities* – – 8,785 53,266 (29,853)
5,987 4,276 27,313 263,643 (171,986)
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015  68   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
P ,P&E and 
software 
additions
£’000
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation
£’000
Non-current 
assets
£’000
Assets
£’000
Liabilities
£’000
Other information – 2014:
Asia Pacific 1,298 1,580 11,379 53,265 (24,947)
UK 1,718 1,628 5,090 102,471 (80,224)
Europe 225 678 1,109 24,496 (17,503)
Other International 69 65 155 5,741 (4,877)
Unallocated corporate assets and liabilities* – – 8,216 46,538 (27,586)
3,310 3,951 25,949 232,511 (155,137)
* For the purposes of segmental information, unallocated corporate assets and liabilities include cash, bank loans, corporation and deferred tax balances.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
vi) Revenue by business Grouping:
Robert Walters 499,749 463,685
Resource Solutions (recruitment process outsourcing) 312,966 215,919
812,715 679,604
2. Finance costs
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Interest on bank overdrafts 588 443
Interest on bank loans 42 21
Total borrowing costs 630 464
3. Profit before taxation 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit is stated after charging:
Auditor’s remuneration – Deloitte LLP (as Auditor)
– Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 54 54
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 281 281
335 335
– Other services pursuant to legislation 25 25
– Fees payable to the Auditor pursuant to legislation 360 360
– Tax services – compliance 66 19
– Tax services – advisory 9 11
– Other non-audit services 12 –
Total fees 447 390
Depreciation and amortisation of assets – owned 4,276 3,951
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and computer software 719 350
Impairment of trade receivables (net) (673) 1,259
Operating lease rentals – property 10,103 10,615
Operating lease rentals – computers and equipment 883 1,019
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 
1. Segmental information continued 69   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
4. Staff costs
2015
Number
2014
Number
The average monthly number of employees of the Group (including Executive Directors) during the year was:
Group employees 2,771 2,512
The Directors analyse headcount in a number of ways and therefore headcount has been presented on a global basis.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 125,326 122,920
Social security costs 14,172 15,340
Other pension costs 3,403 3,210
Cost of employee share options and awards 4,656 1,708
147,557 143,178
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 36.
5. Taxation
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current tax charge
Corporation tax – UK 343 622
Corporation tax – Overseas 6,685 5,327
Adjustments in respect of prior years
Corporation tax – UK 114 102
Corporation tax – Overseas (104) 494
7,038 6,545
Deferred tax
Deferred tax – UK 425 984
Deferred tax – Overseas (699) (573)
Adjustments in respect of prior years
Deferred tax – UK 162 (277)
Deferred tax – Overseas 142 225
30 359
Total tax charge for year 7,068 6,904
Profit before taxation 22,358 18,159
Tax at standard UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.50%) 4,528 3,904
Effects of:
(Relieved) unrelieved losses (78) 853
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 308 118
Overseas earnings taxed at different rates 1,927 1,340
Adjustments to tax charges in previous years 313 544
Impact of tax rate change 70 145
Total tax charge for year 7,068 6,904 70   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
6. Dividends
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Interim dividend paid of 1.95p per share (2014: 1.65p) 1,459 1,267
Final dividend for 2014 of 4.35p per share (2013: 3.86p) 3,229 2,820
4,688 4,087
Proposed final dividend for 2015 of 5.13p per share (2014: 4.35p) 3,809 3,179
The proposed final dividend of £3,809,000 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included 
as a liability in these financial statements.
7. Earnings per share
The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent and the weighted average 
number of shares of the Company.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent 15,290 11,255
2015
Number
of shares
2014
Number
of shares
Weighted average number of shares:
Shares in issue throughout the year 85,970,809 85,886,614
Shares issued in the year 204,562 59,929
Treasury and own shares held (12,018,059) (12,161,441)
For basic earnings per share 74,157,312 73,785,102
Outstanding share options 7,540,850 7,017,561
For diluted earnings per share 81,698,162 80,802,663
8. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£’000
Computer 
software
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 7,968 7,857 15,825
Additions – 1,016 1,016
Disposals – (664) (664)
Foreign currency translation differences 16 (18) (2)
At 31 December 2014 7,984 8,191 16,175
Additions – 2,058 2,058
Disposals – (295) (295)
Foreign currency translation differences (7) (26) (33)
At 31 December 2015 7,977 9,928 17,905
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:
At 1 January 2014 – 6,308 6,308
Charge for the year – 749 749
Disposals – (440) (440)
Foreign currency translation differences – (19) (19)
At 31 December 2014 – 6,598 6,598
Charge for the year – 838 838
Disposals – (294) (294)
Foreign currency translation differences – (25) (25)
At 31 December 2015 – 7,117 7,117
Carrying value:
At 1 January 2014 7,968 1,549 9,517
At 31 December 2014 7,984 1,593 9,577
At 31 December 2015 7,977 2,811 10,788
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015  71   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
The carrying value of goodwill primarily relates to the acquisition of Talent Spotter in China (£1,081,000) and the historic acquisition of the 
Dunhill Group in Australia (£6,847,000). The historical acquisition cost of Talent Spotter was £768,000, with the movement to the current 
carrying value a result of foreign currency translation differences. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there  
are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amount of the goodwill is based on value in use in perpetuity. The key 
assumptions in the value in use are those regarding expected changes to cash flow during the period, growth rates and the discount rates. 
Estimated cash flow forecasts are derived from the most recent financial budgets and an assumed average growth rate of 5% for years two 
and three, which does not exceed the long-term average potential growth rate of the respective operations. The forecast for revenue and 
costs as approved by the Board reflect the latest industry forecasts and management expectations based on past experience. 
The value of the cash flows is then discounted at a post-tax rate of 10.6% (pre-tax rate of 15.3%), based on the Group’s estimated weighted 
average cost of capital and risk adjusted depending on the location of goodwill. The weighted average cost of capital has also been adjusted 
for a terminal growth rate, between 2-3% depending on location, for year four onwards.
Management has undertaken sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact in key assumptions. This included reducing the cash 
flow growth from year two onwards by 0%, 10% and 20% in absolute terms. The sensitivity analysis shows no impairment would arise under 
each scenario.
9. Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold
improvements
£'000
Fixtures,
fittings and
office
equipment
£'000
Computer
equipment
£'000
Motor
vehicles
£'000
Total
£'000
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 6,387 9,982 5,785 46 22,200
Additions 727 671 888 8 2,294
Disposals (319) (275) (867) (34) (1,495)
Foreign currency translation differences 11 (258) (58) (2) (307)
At 31 December 2014 6,806 10,120 5,748 18 22,692
Additions 668 2,100 1,159 2 3,929
Disposals (865) (1,381) (702) (2) (2,950)
Foreign currency translation differences (15) (431) (56) – (502)
At 31 December 2015 6,594 10,408 6,149 18 23,169
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:
At 1 January 2014 3,190 5,187 4,493 30 12,900
Charge for the year 834 1,392 965 11 3,202
Disposals (311) (186) (843) (29) (1,369)
Foreign currency translation differences (6) (143) (46) (2) (197)
At 31 December 2014 3,707 6,250 4,569 10 14,536
Charge for the year 746 1,828 860 4 3,438
Disposals (398) (1,188) (645) (1) (2,232)
Foreign currency translation differences (2) (256) (55) 0 (313)
At 31 December 2015 4,053 6,634 4,729 13 15,429
Carrying value:
At 1 January 2014 3,197 4,795 1,292 16 9,300
At 31 December 2014 3,099 3,870 1,179 8 8,156
At 31 December 2015 2,541 3,774 1,420 5 7,740
8. Intangible assets continued 72   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10. Group investments
Details of the Group investments existing as at 31 December 2015 are as follows:
Subsidiary undertaking
Effective 
ownership 
of ordinary 
shares Principal activity
Country of
incorporation
Robert Walters Pty Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Australia
Resource Solutions Corporation Pty Limited 100% HR outsourcing Services Australia
Robert Walters SA 100% Recruitment consultancy Belgium
Robert Walters People Solutions SA 100% Recruitment consultancy Belgium
Robert Walters Brazil Limitada 100% Recruitment consultancy Brazil
Robert Walters Talent Consulting (Shanghai) Ltd 100% Recruitment consultancy China
Robert Walters Talent China Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy China
Resource Solutions Europe Limited (Czech Republic) 100% HR outsourcing Services Czech Republic 
Robert Walters SAS 100% Recruitment consultancy France
Walters People SAS 100% Recruitment consultancy France
Walters People Business Support SAS 100% Recruitment consultancy France
Robert Walters Germany GMBH 100% Recruitment consultancy Germany
Resource Solutions Consulting (Hong Kong) Limited 100% HR outsourcing Services Hong Kong
Robert Walters (Hong Kong) Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Hong Kong
Hungarian Branch Office of Resource Solutions Europe Ltd (Hungary) 100% HR outsourcing Services Hungary
Resource Solutions India Private Limited 100% HR outsourcing Services India
PT. Robert Walters Indonesia 100% Recruitment consultancy Indonesia
Robert Walters Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Ireland
Robert Walters Luxembourg Investment SARL (Irish Branch) 100% Recruitment consultancy Ireland
Robert Walters Japan KK 100% Recruitment consultancy Japan
Resource Solutions Europe Limited Lieturos Filialas (Lithuania) 100% HR outsourcing Services Lithuania
Robert Walters (Luxemburg) Operations Ltd 100% Investment Luxembourg
Robert Walters Resource Solutions Sdn Bhd 100% HR outsourcing Services Malaysia
Robert Walters Sdn Bhd 100% Recruitment consultancy Malaysia
Robert Walters BV 100% Recruitment consultancy Netherlands
Walters People BV 100% Recruitment consultancy Netherlands
Robert Walters New Zealand Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy New Zealand
Resource Solutions Consulting (Singapore) Pte Ltd 100% HR outsourcing Services Singapore
Robert Walters (Singapore) Pte Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Singapore
Walters People Singapore Pte Ltd 100% Recruitment consultancy Singapore
Robert Walters South Africa Proprietary Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy South Africa
Robert Walters External Profit Company (South Africa) 100% Recruitment consultancy South Africa
Robert Walters Holding SAS Sucursal En Espana 100% Recruitment consultancy Spain
Walters People Sociedad Limitada Empresa de Trabajo Temporal 100% Recruitment consultancy Spain
Robert Walters Korea Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy South Korea
Robert Walters Switzerland AG 100% Recruitment consultancy Switzerland
Robert Walters Company Limited (Taiwan) 100% Recruitment consultancy Taiwan
Robert Walters Recruitment (Thailand) Ltd 100% Recruitment consultancy Thailand
Robert Walters Dubai Ltd 100% Recruitment consultancy United Kingdom
Robert Walters Operations Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy United Kingdom
Robert Walters Consultancy
2
100% Recruitment consultancy United Kingdom
Resource Solutions Limited 100% HR outsourcing Services United Kingdom
Resource Solutions Europe Limited 100% HR outsourcing Services United Kingdom
Resource Solutions Europe Limited External Profit Company 100% HR outsourcing Services United Kingdom
Resource Solutions Technology Consultancy Services Ltd
2
100% Recruitment consultancy United Kingdom
Robert Walters Holdings Limited
1
100% Holding Company United Kingdom
Walters Interim Ltd
2
100% Recruitment consultancy United Kingdom
Resource Solutions Inc (Delaware) 100% HR outsourcing Services USA
Resource Solutions Inc (Florida) 100% HR outsourcing Services USA
Robert Walters Associates Inc. 100% Recruitment consultancy USA
Robert Walters Associates California Inc. 100% Recruitment consultancy USA
Robert Walters Holdings North America 100% Recruitment consultancy USA
Robert Walters Vietnam Company Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Vietnam
1 Robert Walters Holdings Limited has branch operations in Luxembourg and South Africa.
2 These subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in England and Wales, are exempt from the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual 
accounts by virtue of section s394A of that Act.
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015  73   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
In September 2012, the Group gained control of the remaining 30% non-controlling interest in Robert Walters Talent Consulting (Shanghai) 
Ltd for a cost of Renminbi 24,000,000 (£2,341,000) from Talent Spotter with the associated value of the non-controlling interest in the Group 
balance sheet at the date of transaction of £532,000. Under the legal form of this transaction, 30% of the ordinary shares are still owned by 
Talent Spotter, but in substance the control of these shares has come under the control of the Group. Total payment of Renminbi 19,200,000 
(£1,909,000) was made by the Group between September 2012 and 31 December 2014. In the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group 
made a final payment of Renminbi 4,800,000 (£498,000).
11. Trade and other receivables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Receivables due within one year:
Trade receivables 138,869 122,735
Other receivables 12,640 4,295
Prepayments and accrued income 40,340 41,210
191,849 168,240
Included within prepayments and accrued income is a provision against the cancellation of placements where a candidate may reverse their 
acceptance prior to the start date. 
The value of this provision as of 31 December 2015 is £1,450,000 (31 December 2014: £1,411,000). The movement in the provision during 
the year is a charge to administrative expenses in the income statement of £39,000 (2014: £296,000). 
12. Trade payables and other payables: amounts falling due within one year
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade payables 8,020 5,514
Other taxation and social security 19,628 19,543
Other payables 19,246 19,199
Accruals and deferred income 93,012 81,271
139,906 125,527
There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the Group’s trade and other payables.
13. Bank overdrafts and loans
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Bank overdrafts and loans: current 25,573 23,904
25,573 23,904
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year 25,573 23,904
25,573 23,904
In January 2016, the Group renewed and extended to four years its committed financing facility of £35.0m which expires in December 2019. 
At 31 December 2015, £25.0m (2014: £23.4m) was drawn down under this facility. 
The Group has a short-term facility of Renminbi 15m (£1.5m) of which Renminbi 5m (£0.5m) was drawn down as at 31 December 2015.  
The loan is secured against cash deposits in Hong Kong.
The Directors estimate that the fair value of all borrowings is not materially different from the amounts stated in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet of £25,573,000 (2014: £23,904,000).
10. Group investments continued 74   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
14. Deferred taxation
The following are the major tax assets (liabilities) recognised by the Group and the movements during the current and prior year.
Accelerated
depreciation
£’000
Tax losses
£’000
Share-
based
payment
£’000
Accruals and 
provisions
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 1,202 2,198 1,982 3,577 8,959
Credit (charge) to income 6 (578) (200) 413 (359)
Credit to equity – – (280) – (280)
Foreign currency translation differences – 30 – (144) (114)
At 31 December 2014 1,208 1,650 1,502 3,846 8,206
Credit (charge) to income (600) 595 (104) 79 (30)
Charge to equity – – 602 – 602
Foreign currency translation differences – (10) – 13 3
At 31 December 2015 608 2,235 2,000 3,938 8,781
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial 
reporting purposes:
Group 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred tax assets 8,785 8,216
Deferred tax liabilities (4) (10)
8,781 8,206
At 31 December 2015, no deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £11.8m (2014: £9.2m) relating to the unremitted 
earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing and reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable 
that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The UK government reduced the rate of corporation tax by 1% from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 2015 and announced its intention to 
reduce the rate further by 1% to 19% by 1 April 2017 and another 1% to 18% by 1 April 2020.
The reductions of the main rate of UK corporation tax from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and from 19% to 18% with effect from 
1 April 2020, were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015. This change has resulted in a deferred tax charge arising from the reduction in 
the balance sheet carrying value of deferred tax assets to reflect the anticipated rate of tax at which those assets are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax assets of £2.2m (2014: £1.6m) have been recognised in respect of carried forward losses and latest forecasts show that these 
are expected to be recovered against future profit streams.
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of £2.5m (2014: £3.1m) of which £0.3m (2014: £nil) have no time 
restriction over when it can be utilised, and the remaining £2.2m (2014: £3.1m) are time restricted, for which the weighted average period 
over which they can be utilised is 6.3 years.
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015  75   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
15. Provisions
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 1,655
Additional provisions charged to income statement 580
Provision released (172)
Utilisation of provisions (22)
Foreign exchange movements (17)
At 31 December 2014 2,024
Additional provisions charged to income statement 477
Provision released (141)
Utilisation of provisions (70)
Foreign exchange movements (63)
At 31 December 2015 2,227
Analysis of total provision:
Current 294
Non-current 1,933
2,227
The provisions comprise of rents and other related amounts payable on vacated properties and dilapidation provisions. The payment of 
non-current provision (£1.9m) will be between two and five years.
16. Financial risk management
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade receivables, trade payables, etc. that 
arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group has not 
entered into derivative transactions and no gains or losses on hedges have been incurred.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
(i) Financial assets
Surplus cash balances are invested in financial institutions with favourable credit ratings that offer competitive rates of return, while still 
providing the Group with flexibility in its cash management.
Cash
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Euros 10,494 9,185
Japanese Yen 9,672 6,571
Hong Kong Dollars
1
6,334 4,170
Australian Dollars 4,947 5,038
Singapore Dollars 2,144 1,977
US Dollars 2,076 2,047
New Zealand Dollars 1,735 1,754
Chinese Renminbi 1,288 2,371
Malaysian Ringgit 981 1,026
Other 3,707 4,066
43,378 38,205
1 Included in the Hong Kong dollars cash balance is £1.9m (2014: £1.8m) of restricted cash held on deposit as security against the Chinese Renminbi bank loan. Further details of 
this loan are provided in note 13.
All financial assets, as detailed above, are at floating rate. There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the 
financial assets.
(ii) Currency exposures
The main functional currencies of the Group are Pounds Sterling, the Euro, Australian Dollars and Yen. The Group does not have material 
transactional exposures because in the local entities, revenues and costs are in their functional currencies.
There are no material net foreign exchange exposures to monetary assets and monetary liabilities.
The Group has translation exposure in accounting for overseas operations and its policy is not to hedge against this exposure. 76   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
(iii) Liquidity risk
The Group’s overall objective is to ensure that at all times it is able to meet its financial commitments as and when they fall due.
Surplus funds are invested on short-term deposit. Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities, if appropriate.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net cash of £17.8m and equity of the Group, comprising issued share capital, reserves and 
retained earnings as disclosed in notes 17 and 18.
(iv) Interest rate risk
The Group manages its cash funds through its London head office and does not actively manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 
Surplus funds in the UK earn interest at a rate linked to the Bank of England base rate. Surplus funds in other countries earn interest based 
on a number of different indices, varying from country to country.
(v) Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments. The Group’s credit risk is 
primarily in respect of trade receivables.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group 
has adopted a policy of only dealing with counterparties that are deemed creditworthy and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, 
as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Group transacts with entities that are considered to have adequate credit 
ratings. This information is supplied by independent rating agencies where available and, if not available, the Group uses other publicly 
available financial information and its own trading records to rate its major customers.
The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are regularly monitored. Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits 
that are reviewed and approved by management.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across industry sectors and geographical locations. In a number of 
territories in which the Group operates, particularly in the contract and interim businesses, invoices are contractually payable on demand. 
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, if considered appropriate, credit guarantee 
insurance cover is purchased. 
Balances which are considered uncollectable either in part or for the whole amount are written down on a specific basis. The amount of the 
write-down takes into account an estimate of the recoverable cash flows, nature of counterparty, past due date, geographical area, the costs 
of recovery and the fair value of any guarantee received. The Group has provided fully for all receivables over 120 days because historical 
experience is such that receivables past due beyond 120 days are generally not recoverable.
The maximum exposure of credit risk for trade receivables is represented by their carrying value, net of impairment.
Out of trade receivables totalling £138.9m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £122.7m), balances totalling £110.8m (2014: £95.8m) are not due. 
The amount of trade receivables past due up to one month are £19.4m (2014: £16.0m) and past due greater than one month are £10.5m 
(2014: £13.7m). The amount of trade receivables outstanding by more than 90 days from invoice date at 31 December 2015 was £1.9m 
(2014: £2.0m). The level of bad debt provision at 31 December 2015 was £1.8m (2014: £2.8m).
(vi) Financial liabilities
The Group financed its operations during the year through a mixture of retained earnings and also has a Renminbi loan, which was taken out 
in 2008, and a four-year committed Pounds Sterling sales financing facility, expiring in December 2019. The average effective interest rate for 
2015 on the sales financing facility approximates to 2.75% and is determined upon the lenders’ published rate plus 2.25%. As the rates are 
floating, the Group is exposed to cash flow risk. Further details in respect of these loans are disclosed in note 13 to the accounts.
The Group’s sensitivity to foreign currency has decreased during the year as repayments have been made on the bank loans. Trade and 
other payables are settled within normal terms of business and are payable in less than 120 days.
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 
16. Financial risk management continued 77   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
17. Share capital
2015
Number
2014
Number
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 20p each 200,000,000 200,000,000 40,000 40,000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 20p each 86,251,859 85,970,809 17,249 17,192
The called-up share capital of the Company was increased on a number of occasions during the year following the issue of new shares in 
accordance with obligations in respect of the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
18. Share options
Equity settled share option plan
As at 31 December 2015 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding in respect of the Company’s ordinary shares of 
20p each under the Company’s Executive Share Option Scheme and SAYE Option Scheme:
Share
options 
granted
Price
granted
p
Exercisable
From To
Executive Options 20,000 244 July 2009 July 2016
Executive Options 1,030,000 208 March 2013 March 2020
Executive Options 20,000 221 April 2013 April 2020
Executive Options 10,000 299 November 2013 November 2020
Executive Options 1,161,000 211 March 2016 March 2023
Executive Options 1,337,000 353 March 2017 March 2024
Executive Options 8,000 316 June 2017 June 2024
Executive Options 40,000 307 June 2017 June 2024
SAYE 498,759 265 May 2017 November 2017
Executive Options 702,500 316 February 2018 February 2025
4,827,259
The movements within the balance of share options are indicated below, as well as a calculation of the respective weighted averages for 
each category of movement and the opening and closing balances.
2015 2014
Options
Weighted 
average
exercise
price 
£ Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price
£
At 1 January 5,996,568 2.52 6,175,439 2.36 
Granted during the year 748,500 3.39 1,974,259 3.46 
Forfeited during the year (182,000) 3.01 (415,334) 2.40 
Exercised during the year (567,809) 1.51 (368,296) 2.15 
Expired during the year (1,168,000) 2.27 (1,369,500) 3.29 
At 31 December 4,827,259 2.75 5,996,568 2.52 
The fair value of share options granted during the year was £646,400.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £3.60. The options outstanding 
at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of seven years and a weighted value of £2.75.
There were 1,080,000 options already exercisable at the end of the year, with a weighted exercise price of £2.10. 78   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The inputs into the stochastic model are as follows:
Executive options SAYE options
2015 2014 2013 2012 2014
Weighted average share price £3.51 £3.53 £2.11 £2.39 £2.65
Weighted average exercise price £3.39 £3.53 £2.11 £2.28 £2.65
Expected volatility 34.2% 40.4% 44.5% 45.7% 40.4%
Expected life 6 6 4 4 3.25
Risk free rate 1.2% 1.8% 1.0% 1.2% 1.8%
Expected dividend yield 1.7% 1.5% 2.4% 2.1% 1.5%
Expected volatility has been calculated over the period of time commensurate with the expected award term immediately prior to the date of 
grant. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based upon management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Exercise of the Executive Share Options is subject to the achievement of a percentage increase in earnings per share which exceeds the 
percentage increase in inflation by at least an average 8% per annum, over a period of three financial years of the Group.
On satisfaction of these performance targets, 33.33% of the options vest. Vesting then increases progressively with the Executive Options 
fully vesting where earnings per share growth matches the UK retail price index plus an average of 14% per annum.
The SAYE Option Scheme enables UK permanent employees to use the proceeds of a related SAYE contract to acquire options over 
ordinary shares of the Company at a discount of up to 20% of their market price. Options granted under the scheme can normally be 
exercised during a period of six months starting on the third anniversary of the start of the relevant SAYE contract. Exercise of an option  
is subject to continued employment.
Equity settled Performance Share Plan (PSP)
As at 31 December 2015 the following share awards had been granted and remained outstanding in respect of the Company’s ordinary 
shares of 20p each under the Company’s Executive PSP Scheme:
The movements within the balances of share awards and co-investment awards are indicated below.
2015 2014
Share
awards
Co-investment
awards Total
Share
awards
Co-investment
awards Total
At 1 January 4,725,252 1,972,438 6,697,690 5,737,413 2,292,151 8,029,564 
Granted during the year 1,731,954 225,286 1,957,240 1,325,953 420,016 1,745,969
Vested during the year (547,079) (318,247) (865,326) (339,977) (104,709) (444,686)
Lapsed during the year (1,012,529) (553,897) (1,566,426) (1,079,577) (450,309) (1,529,886)
Forfeited during the year (287,529) (26,135) (313,664) (918,560) (184,711) (1,103,271)
At 31 December 4,610,069 1,299,445 5,909,514 4,725,252 1,972,438 6,697,690
The fair value of share awards and co-investment awards granted during the year was £4,761,300.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 16 months (2014: 14 months). No awards 
expired during the year (2014: none).
The inputs into the stochastic model are as follows:
2015 2014 2013 2012
Weighted average share price £3.51 £3.12 £2.13 £2.39
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil
Expected volatility 26.0% 29.3% 37.9% 41.9%
Expected life 3 3 3 3 
Risk free rate 0.7% 1.1% 0.4% 0.6%
Expected dividend yield 1.7% 1.7% 2.4% 2.2%
Expected volatility has been calculated over the period of time commensurate with the remainder of the performance period immediately 
prior to the date of grant. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based upon management’s best estimate, for the effects  
of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 
18. Share options continued 79   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares receivable by Executive Directors for a nominal value is dependent upon the total 
shareholder return (TSR) and the earnings per share (EPS) growth over the three-year period from the initial date of grant. In the case of 
co-investment awards, the continued ownership of qualifying shares in the Company is also required. As such it is not possible to determine 
the interests of the individual Directors prior to the completion of the vesting period, although no shares will vest if the TSR performance does 
not at least equal the performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index or the EPS compound annual growth exceed 8%. For all of the PSP shares 
to vest, the TSR must exceed the FTSE Small Cap Index by a compound 12.5% per annum and the EPS compound annual growth must 
also exceed 14%.
The Group recognised an expense of £4,656,000 (2014: £1,708,000) during the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions and £nil (2014: £nil) in respect of cash-settled share-based payment transactions. The liability for cash-settled share-based 
payment transactions at 31 December was £nil (2014: £nil).
19. Reserves
The other reserves of the Group include a merger reserve of £83,379,000 (2014: £83,379,000), a capital reserve of £9,301,000 (2014: 
£9,301,000), capital redemption reserve of £624,000 (2014: £624,000) and a capital contribution reserve of £44,000 (2014: £44,000).
The own shares are held by an employee benefit trust (EBT) to satisfy the potential share obligations of the Group. The Company also has  
an obligation to make regular contributions to the EBT to enable it to meet its financing costs. £0.8m of own shares were purchased into the 
Employee Benefit Trust at an average price of £3.63 during the fourth quarter, with a further £3.6m of own shares purchased at an average 
price of £3.31 since 31 December 2015. Rights to dividends on shares held by the EBT have been waived by the trustees. Charges of 
£27,000 (2014: £21,000) have been reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the EBT.
The number and market value of own shares held at 31 December 2015 was 3,077,398 (2014: 3,955,574) and £11,079,000 (2014: 
£12,233,000). The number and market value of treasury shares held at 31 December 2015 was 8,922,900 (2014: 8,922,900) and 
£32,122,000 (2014: £27,594,000). The nominal value of the treasury shares at 31 December 2015 was £1,785,000 (2014: £1,785,000).
20. Notes to the cash flow statement
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Operating profit 23,103 18,220
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation charges 4,276 3,951
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and computer software 719 350
Charge in respect of share-based payment transactions 4,656 1,708
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 32,754 24,229
Increase in receivables (25,711) (16,097)
Increase in payables 16,171 3,138
Cash generated from operating activities 23,214 11,270
21. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 5,589 8,661
Cash outflow from movement in bank loans (1,672) (12,381)
Foreign currency translation differences (413) (554)
Movement in net cash in the year 3,504 (4,274)
Net cash at beginning of year 14,301 18,575
Net cash at end of year 17,805 14,301
Net cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents less bank loans.
22. Commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Within one year 10,549 10,031
In the second to fifth years inclusive 30,931 28,715
After five years 9,314 9,160
50,794 47,906
18. Share options continued 80   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The Group leases various offices under non-cancellable operating leases and various computers and equipment under operating lease 
agreements, which have varying terms and termination rights.
The Company has no finance lease commitments (2014: £nil).
There are no capital commitments for the Group (2014: £nil).
23. Related party transactions
Transactions between Robert Walters plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. The remuneration of key management personnel who are deemed to be Directors has been disclosed in the Report of 
the Remuneration Committee on page 36.
24. Contingent liabilities
Each member of the Robert Walters plc Group is party to joint and several guarantees in respect of banking facilities granted to Robert 
Walters plc.
The Company has no other contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 
22. Commitments continued 81   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
Investments 27 205,908 201,398 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 28 5,959 908
Total assets 211,867 202,306
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 29 (135,010) (125,146)
Net current liabilities (135,010) (125,146)
Net assets 76,857 77,160
Equity 
Share capital 17,249 17,192
Share premium 21,836 21,753
Capital redemption reserve 624 624
Own shares held (7,136) (8,765)
Treasury shares held (19,860) (19,860)
Retained earnings 64,144 66,216
Shareholders’ funds 76,857 77,160
The accounts of Robert Walters plc, Company Number 03956083, on pages 81 to 84 were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 
2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 82   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Company
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£’000
Own
shares
held
£’000
Treasury
shares
held
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
equity
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 17,177 21,753 624 (5,876) (19,860) 69,288 83,106
Loss for the year – – – – – (16) (16)
Foreign currency translation differences – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income and expense for the year – – – – – (16) (16)
Dividends paid – – – – – (4,087) (4,087)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – 1,708 1,708
Transfer to own shares held on exercise of equity incentives – – – 677 – (677) –
New shares issued and own shares purchased 15 – – (3,566) – – (3,551)
Balance at 31 December 2014 17,192 21,753 624 (8,765) (19,860) 66,216 77,160
Loss for the year – – – – – (41) (41)
Foreign currency translation differences – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income and expense for the year – – – – – (41) (41)
Dividends paid – – – – – (4,688) (4,688)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – 4,656 4,656
Transfer to own shares held on exercise of equity incentives – – – 1,999 – (1,999) –
New shares issued and own shares purchased 57 83 – (370) – – (230)
Balance at 31 December 2015 17,249 21,836 624 (7,136) (19,860) 64,144 76,857
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 83   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIALS
25. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies of the Company are summarised below and have been applied consistently in all aspects throughout the 
current year and the preceding year.
(a) Basis of accounting
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets the 
definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 (Financial Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, in 
the year ended 31 December 2015 the Company has decided to adopt FRS 101 and has undergone transition from reporting under the UK 
accounting standards and law.
Accordingly, the financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 (Financial Reporting Standard 101) 
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. This transition is not considered to have had a material effect 
on the financial statements.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under the standard in relation to 
share-based payment, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, 
presentation of a cash flow statement and certain related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those 
set out in the Statement of Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements on page 64 except as noted below.
(b) Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing 
at that date.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and the results of overseas operations 
are dealt with through reserves.
(c) Investments
Investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment where appropriate.
26. Profit for the year
The Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Robert Walters plc reported a result for the year of £0.0m (2014: £0.0m).
£8.7m (2014: £13.8m) of the retained earnings of the Company represents distributable reserves.
Details of the proposed final dividend are provided in note 6 to the accounts.
Details of share-based payments are disclosed in note 18 to the accounts.
Details of Treasury and own shares held are disclosed in note 19 to the accounts.
27. Fixed asset investments
 Total 
£’000
At 1 January 2015 201,398 
Increase in the year due to equity incentive schemes 4,510 
At 31 December 2015 205,908 
There was no provision for the impairment (2014: £nil).
Please refer to note 10 for a list of the Company’s investments. 
28. Trade and other receivables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts due from subsidiaries 891 908
Other receivables 5,068 – 
 5,959 908
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015  84   Robert Walters plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
29. Trade payables and other payables: amounts falling due within one year
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts due to subsidiaries 135,010 125,146
 135,010 125,146
30. Share capital
 
2015
Number
2014
Number
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Authorised    
Ordinary shares of 20p each 200,000,000 200,000,000 40,000 40,000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid    
Ordinary shares of 20p each 86,251,859 85,970,809 17,249 17,192
31. Commitments
The Company has no finance lease commitments (2014: £nil).
There are no capital commitments for the Company (2014: £nil).
32. Related party transactions
There were no related party transactions in the year to 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil) other than as disclosed in the Report of the 
Remuneration Committee and notes 27, 28 and 29.
33. Contingent liabilities
The Company has no other contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015   AUSTRALIA
BELGIUM
BRAZIL
CHINA
FRANCE
GERMANY
HONG KONG
INDONESIA
IRELAND
JAPAN
LUXEMBOURG
MALAYSIA
NETHERLANDS
NEW ZEALAND
SINGAPORE
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH KOREA
SPAIN
SWITZERLAND
TAIWAN
THAILAND
UAE
UK
USA
VIETNAM
www.robertwalters.com
ROBERT WALTERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
